Item 1. Business



Introduction



Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our” or “us” refer to Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation and its subsidiaries.



Our fiscal years are based on the 52-53 week period ending on the Sunday closest to February 1 and are designated by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. References to a year are to our fiscal year, unless the context requires otherwise. Our 2009 year commenced on February 2, 2009 and ended on January 31, 2010; 2008 commenced on February 4, 2008 and ended on February 1, 2009; 2007 commenced on February 5, 2007 and ended on February 3, 2008.



We obtained the market and competitive position data used throughout this report from research, surveys or studies conducted by third parties, information provided by customers and industry or general publications. Industry publications and surveys generally state that they have obtained information from sources believed to be reliable but do not guarantee the












accuracy and completeness of such information. While we believe that each of these studies and publications and other information is reliable, we have not independently verified such data and we do not make any representation as to the accuracy of such information.



References to the brand namesCalvin Klein Collection, ck Calvin Klein, Calvin Klein, Van Heusen, IZOD, Eagle, Bass, G.H. Bass & Co., Geoffrey Beene, ARROW, CHAPS, Sean John, Donald J. Trump Signature Collection, JOE Joseph Abboud, Kenneth Cole New York, Kenneth Cole Reaction, MICHAEL Michael Kors, Michael Kors Collection, DKNY, Tommy Hilfiger, Elie Tahari, Nautica, Ted Baker, Ike Behar, City of London, Bugatti, Hart Schaffner Marx, Jones New York, J. Garcia, Claiborne, Robert Graham, U.S. POLO ASSN., AxcessandTimberlandand to other brand names in this report are to registered trademarks owned by us or licensed to us by third parties and are identified by italicizing the brand name.



References to the “BVH acquisition” refer to our October 2008 acquisition from The British Van Heusen Company Limited, a former licensee ofVan Heusenmen’s dresswear and accessories in the United Kingdom and Ireland, and one of its affiliates of certain assets (including inventories) of the licensed business. We refer to The British Van Heusen Company Limited and its affiliate together as “BVH.”



References to the “Mulberry acquisition” refer to our April 2008 acquisition of certain assets (including certain trademark licenses, inventories and receivables) of Mulberry Thai Silks, Inc., a manufacturer and distributor of branded neckwear in the United States, which we refer to as “Mulberry.”



References to our acquisition of CMI refer to our January 2008 acquisition of Confezioni Moda Italia S.r.L., which we refer to as “CMI,” from a subsidiary of The Warnaco Group, Inc. (We refer to The Warnaco Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, separately and together, as “Warnaco.”) CMI is the licensee of theCalvin Klein Collectionapparel and accessories businesses under agreements with our Calvin Klein, Inc. subsidiary.



References to the “Superba acquisition” refer to our January 2007 acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Superba, Inc., a manufacturer and distributor of neckwear in the United States and Canada.



References to our acquisition of Calvin Klein refer to our February 2003 acquisition of Calvin Klein, Inc. and certain affiliated companies, which companies we refer to collectively as “Calvin Klein.”



Recent Events



We announced on March 15, 2010 that we had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Tommy Hilfiger B.V. and certain affiliated companies (collectively “Tommy Hilfiger”), which is controlled by funds affiliated with Apax Partners L.P., for total consideration of €2.2 billion, or approximately $3.0 billion, plus the assumption of €100 million in liabilities. The consideration includes €1.924 billion in cash and €276 million in shares of our common stock. We have entered into a forward foreign exchange contract with respect to €1.3 billion of the purchase price to hedge against our exposure to changes in the exchange rate for the Euro. Our obligations under this contract are contingent upon the closing of the acquisition. The closing of the transaction is subject to the receipt of financing and other customary conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals. The transaction is expected to close during our seco
nd quarter of 2010. If the transaction does not close due to the failure to obtain the financing or satisfy certain other conditions, we have agreed to pay €69.0 million to the selling shareholders.



We expect to finance the €1.924 billion cash portion of the Tommy Hilfiger acquisition and refinance our $300 million of existing senior unsecured notes using a combination of cash on hand, bank debt and public and/or private offerings of debt and/or equity. There can be no assurance that we can obtain the financing that we need to complete the deal or that such financing can be obtained on the terms currently contemplated.



Our discussion in this report generally does not contemplate the effects of the completion of the Tommy Hilfiger acquisition, except where specifically noted. Any discussion ofTommy Hilfigerrefers to our existing licensed neckwear and dress shirt businesses unless otherwise noted.



Overview



We are one of the largest apparel companies in the world, with a heritage dating back over 125 years. Our portfolio of brands includes our owned brands, principallyCalvin Klein Collection, ck Calvin Klein, Calvin Klein, Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, G.H. Bass & Co., BassandEagle,and our licensed brands, principallyGeoffrey Beene, CHAPS, Sean John, Donald J. Trump Signature Collection, JOE Joseph Abboud, Kenneth Cole New York, Kenneth Cole Reaction, MICHAEL Michael Kors, Michael Kors Collection, DKNY, Tommy Hilfiger, Nautica, Ted Baker, Ike Behar, Hart Schaffner Marx, J. Garcia, Claiborne,












U.S. POLO ASSN.,Axcess, Jones New YorkandTimberland,as well as various private label brands. We design and market nationally recognized branded dress shirts, neckwear, sportswear and, to a lesser extent, footwear and other related products. Additionally, we license our owned brands over a broad range of products. We market our brands at multiple price points and across multiple channels of distribution, allowing us to provide products to a broad range of consumers, while minimizing competition among our brands and reducing our reliance on any one demographic group, merchandise preference or distribution channel. Our licensing activities, principally our Calvin Klein business, diversify our business model by providing us with a sizeable base of profitable licensing revenues.



Calvin Klein

Calvin Klein

Calvin Klein Collection, ck Calvin Klein

Calvin Klein

Calvin Klein

Ca
lvin Klein

Calvin Klein

Calvin Klein



Our “heritage” business encompasses the design, sourcing and marketing of a varied selection of branded label dress shirts, neckwear, sportswear and footwear, as well as the licensing of our owned brands (other than theCalvin Kleinbrands), for an assortment of products. The heritage business also includes private label dress furnishings programs, particularly neckwear programs. We design, source and market substantially all of these products on a brand-by-brand basis, targeting distinct consumer demographics and lifestyles in an effort to minimize competition among our brands. Currently, we distribute our products at wholesale through more than 16,000 doors in national and regional department, mid-tier department, mass market, specialty and independent stores in the United States, Canada and Europe. Our wholesale business represents our core business and we believe that it is the basis for our brand equity. As a complement to our wholesale business, 
we also market our products directly to consumers through ourVan Heusen, IZOD, BassandCalvin Kleinretail stores, principally located in outlet malls throughout the United States. In addition, into the fourth quarter of 2008, we also marketed our products directly to consumers through ourGeoffrey Beeneoutlet retail stores. We announced during 2008 that we would not renew our license to operateGeoffrey Beeneoutlet retail stores and ceased operations of our Geoffrey Beene outlet retail division during the fourth quarter of 2008.



We have entered into license agreements with partners across the globe for our brands. A significant portion of our total income before interest and taxes is derived from international sources, primarily driven by the international component of our Calvin Klein licensing business. We have approximately 55 license and other agreements covering over 130 territories outside of the United States for ourCalvin Kleinbrands and approximately 50 license agreements covering approximately 150 territories outside of the United States for our heritage brands, and we intend to continue to expand our operations globally through direct marketing by us and through partnerships with licensees. We recently expanded our international operations to include sales of certain of our products to department and specialty stores throughout Canada and parts of Europe, including through the BVH acquisition, which provided us with a wholesale distribution business in the United Kingdom an
d Ireland and a limited number of retail stores.



We completed the Superba acquisition in January 2007. This transaction provided us with an established neckwear business base, which advances our historical strategy of marketing our brands at multiple price points and across multiple channels of distribution and is complementary to our heritage dress shirt business. The Mulberry acquisition in April 2008 built upon this base. The Superba and Mulberry acquisitions present us with opportunities to grow and enhance the performance of both the dress shirt and neckwear businesses by providing us with the ability to produce and market all of the neckwear for our owned brands over time and to leverage the design, merchandising and selling capabilities of both businesses to offer our customers a cohesive and comprehensive portfolio of branded dress shirts and neckwear.



We announced during the fourth quarter of 2008 a series of actions that we planned to undertake to respond to the difficult economic conditions that existed during the second half of 2008 and were expected to (and did) continue into 2009, including restructuring certain of our operations and implementing a number of other cost reduction efforts. We began implementing the restructuring initiatives during the fourth quarter of 2008 and we completed substantially all of them by the end of 2009. The restructuring initiatives included the shutdown of domestic production of machine-made neckwear, a












realignment of our global sourcing organization and reductions in warehousing capacity, all of which had headcount reductions associated with them, as well as lease terminations for the majority of ourCalvin Kleinspecialty retail stores and other initiatives to reduce corporate and administrative expenses.



Company Information



We were incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1976 as the successor to a business begun in 1881. Our footwear business is the successor to G.H. Bass & Co., a business begun in 1876, our Arrow business is the successor to the original Cluett, Peabody & Co., a business begun in 1851, and our neckwear business is the successor to a business begun in 1873. Our principal executive offices are located at 200 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10016; our telephone number is (212) 381-3500.



We make available at no cost, on our corporate website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also make available at no cost, on our corporate website, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Our corporate website address iswww.pvh.com.



Our Business Strategy



We intend to capitalize on the significant opportunities presented by our acquisition of Calvin Klein, as well as increase sales and profitability of our heritage business, through the execution of the following strategies:



Calvin Klein



We acquired Calvin Klein because of the significant growth opportunities presented by theCalvin Kleinbrands. The tiered brand strategy we created for theCalvin Kleinbrands established a strategic brand architecture to guide the global brand growth and development of all three tiers, by differentiating each of theCalvin Kleinbrands with distinct marketing identities, positioning and channels. Additionally, branding product across three tiers allows flexibility from market to market to build businesses that address the differences between markets. We have approximately 55 licensing and other arrangements across the threeCalvin Kleinbrands. These arrangements grant rights to produce products over a broad range of categories and, in certain cases, also grant rights to open retail stores in countries outside of the United States.



·

Calvin Klein Collection.The principal growth opportunity for our “halo” brand is to broaden the current distribution through the continued opening of freestanding stores operated throughout the world by our experienced retail partners, as well as through expanded distribution within premier department stores. We acquired CMI, the licensee of the men’s and women’s high-end collection apparel and accessories businesses, in January 2008. We believe this acquisition gives us greater control over the Calvin Klein Collection businesses, and, thereby, enhances our ability to maximize the halo benefit provided by this brand.



·

ck Calvin Klein.Our “bridge” brand,ck Calvin Klein,provides significant growth opportunities, particularly in Europe and Asia, where apparel and accessories are more traditionally sold in the upper-moderate to upper “bridge” price range. We have entered into several licenses since we acquired Calvin Klein, adding to the pre-existing licensed apparel and accessories lines. Specific growth opportunities include:

–

Broadening distribution of apparel and accessories through continued expansion in key markets such as Southeast Asia, China and Japan, as well as Europe and the Middle East.ck Calvin Kleinapparel and accessories were available in Europe, Asia and Japan, as well as in approximately 60 freestandingck Calvin Kleinstores in Asia Pacific (excluding Japan), Europe and the Middle East at the end of 2009. We expect that additional freestandingck Calvin Kleinstores will be opened by licensees by the end of 2010.



–

Expansion of the watch and jewelry lines worldwide.



·

Calvin Klein.We believe that theCalvin Kleinwhite label “better” brand presents the largest growth opportunity, particularly in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Growth opportunities for this brand include:

–

Continued expansion of our men’s sportswear business, which was first launched for Fall 2004 in the United States.














–

Continued development of the licensed lines of men’s and women’s footwear, handbags, women’s sportswear, women’s suits, dresses, women’s swimwear and men’s outerwear.



–

Introduction and growth of new fragrance offerings and brand extensions, such as the new men’s and women’sckIN2U(Spring 2007),Calvin Klein MAN(Fall 2007),Secret Obsession(Fall 2008) andckFree(Fall 2009) fragrances.



–

Introduction and growth of new underwear brand extensions, such as the men’s and women’sSteel(Fall 2007), men’s and women’sBlack & White(Spring 2009), as well as the women’sSeductive Comfort(Fall 2008)programs.



–

Introduction and growth of new jeanswear extensions, such as the men’s and women’sBody(Fall 2009) lines.



–

Pursuit of additional licensing opportunities for new product lines, such as the recent introduction of a women’s performance line (Spring 2008) and two furniture lines,Calvin Klein Home(January 2009) andThe Curator Collection By Calvin Klein Home(Fall 2009).



Heritage Business



·

Continue to grow sportswear.We have a leading position in the United States in men’s sportswear and have continued to penetrate the sportswear market with additional products and product lines. We have builtIZODinto a year-round lifestyle brand from its traditional knit sport shirt origins by adding new product offerings, such as pants, sweaters and outerwear, and new lines of apparel, including golf and jeanswear. As a result,IZODhas become a leader on the main floor of department stores in the United States. In 2007, we expanded our wholesale sportswear offerings through our assumption of theIZODwomen’s sportswear collection, which was previously a licensed business. We offered our first collection of men’sTimberlandsportswear for Fall 2008, assuming the line from our licensor, The Timberland Company.



·

Continue to strengthen the competitive position and image of our current brand portfolio.We intend for each of our brands to be a leader in its respective market segment, with strong consumer awareness and loyalty. We believe that our brands are successful because we have positioned each one to target distinct consumer demographics and tastes. We will continue to design and market our branded products to complement each other, satisfy lifestyle needs, emphasize product features important to our target consumers and increase consumer loyalty. We will seek to increase our market share in our businesses by expanding our presence through product extensions and increased floor space. We are also committed to investing in our brands through advertising and other means to maintain strong customer recognition of our brands.



·

Continue to build our brand portfolio through acquisition and licensing opportunities.While we believe we have an attractive and diverse portfolio of brands with growth potential, we will also continue to explore acquisitions of companies or trademarks and licensing opportunities that we believe are additive to our overall business, such as is the case with the proposed acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger. New license opportunities allow us to fill new product and brand portfolio needs. We take a disciplined approach to acquisitions, seeking brands with broad consumer recognition that we can grow profitably and expand by leveraging our infrastructure and core competencies and, where appropriate, by extending the brand through licensing.



·

Pursue international growth.We intend to expand the international distribution of our brands, and, to date, have done so principally through licensing. As of January 31, 2010, we have approximately 50 license agreements, covering approximately 150 territories outside of the United States, to use our heritage brands in numerous product categories, including apparel, accessories, footwear, soft home goods and fragrances. We also conduct international business directly. We expanded our wholesale operations in 2007 and again in 2008 to include sales of certain of our products to department and specialty stores throughout Canada and parts of Europe. We believe that our strong brand portfolio and broad product offerings enable us to seek additional growth opportunities in geographic areas where we believe we are underpenetrated, such as Europe and Asia. The Tommy Hilfiger acquisition, if completed, would present us with additional opport
unities to conduct this business directly in Europe.



Our Business



We manage our business through our operating divisions, which consist of five reportable segments: (i) Calvin Klein Licensing; (ii) Wholesale Dress Furnishings; (iii) Wholesale Sportswear and Related Products; (iv) Retail Apparel and Related












Products; and (v) Retail Footwear and Related Products. Note 17, “Segment Data,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report contains information with respect to revenue, income before interest and taxes and assets related to each segment, as well as information regarding our revenue generated from foreign and domestic sources.



Calvin Klein



Our Calvin Klein business consists of (1) licensing and similar arrangements worldwide of theCalvin Klein Collection,ck Calvin KleinandCalvin Kleinbrands for a broad array of products, including women’s sportswear, jeanswear, underwear, fragrances, eyewear, men’s tailored clothing, women’s suits and dresses, hosiery, socks, footwear, swimwear, jewelry, watches, outerwear, handbags, leather goods, home furnishings and accessories, as well as to operate retail stores (Calvin Klein Licensing segment); (2) the marketing of theCalvin Klein Collectionbrand high-end men’s and women’s apparel and accessories collections through ourCalvin Klein Collectionflagship store (Retail Apparel and Related Products segment); (3) ourCalvin Kleindress furnishings and men’s better sportswear businesses (Wholesale Dress Furnishings and Wholesale Sportswear and Related Products segments, respecti
vely); (4) ourCalvin Kleinretail stores located principally in premium outlet malls in the United States (Retail Apparel and Related Products segment); and (5) our Calvin Klein Collection wholesale business.



We acquired Calvin Klein because of the significant growth opportunities presented by theCalvin Kleinbrands. In order to more efficiently and effectively exploit the development opportunities for each brand, a tiered brand strategy was established to provide a focused, consistent approach to global brand growth and development, with each of theCalvin Kleinbrands occupying a distinct marketing identity and position. An important element of this tiered brand strategy is the preservation of the prestige and image of theCalvin Kleinbrands. To this end, we maintain a dedicated in-house marketing, advertising and design division of Calvin Klein that oversees a worldwide marketing, advertising and promotions program. In 2009, over $275 million was spent globally in connection with the advertisement, marketing and promotion of theCalvin Kleinbrands and products sold by us, Calvin Klein’s licensees and other authorized users of theCa
lvin Kleinname. Calvin Klein designs and/or controls all design operations and product development for most of its licensees.



Calvin Klein Licensing



An important source of our revenue is Calvin Klein’s arrangements with licensees and other third parties worldwide that manufacture and distribute globally a broad array of products under theCalvin Kleinbrands. For 2009, approximately 41% of Calvin Klein’s royalty, advertising and other revenue was generated domestically and approximately 59% was generated internationally. Calvin Klein combines its design, marketing and imaging skills with the specific manufacturing, distribution and geographic capabilities of its licensing and other partners to develop, market and distribute a variety of goods across a wide range of categories and to expand existing lines of business. Calvin Klein’s largest licensing and other partners in terms of royalty, advertising and other revenue earned by Calvin Klein in 2009 were Warnaco, which accounted for approximately 43%, and Coty, Inc. and G-III Apparel Group Ltd., which each accounted for approximately 12%.



Calvin Klein has approximately 45 wholesale product licensing arrangements. The products offered by Calvin Klein’s licensing partners include:



Licensing PartnerProduct CategoryCK Watch and Jewelry Co., Ltd.(Swatch SA)Men’s and women’s watches (worldwide) and women’s jewelry (worldwide, excluding Japan)CK21 Holdings Pte, Ltd.Men’s and women’s bridge apparel, shoes and accessories (Asia, excluding Japan)Coty, Inc.Men’s and women’s fragrance and bath products (worldwide)DWI Holdings, Inc. / Himatsingka Seide, Ltd.Soft home bed and bath furnishings (United States, Canada, Mexico, Central America & South America)G-III Apparel Group, Ltd.Men’s and women’s coats; women’s better suits, dresses and sportswear; women’s active performance wear (United States, Canada & Mexico)














Jimlar CorporationMen’s and women’s footwear: better (United States, Canada & Mexico); bridge (North America, Europe & Middle East); collection (worldwide)Marchon Eyewear, Inc.Men’s and women’s optical frames and sunglasses (worldwide)McGregor Industries, Inc. / American Essentials, Inc.Men’s and women’s socks and women’s tights (United States, Canada, Mexico, South America, Europe, Middle East and Asia, excluding Japan)Onward Kashiyama Co. Ltd.Men’s and women’s bridge apparel and women’s accessories (Japan)Peerless Delaware, Inc.Men’s better and bridge tailored clothing (United States, Canada & Mexico; South America (non-exclusive))Warnaco, Inc.Men’s, women’s and children’s jeanswear (nearly worldwide); men’s and boy’s underwear and sleepwear (worldwide); women’s and girl’s intimate apparel and sleepwear (worldwide); women’s swimwear (worldwide); men’s better swimwear (worldwide); men’s and women’s bridge apparel and accessories (Europe, Africa & Middle East)



Calvin Klein entered into a license agreement during 2009 for men’s and women’s golf apparel and certain golf accessories.



Warnaco is the beneficial owner of theCalvin Kleinmark for men’s and boy’s underwear and sleepwear and women’s and girl’s intimate apparel and sleepwear. However, Warnaco pays Calvin Klein an administration fee based on Warnaco’s worldwide sales of such products under an administration agreement between Calvin Klein and Warnaco. Warnaco, as the beneficial owner of theCalvin Kleinmark for such products, controls the design and advertising related thereto.



Heritage Business



Our “heritage” business encompasses the design, sourcing and marketing of dress shirts, neckwear, sportswear and footwear under our portfolio of owned and licensed nationally recognized brands. Our wholesale business represents our core business and we believe that it is the basis for our brand equity. Our products are distributed at wholesale in national and regional department, mid-tier department, mass market, specialty and independent stores in the United States. We added neckwear to our wholesale business in January 2007 in connection with the Superba acquisition. A few of our customers, including Macy’s, Inc., J.C. Penney Company, Inc., Kohl’s Corporation, and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. account for significant portions of our revenue. Sales to our five largest customers were 31.0% of our revenue in 2009, 31.7% of our revenue in 2008 and 30.2% of our revenue in 2007. Macy’s, our largest customer, accounted for 11.9% of our revenue in 2009, 11.5
% of our revenue in 2008 and 9.7% of our revenue in 2007.



Our wholesale customers offer our dress shirts, neckwear and sportswear, other thanCalvin Kleinmen’s better sportswear, on the main floor of their stores.Calvin Kleinmen’s better sportswear is offered in the collection area of our customers’ stores. In each case, we offer our customers merchandising support with visual display fixtures and in-store marketing, withCalvin Kleinmen’s better sportswear generally being offered in fixtured shops we design and build. When a line of our products is displayed in a stand-alone area on the main floor, or, in the case ofCalvin Kleinmen’s better sportswear, an exclusively dedicated collections area, we are able to further enhance brand recognition to permit more complete merchandising of our lines and to differentiate the presentation of our products. We believe that the broad appeal of our products, with multiple well-known brands offering differing styles at different p
rice points, together with our customer, advertising and marketing support and our ability to offer products with innovative qualities, enable us to expand and develop relationships with apparel retailers.














We believe that our investments in logistics and supply chain management allow us to respond rapidly to changes in sales trends and consumer demands while enhancing inventory management. We believe our customers can better manage their inventories as a result of our continuous analysis of sales trends, our broad array of product availability and our quick response capabilities. Certain of our products can be ordered at any time through our EDI replenishment systems. For customers who reorder these products, we generally ship these products within one to two days of order receipt. At the end of 2009 and 2008, our backlog of open customer orders totaled $114 million and $131 million, respectively.



As a complement to our wholesale business, we also market products directly to consumers through ourVan Heusen, IZOD, BassandCalvin Kleinretail stores, principally located in outlet malls throughout the United States. In addition, into the fourth quarter of 2008, we also marketed our products directly to consumers through ourGeoffrey Beeneoutlet retail stores. We announced during 2008 that we would not renew our license to operateGeoffrey Beeneoutlet retail stores and ceased operations of our Geoffrey Beene outlet retail division during the fourth quarter of 2008. We also license our owned heritage brands (Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, BassandG.H. Bass & Co.) to third parties domestically and internationally for an assortment of products.



Wholesale Dress Furnishings



Our Wholesale Dress Furnishings segment principally includes the design and marketing of men’s dress shirts and neckwear.



We market both dress shirts and neckwear principally under theARROW, Calvin Klein, ck Calvin Klein, Calvin Klein Collection, IZOD, Eagle, Sean John, Donald J. Trump Signature Collection, Kenneth Cole New York, Kenneth Cole Reaction, JOE Joseph Abboud, DKNY, Tommy Hilfiger, Elie Tahari, J. GarciaandMICHAEL Michael Korsbrands. We also market dress shirts under theVan Heusen,Geoffrey BeeneandCHAPSbrands and neckwear under theNautica,Michael Kors Collection, Jones New York,Ike Behar, Ted Baker, Axcess, U.S. POLO ASSN., Hart Schaffner Marx, Bugatti,City of London, ClaiborneandRobert Grahambrands.



The following provides additional information for some of the more significant brands, as determined based on 2009 sales volume:



TheVan Heusendress shirt has provided a strong foundation for us for most of our history and is the best selling dress shirt brand in the United States. TheVan Heusendress shirt targets the updated classical consumer, is marketed at opening to moderate price points and is distributed principally in department stores, including Belk, Inc., Macy’s and JCPenney.



ARROWis the second best selling dress shirt brand in the United States.ARROWdress shirts and neckwear target the updated classical consumer, are marketed at opening to moderate price points and are distributed principally in mid-tier department stores, including Kohl’s and Sears, Roebuck and Co.



Calvin Kleindress shirts and neckwear target the modern classical consumer, are marketed at better price points and are distributed principally in department stores, including Macy’s and Dillard's, Inc. We also offer ourCalvin Klein Collectionandck Calvin Kleindress shirts to the more limited channel of luxury department and specialty stores and freestandingCalvin Klein Collectionandck Calvin Kleinstores.



TheGeoffrey Beenedress shirt is the best selling designer dress shirt brand in the United States. TheGeoffrey Beenedress shirt targets the more style-conscious consumer, is marketed at moderate to upper moderate price points and is distributed principally in department and specialty stores, including Macy’s and Casual Male Retail Group, Inc. We marketGeoffrey Beenedress shirts under a license agreement with Geoffrey Beene, Inc. that expires on December 31, 2013.



Kenneth Cole New YorkandKenneth Cole Reactiondress shirts and neckwear target the modern consumer, are marketed at bridge and better price points, respectively, and are distributed principally in department stores, including Dillard’s and Macy’s. We market both brands ofKenneth Coledress shirts and neckwear under a license agreement with Kenneth Cole Productions (Lic), Inc. that expires on December 31, 2014, which we may extend through December 31, 2019.



TheCHAPSdress shirt targets the updated traditional consumer and is marketed at moderate price points. TheCHAPSdress shirt is distributed principally at Kohl’s. We marketCHAPSdress shirts under a license agreement with PRL USA, Inc. and The Polo/Lauren Company, LP that expires on March 31, 2014.



JOE Joseph Abbouddress shirts and neckwear target the more youthful, classical consumer, are marketed at moderate to better price points and are distributed principally in department stores, including JCPenney. We marketJOE












Joseph Abbouddress shirts and neckwear under a license agreement with J.A. Apparel Corp. that expires on December 31, 2012 and which we may extend, subject to mutual consent, through December 31, 2015.



DKNYdress shirts and neckwear target the modern consumer, are marketed at better price points and are distributed principally in department stores, including Macy’s. We marketDKNYdress shirts and neckwear under license agreements with Donna Karan Studio, LLC that expire on December 31, 2012 and June 30, 2010, respectively. We may extend our dress shirt license agreement, subject to certain conditions, through December 31, 2017. It is currently our intention to renew the neckwear license agreement.



IZODdress shirts and neckwear target the modern traditional consumer, are marketed at moderate price points and are distributed principally in department stores, including Belk and JCPenney.



Donald J. Trump Signature Collectiondress shirts and neckwear target the modern classical consumer, are marketed at better price points and are distributed principally at Macy’s. We marketDonald J. Trump Signature Collectiondress shirts and neckwear under a license agreement with Donald J. Trump that expires on December 31, 2012.



Tommy Hilfigerdress shirts and neckwear target the classic American consumer, are marketed at better price points and are distributed principally at Macy’s. We marketTommy Hilfigerdress shirts and neckwear under license agreements with Tommy Hilfiger Licensing, LLC that expire on March 31, 2012. The dress shirt license agreement may be extended for up to two additional terms ending March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2018, respectively, subject to certain conditions.



MICHAEL Michael Korsdress shirts and neckwear target the modern consumer, are marketed at moderate to better price points and are distributed principally in department stores, including Macy’s and The Bon-Ton Stores, Inc. We marketMICHAEL Michael Korsdress shirts and neckwear under a license agreement with Michael Kors, LLC that expires on January 31, 2013 and which we may extend, subject to mutual consent, through January 31, 2016.



TheEagledress shirt, a 100% cotton, no-iron shirt, andEagleneckwear target the updated traditional consumer, are marketed at better price points and are distributed principally in department stores, including Macy’s.



We also offer private label dress shirt and neckwear programs to retailers. Private label offerings enable a retailer to sell its own line of exclusive merchandise at generally higher margins. These programs present an opportunity for us to leverage our design, sourcing, manufacturing and logistics expertise. Our private label customers work with our designers to develop the styles, sizes and cuts that the customers desire to sell in their stores under their private labels. Private label programs offer the consumer quality product and offer the retailer the opportunity to enjoy product exclusivity at generally higher margins. Private label products, however, generally do not have the same level of consumer recognition as branded products and private label manufacturers do not generally provide retailers with the same breadth of services and in-store sales and promotional support as branded manufacturers. We market private label dress shirts and neckwear to national dep
artment and mass market stores. Our private label dress shirt program currently consists ofGeorgefor Wal-Mart andApt. 9for Kohl’s. Our private label neckwear programs includeMurano, Daniel CremieuxandRoundtree & Yorkefor Dillard’s,Club RoomandVia Europefor Macy’s,Croft & BarrowandApt. 9for Kohl’s,Expressfor Express stores,Meronafor Target Corporation,John W. Nordstromfor Nordstrom, Inc. andStaffordandJ. Ferrarfor JCPenney.



Wholesale Sportswear and Related Products



We market our sportswear, including men’s knit and woven sport shirts, sweaters, bottoms, swimwear, boxers and outerwear, at wholesale, principally under theIZOD, Van Heusen,ARROW, Geoffrey Beene, Timberland(since Fall 2008)andCalvin Kleinbrands. Since Fall 2007, we also market women’s sportswear, including knit and woven sport shirts, sweaters, bottoms and outerwear under theIZODbrand.



IZODis the best selling branded men’s knit sport shirt in the United States.IZODmen’s sportswear consists of six related separate concepts under the classicIZODblue label (updated classic sportswear),IZODGolf(golf/resort lifestyle sportswear),IZOD XFG(functional/performance oriented golf apparel),IZODred label (IZOD LX,a line of sportswear exclusive to Macy’s),IZOD Jeans(denim bottoms and related tops) andIZOD PerformX(performance-fabricated activewear) sub-brands.IZODmen’s sportswear is targeted to the active consumer, is marketed at moderate to upper moderate price points and is distributed principally in department stores, including Macy’s, Belk, Bon-Ton and JCPenney.



IZODwomen’s apparel consists of a range of sportswear targeted to the active consumer. The brand is marketed at moderate to upper moderate price points and is distributed principally in department stores, including Belk, Bon-Ton and JCPenney.














Van Heusenis the best selling branded men’s woven sport shirt in the United States. TheVan Heusensportswear collection also includes knit sport shirts, chinos and sweaters. LikeVan Heusendress shirts,Van Heusensport shirts, chinos and sweaters target the updated classical consumer, are marketed at opening to moderate price points and are distributed principally in department stores, including JCPenney, Belk, Macy’s and Bon-Ton.



ARROWis the second best selling branded men’s woven sport shirt in the United States.ARROWsportswear consists of men’s knit and woven tops, sweaters and bottoms.ARROWsportswear targets the updated traditional consumer, is marketed at moderate price points and is distributed principally in mid-tier department stores, including Kohl’s and Sears.



Calvin Kleinmen’s sportswear targets the modern classical consumer, is marketed at better price points and is distributed principally in better fashion department and specialty stores, including Macy’s and Dillard’s.



Timberlandmen’s sportswear is targeted to an active consumer, is marketed at opening better men’s collection price points and is distributed principally in department stores, including Macy’s, Belk and Bon-Ton and through The Timberland Company’s outlet retail stores. We marketTimberlandmen’s sportswear at wholesale under a license agreement with The Timberland Company that expires on December 31, 2012 and which we may extend, subject to certain conditions, through December 31, 2017.



Geoffrey Beenesportswear is distributed on a limited basis and is positioned as an updated classic designer label for men’s woven and knit sport shirts, targeting a style-conscious consumer. We marketGeoffrey Beenemen’s sportswear at wholesale under the same license agreement as we marketGeoffrey Beenedress shirts, which expires on December 31, 2013.



Retail



We operate approximately 650 retail locations under theVan Heusen, IZOD, Bass, Calvin KleinandCalvin Klein Collectionnames. We decided in 2008 not to renew our license to operateGeoffrey Beeneoutlet retail stores and closed our Geoffrey Beene outlet retail division at the end of 2008. (Please see Note 14, “Activity Exit Costs and Asset Impairments” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report for a further discussion.)



We operate stores principally in outlet centers in the United States. We also operate a full price store located in New York City under theCalvin Klein Collectionbrand in which we principally sell men’s and women’s high-end collection apparel and accessories, soft home furnishings and tableware. Additionally, we operate a limited number of retail stores located principally in the United Kingdom that primarily marketVan Heusenbrand dress furnishings. Our outlet stores range in size from 1,000 to 14,000 square feet, with an average of approximately 5,000 square feet. We believe our retail stores are an important complement to our wholesale operations because we believe that the stores further enhance consumer awareness of our brands by offering products that are not available in our wholesale lines, while also providing a means for managing excess inventory.



Retail Apparel and Related Products- OurVan Heusenstores are located principally in outlet centers and offer men’s dress shirts, neckwear and underwear, men’s and women’s suit separates, men’s and women’s sportswear, including woven and knit shirts, sweaters, bottoms and outerwear, and men’s and women’s accessories. These stores are targeted to the value-conscious consumer who looks for classically styled, moderately priced apparel.



OurIZODstores are located principally in outlet centers and offer men’s and women’s active-inspired sportswear, including woven and knit shirts, sweaters, bottoms and activewear and men’s fragrance. These stores focus on golf, travel and resort clothing.



OurCalvin Kleinstores are located principally in premium outlet centers and offer men’s and women’s apparel and otherCalvin Kleinproducts to communicate theCalvin Kleinlifestyle. We also operate oneCalvin Klein Collectionstore, located on Madison Avenue in New York City, that offersCalvin Klein Collectionmen’s and women’s high-end collection apparel and accessories and other products under theCalvin Kleinbrands.



Retail Footwear and Related Products-OurBassstores offer casual and dress shoes for men, women and children. Most of ourBassstores also carry apparel for men and women, including tops, neckwear, bottoms and outerwear, as well as accessories such as handbags, wallets, belts and travel gear.














Licensing



In addition to our Calvin Klein licensing business, we license our heritage brands globally for a broad range of products through approximately 40 domestic and 50 international license agreements covering approximately 150 territories combined.



We grant licensing partners the right to manufacture and sell at wholesale specified products under one or more of our brands. In addition, certain foreign licensees are granted the right to open retail stores under the licensed brand name. A substantial portion of the sales by our domestic licensing partners is made to our largest wholesale customers. We provide support to our licensing partners and seek to preserve the integrity of our brand names by taking an active role in the design, quality control, advertising, marketing and distribution of each licensed product, most of which are subject to our prior approval and continuing oversight.



We license ourVan Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, BassandG.H. Bass & Co.brand names for various products worldwide. We also sublicense theGeoffrey Beenebrand name for certain products.



The products offered by our licensing partners under these brands include:





Licensing PartnerProduct Category



Arvind Mills, Ltd.ARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (India, Middle East, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Maldives & Nepal);IZODmen’s sportswear and accessories (India)

Clearvision Optical Company, Inc.IZODmen’s and children’s optical eyewear and related accessories (United States)

E.C.C.E.ARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (France, Switzerland, Andorra & Morocco)

Fishman & Tobin, Inc.Van HeusenandARROWboys’ dresswear and sportswear;IZODboys’ sportswear;IZODandARROWboys’ andgirls’ school uniforms;ARROWmen’s tailored clothing;IZODboys’ tailored clothing (United States)

Gazal Apparel Pty LimitedVan Heusenmen’s dresswear and accessories (Australia & New Zealand)

Gemini Cosmetics, Inc.IZODmen’s fragrances (United States)

Harbor Wholesale, Ltd.BassandG.H. Bass & Co.wholesale footwear (worldwide)

Industrias Jatu S.A.ARROWmen’s dresswear and sportswear (Venezuela)

Knothe Corp.IZODmen’s and boys’ sleepwear and loungewear (United States)

Manufacturas Interamericana S.A.ARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (Chile & Uruguay)

Peerless Delaware, Inc.Van HeusenandIZODmen’s tailored clothing (United States & Mexico)

Humphrey’s Accessories LLC/Randa Corp. d/b/a Randa AccessoriesARROWmen’s and boys’ small leather goods, belts and accessories (United States & Canada);Van Heusenmen’s and boys’ neckwear (United States)

Thanulux Public Company, Ltd.ARROWmen’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories;ARROWwomen’s dresswear and sportswear (Thailand &Vietnam)

Wear Me Apparel Corp. d/b/a Kids HeadquartersIZODchildrenswear (United States)

WestPoint Home, Inc.IZODhome products (United States)














Seasonality



Our business generally follows a seasonal pattern. Our wholesale businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales and income in the third quarter, due to selling to our customers in advance of the holiday selling season. Royalty, advertising and other revenue tends to be earned somewhat evenly throughout the year, although the third quarter has the highest level of royalty revenue due to higher sales by licensees in advance of the holiday selling season.



Design



Our businesses depend on our ability to stimulate and respond to consumer tastes and demands, as well as on our ability to remain competitive in the areas of quality and price.



A significant factor in the continued strength of our brands is our in-house design teams. We form separate teams of designers and merchandisers for each of our brands, creating a structure that focuses on the special qualities and identity of each brand. These designers and merchandisers consider consumer taste and lifestyle and trends when creating a brand or product plan for a particular season. The process from initial design to finished product varies greatly, but generally spans six to ten months prior to each selling season. Our product lines are developed primarily for two major selling seasons, Spring and Fall. However, certain of our product lines offer more frequent introductions of new merchandise.



Calvin Klein has developed a cohesive team of senior design directors who share a vision for theCalvin Kleinbrands and who each lead a separate design team. These teams control all design operations and product development for most licensees and other strategic alliances.



Product Sourcing



To address the needs of our customers, we are continuing to make investments and develop strategies to enhance our ability to provide our customers with timely product availability and delivery. Our investments in sophisticated systems should allow us to reduce the cycle time between the design of products to the delivery of those products to our customers. We believe the enhancement of our supply chain efficiencies and working capital management through the effective use of our distribution network and overall infrastructure will allow us to better control costs and provide improved service to our customers.



We began implementing a series of restructuring initiatives during the fourth quarter of 2008 and we completed substantially all of them by the end of 2009. These initiatives included a realignment of our global sourcing organization and the shutdown of domestic production of machine-made neckwear. We decided to realign our global sourcing organization structure to make more efficient use of our internal resources with the intended goals of reducing product development cycle times and improving the efficiency of our sourcing operations. Our decision to shut down domestic production of machine-made neckwear was made to lower our neckwear product costs.





Our foreign offices and buying agents enable us to monitor the quality of the goods manufactured by, and the delivery performance of, our suppliers, which includes the enforcement of human rights and labor standards through our ongoing approval and monitoring system. In addition, sales are monitored regularly at both the retail and wholesale levels and modifications in production can be made either to increase or reduce inventories. We continually seek additional suppliers throughout the world for our sourcing needs and place our orders in a manner designed to limit the risk that a disruption of












production at any one facility could cause a serious inventory problem. We have not experienced significant production delays or difficulties in importing goods. Our purchases from our suppliers are effected through individual purchase orders specifying the price and quantity of the items to be produced.



Warehousing and Distribution



To facilitate distribution, our products are shipped from manufacturers to our wholesale and retail warehousing and distribution centers for inspection, sorting, packing and shipment. Ranging in size from 20,000 to 747,000 square feet, our centers are located in Arkansas, California, Georgia, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and Trento, Italy. Our warehousing and distribution centers are designed to provide responsive service to our customers and our retail stores, as the case may be, on a cost-effective basis. This includes the use of various forms of electronic communications to meet customer needs, including advance shipping notices for all major customers. In addition, we contract with third parties for warehousing and distribution in Canada and Europe to provide responsive service for our foreign wholesale operations.



Advertising and Promotion



We market substantially all of our products on a brand-by-brand basis targeting distinct consumer demographics and lifestyles. Our marketing programs are an integral feature of our product offerings. Advertisements generally portray a lifestyle rather than a specific item. We intend for each of our brands to be a leader in its respective market segment, with strong consumer awareness and consumer loyalty. We believe that our brands are successful in their respective segments because we have strategically positioned each brand to target a distinct consumer demographic. We will continue to design and market our products to complement each other, satisfy lifestyle needs, emphasize product features important to our target consumers and produce consumer loyalty.



We advertise our brands in national print media (including fashion, entertainment/human interest, business, men’s, women’s and sports magazines andThe New York Times), on the Internet, on television, in movie theaters and through outdoor signage and sports sponsorships. We recently entered into an agreement for ourIZODbrand to be the title sponsor of the newly re-named IZOD IndyCar Series for a five-year term commencing with the 2010 season and also continue to be the official apparel partner of the Indy Racing League and the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. We have also contracted with the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority for the naming rights to the IZOD Center sports and entertainment arena and are also a sponsor of the National Basketball Association’s New Jersey Nets. OurVan Heusenbrand is the sponsor of the Van Heusen Pro Football Hall of Fame Fan’s Choice, through which football fans can express their opinions 
on who should get elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame. We also participate in cooperative advertising programs with our customers, as we believe that brand awareness and in-store positioning are further strengthened by our contributions to such programs.



With respect to our retail operations, we generally rely upon local outlet mall developers to promote traffic for their centers. Outlet center developers employ multiple formats, including signage (highway billboards, off-highway directional signs, on-site signage and on-site information centers), print advertising (brochures, newspapers and travel magazines), direct marketing (to tour bus companies and travel agents), radio and television and special promotions.



We believe Calvin Klein is one of the most well-known designer names in the world. One of the efforts that has helped to establish and maintain theCalvin Kleinname and image is its high-profile, often cutting-edge advertising campaigns that have stimulated publicity, curiosity and debate among customers and consumers, as well as within the fashion industry over the years. Calvin Klein has a dedicated in-house advertising agency, with experienced in-house creative and media teams that develop and execute a substantial portion of the institutional consumer advertising placement for products under theCalvin Kleinbrands. The advertising team works closely with other functional areas within Calvin Klein and its licensing and other partners to deliver a consistent and unified brand message to the consumer. Calvin Klein oversees a worldwide marketing, advertising and promotions program. In 2009, over $275 million was spent globally in connection with the adv
ertisement, marketing and promotion of theCalvin Kleinbrands and products sold by us, Calvin Klein’s licensees and other authorized users of theCalvin Kleinname.



Calvin Kleinproducts are advertised primarily in national print media, through outdoor signage and on television. We believe promotional activities throughout the year further strengthen brand awareness of theCalvin Kleinbrands. The Spring and FallCalvin Klein Collectionapparel lines are presented at fashion shows in New York City and Milan, which typically generate extensive media coverage. Other Calvin Klein promotional efforts include in-store events, product launch events, gift-with-purchase programs, participation in charitable and special corporate-sponsored events and providing outfits to celebrities for award ceremonies and premieres.














Trademarks



We own theVan Heusen,Bass, G.H. Bass & Co.,IZOD, ARROWandEaglebrands, as well as related trademarks and lesser-known names. We beneficially own theCalvin Kleinmarks and derivative marks (for products other than underwear, sleepwear and loungewear). Calvin Klein and Warnaco are each an owner (for their respective products) of the Calvin Klein Trademark Trust, which is the sole and exclusive title owner of substantially all registrations of theCalvin Kleintrademarks. The sole purpose of the Trust is to hold these marks. Calvin Klein maintains and protects the marks on behalf of the Trust pursuant to a servicing agreement. The Trust licenses to Warnaco on an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual and royalty-free basis the use of the marks on men’s and boys’ underwear and sleepwear and women’s and girls’ intimate apparel and sleepwear, and to Calvin Klein on an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual an
d royalty-free basis the use of the marks on all other products. Warnaco pays us an administrative fee based on Warnaco’s worldwide sales of underwear, intimate apparel and sleepwear products bearing any of theCalvin Kleinmarks under an administration agreement between Calvin Klein and Warnaco.



We allow Mr. Calvin Klein to retain the right to use his name, on a non-competitive basis, with respect to his right of publicity, unless those rights are already being used in the Calvin Klein business. We also grant Mr. Klein a royalty-free worldwide right to use theCalvin Kleinmark with respect to certain personal businesses and activities, such as motion picture, television and video businesses, a book business, writing, speaking and/or teaching engagements, non-commercial photography, charitable activities and architectural and industrial design projects, subject to certain limitations designed to protect the image and prestige of theCalvin Kleinbrands and to avoid competitive conflicts.



Our trademarks are the subject of registrations and pending applications throughout the world for use on a variety of apparel, footwear and related products, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage and registration of new and related trademarks. In general, trademarks remain valid and enforceable as long as the marks continue to be used in connection with the products and services with which they are identified and, as to registered tradenames, the required registration renewals are filed. In markets outside of the United States, particularly those where products bearing any of our brands are not sold by us or any of our licensees or other authorized users, our rights to the use of trademarks may not be clearly established.



We regard the license to use our trademarks and our other intellectual property rights in the trademarks as valuable assets in marketing our products and vigorously seek to protect them, on a worldwide basis, against infringement. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. This is especially the case with respect to theCalvin Kleinbrands, as theCalvin Kleinbrands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and their generally higher pricing provides significant opportunity and incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. Calvin Klein has a broad, proactive enforcement program, which we believe has been generally effective in controlling the sale of counterfeit products in the United States and in major markets abroad. We have taken enforcement action with respect to our other marks on an as-needed basis.



Contingent Purchase Price Payments



Calvin Klein

Calvin Klein

Calvin Klein














In connection with the Superba acquisition, we were obligated to pay the seller contingent purchase price payments if the earnings of the acquired business exceeded certain targets in 2007, 2008 and 2009. Any such contingent purchase price payment was payable 90 days after the applicable fiscal year end. Such contingent purchase price payments totaled $14.5 million in the first quarter of 2008 based on the actual calculation of 2007 earnings, as defined in the underlying asset purchase agreement, achieved by the acquired business. The acquired business did not achieve the minimum earnings in 2008 and 2009 required for a payout.



Competition



The apparel and footwear industries are competitive as a result of their fashion orientation, mix of large and small producers, the flow of domestic and imported merchandise and the wide diversity of retailing methods. Some of our larger branded apparel and footwear competitors include Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation, V.F. Corporation, Perry Ellis International, Inc., The Timberland Company and The Rockport Company, LLC. With respect to Calvin Klein, we believe The Donna Karan Company, LLC, Polo Ralph Lauren’s Purple Label, Giorgio Armani SPA, Gucci Group N.V. and Prada SPA Group also are our competitors. In addition, we face significant competition from retailers, including our own wholesale customers, through their private label programs.



We compete primarily on the basis of style, quality, price and service. Our business depends on our ability to stimulate consumer tastes and demands, as well as on our ability to remain competitive in these areas. We believe we are well-positioned to compete in the apparel and footwear industries. Our diversified portfolio of apparel brands and apparel and footwear products and our use of multiple channels of distribution have allowed us to develop a business that produces results which are not dependent on any one demographic group, merchandise preference or distribution channel. We have developed a portfolio of brands that appeal to a broad spectrum of consumers. Our owned brands have long histories and enjoy high recognition within their respective consumer segments. We develop our owned and licensed brands to complement each other and to generate strong consumer loyalty. TheCalvin Kleinbrands generally provide us with the opportunity to develop businesses 
that target different consumer groups at higher price points and in higher-end distribution channels than our other brands, as well as with significant global opportunities due to the worldwide recognition of the brands.



Imports and Import Restrictions



A substantial portion of our products is manufactured by contractors located outside the United States. These products are imported and are subject to United States customs laws, which impose tariffs, as well as quota restrictions, for non-World Trade Organization (“WTO”) member countries. Under the provisions of the WTO agreement governing international trade in textiles, known as the “WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing,” the United States and other WTO member countries have eliminated quotas on textiles and apparel-related products from WTO member countries. As a result, quota restrictions do not affect our business in most countries. Presently, a portion of our imported products is eligible for certain duty-advantaged programs, including CAFTA, Jordan FTA, Egypt QIZ, NAFTA, AGOA and ATPDEA.



Environmental Matters



Our facilities and operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including the proper maintenance of asbestos-containing materials. In addition, we may incur liability under environmental statutes and regulations with respect to the contamination of sites that we own or operate or previously owned or operated (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites, abutters or other persons) and the off-site disposal of hazardous materials. We believe our operations are in compliance with terms of all applicable laws and regulations.



Employees



As of January 31, 2010, we employed approximately 5,300 persons on a full-time basis and approximately 5,500 persons on a part-time basis. Approximately 3% of our employees were represented for the purpose of collective bargaining by five different unions. Additional persons, some represented by these five unions, are employed from time to time based upon our manufacturing schedules and retailing seasonal needs. Our collective bargaining agreements generally are for three-year terms. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.














Executive Officers of the Registrant



The following table sets forth the name, age and position of each of our executive officers:



NameAgePositionEmanuel Chirico52Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerAllen E. Sirkin67President and Chief Operating OfficerMichael A. Shaffer47Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerFrancis K. Duane53Vice Chairman, Wholesale ApparelPaul Thomas Murry59President and Chief Executive Officer, Calvin Klein



Mr. Emanuel Chirico joined us as Vice President and Controller in 1993. Mr. Chirico was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1999, President and Chief Operating Officer in 2005, Chief Executive Officer in February 2006 and Chairman of the Board in June 2007.



Mr. Allen E. Sirkin has been employed by us since 1985. He served as Chairman of our Apparel Group from 1990 until 1995, was named Vice Chairman, Dress Shirts in 1995 and President and Chief Operating Officer in March 2006.



Mr. Michael A. Shaffer has been employed by us since 1990. He most recently served as Senior Vice President, Retail Operations before being named Executive Vice President, Finance in 2005 and Chief Financial Officer in March 2006.



Mr. Francis K. Duane served as President of our Izod division from 1998 until 2001, was named Vice Chairman, Sportswear in 2001 and Vice Chairman, Wholesale Apparel in March 2006.



Mr. Paul Thomas Murry has been employed by Calvin Klein since 1996. Mr. Murry retained his position as President and Chief Operating Officer, Calvin Klein upon our acquisition of Calvin Klein in 2003 and was named President and Chief Executive Officer, Calvin Klein in September 2008.



