Item 1. Business



Introduction



Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our” or “us” refer to PVH Corp. and its subsidiaries.



Our fiscal years are based on the 52-53 week period ending on the Sunday closest to February 1 and are designated by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. References to a year are to our fiscal year, unless the context requires otherwise. Our 2011 year commenced on January 31, 2011 and ended on January 29, 2012; 2010 commenced on February 1, 2010 and ended on January 30, 2011; 2009 commenced on February 2, 2009 and ended on January 31, 2010.



We obtained the market and competitive position data used throughout this report from research, surveys or studies conducted by third parties, information provided by customers and industry or general publications. Industry publications and surveys generally state that they have obtained information from sources believed to be reliable but do not guarantee the accuracy and completeness of such information. While we believe that each of these studies and publications and all other information is reliable, we have not independently verified such data and we do not make any representation as to the accuracy of such information.



References to the brand namesCalvin Klein Collection, ck Calvin Klein, Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger, Hilfiger Denim, Van Heusen, IZOD, Bass, ARROW, Eagle, Geoffrey Beene, CHAPS, Sean John, Donald J. Trump Signature Collection, JOE Joseph Abboud, Kenneth Cole New York, Kenneth Cole Reaction, MICHAEL Michael Kors, Michael Kors Collection, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Nautica, Ted Baker, Jones New York, J. Garcia, Claiborne, Robert Graham, U.S. POLO ASSN., AxcessandTimberlandand to other brand names in this report are to registered trademarks owned by us or licensed to us by third parties and are identified by italicizing the brand name.



References to the acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger refer to our May 6, 2010 acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger B.V. and certain affiliated companies, which companies we refer to collectively as “Tommy Hilfiger.”



References to our acquisition of Calvin Klein refer to our February 2003 acquisition of Calvin Klein, Inc. and certain affiliated companies, which companies we refer to collectively as “Calvin Klein.”





Company Overview



We are one of the world’s largest apparel companies, with a heritage dating back over 130 years. Our brand portfolio consists of nationally and internationally recognized brand names, including the global designer lifestyle brands

Calvin Klein

and

Tommy Hilfiger

brands, as well as

Van Heusen

,

IZOD

,

Bass

,

ARROW and



Eagle,

which are owned brands, and

Geoffrey Beene

,

Kenneth Cole New York

,

Kenneth Cole Reaction

,

Sean John

,

JOE Joseph Abboud

,

MICHAEL Michael Kors

,

Michael Kors Collection

,

CHAPS

,

Donald J. Trump Signature Collection

,

DKNY

,

Elie Tahari

,

Nautica

,

Ted Baker

,

J. Garcia

,

Claiborne

,

Robert Graham

,

U.S. POLO ASSN.

,

Axcess

and

Jones New York

, which are licensed, as well as various other licensed and private label brands. We design and market branded dress shirts, neckwear, sportswear and, to a lesser extent, footwear and other related products. Additionally, we license our owned brands over a broad range of products. We market our brands globally at multiple price points and across multiple channels of distribution, allowing us to provide products to a broad range of consumers, while minimizing competition among our brands and reducing our reliance on any one demographic group, merchandise preference, distribution channel or geographic region. Our directly operated businesses in North America consist principally of wholesale dress furnishings sales under our owned and licensed brands; wholesale men’s sportswear sales under our

Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger, Van Heusen, IZOD

and

ARROW

brands; and the operation of retail stores, principally in outlet malls, under our

Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger, Van Heusen, IZOD

and

Bass

brands. Our directly operated businesses outside of North America consist principally of our Tommy Hilfiger International wholesale and retail business in Europe and Japan and our Calvin Klein dress furnishings and wholesale collection businesses in Europe. Our licensing activities, principally our Calvin Klein business, diversify our business model by providing us with a sizeable base of profitable licensing revenues.



We completed the Tommy Hilfiger acquisition during the second quarter of 2010.Tommy Hilfigeris a global designer lifestyle brand under which we design, source and market high-quality menswear, womenswear, children’s apparel, denim collections and other products worldwide. We also license theTommy Hilfigerbrands worldwide over a broad range of complementary lifestyle products. We believe that, although theTommy Hilfigerbrand is well-established globally and enjoys










significant worldwide brand awareness, there are opportunities to further expand the business in North America, certain parts of Europe and, to a greater extent, Asia. These opportunities include (i) development and expansion of product categories for whichTommy Hilfigercurrently has no or only limited distribution; (ii) increasing sales in markets where the business is underdeveloped; and (iii) expansion into new markets. We believe our successful experience in growingCalvin Kleinwill assist us in realizing these opportunities forTommy Hilfiger. In addition, we believe that Tommy Hilfiger’s established international platform provides us with the resources and expertise needed to grow our other brands and businesses internationally. We recently announced that we will be exercising our rights to reacquire the existing license agreements held by affiliates of The Warnaco Group, Inc. for the distribution and sale of apparel and accessories and the operation of retail stores in Europe under theck Calvin Kleinbrand. We will commence our operations under this brand in 2013. We believe that this represents a significant opportunity to invest in the global potential of theCalvin Kleinbrand, as we plan to leverage Tommy Hilfiger’s established European platform to accelerate the growth of this business.



We aggregate our segments into three main businesses:  (i) Tommy Hilfiger, which consists of the Tommy Hilfiger North America and Tommy Hilfiger International segments; (ii) Calvin Klein, which consists of the Calvin Klein Licensing segment (including our Calvin Klein Collection business, which we operate directly in support of the global licensing of theCalvin Kleinbrands) and the Other (Calvin Klein Apparel) segment, which is comprised of our Calvin Klein dress furnishings, sportswear and outlet retail divisions; and (iii) Heritage Brand, which consists of the Heritage Brand Wholesale Dress Furnishings, Heritage Brand Wholesale Sportswear and Heritage Brand Retail segments. Note 18, “Segment Data,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report contains information with respect to revenue, income before interest and taxes and assets related to each segment, as well as information regarding our revenue generated from foreign and domestic sources, and the geographic locations where our long-lived assets are held.



Our revenue reached a record $5.891 billion in 2011, approximately 40% of which was generated internationally. Our global designer lifestyle brands,Tommy HilfigerandCalvin Klein, together generated approximately 70% of our revenue during 2011.



Our largest customers account for significant portions of our revenue. Sales to our five largest customers were 19.5% of our revenue in 2011, 22.6% of our revenue in 2010 and 31.0% of our revenue in 2009. Macy’s, Inc., our largest customer, accounted for 9.4% of our revenue in 2011, 10.1% of our revenue in 2010 and 11.9% of our revenue in 2009.



Company Information



We were incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1976 as the successor to a business begun in 1881. Our principal executive offices are located at 200 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10016; our telephone number is (212) 381-3500. At our 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, our stockholders approved the change of our corporate name from “Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation” to “PVH Corp.,” which became effective on June 23, 2011.



We make available at no cost, on our corporate website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also make available at no cost, on our corporate website, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Our corporate website address iswww.pvh.com.



Tommy Hilfiger Business Overview



Tommy Hilfiger

, which is distributed in over 90 countries, is a global designer lifestyle brand. Its design theme is “classic American cool” and “preppy with a twist,” and it is positioned as a premium brand.

Tommy Hilfiger

products cover a wide range of apparel, accessories and lifestyle products with a diverse customer following and strong brand awareness in most countries where they are sold. We believe that this awareness has been achieved through consistent implementation of a global communications strategy across all channels of distribution. The Tommy Hilfiger marketing and communications team works closely with all functional areas of the business and across all regions to present a cohesive brand message to retail customers and consumers. We develop and coordinate Tommy Hilfiger advertising for all regions and product lines, brand licensees and regional distributors. We sell

Tommy Hilfiger

products under two principal brands (which we refer to together as the

Tommy Hilfiger

brands) —

Tommy Hilfiger

, which is targeted at the 25 to 45 year old consumer, and

Hilfiger Denim

, which is targeted at the 20 to 35 year old consumer.

Tommy Hilfiger

product offerings by us and our licensees include sportswear for men, women and children, footwear, athletic apparel (golf, swim and sailing), bodywear (underwear, robes and sleepwear), eyewear, sunwear, watches, handbags, men’s tailored clothing, men’s dress furnishings, socks, small leather goods, fragrances, home and bedding products, bathroom accessories and luggage. The

Hilfiger Denim

product line consists of jeanswear and footwear for










men, women and children, bags, accessories, eyewear and fragrance, and is positioned as being more “fashion forward” than theTommy Hilfigerlabel. We distributeTommy Hilfigerproducts at wholesale and retail and also license theTommy Hilfigerbrands for an assortment of products in various countries and regions. We sellTommy Hilfigerproducts in North America, Europe and Japan through our wholesale and retail businesses, and in China and India through joint ventures.Tommy Hilfigerbrand products are distributed in Hong Kong, Malaysia, Taiwan, Singapore, South Korea, Australia, Mexico, Central and South America and the Caribbean through licensees, franchisees and distributors. Worldwide retail sales of products sold under theTommy Hilfigerbrands were approximately $5.6 billion in 2011.



The Tommy Hilfiger wholesale business consists of the distribution and sale of products under theTommy Hilfigerbrands to stores operated by franchisees and distributors and through retail customers. The European retail customers range from large department stores to small independent stores. Tommy Hilfiger has, since the Fall of 2008, conducted the majority of its North American wholesale operations through Macy’s, which is currently the exclusive department store retailer forTommy Hilfigermen’s, women’s and children’s sportswear in the United States.



The Tommy Hilfiger retail business principally consists of the distribution and sale ofTommy Hilfigerproducts in Europe, the United States, Canada and Japan through company-operated specialty stores (anchor stores and satellite stores) and outlet stores, as well as multiple e-commerce sites.Tommy Hilfigeranchor stores are generally larger stores situated in high-profile locations in major cities and are intended to enhance local exposure of the brand. Satellite stores are regular street and mall stores, which are located in secondary cities and are based on a model that provides incremental revenue and profitability. Company stores in North America are primarily located in outlet centers and carry specially designed merchandise that is sold at a lower price point than merchandise sold in our specialty stores. Company stores operated by Tommy Hilfiger in Europe and Japan are used primarily to clear excess inventory from previous seasons at discounted prices.



We license theTommy Hilfigerbrands to third parties both for specific product categories (such as fragrances, watches, jewelry and eyewear) and in certain geographic regions. For 2011, approximately 31% of Tommy Hilfiger’s royalty, advertising and other revenue was generated domestically and approximately 69% was generated internationally. As of January 29, 2012, Tommy Hilfiger had 29 license agreements. In 2011, we formed a joint venture in China, in which we own a 45% equity interest. The joint venture assumed direct control of the licensed Tommy Hilfiger wholesale and retail distribution business in China from the existing licensee, Dickson Concepts (International) Limited, on August 1, 2011. In addition, on September 7, 2011, we completed the acquisition from Ganesha Limited and Ganesha Brands Limited, both of which are affiliates of GVM International Limited (“GVM”), of a 50% equity interest in a company that has been renamed Tommy Hilfiger Arvind Fashion Private Limited (“TH India”). TH India was GVM’s sublicensee of theTommy Hilfigertrademarks for apparel, footwear and handbags in India. As a result of the transaction, TH India is now the direct licensee of the trademarks for all categories (other than fragrance), operates a wholesale apparel, footwear and handbags business in connection with its license and sublicenses the trademarks for certain other product categories.












The products offered by some of Tommy Hilfiger’s key licensing partners include:







Licensing PartnerProduct Category and Territory



American Sportswear S.A.Sportswear and licensed products distribution (Central America, South America and the Caribbean)



Aramis, Inc.Fragrance, cosmetics, skincare products and toiletries (worldwide)



Baseco S.A. DE C.V.Sportswear and licensed products distribution (excluding footwear) (Mexico)

Dobotex International B.V.Men’s, women’s and children’s socks (Europe)

Fishman and Tobin, Inc.Boys’ and girls’ apparel (United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and Guam (Macy’s stores only))



TH India*Sportswear and licensed products distribution (India)



Marcraft Clothes, Inc.Men’s tailored clothing (United States and Canada)



Movado Group, Inc. & Swissam Products, Ltd.Women’s and men’s watches and jewelry (worldwide, excluding Japan (except certain customers))



Revman International, Inc.Bed and bedding accessories (United States, Canada and Mexico)



Safilo Group S.P.A.Men’s, women’s and children’s eyeglasses and non-ophthalmic sunglasses (worldwide, excluding India)



SK Networks Co., Ltd.Sportswear and licensed products distribution (South Korea)



Strellson AGMen’s tailored clothing (Europe and Middle East)



Swank, Inc.Men’s belts and small leather goods (United States, Canada and Mexico)



Tommy Hilfiger Asia-Pacific, Ltd.Sportswear and licensed products distribution (Hong Kong, Macau, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan)



TH Asia Ltd.*Sportswear and licensed products distribution (China)



Tommy Hilfiger Australia PTY, Ltd.Men’s, women’s and children’s socks, tights and leggings, excluding pantyhose (Australia and New Zealand)





*Joint venture in which we own an interest



In 2011, we entered into an agreement to reacquire from Strellson, prior to the expiration of the license, the rights to distributeTommy Hilfigerbrand tailored men’s apparel in Europe. The effective date of the transfer of the rights is December 31, 2012.



The results of our Tommy Hilfiger wholesale, retail and licensing operations in the United States and Canada are reported in our Tommy Hilfiger North America segment, and wholesale, retail and licensing operations outside of North America are reported in our Tommy Hilfiger International segment.










Calvin Klein Business Overview



We believe Calvin Klein is one of the best known designer names in the world and that theCalvin Kleinbrands —Calvin Klein Collection,ck Calvin KleinandCalvin Klein— provide us with the opportunity to market products both domestically and internationally at a variety of price points and consumer groups, including in higher-end distribution channels than most of our heritage business product offerings. Products sold under theCalvin Kleinbrands are sold primarily under licenses and other arrangements. Calvin Klein designs all products and/or controls all design operations and product development and oversees a worldwide marketing, advertising and promotions program for theCalvin Kleinbrands. We believe that maintaining control over design and advertising through Calvin Klein’s dedicated in-house teams plays a key role in the continued strength of the brands. Worldwide retail sales of products sold under theCalvin Kleinbrands were approximately $7.6 billion in 2011.



Our Calvin Klein business primarily consists of (i) licensing and similar arrangements worldwide for use of theCalvin Kleinbrands in connection with a broad array of products, including women’s dresses and suits, men’s dress furnishings and tailored clothing, men’s and women’s sportswear and bridge and collection apparel, golf apparel, jeanswear, underwear, fragrances, eyewear, women’s performance apparel, hosiery, socks, footwear, swimwear, jewelry, watches, outerwear, handbags, small leather goods and home furnishings (including furniture), as well as to operate retail stores outside North America, and the marketing of theCalvin Klein Collectionbrand high-end men’s and women’s apparel and accessories collections through ourCalvin Klein Collectionflagship store located in New York City and our Calvin Klein Collection wholesale business (Calvin Klein Licensing segment); and (ii) ourCalvin Kleindress furnishings and men’s better sportswear businesses, which operate principally in the United States and Canada, and ourCalvin Kleinretail stores located principally in premium outlet malls in the United States and Canada (Other (Calvin Klein Apparel) segment).



OurCalvin Kleinmen’s dress shirts, neckwear and sportswear target the modern classical consumer, are marketed at better price points and are distributed principally in better fashion department and specialty stores, including Macy’s and Dillard’s, Inc. We also offer ourCalvin Klein Collectionandck Calvin Kleindress shirts to the more limited channel of luxury department and specialty stores as well as through freestandingCalvin Klein Collectionandck Calvin Kleinstores.



OurCalvin Kleinstores are located principally in premium outlet centers and offer men’s and women’s apparel and otherCalvin Kleinproducts to communicate theCalvin Kleinlifestyle. We also operate oneCalvin Klein Collectionstore, located on Madison Avenue in New York City, that offers high-end men’s and women’sCalvin Klein Collectionapparel and accessories and other products under theCalvin Kleinbrands.



An important source of our revenue is Calvin Klein’s arrangements with licensees and other third parties worldwide that manufacture and distribute globally a broad array of products under theCalvin Kleinbrands. For 2011, approximately 40% of Calvin Klein’s royalty, advertising and other revenue was generated domestically and approximately 60% was generated internationally. Calvin Klein combines its design, marketing and imaging skills with the specific manufacturing, distribution and geographic capabilities of its licensing and other partners to develop, market and distribute a variety of goods across a wide range of categories and to expand existing lines of business.












Calvin Klein has approximately 60 licensing and other arrangements across the threeCalvin Kleinbrands. The products offered by some of Calvin Klein’s key licensing partners include:







Licensing PartnerProduct Category and Territory



CK Watch and Jewelry Co., Ltd.(Swatch SA)Men’s and women’s watches (worldwide) and women’s jewelry (worldwide, excluding Japan)



CK21 Holdings Pte, Ltd.Men’s and women’s bridge apparel, shoes and accessories (Asia, excluding Japan)



Coty, Inc.Men’s and women’s fragrance and bath products and color cosmetics (worldwide)



DWI Holdings, Inc. / Himatsingka Seide, Ltd.Soft home bed and bath furnishings (United States, Canada, Mexico, Central America, South America and India)



G-III Apparel Group, Ltd.Men’s and women’s coats; women’s better suits, dresses and sportswear; women’s active performance wear; luggage; women’s better handbags (United States, Canada and Mexico with some distribution for certain lines in Europe and elsewhere)



Jimlar CorporationMen’s, women’s and children’s footwear - better (United States, Canada and Mexico) - bridge (North America, Europe, Middle East and India); men’s and women’s footwear - collection (worldwide)



Marchon Eyewear, Inc.Men’s and women’s optical frames and sunglasses (worldwide)



McGregor Industries, Inc. / American Essentials, Inc.Men’s and women’s socks and women’s tights (United States, Canada, Mexico, South America, Europe, Middle East and Asia, excluding Japan)



Onward Kashiyama Co. Ltd.Men’s and women’s bridge apparel and women’s bridge handbags (Japan)



Peerless Delaware, Inc.Men’s better and bridge tailored clothing (United States, Canada and Mexico; South America (non-exclusive))



The Warnaco Group, Inc.Men’s, women’s and children’s jeanswear (nearly worldwide); men’s and boys’ underwear and sleepwear (worldwide); women’s and girls’ intimate apparel and sleepwear (worldwide); women’s swimwear (worldwide); men’s better swimwear (worldwide); men’s and women’s bridge apparel and accessories (Europe, Africa and Middle East)

Warnaco is the beneficial owner of theCalvin Kleinmark for men’s and boys’ underwear and sleepwear and women’s and girls’ intimate apparel and sleepwear. However, Warnaco pays Calvin Klein an administration fee based on Warnaco’s worldwide sales of such products under an administration agreement between Calvin Klein and Warnaco. Warnaco, as the beneficial owner of theCalvin Kleinmark for such products, controls the design and advertising related thereto but works closely with Calvin Klein on these matters.



Although theCalvin Kleinbrands were well-established when we acquired Calvin Klein in 2003, there were numerous product categories in which no products, or only a limited number of products, were offered. Since the acquisition, we have used our core competencies to establish our men’s better sportswear business and outlet retail business; our dress furnishings business pre-dated the acquisition. In addition, we have significantly expanded the Calvin Klein business through licensing additional product categories under theCalvin Kleinbrands and additional geographic areas and channels of distribution in which products are sold. In order to more efficiently and effectively exploit the development opportunities for each brand, a tiered-brand strategy was established to provide a focused, consistent approach to global brand growth and development, with each of theCalvin Kleinbrands occupying a distinct marketing identity and position. An important element of this tiered-brand strategy is the preservation of the prestige and image of theCalvin Kleinbrands. To this end, Calvin Klein has dedicated in-house marketing, advertising and design teams that oversee these activities worldwide. In 2011, over $300 million was spent










globally in connection with the advertisement, marketing and promotion of theCalvin Kleinbrands and products sold by us, Calvin Klein’s licensees and other authorized users of theCalvin Kleinbrands, principally funded by the licensees.



Heritage Brand Business Overview



Our Heritage Brand business encompasses the design, sourcing and marketing of a varied selection of branded label dress shirts, neckwear, sportswear, footwear and underwear, as well as the licensing of our heritage brands (Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROWandBass), for an assortment of products. The Heritage Brand business also includes private label dress furnishings programs, particularly neckwear programs. We design, source and market these products to target distinct consumer demographics and lifestyles in an effort to minimize competition among our brands. We distribute our Heritage Brand products at wholesale in national and regional department, mid-tier department, mass market, specialty and independent stores in the United States, Canada and Europe. Our wholesale business represents our core business and we believe that it is the basis for the brand equity of our heritage brands. As a complement to our wholesale business, we also market our Heritage Brand products directly to consumers through ourVan Heusen,IZODandBassretail stores, principally located in outlet malls throughout the United States and Canada.





Heritage Brand Dress Furnishings.Our Heritage Brand Dress Furnishings segment principally includes the design and marketing of men’s dress shirts and neckwear. We market products under both categories principally under theVan Heusen,ARROW,IZOD,Eagle,Sean John,Donald J. Trump Signature Collection,Kenneth Cole New York,Kenneth Cole Reaction,JOE Joseph Abboud,DKNY,Elie Tahari,J. GarciaandMICHAEL Michael Korsbrands. We also market dress shirts under theGeoffrey BeeneandCHAPSbrands and neckwear under theNautica,Michael Kors Collection,Jones New York,Ted Baker,Axcess,U.S. POLO ASSN.,Hart SchaffnerMarx,Bass,ClaiborneandRobert Grahambrands. We market these dress shirt and neckwear brands, as well as various other licensed and private label brands, primarily to department, mid-tier department and specialty stores, as well as, to a lesser degree, mass market stores.



The following provides additional information for some of the more significant brands, as determined based on 2011 sales volume:

TheVan Heusendress shirt has provided a strong foundation for our Heritage Brand business, and is the best selling national brand dress shirt in the United States. We began sellingVan Heusenneckwear directly in January 2012; the brand was previously licensed to a third party for neckwear.Van Heusendress shirts and neckwear target the updated classical consumer, are marketed at opening to moderate price points and are sold principally in department stores, including Belk, Inc., Stage Stores, Inc., The Bon-Ton Stores, Inc., Macy’s, J.C. Penney Company, Inc. and, beginning in 2012, Kohl’s Corporation.

ARROWis the second best selling national brand dress shirt in department and chain stores in the United States.ARROWdress shirts and neckwear target the updated classical consumer, are marketed at opening to moderate price points and are sold principally in mid-tier department stores, including Kohl’s, Sears, Roebuck and Co. and, since January 2012, J.C. Penney.

TheGeoffrey Beenedress shirt is the third best selling national brand dress shirt in department and chain stores in the United States.Geoffrey Beenedress shirts target the more style-conscious consumer, are marketed at moderate to upper moderate price points and are sold principally in department and specialty stores, including Macy’s, Belk, Bon-Ton and Casual Male Retail Group, Inc. We marketGeoffrey Beenedress shirts under a license agreement with Geoffrey Beene, Inc. that expires on December 31, 2013.

Kenneth Cole New YorkandKenneth Cole Reactiondress shirts and neckwear target the modern consumer, are marketed at bridge and better price points, respectively, and are sold principally in department stores, including Macy’s and Dillard’s. We market both brands ofKenneth Coledress shirts and neckwear under a license agreement with Kenneth Cole Productions (Lic), Inc. that expires on December 31, 2014, which we may extend through December 31, 2019.

TheCHAPSdress shirt targets the updated traditional consumer, is marketed at moderate price points and is sold principally at Kohl’s and Stage Stores. We marketCHAPSdress shirts under a license agreement with PRL USA, Inc. and The Polo/Lauren Company, LP that expires on March 31, 2014.

JOE Joseph Abbouddress shirts and neckwear target the more youthful, classical consumer, are marketed at moderate to better price points and are sold principally in department and men’s specialty stores, including J.C. Penney and The Men’s Wearhouse, Inc. We marketJOE Joseph Abbouddress shirts and neckwear under a license agreement with J.A. Apparel Corp. that expires on December 31, 2020.










TheEagledress shirt, a 100% cotton, no-iron shirt, andEagleneckwear target the updated traditional consumer, are marketed at better price points and are sold principally in department stores, including Macy’s and Bon-Ton.

DKNYdress shirts and neckwear target the modern consumer, are marketed at better price points and are sold principally in department stores, including Macy’s. We marketDKNYdress shirts and neckwear under license agreements with Donna Karan Studio, LLC which expire on December 31, 2012, and which we may extend, subject to certain conditions, through December 31, 2017.

IZODdress shirts and neckwear target the modern traditional consumer, are marketed at moderate price points and are sold principally in department stores, including Belk.

Donald J. Trump Signature Collectiondress shirts and neckwear target the modern classical consumer, are marketed at better price points and are sold principally at Macy’s. We marketDonald J. Trump Signature Collectiondress shirts and neckwear under a license agreement with Donald J. Trump that expires on December 31, 2012.

MICHAEL Michael Korsdress shirts and neckwear target the modern consumer, are marketed at moderate to better price points and are sold principally in department stores, including Macy’s. We marketMICHAEL Michael Korsdress shirts and neckwear under a license agreement with Michael Kors, LLC that expires on January 31, 2013 and which we may extend, subject to mutual consent, through January 31, 2016.

We also offer private label dress shirt and neckwear programs to retailers. Private label offerings enable a retailer to sell its own line of exclusive merchandise at generally higher margins. These programs present an opportunity for us to leverage our design, sourcing, manufacturing and logistics expertise. Our private label customers work with our designers to develop the styles, sizes and cuts best suited to their customers’ needs and then sell the product in their stores under their private labels. Private label programs offer the consumer quality product and offer the retailer the opportunity to enjoy product exclusivity at generally higher margins. Private label products, however, generally do not have the same level of consumer recognition as branded products and we do not provide retailers with the same breadth of services and in-store sales and promotional support as we do for our branded products. We market private label dress shirts and neckwear to national department and mass market stores. Our private label dress shirt program currently consists of

George

for Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.,

Madison

for Belk and

The Men’s Store at Bloomingdale’s

for Bloomingdale’s, Inc. Our private label neckwear programs include

George

for Wal-Mart,

Murano

,

Daniel Cremieux

and

Roundtree & Yorke

for Dillard’s,

Club Room

for Macy’s,

Croft & Barrow

and

Apt. 9

for Kohl’s,

Express

for Express, Inc.,

Merona

for Target Corporation,

Nordstrom

,

John W. Nordstrom

,

Calibrate

and


for Nordstrom, Inc.,

Stafford

and

J. Ferrar

for J.C. Penney,

Statements

and

Kenneth Roberts

for Bon-Ton,

Madison

and

Saddlebred

for Belk,

DBG

,

Stapleford

and

Hawkins McGill

for Urban Outfitters, Incorporated,

Saks Men’s Collection

for Saks, Incorporated’s Saks Fifth Avenue stores,

The Men’s Store at Bloomingdale’s

for Bloomingdale’s and

Black Brown

for Lord & Taylor.

Heritage Brand Sportswear.Our Heritage Brand Sportswear segment principally includes the design and marketing of sportswear, including men’s knit and woven sport shirts, sweaters, bottoms, swimwear and outerwear, at wholesale, principally under theIZOD,Van Heusen,ARROW,Geoffrey BeeneandTimberlandbrands. We negotiated during the second quarter of 2011 the early termination of our license to use theTimberlandtrademarks on men’s sportswear and will be exiting the business in 2012. We also market women’s sportswear, including knit and woven sport shirts, sweaters, bottoms and outerwear under theIZODbrand. We announced during the fourth quarter of 2011 that we will be exiting the Izod women’s wholesale sportswear business beginning in 2012.



IZODis the third best selling national brand men’s knit shirt (excluding tees and sports jerseys) in department and chain stores in the United States.IZODmen’s sportswear includes a broad range of product categories, including the classicIZODblue label (updated classic sportswear for J.C. Penney and regional department stores),IZOD XFG(performance/technical activewear),IZOD LX(a line of sportswear exclusive to Macy’s), main floor pants and Big and Tall sub-brands.IZODmen’s sportswear is targeted to the active inspired consumer, is marketed at moderate to upper moderate price points and is sold principally in department stores, including Macy’s, Stage Stores, Belk, Bon-Ton and J.C. Penney.



Van Heusenis the best selling national brand men’s woven sport shirt in department and chain stores in the United States. TheVan Heusensportswear collection also includes knit sport shirts, chinos and sweaters. LikeVan Heusendress shirts,Van Heusensport shirts, chinos and sweaters target the updated classical consumer, are marketed at opening to moderate price points and are sold principally in department stores, including J.C. Penney, Macy’s, Stage Stores, Bon-Ton, Belk and, beginning in 2012, Kohl’s.












ARROWis the third best selling national brand men’s woven sport shirt in department and chain stores in the United States.ARROWsportswear consists of men’s knit and woven tops, sweaters and bottoms.ARROWsportswear targets the updated traditional consumer, is marketed at moderate price points and is sold principally in mid-tier department stores, including Kohl’s, Stage Stores, Sears and, since January 2012, J.C. Penney.





Heritage Brand Retail.We operate retail locations through our Heritage Brand Retail segment under theVan Heusen,IZODandBassnames. We operate these stores primarily in outlet centers throughout the United States and Canada. We believe our retail stores are an important complement to our wholesale operations because we believe that the stores further enhance consumer awareness of our brands by offering products that are not available in our wholesale lines, while also providing a means for managing excess inventory, as well as direct control of the in-store customer experience.



OurVan Heusenstores offer men’s dress shirts, neckwear and underwear, men’s and women’s suit separates, men’s and women’s sportswear, including woven and knit shirts, sweaters, bottoms and outerwear, and men’s and women’s accessories. These stores are targeted to the value-conscious consumer who looks for classically styled, moderately priced apparel.



OurIZODstores offer men’s and women’s active-inspired sportswear, including woven and knit shirts, sweaters, bottoms and activewear and men’s and women’s accessories. These stores focus on golf, travel and resort clothing.



OurBassstores offer casual and dress shoes for men, women and children. Most of ourBassstores also carry apparel for men and women, including tops, neckwear, bottoms and outerwear, as well as accessories such as handbags, wallets, belts and travel gear.



Licensing.We license our heritage brands globally for a broad range of products through approximately 40 domestic and 40 international license agreements covering approximately 115 territories combined. We look for suitable licensing opportunities because we believe that licensing provides us with a relatively stable flow of revenues with high margins and extends and strengthens our brands.



We grant licensing partners the right to manufacture and sell at wholesale specified products under one or more of our brands. In addition, certain foreign licensees are granted the right to open retail stores under the licensed brand name. A substantial portion of the sales by our domestic licensing partners is made to our largest wholesale customers. We provide support to our licensing partners and seek to preserve the integrity of our brand names by taking an active role in the design, quality control, advertising, marketing and distribution of each licensed product, most of which are subject to our prior approval and continuing oversight.












The products offered by our heritage brand licensing partners under these brands include:







Licensing PartnerProduct Category and Territory



Arvind Ltd.ARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (India, Middle East, Ethiopia, Maldives, Nepal, Sri Lanka and South Africa);IZODmen’s sportswear and accessories (India)



Clearvision Optical Company, Inc.IZODmen’s and children’s optical eyewear and related accessories (United States)



ECCEARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (France, Switzerland and Andorra)



F&T Apparel LLCVan HeusenandARROWboys’ dress furnishings and sportswear;IZODboys’ sportswear;IZODandARROWboys’ andgirls’ school uniforms;ARROWmen’s tailored clothing;IZODboys’ tailored clothing (United States and Canada)



Gazal Apparel Pty LimitedVan Heusenmen’s dress furnishings, tailored clothing and accessories (Australia and New Zealand)



Harbor Wholesale, Ltd.BassandG.H. Bass & Co.wholesale footwear (worldwide);IZODfootwear (United States)



Beijing Innovative GarmentsARROWmen’s dress furnishings, tailored clothing and sportswear (China)



Knothe Apparel Group, Inc.IZODmen’s and boys’ sleepwear and loungewear (United States and Canada)



Leighton Daniel Group LLCIZODmen’s and women’s collegiate sportswear (United States)



Manufacturas Interamericana S.A.ARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (Chile, Peru, Argentina and Uruguay)



Fashion Company S.A.Van Heusenmen’s dress furnishings, tailored clothing, sportswear and accessories;IZODmen’s and women’s sportswear and accessories (Chile and Peru)



Peerless Delaware, Inc.Van HeusenandIZODmen’s tailored clothing (United States and Mexico)



Randa Canada LTD./Randa Corp. d/b/a Randa AccessoriesARROWmen’s and boys’ belts, wallets and suspenders (Canada)



Thanulux Public Company, Ltd.ARROWmen’s dress furnishings, tailored clothing, sportswear and accessories;ARROWwomen’s dresswear and sportswear (Thailand and Vietnam)



WestPoint Home, Inc.IZODhome products (United States and Canada)



Weihai Dishang Fashion Brands Co., LtdIZODmen’s and women’s sportswear and accessories (China)
















Our Business Strategy



We intend to capitalize on the significant opportunities presented by the acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger, as well as continue to focus on growing Calvin Klein and increasing the revenue and profitability of our Heritage Brand business through the execution of the following strategies:





Tommy Hilfiger





Continue to grow the European business.We believe that there is significant potential for further expansion in Europe. Among other initiatives, our current strategies for the European market include:



•Growing the business in product categories that we believe are currently underdeveloped in Europe, such as pants, outerwear, underwear and accessories, as well as the womenswear collection;

•Expanding the bags and small leather goods division, which we reacquired from our former licensee in 2010;

•Growing the Tommy Hilfiger tailored division, which we have entered into an agreement to reacquire from a licensee at the end of 2012, with our first in-house collection to be sold for Spring 2013; and

•Increasing theTommy Hilfigerbrand’s presence in under-penetrated markets where we believe there is growth potential, such as Italy, France, the United Kingdom and Central and Eastern Europe, through both our own retail expansion and increased wholesale sales, which we intend to support with increased advertising and marketing activities.



Grow and continue to strengthen the North American business.We intend to achieve growth in the North American business by:



•Expanding our strategic alliance with Macy’s by leveraging our logistics capabilities and “preferred vendor” relationship with Macy’s and adding product categories to the merchandise assortments, increasing and enhancing the locations of “shop-in-shop” stores in high-volume Macy’s stores and featuringTommy Hilfigerproducts in Macy’s marketing campaigns;

•Expanding product offerings by Tommy Hilfiger and its licensees in both the retail and wholesale channels; and

•Increasing Tommy Hilfiger’s overall presence in North America through additional retail stores.



Expansion of opportunities outside of Europe and North America.Our opportunities in the rest of the world can be achieved by:





•Capitalizing on opportunities to grow the Tommy Hilfiger business in Japan by continuing to open new stores, including the opening of our flagship store in Omotesando, Tokyo in 2012, introducing regional sizing, enhancing product offerings and adopting other initiatives targeted at local market needs;

•Developing and expanding our business in China and India through our recent (i) formation of a joint venture in China with the former principal shareholder of Tommy Hilfiger and a third party, which assumed direct control of the Tommy Hilfiger wholesale and retail distribution businesses in China from the prior licensee; and (ii) acquisition of the rights to theTommy Hilfigertrademarks in India that had been subject to a perpetual license and an equity interest in the joint venture that is now the direct licensee of the trademarks for all categories (other than fragrance) in India; and

•Continuing a balanced strategy of acquiring licensees, distributors and franchisees where we believe we can achieve greater scale and success compared to our partners, while at the same time licensing businesses for product categories and markets when we believe experienced and/or local partners provide the best opportunity for success.



Further improve the e-commerce channel.We intend to seek to improve the online capabilities and functions of the Tommy Hilfiger European and North American e-commerce sites to improve the shopping experience and attract additional business around the globe.





Calvin Klein





The tiered-brand strategy we created for theCalvin Kleinbrands established a strategic brand architecture to guide the global brand growth and development of all three brand tiers by differentiating each of theCalvin Kleinbrands with distinct marketing identities, positioning and channels. Additionally, branding product across three tiers allows flexibility from market










to market to build businesses that address the differences between markets. We have approximately 60 licensing and other arrangements across the threeCalvin Kleinbrands. These arrangements grant rights to produce products over a broad range of categories and, in certain cases, also grant rights to open retail stores in countries outside of the United States (in some cases on a multi-store basis, in others on a single location basis).

•Calvin Klein Collection.The principal growth opportunity for our “halo” brand is to broaden the current distribution through the continued opening of freestanding stores operated throughout the world by our experienced retail partners, as well as through expanded distribution by our wholesale men’s and women’s high-end collection apparel and accessories business within premier department stores and specialty stores in both the United States and overseas.

•ck Calvin Klein.Our “bridge” brand,ck Calvin Klein, provides significant growth opportunities, particularly in Europe and Asia, where apparel and accessories are more traditionally sold in the upper-moderate to upper “bridge” price range. Specific growth opportunities include:

◦Broadening distribution of apparel and accessories through continued expansion in key markets such as Southeast Asia, China and Japan, as well as Europe and the Middle East.ck Calvin Kleinapparel and accessories were available in Europe, Asia and Japan, as well as in approximately 100 freestandingck Calvin Kleinstores at the end of 2011. We currently expect that additional freestandingck Calvin Kleinstores will be opened by licensees by the end of 2012;

◦Expansion of the watch and jewelry lines worldwide;

◦Introduction of additionalck Calvin Kleinfragrances, such asckIN2U(Spring 2007) andckFree(Fall 2009), which have contributed to the growth of theck Calvin Kleinbrand globally; and

◦Our recently-announced reacquisition of the existing license agreements held by affiliates of Warnaco for the distribution and sale of apparel and accessories and the operation of retail stores in Europe under theck Calvin Kleinbrand. We will commence our operations under this brand in 2013. We believe that this represents a significant opportunity to invest in the global potential of the brand, as we plan to leverage Tommy Hilfiger’s established European platform to accelerate the growth of this business.

•Calvin Klein.We believe that theCalvin Kleinwhite label “better” brand presents the largest growth opportunity, particularly in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Growth opportunities for this brand include:

◦Continued expansion of our men’s sportswear business;

◦Continued development of the licensed lines of men’s and women’s footwear, handbags, women’s dresses, women’s swimwear and other brand extensions such as in jeans, apparel and underwear;

◦Introduction and growth of new fragrance offerings and brand extensions, such asCalvin Klein BEAUTY(Fall 2010),ck one Shock(Fall 2011) andforbidden euphoria(Fall 2011) fragrances;

◦Addition of men’s and women’s jeanswear, underwear and swimwear products under theck oneline (Spring 2011); and

◦Pursuit of additional licensing opportunities for new product lines, such as the introduction ofCalvin Klein Jeansmen’s and women’s footwear (Spring 2011),Calvin Klein Jeanschildren’s footwear (Fall 2011) andCalvin Klein Jeanseyewear (Fall 2011), as well as the expansion of existing product lines into broader territories such asCalvin Klein Golfinto Asia (Fall 2011).



Heritage Brand Business

•Continue to strengthen the competitive position and image of our current brand portfolio.We intend for each of our heritage brands to be a leader in its respective market segment, with strong consumer awareness and loyalty. We believe that our heritage brands are successful because we have positioned each one to target distinct consumer demographics and tastes. We will continue to design and market our branded products to complement each other, satisfy lifestyle needs, emphasize product features important to our target consumers and increase consumer loyalty. We will seek to increase our market share in our businesses by expanding our presence through product extensions and increased floor space. We are also committed to investing in our brands through advertising and other means to maintain strong customer recognition.

•Continue to build our brand portfolio through acquisition and licensing opportunities.While we believe we have an attractive and diverse portfolio of brands with growth potential, we will also continue to explore acquisitions of companies or trademarks and licensing opportunities that we believe are additive to our overall business. New license opportunities allow us to fill new product and brand portfolio needs. We take a disciplined approach to acquisitions,










seeking brands with broad consumer recognition that we can grow profitably and expand by leveraging our infrastructure and core competencies and, where appropriate, by extending the brand through licensing.

•Pursue international growth.We intend to expand the international distribution of our heritage brands, including through licensing. We have approximately 40 license agreements, covering approximately 115 territories outside of the United States to use our heritage brands in numerous product categories, including apparel, accessories, footwear, soft home goods and fragrances. We also conduct international business directly, selling dress furnishings and sportswear products to department and specialty stores and operating retail stores throughout Canada. We believe that our strong brand portfolio and broad product offerings enable us to seek additional growth opportunities in geographic areas where we believe we are underpenetrated, such as Europe and Asia.



Seasonality



Our business generally follows a seasonal pattern. Our wholesale businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales in the first and third quarters, while our retail businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales in the fourth quarter. Royalty, advertising and other revenue tends to be earned somewhat evenly throughout the year, although the third quarter has the highest level of royalty revenue due to higher sales by licensees in advance of the holiday selling season.



Design



Our businesses depend on our ability to stimulate and respond to consumer tastes and demands, as well as on our ability to remain competitive in the areas of quality and price.



A significant factor in the continued strength of our brands is our in-house design teams. We form separate teams of designers and merchandisers for each of our brands, creating a structure that focuses on the special qualities and identity of each brand. These designers and merchandisers consider consumer taste and lifestyle and trends when creating a brand or product plan for a particular season. The process from initial design to finished product varies greatly but generally spans six to ten months prior to each retail selling season. Our product lines are developed primarily for two major selling seasons, Spring and Fall. However, certain of our product lines offer more frequent introductions of new merchandise.



Calvin Klein has a team of senior design directors who share a vision for theCalvin Kleinbrands and who each lead a separate design team. These teams control all design operations and product development for most licensees and other strategic partners.



Tommy Hilfiger seeks to reinforce the premium positioning of theTommy Hilfigerbrands by taking a coordinated and consistent worldwide approach to brand management. Products are then adapted and executed on a regional basis in order to adjust for local or regional sizing, fits, weather, trends and demand. Tommy Hilfiger management believes that regional execution and adaptation helps it anticipate, identify and respond more readily to changing consumer demand, fashion trends and local tastes or preferences. It also reduces the importance of any one collection and enables the brand to appeal to a wider range of customers.



Product Sourcing
















Our foreign offices and buying agents enable us to monitor the quality of the goods manufactured by, and the delivery performance of, our suppliers, which includes the enforcement of human rights and labor standards through our ongoing approval and monitoring system. Our purchases from our suppliers are effected through individual purchase orders specifying the price, quantity, delivery date and destination of the items to be produced. Sales are monitored regularly at both the retail and wholesale levels and modifications in production can be made either to increase or reduce inventories. We continually seek suppliers throughout the world for our sourcing needs and place our orders in a manner designed to limit the risk that a disruption of production at any one facility could cause a serious inventory problem.



Tommy Hilfiger is a party to a nonexclusive agreement with Li & Fung Trading Limited under which Li & Fung performs most of Tommy Hilfiger’s sourcing work. Under the terms of the agreement, Tommy Hilfiger is required to use Li & Fung for at least 54% of its sourced products. Our Tommy Hilfiger business also uses other third-party buying offices for a portion of its sourced products and has a small in-house sourcing team.

We are continuing to develop strategies and make investments to enhance our ability to provide our customers with timely product availability and delivery. Our investments should allow us to reduce the cycle time between the design of products and the delivery of those products to our customers. We believe the enhancement of our supply chain efficiencies and working capital management through the effective use of our distribution network and overall infrastructure will allow us to better control costs and provide improved service to our customers.

Warehousing and Distribution



To facilitate distribution, our products are shipped from manufacturers to our wholesale and retail warehousing and distribution centers for inspection, sorting, packing and shipment. Our centers range in size and are principally located in the United States in Brinkley, Arkansas; Los Angeles, California; McDonough, Georgia; Jonesville, North Carolina; Reading, Pennsylvania; and Chattanooga, Tennessee; and internationally in Venlo and Tegelen, The Netherlands; Montreal, Canada; and Urayasu-shi, Japan. Our warehousing and distribution centers are designed to provide responsive service to our customers and our retail stores, as the case may be, on a cost-effective basis. This includes the use of various forms of electronic communications to meet customer needs, including advance shipping notices for certain customers.



We believe that our investments in logistics and supply chain management allow us to respond rapidly to changes in sales trends and consumer demands while enhancing inventory management. We believe our customers can better manage their inventories as a result of our continuous analysis of sales trends, our broad array of product availability and our quick response capabilities. Certain of our products can be ordered at any time through our EDI replenishment systems. For customers who reorder these products, we generally ship these products within one to two days of order receipt. At the end of 2011 and 2010, our backlog of customer orders totaled $729 million and $608 million, respectively.



Advertising and Promotion



We market our products to target distinct consumer demographics and lifestyles. Our marketing programs are an integral feature of our product offerings. Advertisements generally portray a lifestyle rather than a specific item. We intend for each of our brands to be a leader in its respective market segment, with strong consumer awareness and consumer loyalty. We believe that our brands are successful in their respective segments because we have strategically positioned each brand to target a distinct consumer demographic. We will continue to design and market our products to complement each other, satisfy lifestyle needs, emphasize product features important to our target consumers and encourage consumer loyalty.



We advertise our brands in print media (including fashion, entertainment/human interest, business, men’s, women’s and sports magazines and newspapers), on television and through outdoor signage. In addition to the traditional marketing and advertising vehicles, we have also increased our focus on new media marketing programs, including our

e-commerce platforms and social media outlets in order to expand our reach to customers and enable us to provide timely information in an entertaining fashion to consumers about our products, special events, promotions and store locations.



We also advertise our brands through sport sponsorships. We have an agreement for ourIZODbrand as the title sponsor of the IZOD IndyCar Series and, pursuant to an earlier agreement, are also the official apparel sponsor of the Series and the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. We are also the sponsor of Team Penske and IndyCar driver Ryan Briscoe. We have also sponsored the National Basketball Association’s New Jersey Nets for several years. In 2011, ourVan Heusenbrand continued its professional football marketing and media campaign through individual endorsement agreements with Pro Football Hall of Famers Steve Young, Jerry Rice and Deion Sanders, in conjunction with our sponsorship with the National Football League and the Pro Football Hall of Fame. We also partake in an all-brand regional sponsorship agreement with the New York Giants. We are an official sponsor of the 2014 Super Bowl Host Committee and have the right to use the 2014 Super Bowl Host Committee










logo and marks for promotional use with theIZOD,Van Heusen,Calvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands. We also participate in cooperative advertising programs with our retail partners, as we believe that brand awareness and in-store positioning are further strengthened by our contributions to such programs.



With respect to our North America retail operations, we generally rely upon local outlet mall developers to promote traffic for their centers. Outlet center developers employ multiple formats, including signage (highway billboards, off-highway directional signs, on-site signage and on-site information centers), print advertising (brochures, newspapers and travel magazines), direct marketing (to tour bus companies and travel agents), radio and television and special promotions.



We believeCalvin Kleinis one of the most well-known designer names in the world. Its high-profile, often cutting-edge global advertising campaigns have garnered significant publicity, notoriety and debate among customers and consumers, as well as within the fashion industry over the years, and have helped to establish and maintain theCalvin Kleinname and image. Calvin Klein has a dedicated in-house advertising agency, with experienced in-house creative and media teams that develop and execute a substantial portion of the institutional consumer advertising placement for products under theCalvin Kleinbrands, which include those of ourCalvin Kleinlicensees. The advertising team works closely with other functional areas within Calvin Klein and its licensing and other partners to deliver a consistent and unified brand message to the consumer.



Calvin Klein oversees a worldwide marketing, advertising and promotions program.Calvin Kleinproducts are advertised primarily in national print media, through outdoor signage, the internet and on television. During 2011, we significantly increased the digital and online focus of marketing for theCalvin Kleinbrands. We believe promotional activities throughout the year further strengthen brand awareness of theCalvin Kleinbrands. In addition to offering a broad array ofCalvin Kleinapparel and licensed products, Calvin Klein’s website, www.calvinklein.com, also serves as a marketing vehicle to complement the ongoing development of the brands.



Calvin Klein also has a dedicated Global Communications agency, which incorporates corporate communications, public relations, celebrity dressing and special events. This group coordinates many global events including the Spring and FallCalvin Klein Collectionfashion shows in New York City and Milan, which generate industry media coverage. Other Calvin Klein promotional efforts include product launch events, gift-with-purchase programs and participation in charitable events and initiatives. Calvin Klein also outfits celebrities for its events, as well as award ceremonies and premieres.



We believe that

Tommy Hilfiger

is also one of the world’s most well-known designer brands. This has been achieved through consistent implementation of a global communications strategy across all channels of distribution. The Tommy Hilfiger marketing and communications team works closely with all functional areas of the business and across all regions to present a cohesive brand message to retail customers and consumers. We develop and coordinate Tommy Hilfiger advertising for all regions and product lines, brand licensees and regional distributors. Advertisements for

Tommy Hilfiger

brand products appear primarily in fashion and lifestyle magazines, newspapers, outdoor media, in cinema and on television. We also have increased the digital and online focus of marketing for the

Tommy Hilfiger

brands. Selected personal appearances by Mr. Hilfiger, runway shows, brand events, corporate sponsorships, customer relationship management, anchor and flagship stores, trade shows and retail store windows are also used as marketing and public relations media. Tommy Hilfiger employs advertising, marketing and communications staff, including an in-house creative team, as well as outside agencies, to implement these efforts. Most of Tommy Hilfiger’s licensees and distributors are required to contribute a percentage of their net sales of

Tommy Hilfiger

products, generally subject to minimum amounts, to the advertising and promotion of the

Tommy Hilfiger

brand and products. We maintain multiple showroom facilities and sales offices in Europe, North America and Asia for

Tommy Hilfiger

. We launch significant brand advertising campaigns two times per year in Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter to provide maximum consumer visibility of the new seasonal collections and to support sell-through. In addition to offering a broad array of

Tommy Hilfiger

apparel and licensed products, Tommy Hilfiger’s website, www.tommy.com, also serves as a marketing vehicle to complement the ongoing development of the

Tommy Hilfiger

lifestyle brands.



Trademarks



We own theVan Heusen,Bass, G.H. Bass & Co.,IZOD, ARROW,EagleandTommy Hilfigerbrands, as well as related trademarks (e.g., Van Heusen Studio,IZOD PFXand theTommy Hilfigerflag logo and crest design) and lesser-known names. These trademarks are registered for use in each of the primary countries where our products are sold and additional applications for registration of these and other trademarks are made in jurisdictions to accommodate new marks, uses in additional trademark classes or additional categories of goods or expansion into new countries.












We beneficially own theCalvin Kleinmarks and derivative marks in all trademark classes and for all product categories within each class, other than underwear, sleepwear and loungewear in Class 25 (which are beneficially owned by Warnaco). Calvin Klein and Warnaco are each an owner, to the extent described in the preceding sentence, of the Calvin Klein Trademark Trust, which is the sole and exclusive title owner of substantially all registrations of theCalvin Kleintrademarks. The sole purpose of the Trust is to hold these marks. Calvin Klein maintains and protects the marks on behalf of the Trust pursuant to a servicing agreement. The Trust licenses to Warnaco on an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual and royalty-free basis the use of the marks on men’s and boys’ underwear and sleepwear and women’s and girls’ intimate apparel and sleepwear, and to Calvin Klein on an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual and royalty-free basis the use of the marks on all other products. Warnaco pays us an administrative fee based on Warnaco’s worldwide sales of underwear, intimate apparel and sleepwear products bearing any of theCalvin Kleinmarks under an administration agreement between Calvin Klein and Warnaco.



We allow Mr. Calvin Klein to retain the right to use his name, on a non-competitive basis, with respect to his right of publicity, unless those rights are already being used in the Calvin Klein business. Mr. Klein has also been granted a royalty-free worldwide right to use theCalvin Kleinmark with respect to certain personal businesses and activities, such as motion picture, television and video businesses, a book business, writing, speaking and/or teaching engagements, non-commercial photography, charitable activities and architectural and industrial design projects, subject to certain limitations designed to protect the image and prestige of theCalvin Kleinbrands and to avoid competitive conflicts.



We are party to an agreement with Mr. Tommy Hilfiger pursuant to which he acknowledges our ownership of theTommy HilfigerandTommy Hilfiger-related trademarks and under which he is prohibited, in perpetuity, from using, or authorizing others to use, these marks (except for the use by Mr. Hilfiger of his name personally and in connection with certain specified activities). In addition, under such agreement we are prohibited, in perpetuity, from selling products not ordinarily sold under the names of prestige designer businesses or prestige global lifestyle brands without Mr. Hilfiger’s consent, from engaging in new lines of business materially different from such types of lines of business, without Mr. Hilfiger’s consent, or from disparaging or intentionally tarnishing theTommy Hilfiger-related marks or Mr. Hilfiger’s personal name. The products that we are prohibited from selling include cigarettes, dog food and alcohol. Certain lines of business will not be considered “new lines of business” for purposes of the agreement, including apparel, fashion, eyewear, accessories, housewares, home and bedding products, personal care products, footwear, watches and leather goods.



Our trademarks are the subject of registrations and pending applications throughout the world for use on a variety of apparel, footwear and related products, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage and registration of new and related trademarks. In general, trademarks remain valid and enforceable as long as the marks continue to be used in connection with the products and services with which they are identified and, as to registered tradenames, the required registration renewals are filed. In markets outside of the United States, particularly those where products bearing any of our brands are not sold by us or any of our licensees or other authorized users, our rights to the use of trademarks may not be clearly established.



We regard the license to use our trademarks and our other intellectual property rights in the trademarks as valuable assets in marketing our products and vigorously seek to protect them, on a worldwide basis, against infringement. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. This is especially the case with respect to theCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands, as theCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and their generally higher pricing provides significant opportunity and incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. We have a broad, proactive enforcement program, which we believe has been generally effective in controlling the sale of counterfeitCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerproducts in the United States and in major markets abroad. We have taken enforcement action with respect to our other marks on an as-needed basis.



Contingent Purchase Price Payments



In connection with our acquisition of Calvin Klein, we are obligated to pay Mr. Calvin Klein contingent purchase price payments based on a percentage of total worldwide net sales of products bearing any of theCalvin Kleinbrands with respect to sales made through February 12, 2018. Our obligation to make contingent purchase price payments to Mr. Klein is guaranteed by our domestic Calvin Klein subsidiaries and is secured by a pledge of all of the equity interests in our Calvin Klein subsidiaries and a first priority lien on substantially all of our domestic Calvin Klein subsidiaries’ assets. Events of default under the agreements governing the collateral for our contingent payment obligations to Mr. Klein include, but are not limited to (1) our failure to make payments to Mr. Klein when due, (2) covenant defaults, (3) cross-defaults to other indebtedness in excess of an agreed amount, (4) events of bankruptcy, (5) monetary judgment defaults and (6) a change of control, including the sale of any portion of the equity interests in our Calvin Klein subsidiaries. An event of default under those agreements would permit Mr. Klein to foreclose on his security interest in the collateral. In addition, if we fail to pay Mr. Klein a contingent purchase price payment when due and such failure to pay continues for 60 days or more after a final judgment by a court is










rendered relating to our failure to pay, Mr. Klein will no longer be restricted from competing with us as he otherwise would be under the non-competition provisions contained in the purchase agreement related to our acquisition of Calvin Klein, although he would still not be able to use any of theCalvin Kleinbrands or any similar trademark in any competing business.



We completed a transaction on September 7, 2011 that resulted in the reacquisition of the rights to theTommy Hilfigertrademarks in India that had been subject to a perpetual license. We paid $25.0 million as consideration for this transaction. In addition, we are required to make annual contingent purchase price payments based on a percentage of annual sales over a certain threshold ofTommy Hilfigerproducts in India for a period of five years (or, under certain circumstances, a period of six years) following the acquisition date. Such payments are subject to a $25.0 million aggregate maximum.



Competition



The apparel industry is competitive as a result of its fashion orientation, mix of large and small producers, the flow of domestic and imported merchandise and the wide diversity of retailing methods. We compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, including Ralph Lauren Corporation, V.F. Corporation and Perry Ellis International, Inc. With respect to Calvin Klein, we believe The Donna Karan Company LLC, Ralph Lauren’s Purple Label, Giorgio Armani S.p.A., Gucci Group N.V., Prada S.p.A. Group and Michael Kors Holdings Limited also are our competitors. With respect to Tommy Hilfiger, whose competitors vary by geography and product type, we believe Burberry Group PLC, Gant Company AB, Hugo Boss AG, Lacoste S.A., Diesel S.p.A., Pepe Jeans, S.L. and Guess?, Inc. also are our competitors. In addition, we face significant competition from retailers, including our own wholesale customers, through their private label programs.



We compete primarily on the basis of style, quality, price and service. Our business depends on our ability to stimulate consumer tastes and demands, as well as on our ability to remain competitive in these areas. We believe we are well-positioned to compete in the apparel industry. Our diversified portfolio of brands and products and our use of multiple channels of distribution have allowed us to develop a business that produces results which are not dependent on any one demographic group, merchandise preference, distribution channel or geographic region. We have developed a portfolio of brands that appeal to a broad spectrum of consumers. Our owned brands have long histories and enjoy high recognition within their respective consumer segments. We develop our owned and licensed brands to complement each other and to generate strong consumer loyalty. TheCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands generally provide us with the opportunity to develop businesses that target different consumer groups at higher price points and in higher-end distribution channels than our heritage brands, as well as with significant global opportunities due to the worldwide recognition of the brands.



Imports and Import Restrictions



A substantial portion of our products is imported into the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. These products are subject to various customs laws, which may impose tariffs, as well as quota restrictions. Under the provisions of the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) agreement governing international trade in textiles, known as the “WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing,” the United States and other WTO member countries have eliminated quotas on textiles and apparel-related products from WTO member countries. As a result, quota restrictions generally do not affect our business in most countries. Presently, a portion of our imported products is eligible for certain duty-advantaged programs, including the North American Free Trade Agreement, Africa Growth & Opportunity Act, Central American Free Trade Agreement, Jordan Free Trade Agreement, Egypt Qualifying Industrial Zones, and Andean Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication Act.



Environmental Matters



Our facilities and operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including the proper maintenance of asbestos-containing materials. In addition, we may incur liability under environmental statutes and regulations with respect to the contamination of sites that we own or operate or previously owned or operated (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites, abutters or other persons) and the off-site disposal of hazardous materials. We believe our operations are in compliance with terms of all applicable laws and regulations.












Employees



As of January 29, 2012, we employed approximately 10,900 persons on a full-time basis and approximately 14,800 persons on a part-time basis. Approximately 2% of our employees were represented for the purpose of collective bargaining by five different unions. Additional persons, some represented by these five unions, are employed from time to time based upon our manufacturing schedules and retailing seasonal needs. Our collective bargaining agreements generally are for three-year terms. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



The following table sets forth the name, age and position of each of our executive officers:



NameAgePositionEmanuel Chirico54Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerAllen E. Sirkin69PresidentMichael A. Shaffer49Executive Vice President and Chief Operating & Financial OfficerFrancis K. Duane55Chief Executive Officer, Wholesale ApparelPaul Thomas Murry61President and Chief Executive Officer, Calvin KleinFred Gehring57Chief Executive Officer of Tommy Hilfiger and International Operations of the Company



Mr. Emanuel Chirico joined us as Vice President and Controller in 1993. Mr. Chirico was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1999, President and Chief Operating Officer in 2005, Chief Executive Officer in February 2006, and Chairman of the Board in June 2007.



Mr. Allen E. Sirkin has been employed by us since 1985. He served as Chairman of our Apparel Group from 1990 until 1995, was named Vice Chairman, Dress Shirts in 1995, and President and Chief Operating Officer in March 2006. Mr. Sirkin relinquished his title and duties as Chief Operating Officer in February 2012 in connection with his upcoming retirement in June 2012.



Mr. Michael A. Shaffer has been employed by us since 1990. He served as Senior Vice President, Retail Operations immediately prior to being named Executive Vice President, Finance in 2005, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in March 2006, and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating & Financial Officer in February 2012.



Mr. Francis K. Duane served as President of our Izod division from 1998 until 2001, was named Vice Chairman, Sportswear in 2001, Vice Chairman, Wholesale Apparel in March 2006, and Chief Executive Officer, Wholesale Apparel in February 2012.



Mr. Paul Thomas Murry has been employed by Calvin Klein since 1996. Mr. Murry retained his position as President and Chief Operating Officer, Calvin Klein upon our acquisition of Calvin Klein in 2003 and was named President and Chief Executive Officer, Calvin Klein in September 2008.



Mr. Fred Gehring has been employed by Tommy Hilfiger since 1996. Mr. Gehring retained his position as Chief Executive Officer, Tommy Hilfiger upon our acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger in 2010 and was also named Chief Executive Officer of International Operations of the Company upon such acquisition.







