Item 1. Business



Introduction



Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our” or “us” refer to PVH Corp. and its subsidiaries.



Our fiscal years are based on the 52-53 week period ending on the Sunday closest to February 1 and are designated by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. References to a year are to our fiscal year, unless the context requires otherwise. Our 2013 year commenced on February 4, 2013 and ended on February 2, 2014; 2012 commenced on January 30, 2012 and ended on February 3, 2013; and 2011 commenced on January 31, 2011 and ended on January 29, 2012.



We obtained the market and competitive position data used throughout this report from research, surveys or studies conducted by third parties (including, with respect to the brand rankings for woven sport shirts, the NPD Group/POS Tracking Service), information provided by customers and industry or general publications. The United States department and chain store rankings to which we refer in this report are on a unit basis. Industry publications and surveys generally state that they have obtained information from sources believed to be reliable but do not guarantee the accuracy and completeness of such information. While we believe that each of these studies and publications and all other information is reliable, we have not independently verified such data and we do not make any representation as to the accuracy of such information.



References to the brand namesCalvin Klein Collection,ck Calvin Klein,Calvin Klein,Tommy Hilfiger,Hilfiger Denim,Van Heusen,IZOD,ARROW,Warner’s,Olga,Eagle,Speedo,Geoffrey Beene,Kenneth Cole New York,Kenneth Cole Reaction,Sean John, MICHAEL Michael Kors, Michael Kors Collection, Chaps, Donald J. Trump Signature Collection,DKNY, Elie Tahari,Nautica, Ted Baker,J. Garcia,Claiborne,Robert Graham,U.S. POLO ASSN.,Ike Behar,Axcess,Jones New York, andJohn Varvatosand to other brand names in this report are to registered trademarks owned by us or licensed to us by third parties and are identified by italicizing the brand name.



References to the sale of Bass refer to our November 4, 2013 sale of our G.H. Bass & Co. business and itsBassandG.H. Bass & Co.trademarks, which we refer to collectively as “Bass.”



References to the acquisition of Warnaco refer to our February 13, 2013 acquisition of The Warnaco Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, which companies we refer to collectively as “Warnaco.”



References to the acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger refer to our May 6, 2010 acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger B.V. and certain affiliated companies, which companies we refer to collectively as “Tommy Hilfiger.”



References to our acquisition of Calvin Klein refer to our February 2003 acquisition of Calvin Klein, Inc. and certain affiliated companies, which companies we refer to collectively as “Calvin Klein.”





Company Overview



We are one of the largest branded apparel companies in the world, with a heritage dating back over 130 years. Our brand portfolio consists of nationally and internationally recognized brand names, including the global designer lifestyle brands

Calvin Klein

and

Tommy Hilfiger

, as well as

Van Heusen

,

IZOD

,

ARROW

,

Warner’s

,

Olga

and

Eagle

,



which are owned brands, and

Speedo

,

Geoffrey Beene

,

Kenneth Cole New York

,

Kenneth Cole Reaction

,

Sean John

,

MICHAEL Michael Kors

,

Michael Kors Collection

,

Chaps

,

Donald J. Trump Signature Collection

,

DKNY

,

Elie Tahari

,

Nautica

,

Ted Baker

,

J. Garcia

,

Claiborne

,

Robert Graham

,

U.S. POLO ASSN.

,

Ike Behar

,

Axcess

,

Jones New York

and

John Varvatos

, which are licensed, as well as various other licensed and private label brands. In addition, through the end of the third quarter of 2013, we owned, and operated businesses under, the

G.H. Bass & Co.

and

Bass

trademarks. We design and market branded dress shirts, neckwear, sportswear, jeanswear, intimate apparel, swim products and, to a lesser extent, handbags, footwear and other related products. Additionally, we license our owned brands over a broad range of products. We market our brands globally at multiple price points and across multiple channels of distribution, allowing us to provide products to a broad range of consumers, while minimizing competition among our brands and reducing our reliance on any one demographic group, merchandise preference, distribution channel or geographic region. During 2013, our directly operated businesses in North America consisted principally of wholesale dress furnishings sales under our owned and licensed brands; wholesale men’s sportswear sales under our

Calvin Klein

,

Tommy Hilfiger

,

Van Heusen

,

IZOD

and

ARROW

brands; wholesale men’s and women’s jeanswear and










underwear sales under ourCalvin Kleinbrand; wholesale women’s intimate apparel sales under ourWarner’sandOlgabrands; wholesale swimwear, fitness apparel, swim accessories and related product sales under theSpeedobrand; and the operation of retail stores, principally in outlet malls, under ourCalvin Klein,Tommy Hilfiger,Van HeusenandIZODbrands and, through the end of the third quarter of 2013, theG.H. Bass & Co.andBassbrands. During 2013, our directly operated businesses outside of North America consisted principally of our Tommy Hilfiger International wholesale and retail businesses in Europe and Japan, our Calvin Klein wholesale and retail businesses in Europe, Asia and Latin America, and our wholesale Calvin Klein Collection business in Europe. Our licensing activities principally related to the licensing worldwide of ourCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigertrademarks for a broad range of lifestyle products and for specific geographic regions.



On February 13, 2013, we acquired Warnaco, which follows our transformational acquisitions of Calvin Klein in 2003 and Tommy Hilfiger in 2010, and reinforces our strategy to drive the

Calvin Klein

brand’s reach globally. Prior to the acquisition, Warnaco was our largest licensee for

Calvin Klein

products and paid us an administrative fee on sales of

Calvin Klein

underwear, sleepwear and loungewear product categories for which it was the beneficial owner of the

Calvin Klein

trademark. Royalty and administrative fee payments to us by Warnaco accounted for approximately 37% of our Calvin Klein royalty, advertising and other revenue in 2012. The Warnaco acquisition provided us with complete direct global control of the

Calvin Klein

brand image and commercial decisions for the two largest

Calvin Klein

apparel categories — jeanswear and underwear. Under a single brand vision, we are able to better coordinate product design, merchandising, supply chain, retail distribution and marketing, which we believe strengthens the brand’s image, positioning and execution across all markets. In addition, we believe the acquisition takes advantage of our and Warnaco’s complementary geographic platforms by enhancing our opportunities in the high-growth regions of Asia and Latin America, and allowing us to leverage our expertise and infrastructure in North America and Europe to enhance the growth and profitability of the Calvin Klein Jeans and Calvin Klein Underwear businesses in these regions. The acquisition also added the

Speedo

,

Warner’s

and

Olga

brands into our Heritage Brands portfolio. With a diversified brand portfolio and strong operations in every major consumer market around the world, we believe our business is better balanced across geographies, channels of distribution, product categories and price points, and our opportunity to realize revenue growth and enhanced profitability has been expanded.



The acquisition of Warnaco has significantly impacted the way we manage and analyze our operating results. Beginning with the first quarter of 2013, we changed our segment reporting and the way we discuss our business segments to reflect this. Specifically, we aggregate our segments into three main businesses: (i) Calvin Klein, which consists of the Calvin Klein North America and Calvin Klein International segments; (ii) Tommy Hilfiger, which consists of the Tommy Hilfiger North America and Tommy Hilfiger International segments; and (iii) Heritage Brands, which consists of the Heritage Brands Wholesale and Heritage Brands Retail segments. Note 19, “Segment Data,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report contains information with respect to revenue, income before interest and taxes and assets related to each segment, as well as information regarding our revenue generated from foreign and domestic sources, and the geographic locations where our long-lived assets are held.



Our revenue reached a record $8.186 billion in 2013, approximately 45% of which was generated internationally. Our global designer lifestyle brands,Calvin KleinandTommy Hilfiger, together generated approximately 75% of our revenue during 2013.



On November 4, 2013, we sold substantially all of the assets of our Bass business. The decision to sell these assets was based on our strategy to drive growth through our higher-margin Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger businesses.



Company Information



We were incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1976 as the successor to a business begun in 1881. Our principal executive offices are located at 200 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10016; our telephone number is (212) 381-3500.



We make available at no cost, on our corporate website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also make available at no cost, on our corporate website, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Our corporate website address iswww.pvh.com.












Calvin Klein Business Overview



We believe Calvin Klein is one of the best known designer names in the world. In 2013, it received the #8 ranking onMediaRadar’s “Most Talked About Fashion Brands of 2013” list, where it was featured alongside premiere global luxury brands, highlighting its strong global appeal and prominence among key tastemakers in the fashion industry. In order to more efficiently and effectively exploit the development opportunities forCalvin Klein, a tiered-brand strategy was established to provide a focused, consistent approach to global brand growth and development. Each of theCalvin Kleinbrands occupies a distinct marketing identity and position that preserves the brand’s prestige and image, while also allowing us to market products both domestically and internationally, at variety of price points, and to various consumer groups. TheCalvin Kleinbrands are as follows:

•Calvin Klein Collection— our “halo” brand, under which men’s and women’s high-end designer apparel and accessories are sold both in the United States and overseas, with distribution in specialty and department stores, as well as our flagship store in New York City.

•Calvin Klein(platinum label)—our “bridge” brand, formerly known asck Calvin Klein,under which men’s and women’s apparel and accessories are sold through specialty and department stores, as well as freestanding stores in Europe and Asia. We rebranded this tier in 2012 in order to present theCalvin Kleinbrands in a more consistent fashion.

•Calvin Klein(white label) — our “better” brand, under which men’s and women’s sportswear, outerwear, suits, footwear and accessories, as well as women’s dress and performance wear, and men’s dress furnishings are currently sold in North America through department stores and freestanding stores.

•Calvin Klein Jeans— theCalvin Klein Jeansbrand includes men’s and women’s jeans and related apparel, which are sold worldwide, and denim accessories, which are sold in Europe and Asia. Distribution is through specialty and department stores, as well as freestanding stores.

•Calvin Klein Underwear— the world’s leading designer underwear brand for men and women, under which men’s and women’s underwear, sleepwear and loungewear are sold worldwide through specialty and department stores, as well as freestanding stores.



Since completion of the Warnaco acquisition, our directly operated businesses have accounted for a significantly larger portion of total worldwideCalvin Kleinsales. Previously, the vast majority ofCalvin Kleinsales were under licenses and other arrangements. Calvin Klein controls the design and development of all products sold under theCalvin Kleinbrands, as well as oversees a worldwide marketing, advertising and promotions program for the brands. We believe that maintaining control over design and advertising through Calvin Klein’s dedicated in-house teams plays a key role in the continued strength of the brands. In 2013, over $300 million was spent globally in connection with the advertising, marketing and promotion of theCalvin Kleinbrands and these expenses were principally funded by Calvin Klein’s licensees and other authorized users of the brands.



Worldwide retail sales of products sold under theCalvin Kleinbrands were approximately $7.8 billion in 2013. Through our Calvin Klein North America and Calvin Klein International segments, we sellCalvin Kleinproducts in a variety of distribution channels, as discussed below:





•

Calvin Klein

Wholesale — We operate wholesale businesses through which we distribute and sell

Calvin Klein

products to third party retailers and distributors. This includes our Calvin Klein dress furnishings and men’s sportswear businesses, which operate principally in the United States and Canada. Our wholesale businesses have expanded following our acquisition of Warnaco, and now also include the Calvin Klein men’s and women’s jeans and related apparel businesses, which operate worldwide; the Calvin Klein jeans accessories businesses, which operates principally in Europe and Asia; the Calvin Klein men’s and women’s underwear businesses, which operate worldwide; and our men’s and women’s swimwear business, which operates principally in Europe. Given the various price points at which products under the various

Calvin Klein

brands are sold, we have a range of wholesale customers. For example, within North America, our

Calvin Klein

white label men’s dress shirts, neckwear and sportswear are marketed at better price points and are distributed principally in better fashion department and specialty stores, including Macy’s. Our

Calvin Klein Collection

and

Calvin Klein

platinum label dress shirts are sold into the more limited channels of luxury or premier department and specialty stores, as well as through freestanding stores.



The newly acquired jeanswear and underwear businesses distribute product primarily through department stores, chain stores, Company-operated retail stores, shop-in-shop/concession locations and stores operated under retail licenses or franchise and distributor agreements.










•Calvin KleinRetail — We operate retail businesses in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. OurCalvin Kleinstores in the United States and Canada are located primarily in premium outlet centers and offer men’s and women’s apparel and otherCalvin Kleinwhite label products to communicate theCalvin Kleinlifestyle. As a result of the Warnaco acquisition, we now also operate full-price and outlet stores and shop-in-shop/concession shops in Europe, Asia, Mexico and Brazil where we offerCalvin Klein JeansandCalvin Klein Underwearproducts. Across our regional businesses,Calvin Kleinproducts are also sold through our company-operated e-commerce sites.

•Calvin Klein Collection —We market theCalvin Klein Collectionbrand high-end men’s and women’s apparel and accessories collections through ourCalvin Klein Collectionflagship store located in New York City and our Calvin Klein Collection wholesale business.

•Licensing — We maintain licensing and similar arrangements worldwide for use of theCalvin Kleinbrands in connection with a broad array of products, including women’s dresses and suits, men’s tailored clothing, women’s sportswear and performance apparel, golf apparel, fragrances, eyewear, hosiery, socks, footwear, jewelry, watches, outerwear, handbags, small leather goods and home furnishings. In these arrangements, Calvin Klein combines its design, marketing and branding skills with the specific manufacturing, distribution and geographic capabilities of its licensing and other partners to develop, market and distribute these goods. Calvin Klein has approximately 45 licensing and other arrangements across theCalvin Kleinbrands. The arrangements generally are exclusive to a territory or product category. Additionally, we formed a joint venture, PVH Brands Australia Pty. Limited, in 2013, in which we own a 50% economic interest. The joint venture licenses the rights to distribute and sellCalvin Kleinbrand products in Australia, New Zealand and other island nations in the South Pacific. As a result of the Warnaco acquisition, we also own a 51% interest in a joint venture in India, which licenses the rights to theCalvin Kleintrademarks in India.



Calvin Klein’s key licensing partners, and the products and territories licensed, include:

Licensing PartnerProduct Category and TerritoryCK Watch & Jewelry Co., Ltd.(Swatch SA)Men’s and women’s watches (worldwide) and men’s and women’s jewelry (worldwide, excluding Japan)CK21 Holdings Pte, Ltd.Men’s and women’s platinum label apparel, shoes and accessories (Asia, excluding Japan)Coty, Inc.Men’s and women’s fragrance, bath products and color cosmetics (worldwide)DWI Holdings, Inc. / Himatsingka Seide, Ltd.Soft home bed and bath furnishings (United States, Canada, Mexico, Central America, South America and India)G-III Apparel Group, Ltd.Men’s and women’s coats and swimwear, women’s suits, dresses, sportswear, active performance wear and handbags, and luggage (United States, Canada and Mexico with some distribution for certain lines in Europe and elsewhere)Jimlar Corporation / LF USA, Inc.Men’s, women’s and children’s footwear (worldwide)Marchon Eyewear, Inc.Men’s and women’s optical frames and sunglasses (worldwide)McGregor Industries, Inc. / American Essentials, Inc.Men’s and women’s socks and women’s tights (United States, Canada, Mexico, Central and South America, Europe, Middle East and Asia, excluding Japan)Onward Kashiyama Co. Ltd.Men’s and women’s apparel and women’s handbags (Japan)Peerless Delaware, Inc.Men’s tailored clothing (United States, Canada and Mexico)












The results of our Calvin Klein wholesale, retail and licensing activities in the United States, Canada and Mexico are reported in our Calvin Klein North America segment, and wholesale, retail and licensing activities outside of North America are reported in our Calvin Klein International segment.



Tommy Hilfiger Business Overview



Tommy Hilfigeris one of few globally recognized designer lifestyle brands, with distribution in over 90 countries and more than 1,400Tommy Hilfigerstores worldwide. The “classic American cool” spirit of the brand inspires a wide range of preppy, all-American designs that appeal to a diverse array of global consumers.Tommy Hilfigeroccupies a unique position as a premium brand offering quality apparel, accessories and lifestyle products at accessible prices with a diverse consumer following. We believe the brand’s global awareness has been achieved through consistent implementation of a global marketing and communications strategy, product enhancements, increased marketing and an improved in-store experience. We continue to make significant investments in global advertising and integrated marketing programs, with the popular “The Hilfigers” advertising campaign as the current cornerstone of our global marketing strategy.



Tommy Hilfiger’s brand portfolio (which we refer to collectively as theTommy Hilfigerbrands) includes:



•Tommy Hilfiger —Tommy Hilfigeris targeted at the 25 to 45 year-old consumer. Product offerings by us and our licensees include sportswear for men, women and children; footwear; athletic apparel (golf, swim and sailing); bodywear (underwear, robes and sleepwear); eyewear; sunwear; watches; handbags; men’s tailored clothing; men’s dress furnishings; accessories; socks; small leather goods; fragrances; home and bedding products; bathroom accessories; and luggage.



•Hilfiger Denim —TheHilfiger Denimproduct line is targeted at the 25 to 30 year-old, denim-oriented consumer. Product offerings consist of casual apparel for men and women with a focus on premium jeans and related apparel; footwear; bags; accessories; eyewear; and fragrance. Inspired by American denim classics with a modern edge,Hilfiger Denimis more “fashion forward” and casual than theTommy Hilfigerlabel.



Worldwide retail sales ofTommy Hilfigerproducts were approximately $6.4 billion in 2013. Through our Tommy Hilfiger North America and Tommy Hilfiger International segments, we sellTommy Hilfigerproducts in a variety of distribution channels, including:



•Wholesale — The Tommy Hilfiger wholesale business consists of the distribution and sale of products in North America, Europe and Japan under theTommy Hilfigerbrands to third party retailers and distributors. The European retail customers range from large department stores to small independent stores. Tommy Hilfiger has, since the Fall of 2008, made the majority of its North American wholesale sales to Macy’s, Inc., which is currently the exclusive department store retailer forTommy Hilfigermen’s and women’s sportswear in the United States.Tommy Hilfigerre-launched a wholesale business in Canada with Hudson’s Bay Company, Canada’s leading department store, in the Fall of 2011, which offers men’s and women’s sportswear.



•Retail — The Tommy Hilfiger retail business principally consists of the distribution and sale ofTommy Hilfigerproducts in Europe, the United States, Canada and Japan through company-operated full-price specialty and outlet stores, as well as through company-operated e-commerce sites.Tommy Hilfigerspecialty stores consist of flagship stores, which are generally larger stores situated in high-profile locations in major cities and are intended to enhance local exposure of the brand, and anchor stores, which are located on high-traffic retail streets and in malls in secondary cities and are intended to provide incremental revenue and profitability. Company (outlet) stores in North America are primarily located in premium outlet centers and carry specially designed merchandise that is sold at a lower price point than merchandise sold in our specialty stores. Company (outlet) stores operated by Tommy Hilfiger in Europe and Japan are used primarily to clear excess inventory from previous seasons at discounted prices and, to a lesser extent, carry specially designed merchandise.



•Licensing — We license theTommy Hilfigerbrands to third parties both for specific product categories and in certain geographic regions, and generally on an exclusive basis. Tommy Hilfiger has over 25 license agreements.Tommy Hilfigerproducts are also sold through joint ventures in which we are a partner in China, India and Brazil, and by third party distributors, licensees and franchisees in Europe, Southeast Asia, Australia, Central and South America and the Caribbean. In 2010, we formed a joint venture in China in which we own a 45% economic interest. The joint venture assumed direct control of the licensed Tommy Hilfiger wholesale and retail distribution business in China from the prior licensee in August 2011. In addition, in September 2011, we acquired the










perpetually licensed rights to theTommy Hilfigertrademarks in India from GVM International Limited (“GVM”) and acquired from affiliates of GVM a 50% economic interest in a company that was renamed Tommy Hilfiger Arvind Fashion Private Limited (“TH India”). TH India was GVM’s sublicensee of theTommy Hilfigertrademarks for apparel, footwear and handbags in India. As a result of the transaction, TH India is now the direct licensee of the trademarks for all categories (other than fragrance), operates a wholesale apparel, footwear and handbags business in connection with its license and sublicenses the trademarks for certain other product categories in the region. In November 2012, we formed, with an experienced local partner, a joint venture in Brazil in which we own a 40% economic interest. The joint venture holds an exclusive license for theTommy Hilfigerbrand in Brazil that became effective in January 2013.



Tommy Hilfiger’s key licensing partners, and the products and territories licensed, include:





Licensing PartnerProduct Category and Territory



American Sportswear S.A.Men’s, women’s and children’s sportswear, accessories andHilfiger Denimdistribution (Central America and South America (excluding Brazil))



Aramis, Inc.Fragrance, cosmetics, skincare products and toiletries (worldwide)



BASECO SA DE CVMen’s, women’s and children’s sportswear, accessories (excluding footwear),Hilfiger Denimdistribution (Mexico)



Dobotex International B.V.Men’s, women’s and children’s socks (Europe)



Fishman and Tobin, Inc.Boys’ and girls’ apparel (United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and Guam (Macy’s stores only))



LF USA Inc.Bedding, bath, tabletop décor and decorative accessories (United States, Canada and Mexico)



Marcraft Clothes, Inc.Men’s tailored clothing (United States and Canada)



MBF Holdings LLCMen’s and women’s footwear (United States and Canada)



Movado Group, Inc. & Swissam Products, Ltd.Men’s and women’s watches and jewelry (worldwide, excluding Japan (except certain customers))



Safilo Group S.P.A.Men’s, women’s and children’s eyeglasses and non-ophthalmic sunglasses (worldwide, excluding India)



SK Networks Co., Ltd.Men’s, women’s and children’s sportswear andHilfiger Denimdistribution (South Korea)



Swank, Inc.Men’s belts and small leather goods (United States, Canada and Mexico)



Tommy Hilfiger Asia-Pacific, Ltd.Men’s, women’s and children’s sportswear andHilfiger Denimdistribution (Hong Kong, Macau, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan)



Tommy Hilfiger Australia PTY, Ltd.Men’s and women’s sportswear andHilfiger Denimdistribution (Australia)







The results of our Tommy Hilfiger wholesale, retail and licensing activities in the United States and Canada are reported in our Tommy Hilfiger North America segment, and wholesale, retail and licensing activities outside of North America are reported in our Tommy Hilfiger International segment.





Heritage Brands Business Overview



Our Heritage Brands business encompasses the design, sourcing and marketing of a varied selection of branded dress shirts, neckwear, sportswear, swim products, men’s underwear and women’s intimate apparel, as well as the licensing of ourVan Heusen, IZODandARROWbrands for an assortment of products. The Heritage Brands business also includes private label dress furnishings programs, particularly neckwear programs. We design, source and market these products to target distinct










consumer demographics and lifestyles in an effort to minimize competition among our brands. We distribute our Heritage Brands products at wholesale in department, chain, specialty, mass market, club, off-price and independent stores in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Our men’s wholesale business represents our core business. As a complement to our wholesale business, we also market products directly to consumers through ourVan HeusenandIZODretail stores, principally located in outlet centers throughout the United States and Canada. In addition, through the end of the third quarter 2013, our Heritage Brands business included the ownership and operation of businesses under theG.H. Bass & Co. andBasstrademarks. The sale of substantially all of the assets of the Bass business closed on November 4, 2013, the first day of our fourth quarter.





Heritage Brands Wholesale.Our Heritage Brands Wholesale segment principally consists of:



•The design and marketing of men’s dress shirts and neckwear primarily to department, chain and specialty stores, and, to a lesser degree, mass market stores, club and off-price stores. We market both dress shirts and neckwear under brands includingVan Heusen,ARROW,IZOD,Eagle,Sean John,Donald J. Trump Signature Collection,Kenneth Cole New York,Kenneth Cole Reaction,DKNY,Elie Tahari,J. Garcia,Ike Behar,MICHAEL Michael Kors,Michael Kors CollectionandJohn Varvatos. We also market dress shirts under theGeoffrey BeeneandChapsbrands and neckwear under theNautica,Jones New York,Ted Baker,Axcess,U.S. POLO ASSN.,ClaiborneandRobert Grahambrands, among others. We also offer private label dress shirt and neckwear programs to retailers, primarily national department and mass market stores. Collectively, our product offerings represent a sizeable portion of the domestic dress furnishings market.Van Heusen, ARROWandGeoffrey Beenewere the first, second and third best selling national brand dress shirts, respectively, in United States department and chain stores in 2013.



We license certain of the brands under which we sell dress shirts and neckwear. The following table provides information with respect to the expiration of the licenses for the more significant brands (as determined based on 2013 sales volume):



Brand NameLicensorExpirationGeoffrey BeeneGeoffrey Beene, LLCDecember 31, 2021, with a right of renewal (subject to certain conditions) through December 31, 2028Kenneth Cole New YorkandKenneth Cole ReactionKenneth Cole Productions (Lic), Inc.December 31, 2014, with a right to extend through December 31, 2019ChapsThe Polo/Lauren Company, LP and PRL USA, Inc.We expect to enter into an extension through March 31, 2017 (although there can be no assurance it will be completed)MICHAEL Michael KorsMichael Kors, LLCJanuary 31, 2015, with a right to extend (subject to mutual consent) through January 31, 2016



•The design and marketing of sportswear, including men’s knit and woven sport shirts, sweaters, bottoms, swimwear and outerwear, at wholesale, primarily under theIZOD,Van HeusenandARROWbrands primarily to department, chain, specialty, mass market, club and off-price stores.Van HeusenandARROWwere the first and fifth best selling national brand men’s woven sport shirts, respectively, andIZODwas the third best selling national brand men’s knit shirt in United States department and chain stores in 2013.



•The design and marketing of certain men’s, women’s and children’s swimwear, sportswear and related products under theSpeedotrademark, the premier aquatic brand, exclusively in North America and the Caribbean under a perpetual license with Speedo International Limited, which license we acquired as part of the Warnaco acquisition.Speedoproducts include swimwear and accessories for the performance, fitness, and active recreational consumers. These products include swim goggles, water-based fitness products, electronics and other swim and fitness-related products for adults and children, and are distributed through all major distribution channels, sporting goods stores, team dealers, swim clubs, off-price stores, catalog retailers and e-commerce, including Speedo’s own website.



•The design and marketing of women’s intimate apparel under theWarner’sandOlgabrands.Warner’sandOlgawomen’s intimate apparel is primarily distributed in the United States, Canada and Mexico through all major distribution channels, including department, chain, mass market, club and off-price stores.Warner’swas the second










best selling average figure brand in United States department and chain stores in 2013 and has the largest market share for wire-free bras.





Heritage Brands Retail.Our Heritage Brands Retail segment consists of the operation of stores under theVan HeusenandIZODnames, primarily in outlet centers throughout the United States and Canada. We believe these stores are complement to our wholesale operations, as they further enhance consumer awareness of these brands by offering products that are not available in our wholesale lines, while also providing a means for managing excess inventory, as well as direct control of the in-store customer experience. OurVan Heusenstores offer men’s dress shirts, neckwear and underwear, men’s and women’s suit separates, men’s and women’s sportswear, including woven and knit shirts, sweaters, bottoms and outerwear, and men’s and women’s accessories. OurIZODstores offer men’s and women’s active-inspired sportswear, including woven and knit shirts, bottoms and activewear and men’s and women’s accessories. We continuously focus on rationalizing our Heritage Brands retail store base and improving productivity and profitability.



Through the end of the third quarter of 2013, we owned, and operated businesses under, theG.H. Bass & Co.andBasstrademarks, including approximately 160Bassretail stores. OurBassstores offered casual and dress shoes for men, women and children. Most of ourBassstores also carried apparel for men and women, including tops, neckwear, bottoms and outerwear, as well as accessories such as handbags, wallets, belts and travel gear.



Licensing.We license our heritage brands globally for a broad range of products through approximately 30 domestic and 45 international license agreements covering approximately 165 territories combined. We believe that licensing provides us with a relatively stable flow of revenues with high margins and extends and strengthens our brands.



We grant licensing partners the right to manufacture and sell at wholesale specified products under one or more of our brands. In addition, certain foreign licensees are granted the right to open retail stores under the licensed brand name. A substantial portion of the sales by our domestic licensing partners is made to our largest wholesale customers. We provide support to our licensing partners and seek to preserve the integrity of our brand names by taking an active role in the design, quality control, advertising, marketing and distribution of each licensed product, most of which are subject to our prior approval and continuing oversight.












Our heritage brand licensing partners, and the products and territories licensed by them, include:





Licensing PartnerProduct Category and Territory



Arvind Ltd.ARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (India, Middle East, Egypt, Ethiopia, Maldives, Nepal, Sri Lanka and South Africa);IZODmen’s and women’s sportswear and accessories (India and Middle East)



Beijing Innovative GarmentsARROWmen’s dress furnishings, tailored clothing and sportswear (China)



Clearvision Optical Company, Inc.IZODmen’s and children’s optical eyewear and related accessories (United States and Latin America)



Corporate Apparel, Inc.ARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories,Van HeusenandIZODmen’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (Philippines)



Cutie Pie Baby, Inc.IZODnewborn, infants’ and toddlers’ sportswear and outerwear;IZODchildren’s outerwear (United States, Canada and Mexico)



ECCEARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (France, Switzerland and Andorra)



F&T Apparel LLCVan HeusenandARROWboys’ dress furnishings and sportswear;IZODboys’ sportswear;IZODandARROWboys’ andgirls’ school uniforms;ARROWmen’s tailored clothing;IZODboys’ tailored clothing (United States and Canada)



Fashion Company S.A.Van Heusenmen’s dress furnishings, tailored clothing, sportswear and accessories;IZODmen’s and women’s sportswear and accessories (Chile and Peru)



Five Star Blue, LLCIZODmen’s denim pants and shorts (United States, Canada and Mexico)



Gazal Apparel Pty LimitedVan Heusenmen’s dress furnishings, tailored clothing and accessories (Australia and New Zealand)



Harbor Wholesale, Ltd.IZODfootwear (United States, Canada and Mexico)



Madura GarmentsVan Heusenmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (India and Middle East)



Manufacturas Interamericana S.A.ARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (Chile, Peru, Argentina and Uruguay)



Oracon Com. De Conf. LTDAARROWmen’s dresswear and sportswear (Brazil)



Peerless Delaware, Inc.Van HeusenandIZODmen’s tailored clothing (United States, Canada and Mexico)



Seidensticker Private Label GmbHARROWmen’s dress shirts, sport shirts and neckwear (Europe excluding France)



Thanulux Public Company, Ltd.ARROWmen’s dress furnishings, tailored clothing, sportswear and accessories;ARROWwomen’s dresswear and sportswear (Thailand, Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam)



Van Dale Industries, Inc.IZODwomen’s intimates and sleepwear;IZODwomen’s accessories (United States and Canada)



Weihai Dishang Fashion Brands Co., LtdIZODmen’s and women’s sportswear and accessories (China)





Our Business Strategy



We intend to grow our existing Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger businesses, with particular emphasis on growth in Asia and Latin America, as well as to increase the revenue and profitability of our Heritage Brands business, through the execution strategies described below. In addition, we intend to capitalize on the significant opportunities presented by the Warnaco acquisition, particularly the opportunities to restore growth and improve profitability in the Calvin Klein Jeans and Calvin Klein Underwear businesses.












Calvin Klein Business



The tiered-brand strategy we created for theCalvin Kleinbrands establishes a strategic brand architecture to guide the global brand growth and development. Each of theCalvin Kleinbrands —Calvin Klein Collection, Calvin Kleinplatinum label,Calvin Kleinwhite label,Calvin Klein JeansandCalvin Klein Underwear— has a distinct marketing identity and position that preserves the brand’s prestige and image. Additionally, branding product across multiple tiers allows flexibility from market to market to build businesses that address the differences between markets.



Warnaco is the global licensee ofCalvin Klein Jeansand beneficially owns theCalvin Kleintrademark for underwear, sleepwear and loungewear. The Warnaco acquisition provided us with additional opportunities to grow our Calvin Klein business by rebuilding and growing the global Calvin Klein Jeans and Calvin Klein Underwear businesses. We viewed 2013 as a year of investment and transition for these businesses. Investments made during 2013 included (i) appointing senior leadership, including new Presidents of Calvin Klein Asia-Pacific and Europe and adding appropriate talent to fill key design, marketing and merchandising positions; (ii) enhancing the existing infrastructure (systems and logistics); (iii) transitioning to elevatedCalvin KleinJeansproduct and clearing excess inventory; (iv) investing in in-store marketing and the in-store customer experience; and (v) reducing and restructuring the off-price and club sales distribution in Europe and North America. We expect these investments to continue in 2014. Our key strategies for the Calvin Klein Jeans and Calvin Klein Underwear businesses include:



Improve execution within jeans and underwear and the“Calvin Klein”brands globally.Since we acquired Calvin Klein in 2003, global retail sales have grown at a compound annual rate of approximately 11%. Product innovation, category extensions and a targeted global brand marketing message are key drivers for theCalvin Kleinbrands. By reuniting theCalvin Kleinbrands under one owner, we have gained full control of the brand image and commercial decisions for the two largest apparel categories ofCalvin Klein— jeanswear and underwear — for the first time. Our strategies to increase demand forCalvin Klein JeansandCalvin Klein Underwearproducts include:

•Enhancing jeans design and improving coordination between design and in-country teams to address local market preferences;

•Aligning merchandise and presentation to be consistent with the global brand positioning ofCalvin Klein;

•Optimizing product assortment across categories, channels and regions; and

•Creating a cohesive and consistent single brand message across categories, including sportswear, jeanswear, underwear and accessories.



Rebalance distribution and improve profitability in North America.In North America, we will continue to leverage our existing infrastructure and expertise to improve profitability of the acquired Calvin Klein Jeans and Calvin Klein Underwear businesses by:

•Rebalancing the mix of distribution among the full-price, off-price and club channels;

•Leveraging our North American retail stores to better showcase jeans and underwear;

•Improving brand presentation at retail and investing in point-of-sale forCalvin Klein JeansandCalvin Klein Underwearproduct; and

•Expanding category breadth, where appropriate.



Leverage our European operating platform and management team.We will continue to integrate the acquired European Calvin Klein businesses into our existing Tommy Hilfiger operating platform and leverage our systems and the expertise of our European management team to enhance execution and profitability of those businesses, in addition to managing the Calvin Klein platinum label business in Europe that we took control of in 2013, by employing the following strategies:

•Streamlining the cost structure within the existing jeans and underwear infrastructure in Europe;

•Optimizing distribution mix by reducing distribution in the off-price channel;

•Utilizing the Tommy Hilfiger matrix model to improve product placement and execution at wholesale and retail on a country/regional basis;

•Improving the sales productivity by promoting theCalvin Kleinlifestyle across Europe through more effective merchandising and marketing;










•Accelerating growth in underpenetrated markets, such as Germany, the Netherlands, France, Scandinavia and Spain, with entry into select new markets, such as the Middle East; and

•Coordinating the European jeans and underwear go-forward strategy with the launch of the platinum label wholesale sportswear business.



Continue expansion in emerging markets.The Warnaco acquisition increased our presence and local operations in high-growth, emerging markets in Asia and Latin America. We plan to continue growing in these markets by:

•Continuing to increase retail square footage in China and Brazil;

•Enhancing the existing infrastructure and adding appropriate talent to fill key open positions; and

•Evaluating opportunities to leverage existing capabilities to introduce and/or accelerate growth of additional categories and brands.



Realize identified cost synergy opportunities.The Warnaco acquisition provided significant opportunities to reduce overhead and administrative expenses. We expect to achieve costs savings through synergies, principally with respect to certain corporate functions and duplicative brand management functions in North America and Europe.



Tommy Hilfiger Business



Global retail sales for the Tommy Hilfiger business have grown at a compound annual growth rate of 11% since we acquired the business in 2010. Our strategies for continuing to grow revenues and improve profitability include the following:





Continue to expand the European business.We believe that there is significant potential for further expansion in Europe. Our current key strategies for the European market include:



•Developing the business in product categories that remain underdeveloped in Europe, such as pants, outerwear, underwear, accessories and womenswear;

•Continuing the expansion of the bags and small leather goods business;

•Expanding the Tommy Hilfiger tailored division, a business we acquired from our former licensee at the end of 2012;

•Focusing increased efforts on womenswear, where a significant opportunity for theTommy Hilfigerbrand remains;

•Concentrating on the development of the business in underpenetrated markets, such as France, the United Kingdom, Turkey, Eastern Europe (including Russia), and the Middle East, through our own retail expansion, as well as increased wholesale sales, supported by increases in advertising and marketing activities; and

•IncreasingTommy Hilfiger’s presence in Europe through the opening of additional specialty and outlet retail stores (both by us and retail partners), including brand-promoting locations, such as those opened on Schadowstraße, Düsseldorf, Kuznetsky Most, Moscow and Robertson Boulevard in Los Angeles in 2013, Regent Street, London in 2012 and Brompton Road, London in 2011, and anchor stores in key shopping destinations worldwide, such as those opened in Frankfurt, Hamburg and Vienna since our acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger.



Grow and continue to strengthen the North American business.Our overarching goals in North America are to drive brand elevation in every channel and category in which we operate, while maximizing our current store portfolio and pursuing opportunities for growth. We intend to achieve growth in the North American business by:



•Continuing to enhance our strategic alliance with Macy’s by leveraging our logistics capabilities and “preferred vendor” relationship with Macy’s, offering expanded merchandise assortments, adding and enhancing shop-in-shops in high-volume Macy’s stores, featuringTommy Hilfigerproducts in Macy’s marketing campaigns and concentrating on brand enhancement and elevation through strategic marketing and investments in partnership with Macy’s;

•Expanding product offerings by Tommy Hilfiger and its licensees in both the retail and wholesale channels;

•IncreasingTommy Hilfiger’s overall presence and brand positioning through focused capital improvements in our existing retail stores to improve image, presentation and productivity and adding square footage in existing locations and opening new outlet stores, where appropriate;

•Elevating the product presentation and improving the visibility and exposure of theTommy Hilfigerbrand at Hudson’s Bay in Canada;










•Investing in advertising and marketing initiatives, such as our well-received “The Hilfigers” marketing campaign, through TV, print and digital media, with an emphasis on growing our customer database and expanding our Hispanic marketing campaign; and

•Enhancing our merchandising focus by delivering the right product regionally and offering an engaging store experience.



Expansion of opportunities outside of Europe and North America.Our opportunities in the rest of the world can be achieved by:





•Developing the Tommy Hilfiger business in Asia and Latin America by leveraging our operational experience within these regions obtained through the Warnaco acquisition;



•Continuing to develop our joint ventures in China (operations started in August 2011), India (acquired interest in September 2011) and Brazil (operations started in January 2013) by expanding our retail footprint, enhancing product and increasing price points;



•Improving our Tommy Hilfiger Japan business by repositioning theTommy Hilfigerbrand image to be more consistent with its positioning in other parts of the world. Measures include introducing regional sizing, enhancing product offerings and adopting other initiatives targeted at local market needs and elevating the brand’s visibility and positioning. Recent efforts include the opening of the first Asian flagship store on Omotesando in Tokyo in 2012; and



•Maintaining our balanced strategy of acquiring licensees, distributors and franchisees where we believe we can achieve greater scale and success compared to our partners, while at the same time licensing businesses for product categories and markets when we believe experienced and/or local partners provide the best opportunity for success.



Further improve the e-commerce channel.We intend to improve the online capabilities and functions of theTommy HilfigerEuropean and North American e-commerce sites to improve the shopping experience and increase sales, while also expanding the number of countries to which we are able to ship.



Heritage Brands Business



Our Heritage Brands business remains an integral part of our overall business mix. Our key strategies for the Heritage Brands business include the following:

Continue to strengthen the competitive position and image of our brand portfolio.We intend for each of our heritage brands to be a leader in its respective market segment, with strong consumer awareness and loyalty. We believe that our heritage brands are successful because we have positioned each one to target distinct consumer demographics and tastes. We will continue to design and market our branded products to complement each other, satisfy lifestyle needs, emphasize product features important to our target consumers and increase consumer loyalty. We will seek to increase our market share in our businesses by expanding our presence through product extensions and increased floor space. We are also committed to investing in our brands through advertising, sponsorships and other means to maintain strong customer recognition.

Pursue international growth.We intend to expand the international distribution of our heritage brands, including through licensing. We have approximately 45 license agreements, covering approximately 165 territories outside of the United States to use our heritage brands in numerous product categories, including apparel, accessories, footwear, soft home goods and fragrances. We believe that our strong brand portfolio and broad product offerings enable us to seek additional growth opportunities in geographic areas where we are underpenetrated, such as Europe and Asia.

In order to implement the strategies for the Heritage Brands business described above, we have a number of initiatives in place, including the following:

Develop and expand our newly acquired businesses.We aim to grow profitability within the Speedo, Warner’s and Olga businesses and look to achieve synergies, principally with respect to certain corporate functions and duplicative brand management functions in North America. Additionally, we intend to expand our market share positions in these newly acquired businesses, including through expanding our product lines and category offerings.

Maintain and protect our top-performing dress furnishings division.Our dress furnishings division continues to grow through cross-channel expansion and market share gains. We are focused on elevating the in-store experience in top doors and identifying brand and channel opportunities for additional growth.










Exit underperforming businesses.We continue to evaluate our businesses for productivity and profitability. We successfully exited our Bass retail business in the fourth quarter of 2013 and our Timberland and Izod women’s wholesale sportswear businesses in 2012.

Target marketing spend.We target our marketing expenditures on initiatives that we believe will reflect each brand’s core image, resonate with the target consumer and enhance the in-store shopping experience or encourage sales.



Other Strategic Opportunities

We intend to continue to build our brand portfolio through acquisition and licensing opportunities. While we believe we have an attractive and diverse portfolio of brands with growth potential, we will continue to explore acquisitions of companies or trademarks and licensing opportunities that we believe are additive to our overall business. New license opportunities allow us to fill new product and brand portfolio needs. We take a disciplined approach to acquisitions, seeking brands with broad consumer recognition that we can grow profitably and expand by leveraging our infrastructure and core competencies and, where appropriate, by extending the brand through licensing.



Seasonality



Our business generally follows a seasonal pattern. Our wholesale businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales in the first and third quarters, while our retail businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales in the fourth quarter. Royalty, advertising and other revenue tends to be earned somewhat evenly throughout the year, although the third quarter has the highest level of royalty revenue due to higher sales by licensees in advance of the holiday selling season. We expect this seasonal pattern will generally continue.



Design



Our businesses depend on our ability to stimulate and respond to consumer tastes and demands, as well as on our ability to remain competitive in the areas of quality and price.



A significant factor in the continued strength of our brands is our in-house design teams. We form separate teams of designers and merchandisers for each of our brands, creating a structure that focuses on the special qualities and identity of each brand. These designers and merchandisers consider consumer taste and lifestyle and trends when creating a brand or product plan for a particular season. The process from initial design to finished product varies greatly but generally spans six to ten months prior to each retail selling season. Our product lines are developed primarily for two major selling seasons, Spring and Fall. However, certain of our product lines offer more frequent introductions of new merchandise.



Calvin Klein has a team of senior design directors who share a vision for theCalvin Kleinbrands and who each lead a separate design team. These teams control all design operations and product development for most licensees and other strategic partners.



Tommy Hilfiger seeks to reinforce the premium positioning of theTommy Hilfigerbrands by taking a coordinated and consistent worldwide approach to brand management. Products are then adapted and executed on a regional basis in order to adjust for local or regional sizing, fits, weather, trends and demand. Tommy Hilfiger management believes that regional execution and adaptation helps it anticipate, identify and respond more readily to changing consumer demand, fashion trends and local tastes or preferences. It also reduces the importance of any one collection and enables the brand to appeal to a wider range of customers.



Product Sourcing



In 2013, our products were produced in over 1,300 factories and over 50 countries worldwide. With the exception of handmade and handfinished neckwear, which is made in our Los Angeles, California facility and accounted for less than 10% of our total quantity of neckwear sourced and produced, all of our products were produced by independent manufacturers located in foreign countries in Europe, the Far East, the Indian subcontinent, the Middle East, South America, the Caribbean, Central America and Africa. The manufacturers of our products are required to meet our quality, human rights, safety, environmental and cost requirements. No single supplier is critical to our production needs and we believe that an ample number of alternative suppliers exist should we need to secure additional or replacement production capacity and raw materials. We source finished products and raw materials. Raw materials include fabric, buttons, thread, labels and similar materials. Raw materials and production commitments are generally made two to six months prior to production, and quantities are finalized at










that time. We believe we are one of the largest users of shirting fabric in the world. Finished products consist of manufactured and fully assembled products ready for shipment to our customers and our stores.





Our Global Supply Chain teams, offices and buying agents enable us to monitor the quality of the goods manufactured by, and the delivery performance of, our suppliers, and work with our Global Compliance teams to ensure the enforcement of human rights and labor standards through our ongoing extensive training, approval and monitoring system. Our purchases from our suppliers are effected through individual purchase orders specifying the price, quantity, delivery date and destination of the items to be produced. Sales are monitored regularly at both the retail and wholesale levels and modifications in production can be made either to increase or reduce inventories. We look to establish long term supplier relationships in the appropriate locations throughout the world for our needs and place our orders in a manner designed to limit the risk a disruption of production at any one facility could cause a serious inventory problem while maximizing the business opportunity.



Tommy Hilfiger is a party to a nonexclusive agreement with Li & Fung Trading Limited under which Li & Fung performs most of Tommy Hilfiger’s sourcing work. Under the terms of the agreement, Tommy Hilfiger is required to use Li & Fung for at least 54% of its sourced products, or otherwise pay a penalty. Our Tommy Hilfiger business uses other third-party buying offices for a portion of its sourced products and has a small in-house sourcing team that places orders directly with suppliers.

We are continuing to develop strategies and make investments in skill sets and locations that enhance our ability to provide our customers with timely product availability and delivery. Our investments are focused at allowing us to reduce the cycle time between the design of products and the delivery of those products to our customers while increasing quality and consumer value. We believe the enhancement of our supply chain efficiencies and working capital management through the effective use of our distribution network and overall infrastructure will allow us to better control costs and provide improved service to our customers. The integration of Warnaco’s sourcing network has been a key element to our strategy to realize synergies and gain efficiencies.

We are committed to the health, safety and well-being of the workers throughout our supply chain and to the integrity of our products. We actively work to educate our associates and partners and improve factory conditions, as well as continue to invest in the communities where we do business.

Warehousing and Distribution



To facilitate distribution, our products are shipped from manufacturers to our wholesale and retail warehousing and distribution centers for inspection, sorting, packing and shipment. Centers range in size and are principally located in the United States in Arkansas, California, Georgia, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Tennessee; and internationally in The Netherlands, Canada, China, Japan, Hong Kong, South Korea, Taiwan, Brazil and Mexico. Our warehousing and distribution centers are designed to provide responsive service to our customers and our retail stores, as the case may be, on a cost-effective basis. This includes the use of various forms of electronic communications to meet customer needs, including advance shipping notices for certain customers.



We believe that our investments in logistics and supply chain management allow us to respond rapidly to changes in sales trends and consumer demands while enhancing inventory management. We believe our customers can better manage their inventories as a result of our continuous analysis of sales trends, broad array of product availability and quick response capabilities. Certain of our products can be ordered at any time through our EDI replenishment systems. For customers who reorder these products, we generally ship these products within one to two days of order receipt. At the end of 2013 and 2012, our backlog of customer orders totaled $1.473 billion and $930 million, respectively.



Our largest customers account for significant portions of our revenue. Sales to our five largest customers were 20.8% of our revenue in 2013, 18.7% of our revenue in 2012 and 19.5% of our revenue in 2011. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in 2013, 2012 or 2011.



Advertising and Promotion



We market our brands and products to target distinct consumer demographics and lifestyles. Our marketing programs are an integral feature of our brands and their associated product offerings. Advertisements generally portray a lifestyle rather than a specific item. We intend for each of our brands to be a leader in its respective market segment, with strong consumer awareness and consumer loyalty. We believe that our brands are successful in their respective segments because we have strategically positioned each brand to target a distinct consumer demographic. We will continue to design and market our










products to complement each other, satisfy lifestyle needs, emphasize product features important to our target consumers and encourage consumer loyalty.



We advertise our brands through digital media, including our e-commerce platforms and social media outlets, in order to expand our reach to customers and enable us to provide timely information in an entertaining fashion to consumers about our products, special events, promotions and store locations. In addition, we also advertise through print media (including fashion, entertainment/human interest, business, men’s, women’s and sports magazines and newspapers), on television and through outdoor signage.



We also advertise our brands through sport sponsorships and product tie-ins. OurVan Heusenbrand operates its professional football marketing and media campaign through individual endorsement agreements with Pro Football Hall of Famers Steve Young and Jerry Rice. In addition, PGA golfers Webb Simpson, Scott Piercy and Spencer Levin serve as ambassadors for theIZODbrand, andIZODwas the title sponsor of theIZODIndyCar Series through the 2013 season. A number of world-class swimmers and divers, including Michael Phelps, Natalie Coughlin, Ryan Lochte and Katie Hoff, woreSpeedoproducts in competition and participated in various promotional activities on behalf of the brand in 2013.Calvin Kleinhas a sponsorship agreement with the Brooklyn Nets and the Barclays Center and we have an all-brand, regional sponsorship agreement with the New York Giants. We also acted as an official sponsor of the 2014 Super Bowl Host Committee and had the right to use the 2014 Super Bowl Host Committee logo and marks for promotional use with theIZOD,Van Heusen,Calvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands. In addition, we participate in cooperative advertising programs with our retail partners.



With respect to our North America retail operations, we generally rely upon local outlet mall developers to promote traffic for their centers. Outlet center developers employ multiple formats, including signage (highway billboards, off-highway directional signs, on-site signage and on-site information centers), print advertising (brochures, newspapers and travel magazines), direct marketing (to tour bus companies and travel agents), radio and television and special promotions.



We believeCalvin Kleinis one of the best known designer names in the world. Its high-profile, often cutting-edge global advertising campaigns have periodically garnered significant publicity, notoriety and conversation among customers and consumers, as well as within the fashion industry, and have helped to establish and maintain theCalvin Kleinname and image. Calvin Klein has a dedicated in-house advertising agency, with experienced creative and media teams that develop and execute a substantial portion of the institutional consumer advertising for products under theCalvin Kleinbrands and work closely with other Calvin Klein departments and business partners to deliver a consistent and unified brand message to the consumer.



Calvin Klein oversees a worldwide marketing, advertising and promotions program.Calvin Kleinproducts are advertised primarily in national print media, through digital media and on television. Innovative marketing and advertising campaigns continue to fuel the global growth ofCalvin Klein,highlighted by an expanded use of digital and social media marketing platforms, including a visually-driven, interactiveTumblrblog, which complements the brand’s editorial and celebrity wardrobing programs, to further consumer awareness and appeal. We believe promotional activities throughout the year further enhance awareness of theCalvin Kleinbrands. In addition to offering a broad array ofCalvin Kleinapparel and accessories products, Calvin Klein’s website,www.calvinklein.com, also serves as a marketing vehicle to complement the ongoing growth and development of theCalvin Kleinbrands.



Calvin Klein also has a dedicated in-house global communications team, which incorporates corporate communications, public relations, celebrity dressing and special events. This group coordinates many global events, including the Spring and FallCalvin Klein Collectionrunway shows in New York City and Milan, and oversees the dressing of celebrities for events, award ceremonies and film premieres.



We believe thatTommy Hilfigeris also one of the world’s most well-known designer brands. Tommy Hilfiger employs advertising, marketing and communications staff, including an in-house creative team, as well as outside agencies, to implement its global marketing and communications strategy across all channels of distribution. The Tommy Hilfiger marketing and communications team develops and coordinates Tommy Hilfiger advertising for all regions and product lines, licensees and regional distributors. Advertisements forTommy Hilfigerbrand products appear primarily in fashion and lifestyle magazines, newspapers, outdoor media and cinema and on television. We also have increased the digital and online focus of marketing for theTommy Hilfigerbrands. The marketing and communications team also coordinates selected personal appearances by Mr. Tommy Hilfiger, including at runway shows, brand events and flagship store openings as part of its efforts. Most of Tommy Hilfiger’s licensees and distributors are required to contribute a percentage of their net sales ofTommy Hilfigerproducts, generally subject to minimum amounts, to the advertising and promotion of theTommy Hilfigerbrand and products. We maintain multiple showroom facilities and sales offices in Europe, North America and Asia forTommy Hilfiger. We launch significant brand advertising campaigns two times per year in Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter to provide maximum consumer










visibility of the new seasonal collections and to support sell-through. In addition to offering a broad array ofTommy Hilfigerapparel and licensed products, Tommy Hilfiger’s website,www.tommy.com, also serves as a marketing vehicle to complement the ongoing development of theTommy Hilfigerlifestyle brands.



Trademarks



We own theCalvin Klein,Tommy Hilfiger,Van Heusen,IZOD, ARROW,Warner’s,OlgaandEaglebrands, as well as related trademarks (e.g., IZOD XFGand theTommy Hilfigerflag logo and crest design) and lesser-known names. These trademarks are registered for use in each of the primary countries where our products are sold and additional applications for registration of these and other trademarks are made in jurisdictions to accommodate new marks, uses in additional trademark classes or additional categories of goods or expansion into new countries.



We beneficially own theCalvin Kleinmarks and derivative marks in all trademark classes and for all product categories through our ownership of Calvin Klein and Warnaco. Calvin Klein and Warnaco together own the Calvin Klein Trademark Trust, which is the sole and exclusive title owner of substantially all registrations of theCalvin Kleintrademarks. The sole purpose of the Trust is to hold these marks. Calvin Klein maintains and protects the marks on behalf of the Trust pursuant to a servicing agreement. The Trust licenses to Calvin Klein and Warnaco on an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual and royalty-free basis the use of the marks.



Mr. Calvin Klein retains the right to use his name, on a non-competitive basis, with respect to his right of publicity, unless those rights are already being used in the Calvin Klein business. Mr. Klein has also been granted a royalty-free worldwide right to use theCalvin Kleinmark with respect to certain personal businesses and activities, such as motion picture, television and video businesses, a book business, writing, speaking and/or teaching engagements, non-commercial photography, charitable activities and architectural and industrial design projects, subject to certain limitations designed to protect the image and prestige of theCalvin Kleinbrands and to avoid competitive conflicts.



Mr. Tommy Hilfiger is prohibited in perpetuity from using, or authorizing others to use, theTommy Hilfigermarks (except for the use by Mr. Hilfiger of his name personally and in connection with certain specified activities). In addition, we are prohibited in perpetuity from selling products not ordinarily sold under the names of prestige designer businesses or prestige global lifestyle brands without Mr. Hilfiger’s consent, from engaging in new lines of business materially different from such types of lines of business without Mr. Hilfiger’s consent, or from disparaging or intentionally tarnishing theTommy Hilfiger-related marks or Mr. Hilfiger’s personal name. The products that we are prohibited from selling include cigarettes, dog food and alcohol. Certain lines of business will not be considered “new lines of business” for purposes of the agreement, including apparel, fashion, eyewear, accessories, housewares, home and bedding products, personal care products, footwear, watches and leather goods.



Our trademarks are the subject of registrations and pending applications throughout the world for use on a variety of apparel, footwear and related products, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage and registration of new and related trademarks. In general, trademarks remain valid and enforceable as long as the marks continue to be used in connection with the products and services with which they are identified and, as to registered tradenames, the required registration renewals are filed. In markets outside of the United States, particularly those where products bearing any of our brands are not sold by us or any of our licensees or other authorized users, our rights to the use of trademarks may not be clearly established.



Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are valuable assets and we vigorously seek to protect them on a worldwide basis against infringement. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. This is especially the case with respect to theCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands, as theCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and their generally higher pricing provides significant opportunity and incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. We have a broad, proactive enforcement program that we believe has been generally effective in controlling the sale of counterfeit products in the United States and in major markets abroad.



Contingent Purchase Price Payments



In connection with our acquisition of Calvin Klein in 2003, we are obligated to pay Mr. Calvin Klein contingent purchase price payments based on a percentage of total worldwide net sales of products bearing any of theCalvin Kleinbrands with respect to sales made through February 12, 2018. Our obligation to make contingent purchase price payments to Mr. Klein is guaranteed by our domestic Calvin Klein subsidiaries and is secured by a pledge of all of the equity interests in our Calvin Klein subsidiaries and a first priority lien on substantially all of our domestic Calvin Klein subsidiaries’ assets. Events of










default under the agreements governing the collateral for our contingent payment obligations to Mr. Klein include, but are not limited to (1) our failure to make payments to Mr. Klein when due, (2) covenant defaults, (3) cross-defaults to other indebtedness in excess of an agreed amount, (4) events of bankruptcy, (5) monetary judgment defaults and (6) a change of control, including the sale of any portion of the equity interests in our Calvin Klein subsidiaries. An event of default under those agreements would permit Mr. Klein to foreclose on his security interest in the collateral. In addition, if we fail to pay Mr. Klein a contingent purchase price payment when due and such failure to pay continues for 60 days or more after a final judgment by a court is rendered relating to our failure to pay, Mr. Klein will no longer be restricted from competing with us as he otherwise would be under the non-competition provisions contained in the purchase agreement related to our acquisition of Calvin Klein, although he would still not be able to use any of theCalvin Kleinbrands or any similar trademark in any competing business. Such contingent purchase price payments totaled $53 million, $51 million and $51 million during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.



We reacquired in 2011 the rights in India to theTommy Hilfigertrademarks that had been subject to a perpetual license previously granted to GVM. We are required to make annual contingent purchase price payments into 2016 (or, under certain circumstances, into 2017) based on a percentage of annual sales in excess of an agreed upon threshold ofTommy Hilfigerproducts in India. Such payments are subject to a $25 million aggregate maximum and are due within 60 days following each one year anniversary of the acquisition. We made contingent purchase price payments of $429,000 and $185,000 during 2013 and 2012, respectively.



Competition



The apparel industry is competitive as a result of its fashion orientation, mix of large and small producers, the flow of domestic and imported merchandise and the wide diversity of retailing methods. We compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear.



We compete primarily on the basis of style, quality, price and service. Our business depends on our ability to stimulate consumer tastes and demands, as well as on our ability to remain competitive in these areas. We believe we are well-positioned to compete in the apparel industry. Our diversified portfolio of brands and products and our use of multiple channels of distribution have allowed us to develop a business that produces results which are not dependent on any one demographic group, merchandise preference, distribution channel or geographic region. We have developed a portfolio of brands that appeal to a broad spectrum of consumers. Our owned brands have long histories and enjoy high recognition within their respective consumer segments. We develop our owned and licensed brands to complement each other and to generate strong consumer loyalty. TheCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands generally provide us with the opportunity to develop businesses that target different consumer groups at higher price points and in higher-end distribution channels than our heritage brands, as well as with significant global opportunities due to the worldwide recognition of the brands.



Imports and Import Restrictions



A substantial portion of our products is imported into the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. These products are subject to various customs laws, which may impose tariffs, as well as quota restrictions. Under the provisions of the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) agreement governing international trade in textiles, known as the “WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing,” the United States and other WTO member countries have eliminated quotas on textiles and apparel-related products from WTO member countries. As a result, quota restrictions generally do not affect our business in most countries. Presently, a portion of our imported products is eligible for certain duty-advantaged programs, including the North American Free Trade Agreement, Africa Growth & Opportunity Act, Central American Free Trade Agreement, Jordan Free Trade Agreement, Israel Free Trade Agreement, Egypt Qualifying Industrial Zones, Colombia Free Trade Agreement and the Peru Free Trade Agreement.



Environmental Matters



Our facilities and operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. In addition, we may incur liability under environmental statutes and regulations with respect to the contamination of sites that we own or operate or previously owned or operated (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites, abutters or other persons) and the off-site disposal of hazardous materials. We believe our operations are in compliance with terms of all applicable laws and regulations.












Employees



As of February 2, 2014, we employed approximately 16,700 persons on a full-time basis and approximately 16,500 persons on a part-time basis. Approximately 4% of our employees were represented for the purpose of collective bargaining by five different unions. Additional persons, some represented by these five unions, are employed from time to time based upon our manufacturing schedules and retailing seasonal needs. Our collective bargaining agreements generally are for one to three-year terms. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



The following table sets forth the name, age and position of each of our executive officers:



NameAgePositionEmanuel Chirico56Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerMichael A. Shaffer51Executive Vice President and Chief Operating & Financial OfficerFrancis K. Duane57Chief Executive Officer, Heritage Brands and North America WholesaleFred Gehring59Chief Executive Officer, Tommy Hilfiger and PVH International OperationsPaul Thomas Murry63Chief Executive Officer, Calvin KleinMark D. Fischer52Executive Vice President, General Counsel & SecretaryDave Kozel58Executive Vice President, Human Resources



Mr. Chirico joined us as Vice President and Controller in 1993. Mr. Chirico was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1999, President and Chief Operating Officer in 2005, Chief Executive Officer in February 2006, and Chairman of the Board in June 2007.



Mr. Shaffer has been employed by us since 1990. He served as Senior Vice President, Retail Operations immediately prior to being named Executive Vice President, Finance in 2005, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in March 2006, and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating & Financial Officer in February 2012.



Mr. Duane served as President of our Izod division from 1998 until 2001, was named Vice Chairman, Sportswear in 2001, Vice Chairman, Wholesale Apparel in March 2006, Chief Executive Officer, Wholesale Apparel in February 2012, and Chief Executive Officer, Heritage Brands and North America Wholesale in February 2013.



Mr. Gehring has been employed by Tommy Hilfiger since 1996. Mr. Gehring retained his position as Chief Executive Officer, Tommy Hilfiger upon our acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger in 2010 and was also named Chief Executive Officer, PVH International Operations upon such acquisition.



Mr. Murry has been employed by Calvin Klein since 1996. Mr. Murry retained his position as President and Chief Operating Officer, Calvin Klein upon our acquisition of Calvin Klein in 2003 and was named President and Chief Executive Officer, Calvin Klein in September 2008. Mr. Murry’s title was shortened to Chief Executive Officer, Calvin Klein, in connection with the reorganization we undertook at the time of the Warnaco acquisition; his responsibilities have not been reduced.



Mr. Fischer joined us as Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary in 1999. He became Senior Vice President in 2007 and Executive Vice President in 2013.



Mr. Kozel has been employed by us since 2003. He was promoted from Vice President to Senior Vice President in 2007 and to Executive Vice President in 2013.














