Item 1. Business



Introduction



Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our” or “us” refer to PVH Corp. and its subsidiaries.



Our fiscal years are based on the 52-53 week period ending on the Sunday closest to February 1 and are designated by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. References to a year are to our fiscal year, unless the context requires otherwise. Our 2015 year commenced on February 2, 2015 and ended on January 31, 2016; 2014 commenced on February 3, 2014 and ended on February 1, 2015; and 2013 commenced on February 4, 2013 and ended on February 2, 2014.



We obtained the market and competitive position data used throughout this report from research, surveys or studies conducted by third parties (including, with respect to the brand rankings for woven sport shirts, the NPD Group/POS Tracking Service), information provided by customers and industry or general publications. The United States department and chain store rankings to which we refer in this report are on a unit basis. Industry publications and surveys generally state that they have obtained information from sources believed to be reliable but do not guarantee the accuracy and completeness of such information. While we believe that each of these studies and publications and all other information is reliable, we have not independently verified such data and we do not make any representation as to the accuracy of such information.



References to the brand namesCalvin Klein,Calvin Klein Collection,Calvin Klein Platinum,Calvin Klein Jeans,Calvin Klein Underwear,Tommy Hilfiger,Hilfiger Denim,Hilfiger Collection,Tommy Hilfiger Tailored,Van Heusen,IZOD,ARROW,Warner’s,Olga,Eagle,Speedo,Geoffrey Beene,Kenneth Cole New York,Kenneth Cole Reaction,Sean John,MICHAEL Michael Kors,Michael Kors CollectionandChaps, and to other brand names in this report are to registered trademarks owned by us or licensed to us by third parties and are identified by italicizing the brand name.



References to the sale of Bass refer to our November 4, 2013 sale of our G.H. Bass & Co. business and itsBassandG.H. Bass & Co.trademarks, which we refer to collectively as “Bass.”



References to the acquisition of Warnaco refer to our February 13, 2013 acquisition of The Warnaco Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, which companies we refer to collectively as “Warnaco.”



References to the acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger refer to our May 6, 2010 acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger B.V. and certain affiliated companies, which companies we refer to collectively as “Tommy Hilfiger.”



References to our acquisition of Calvin Klein refer to our February 2003 acquisition of Calvin Klein, Inc. and certain affiliated companies, which companies we refer to collectively as “Calvin Klein.”





Company Overview



We are one of the largest branded apparel companies in the world, with a heritage dating back over 130 years. We have over 30,000 associates operating in over 40 countries. Our brand portfolio consists of nationally and internationally recognized brand names, including the global designer lifestyle brands

Calvin Klein

and

Tommy Hilfiger

, as well as

Van Heusen

,

IZOD

,

ARROW

,

Warner’s

,

Olga

and

Eagle

,



which are owned brands, and

Speedo

,

Geoffrey Beene

,

Kenneth Cole New York

,

Kenneth Cole Reaction

,

Sean John

,

MICHAEL Michael Kors

,

Michael Kors Collection

and

Chaps

, which are licensed, as well as various other licensed and private label brands. In addition, through the end of the third quarter of 2013, we owned, and operated businesses under, the

G.H. Bass & Co.

and

Bass

trademarks. We design and market branded dress shirts, neckwear, sportswear, jeanswear, intimate apparel, swim products, handbags, footwear and other related products. Additionally, we license our owned brands over a broad range of products. We sell our brands at multiple price points and across multiple channels of distribution and geographies, which allows us to provide products to a broad range of consumers, while minimizing competition among our brands and reducing our reliance on any one demographic group, merchandise preference, price point, distribution channel or region. During 2015, our directly operated businesses in North America consisted principally of wholesale men’s dress shirts, neckwear and underwear sales under our owned and licensed brands; wholesale men’s sportswear sales under our

Calvin Klein

,

Tommy Hilfiger

,

Van Heusen

,

IZOD

and

ARROW

brands; wholesale women’s sportswear sales under our

Tommy Hilfiger

brand; wholesale men’s and women’s jeanswear sales under our

Calvin Klein

brands; wholesale women’s intimate apparel sales under our

Calvin Klein

,

Warner’s

and

Olga

brands; wholesale swimwear, footwear, swim










accessories and related product sales under theSpeedobrand; and the operation of retail stores, principally in premium outlet centers, under ourCalvin Klein,Tommy HilfigerandVan Heusenbrandsand, through the end of the third quarters of 2015 and 2013, theIZODbrand and theG.H. Bass & Co./Bassbrands, respectively. During 2015, our directly operated businesses outside of North America consisted principally of our Tommy Hilfiger International wholesale and retail businesses in Europe and Japan; our Calvin Klein wholesale and retail businesses in Europe, Asia and Latin America; and our wholesale Calvin Klein Collection business in Europe. Our licensing activities principally related to the licensing worldwide of ourCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigertrademarks for a broad range of lifestyle products and for specific geographic regions.



On February 1, 2016, we entered into a licensing agreement with G-III Apparel Group, Ltd. (“G-III”) for the design, production and wholesale distribution ofTommy Hilfigerwomenswear in the United States and Canada, with the first offerings under the new licensing arrangement expected to be launched for the 2016 holiday season. Additionally, on February 2, 2016, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the 55% interest in TH Asia Ltd. (“TH Asia”), our joint venture for Tommy Hilfiger in China, that we do not already own. The closing, which is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals, is expected to occur late in the first quarter or early in the second quarter of 2016.



These recent transactions follow our history of acquisitions, which have made us a more diversified organization, with an extensive brand portfolio, a global retail footprint and distribution network, and a larger consumer base. Our most recent acquisition was Warnaco in 2013, which provided us with direct control of Calvin Klein’s two largest apparel categories, jeanswear and underwear, and followed our transformative acquisitions of Tommy Hilfiger in 2010 and Calvin Klein in 2003. We will continue to explore strategic acquisitions of licensed businesses, trademarks and companies that we believe are additive to our overall business.



We sold substantially all of the assets of our Bass business on November 4, 2013 and exited our Izod retail business in the third quarter of 2015.



We aggregate our segments into three main businesses: (i) Calvin Klein, which consists of the Calvin Klein North America and Calvin Klein International segments; (ii) Tommy Hilfiger, which consists of the Tommy Hilfiger North America and Tommy Hilfiger International segments; and (iii) Heritage Brands, which consists of the Heritage Brands Wholesale and Heritage Brands Retail segments. Note 20, “Segment Data,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report contains information with respect to revenue, income before interest and taxes and assets related to each segment, as well as information regarding our revenue generated from foreign and domestic sources, and the geographic locations where our net property, plant and equipment is held.



Our 2015 revenue was $8.0 billion, approximately 45% of which was generated internationally. Our global designer lifestyle brands,Calvin KleinandTommy Hilfiger, together generated over 75% of our revenue during 2015.



Company Information



We were incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1976 as the successor to a business begun in 1881. Our principal executive offices are located at 200 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10016; our telephone number is (212) 381-3500.



We make available at no cost, on our corporate website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also make available at no cost, on our corporate website, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Our corporate website address ispvh.com.





Calvin Klein Business Overview



We believe Calvin Klein is one of the best known designer names in the world, offering a modern, provocative design aesthetic. TheCalvin Kleinbrands provide us with the opportunity to market products both domestically and internationally at various price points, through multiple distribution channels and to different consumer groups. Our tiered-brand strategy provides a focused, consistent approach to global brand growth and development that preserves the brand’s prestige and image. TheCalvin Kleinbrands are:

•Calvin Klein Collection— our “halo” brand, under which men’s and women’s high-end designer apparel and accessories, as well as items for the home, are sold. Representing pure, refined luxury, distribution is through the wholesale channel across the globe (in stores and online), through flagship stores in Asia and our ownCalvin Klein Collectionretail flagship store on Madison Avenue in New York City, as well as oncalvinklein.com.










•Calvin Klein Platinum—our “bridge” brand, offering modern, sophisticated, fashionable items including apparel and accessories. Offerings are sold in the wholesale channel through specialty and department store retailers (in stores and online) in various regions, as well as in free-standing stores in Asia. Distribution for the line is growing internationally across select markets.

•Calvin Klein—  our “better” brand, formerly referred to asCalvin Kleinwhite label, includes offerings such as men’s sportswear and dress furnishings, men’s and women’s outerwear, fragrance, accessories, footwear, performance apparel, women’s sportswear, dresses, suits and handbags and items for the home. Distribution is primarily in North America through department store retailers (in stores and online), free-standing stores and oncalvinklein.com, and is expanding internationally in select markets.

•Calvin Klein Jeans— offerings under this label include men’s and women’s jeans and related apparel, which are distributed worldwide, and accessories, which are distributed in Europe and Asia. With roots in denim, it is the casual expression of theCalvin Kleinbrand and is known for its unique details and innovative washes. This line is sold in our own stores, through the wholesale channel (in stores and online) and oncalvinklein.com.

•Calvin Klein Underwear— one of the world’s leading designer underwear brands for men and women,Calvin Klein Underwearis known across the globe for sexy, cutting-edge products and marketing campaigns, consistently delivering innovative designs with superior fit and quality. Offerings under this label include men’s and women’s underwear, women’s intimates, sleepwear and loungewear.Calvin Klein Underwearis sold in our own stores, through the wholesale channel (in stores and online) and oncalvinklein.com.



TheCalvin Kleinbrands are also licensed for a range of products, including fragrance, women’s apparel, footwear, eyewear, watches and jewelry in various regions. Global retail sales of products sold under theCalvin Kleinbrands were approximately $8.2 billion in 2015.



Calvin Klein’s in-house design and advertising teams oversee the design and development of all products sold under theCalvin Kleinbrands, as well as worldwide marketing, advertising and promotional programs for the brands. We believe that maintaining control over design and advertising through these teams plays a key role in the continued strength of the brands. In 2015, over $320 million was spent globally in connection with the advertising, marketing and promotion of theCalvin Kleinbrands and approximately 50% of these expenses were funded by Calvin Klein’s licensees and other authorized users of the brands. Our efforts in this area were recognized in 2015, withCalvin Kleinreceiving the CLIO Grand Image award for “Best Integrated Campaign” and the Digiday Award for “Best Direct Response” campaign.



Through our Calvin Klein North America and Calvin Klein International segments, we sellCalvin Kleinproducts in a variety of distribution channels, including:



•Calvin KleinWholesale — We operate wholesale businesses through which we distribute and sellCalvin Kleinproducts to third party retailers and distributors (in brick and mortar stores and online through e-commerce sites). Given the various price points at which products under the variousCalvin Kleinbrands are sold, we have a range of wholesale customers. For example, within North America, ourmen’s dress shirts, neckwear and sportswear under theCalvin Kleinbrand are marketed at better price points and are distributed principally in better department and specialty store retailers (in stores and online). OurCalvin Klein CollectionandCalvin Klein Platinumdress shirts are sold into the more limited channels of luxury or premier department and specialty store retailers (in stores and online), as well as through free-standing stores.OurCalvin Klein JeansandCalvin Klein Underwearproducts are primarily distributed through department stores, chain stores, shop-in-shop/concession locations, stores operated under retail licenses and/or distributor agreements, e-commerce sites operated by key department store customers and pure play e-commerce retailers.

•Calvin KleinRetail — We operate retail businesses in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. OurCalvin Kleinstores in the United States and Canada are located primarily in premium outlet centers and offer men’s and women’s apparel and other products under theCalvin Kleinbrand to communicate theCalvin Kleinlifestyle. We also operate full-price and outlet stores and concession locations in Europe, Asia, Mexico and Brazil where we principally offerCalvin Klein Jeans,Calvin Klein UnderwearandCalvin Kleinaccessory offerings.Calvin Kleinproducts are also sold through the e-commerce sites we operate in approximately 30 countries.

•Calvin Klein Collection —We market theCalvin Klein Collectionbrand men’s and women’s high-end designer apparel and accessories collections, as well as items for the home, through ourCalvin Klein Collectionflagship store located in New York City, our Calvin Klein Collection wholesale businesses in the United States and Europe and online through our e-commerce site and other specialty e-commerce sites, such asnet-a-porter.com.










•Licensing — We license theCalvin Kleinbrands throughout the world for use in connection with a broad array of products, including women’s dresses and suits, women’s sportswear and performance apparel, men’s tailored clothing, golf apparel, fragrance, cosmetics, eyewear, hosiery, socks, footwear, jewelry, watches, outerwear, handbags, small leather goods and home furnishings; and men’s and women’sCalvin KleinPlatinumapparel in Asia. In these arrangements, Calvin Klein combines its design, marketing and branding skills with the specific manufacturing, distribution and geographic capabilities of its partners to develop, market and distribute these goods. Calvin Klein has approximately 65 licensing and other arrangements across theCalvin Kleinbrands. The arrangements generally are exclusive to a territory or product category. Additionally,Calvin Kleinproducts are sold by third party distributors, and through joint ventures in which we are a partner in Australia and India.



Calvin Klein’s key licensing partners, and the products and territories licensed, include:

Licensing PartnerProduct Category and TerritoryCK Watch & Jewelry Co., Ltd.(Swatch SA)Men’s and women’s watches (worldwide) and men’s and women’s jewelry (worldwide, including Japan beginning January 2016)CK21 Holdings Pte, Ltd.Men’s and women’s platinum apparel and shoes (Asia, excluding Japan)Coty, Inc.Men’s and women’s fragrance, bath products and color cosmetics (worldwide)DWI Holdings, Inc. / Himatsingka Seide, Ltd.Soft home bed and bath furnishings (United States, Canada, Mexico, Central America, South America and India)G-IIIMen’s and women’s coats and swimwear, luggage and women’s suits, dresses, sportswear, active performancewear, handbags and small leather goods (United States, Canada and Mexico with some distribution for certain lines in Europe and elsewhere)Jimlar Corporation / LF USA, Inc.Men’s, women’s and children’s footwear (United States, Canada, Mexico and certain other jurisdictions for severalCalvin Kleinbrands and worldwide forCalvin Klein CollectionandCalvin Klein Jeans)Marchon Eyewear, Inc.Men’s and women’s optical frames and sunglasses (worldwide)McGregor Industries, Inc. / American Essentials, Inc.Men’s and women’s socks and women’s tights (United States, Canada, Mexico, Central and South America, Europe, Middle East and Asia, excluding Japan)Onward Kashiyama Co. Ltd.Men’s and women’s platinum apparel and women’s platinum handbags (Japan)Peerless Delaware, Inc.Men’s tailored clothing (United States, Canada and Mexico)



The results of our Calvin Klein wholesale, retail and licensing activities in the United States, Canada and Mexico are reported in our Calvin Klein North America segment, and wholesale, retail and licensing activities outside of North America are reported in our Calvin Klein International segment.





Tommy Hilfiger Business Overview



We believeTommy Hilfigeris one of the world’s leading designer lifestyle brands and is internationally recognized for celebrating the essence of “classic American cool” style, featuring preppy with a twist designs. Our Tommy Hilfiger business markets its products under several brands in order to fully capitalize on its global appeal, as each brand varies in terms of price point, demographic target and distribution. TheTommy Hilfigerbrands offer a breadth of collections, including tailored clothing, sportswear, denim, accessories, underwear and footwear, and consist of:












•Tommy Hilfiger —our core line, under which we offer a broad selection of designs across more than 25 categories, including men’s, women’s and kids’ sportswear, footwear and accessories. With a focus on the 25 to 40 year-old consumer,Tommy Hilfigeris internationally recognized for celebrating the essence of classic American style with a fresh, modern twist inspired by pop culture—from fashion, art and music to sports and entertainment. Products are sold domestically and internationally in ourTommy Hilfigerspecialty and outlet stores, through the wholesale channel (in stores and online) and through our Company-operated e-commerce sites.



•Hilfiger Denim —inspired by American denim classics with a modern edge, offerings are more casual than theTommy Hilfigerlabel. The line is targeted to the 18 to 30 year-old denim-oriented consumer and is focused on premium denim separates, footwear, bags, accessories, eyewear and fragrance. Products are primarily sold outside North America and can be purchased in ourTommy Hilfigerretail stores, through the wholesale channel (in stores and online) and through our Company-operated e-commerce sites.



•Hilfiger Collection —represents the pinnacle of theTommy Hilfigerproduct offerings and features its most directional styles for women, blending the brand’s Americana styling with contemporary influences. The collection targets 25 to 40 year-old consumers and includes designs that premiere on the runway during New York Fashion Week.Hilfiger Collectionis available globally at selectTommy Hilfigerretail stores and wholesale partners (in stores and online), and through our Company-operated e-commerce sites.



•Tommy Hilfiger Tailored —integrates a sharp, sophisticated style with the brand’s American menswear heritage. From structured suiting to casual weekend wear, classics are modernized with precision fit, premium fabrics, updated cuts, rich colors and luxe details executed with the brand’s signature twist.Tommy Hilfiger Tailoredfocuses on the 25 to 40 year-old consumer and is available globally at selectTommy Hilfigerretail stores and through wholesale partners (in stores and online), as well as through our Company-operated e-commerce sites.



TheTommy Hilfigerbrands are also licensed for a range of products, including fragrance, eyewear, watches and home furnishings in various regions. Global retail sales of products sold under theTommy Hilfigerbrands were approximately $6.5 billion in 2015.



Global marketing campaigns are integral toTommy Hilfiger, with a focus on driving elevation, consistency and relevancy across product lines and regions.Tommy Hilfigerengages consumers through comprehensive 360° marketing campaigns and spent over $150 million on global marketing and communications efforts in 2015, with a particular focus on innovative social media and digital marketing initiatives. The global brand power and digital expertise ofTommy Hilfigerare being recognized; in 2015,Tommy Hilfigerwas ranked the #10 apparel brand in Millward Brown’s “Top 100 Most Valuable Global Brands” report and L2 rankedTommy Hilfiger#12 on its 2015Digital IQ Index: Fashion.



Through our Tommy Hilfiger North America and Tommy Hilfiger International segments, we sellTommy Hilfigerproducts in a variety of distribution channels, including:



•Wholesale — The Tommy Hilfiger wholesale business consists of the distribution and sale of products in North America and Europe under theTommy Hilfigerbrands to third party retailers (in stores and online) and distributors. The European retail customers range from large department stores to small independent stores. Tommy Hilfiger has, since 2008, made the majority of its North American wholesale sales to Macy’s, which is currently the exclusive department store retailer forTommy Hilfigermen’s and women’s sportswear in the United States. Tommy Hilfiger also has a wholesale men’s and women’s sportswear, dress furnishings and accessories business in Canada with Hudson’s Bay Company, Canada’s leading department store. On February 1, 2016, we entered into a licensing agreement with G-III for the design, production and wholesale distribution ofTommy Hilfigerwomenswear in the United States and Canada beginning with the Holiday 2016 season.



•Retail — The Tommy Hilfiger retail business principally consists of the distribution and sale ofTommy Hilfigerproducts in North America, Europe and Japan through Company-operated full-price specialty and outlet stores, as well as through Company-operated e-commerce sites.Tommy Hilfigerspecialty stores consist of flagship stores, which are generally larger stores situated in high-profile locations in major cities and are intended to enhance local exposure of the brand, and anchor stores, which are located on high-traffic retail streets and in malls in secondary cities and are intended to provide incremental revenue and profitability. Outlet stores in North America are primarily located in premium outlet centers and carry specially designed merchandise that is sold at a lower price point than merchandise sold in our specialty stores. Outlet stores operated by Tommy Hilfiger in Europe and Japan are used primarily to clear excess inventory from previous seasons at discounted prices and, to a lesser extent, carry specially designed merchandise.












•Licensing — We license theTommy Hilfigerbrands to third parties both for specific product categories and in certain geographic regions, and generally on an exclusive basis. Tommy Hilfiger has over 25 license agreements.Tommy Hilfigerproducts are also sold by third party distributors, licensees and franchisees in Europe, Southeast Asia, Australia, Central and South America and the Caribbean, and through joint ventures in which we are a partner in China, India, Brazil and Australia.



Tommy Hilfiger’s key licensing partners, and the products and territories licensed, include:





Licensing PartnerProduct Category and Territory



American Sportswear S.A.Men’s, women’s and children’s sportswear, accessories andHilfiger Denimdistribution (Central America and South America (excluding Brazil))



Aramis, Inc.Fragrance, cosmetics, skincare products and toiletries (worldwide)



BASECO SA DE CVMen’s, women’s and children’s sportswear, accessories (excluding footwear),Hilfiger Denimdistribution (Mexico)



Dobotex International B.V.Men’s, women’s and children’s socks (Europe)



F&T Apparel LLCBoys’ and girls’ apparel (United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and Guam (Macy’s stores only))



G-IIIMen’s, women’s and juniors’ outerwear, luggage, women’s dresses and, beginning in 2016, women’s apparel (excluding intimates, sleepwear, loungewear, hats, scarves, gloves and footwear) (United States and Canada)



GBG USA Inc.Bedding, bath, tabletop décor and decorative accessories (United States, Canada and Mexico)



Marcraft Clothes, Inc.Men’s tailored clothing (United States and Canada)



MBF Holdings LLCMen’s and women’s footwear (United States and Canada)



Movado Group, Inc. & Swissam Products, Ltd.Men’s and women’s watches and jewelry (worldwide, excluding Japan (except certain customers))



Randa Accessories Leather Goods LLCMen’s belts and small leather goods (United States, Canada and Mexico)



Safilo Group S.P.A.Men’s, women’s and children’s eyeglasses and non-ophthalmic sunglasses (worldwide, excluding India)



SK Networks Co., Ltd.Men’s, women’s and children’s sportswear andHilfiger Denimdistribution (South Korea)



Tommy Hilfiger Asia-Pacific, Ltd.Men’s, women’s and children’s sportswear andHilfiger Denimdistribution (Hong Kong, Macau, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan)





The results of our Tommy Hilfiger wholesale, retail and licensing activities in the United States, Canada and Mexico are reported in our Tommy Hilfiger North America segment, and wholesale, retail and licensing activities outside of North America are reported in our Tommy Hilfiger International segment.







Heritage Brands Business Overview



Our Heritage Brands business encompasses the design, sourcing and marketing of a varied selection of prominent brand label dress shirts, neckwear, sportswear, swim products, intimate apparel, underwear and related apparel and accessories, as well as the licensing of ourVan Heusen,IZOD,ARROW,Warner’sandOlgabrands for an assortment of products. The Heritage Brands business also includes private label dress furnishings programs, particularly neckwear programs. We design, source and market substantially all of these products on a brand-by-brand basis, targeting distinct consumer demographics and lifestyles in an effort to minimize competition among our brands. We distribute our Heritage Brands products at wholesale in










national and regional department, chain, specialty, mass market, club, off-price and independent stores in the United States, Canada and Mexico (in stores and online). Our wholesale business represents our core business and we believe that it is the basis for our brand equity. As a complement to our wholesale business, we also market products directly to consumers through ourVan Heusenretail storesand through the end of the third quarter of 2015,IZODretail stores, principally located in outlet centers throughout the United States and Canada. We currently sell our products online through our directly operated e-commerce site forSpeedo, through the e-commerce sites of our third party retail partners and through select pure play e-commerce retailers. In addition, through the end of the third quarter of 2013, our Heritage Brands business included the ownership and operation of businesses under theG.H. Bass & Co.andBasstrademarks. The sale of substantially all of the assets of the Bass business closed on November 4, 2013, the first day of our 2013 fourth quarter.





Heritage Brands Wholesale.Our Heritage Brands Wholesale segment principally consists of:



•The design and marketing of men’s dress shirts and neckwear primarily to department, chain, specialty, mass market, club and off-price retailers (in stores and online through select wholesale partners). We market both dress shirts and neckwear under brands includingVan Heusen,ARROW,IZOD,Eagle,Sean John,Geoffrey Beene,Kenneth Cole New York,Kenneth Cole Reaction,MICHAEL Michael KorsandMichael Kors Collection. We also market dress shirts under theChapsbrand, among others. We also offer private label dress shirt and neckwear programs to retailers, primarily national department and mass market stores. Collectively, our product offerings represent a sizeable portion of the domestic dress furnishings market.Van Heusen,ARROW,ChapsandGeoffrey Beenewere the first, second, fourth and fifth best selling national brand dress shirts, respectively, in United States department and chain stores in 2015.



We license certain of the brands under which we sell men’s dress shirts and neckwear. The following table provides information with respect to the expiration of the licenses for the more significant brands (as determined based on 2015 sales volume):



Brand NameLicensorExpirationGeoffrey BeeneGeoffrey Beene, LLCDecember 31, 2021, with a right of renewal (subject to certain conditions) through December 31, 2028Kenneth Cole New YorkandKenneth Cole ReactionKenneth Cole Productions (Lic), Inc.December 31, 2019ChapsThe Polo/Lauren Company, LP and PRL USA, Inc.March 31, 2017MICHAEL Michael KorsMichael Kors, LLCJanuary 31, 2019



•The design and marketing of sportswear, including men’s knit and woven sport shirts, sweaters, bottoms and outerwear, at wholesale, principally under theIZOD,Van HeusenandARROWbrands primarily to department, chain, specialty, mass market, club and off-price stores.Van Heusen,IZODandARROWwere the first, second and fifth best selling national brand men’s woven sport shirts, respectively, in United States department and chain stores in 2015.



•The design and marketing of certain men’s, women’s and children’s swimwear, pool and deck footwear and swim related products and accessories, such as swim goggles, learn-to-swim aids, water-based fitness products and training accessories under theSpeedotrademark. TheSpeedobrand is licensed to us for North America and the Caribbean in perpetuity from Speedo International Limited. We primarily distributeSpeedoproducts through mass market stores, sporting goods stores, team dealers, swim clubs, off-price stores, catalog retailers and e-commerce sites, including Speedo’sspeedousa.com e-commerce site.



•The design and marketing of women’s intimate apparel, shapewear and loungewear under theWarner’sandOlgabrands.Warner’sandOlgawomen’s intimate apparel is primarily distributed in the United States, Canada and Mexico through various retail channels, including department, chain, club, off-price and mass market stores (in stores and online).Warner’swas the second best selling average figure brand in United States department and chain stores in 2015 and had the largest market share for average figure wire-free bras.Olgawas the ninth best selling average figure brand in United States department and chain stores in 2015.














Heritage Brands Retail.Our Heritage Brands Retail segment consists of the operation of stores under theVan Heusenname, primarily in outlet centers throughout the United States and Canada. OurVan Heusenstores offer men’s dress shirts, neckwear and underwear, men’s and women’s suit separates, men’s and women’s sportswear, including woven and knit shirts, sweaters, bottoms and outerwear, and men’s and women’s accessories. During 2015, we tested in approximately 40Van Heusenstores a multi-brand concept in which we sell a limited selection ofIZOD GolfandWarner’sproducts in addition to a broad range ofVan Heusenproducts. These stores were met with a positive initial response. We exited our Izod retail business in the third quarter of 2015.



Licensing.We license our heritage brands globally for a broad range of products through approximately 35 domestic and 40 international license agreements covering approximately 165 territories. We believe that licensing provides us with a relatively stable flow of revenues with high margins and extends and strengthens our brands.



We grant licensing partners the right to manufacture and sell at wholesale specified products under one or more of our brands. In addition, certain foreign licensees are granted the right to open retail stores under the licensed brand name. A substantial portion of the sales by our domestic licensing partners is made to our largest wholesale customers. We provide support to our licensing partners and seek to preserve the integrity of our brands by taking an active role in the design, quality control, advertising, marketing and distribution of each licensed product, most of which are subject to our prior approval and continuing oversight.



We completed in the first quarter of 2015 a transaction in which theVan Heusentrademarks in Australia were licensed for certain product categories to subsidiaries of PVH Brands Australia Pty. Limited (“PVH Australia”) for use in Australia and New Zealand. PVH Australia is our joint venture forVan Heusen,Calvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerin the region. TheVan Heusentrademarks had previously been licensed to our joint venture partner.



Our heritage brand licensing partners, and the products and territories licensed by them, include:Licensing PartnerProduct Category and TerritoryArvind Ltd.ARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (India, Middle East, Egypt, Ethiopia, Maldives, Nepal, Sri Lanka and South Africa);IZODmen’s and women’s sportswear and accessories (India and Middle East)ECCEARROWmen’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (France, Switzerland and Andorra)F&T Apparel LLCVan HeusenandARROWboys’ dress furnishings and sportswear;IZODboys’ sportswear;IZODandARROWboys’ andgirls’ school uniforms;ARROWmen’s tailored clothing;IZODboys’ tailored clothing (United States and Canada)I.C.C. International Public Company, Ltd.ARROWmen’s dress furnishings, tailored clothing, sportswear and accessories;ARROWwomen’s dresswear and sportswear (Thailand, Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam)Peerless Delaware, Inc.Van HeusenandIZODmen’s tailored clothing (United States, Canada and Mexico)Van Dale Industries, Inc.IZODwomen’s intimates and sleepwear;Warner’sandOlgawomen’s shapewear, sleepwear, loungewear and athletic wear (United States and Canada)





Our Business Strategy



We are one of the largest apparel companies in the world, with over $8.0 billion in revenues in 2015. We see opportunity for significant growth as we employ our strategic initiatives across our organization. Our global growth strategies include:



•Driving consumer engagement — investing in our product, presentation, marketing and in-store experiences;

•Growing our operations in Asia and Latin America, the largest growth markets forTommy HilfigerandCalvin Klein;

•Assuming more direct control over Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger licensed businesses where we believe that we can leverage our core competencies to increase sales and profitability;

•Executing against our Calvin Klein European strategy to achieve target operating results;










•Investing strategically in our global operating platforms to support our growth initiatives;

•Growing our digital commerce presence by enhancing and expanding our directly operated sites and our online penetration with wholesale partners;

•Investing in talent, developing our people and expanding their career development opportunities while providing an inclusive environment where every individual is valued; and

•Continuing to generate significant free cash flow to use to drive sustainable long-term growth and stockholder returns.





Calvin Klein Business



We believe significant growth opportunities exist to driveCalvin Kleinglobal retail sales further over time, including:



Strategic repositioning of the European business.We are committed to improving margins and generating healthier and more profitable sales within our Calvin Klein Europe business. We have taken actions to enhance our jeanswear product, such as investing in quality, styling and fits, investing in shop-in-shops and retail stores to elevate the in-store shopping experience and reducing the brand’s distribution in the off-price and club channel. As a result of these actions, and by leveraging the strength ofCalvin Klein Underwear,we have seen significant improvement in the sales and profitability of the brand in Europe and we believe that we can continue to build upon this in the next several years.



Category and region expansion.We have identified several categories where we believe thatCalvinKleinis underpenetrated. These categories include:

•Apparel — Outside of North America, ourCalvin Kleinapparel assortments are underpenetrated compared to ourTommy Hilfigerofferings. We believe that we can grow our non-domestic apparel sales, givenCalvin Klein’s strong brand positioning and our proven success in other brand offerings. We believe that jeanswear, womenswear, men’s tailored and underwear offerings represent significant opportunities, both in North America and internationally.

•Accessories — We see opportunity to grow our handbag, small leather goods and accessories offerings across our geographies. While there is room for further growth in North America, we believe that the largest opportunities exist in Asia, Europe and Latin America asCalvin Klein Accessorieshas a very limited penetration in those markets. Our recent takeback of the licensedCalvin KleinPlatinumaccessories business in Asia will allow us to further grow our accessories presence in the region.

•Women’s Intimates — We believe that we can further expand and improve the performance of our women’s intimates assortments, particularly as we leverage our strong positioning and brand awareness in men’s underwear. To that end, we have been focused on improving our designs, detailing and quality. Fit has been another key focus area, as we are adding extended women’s sizing and tailoring products and fit to accommodate different regional markets. Additionally, our growth in logo product (including theModern Cottoncollection) is helping us engage with youth-minded shoppers, which has been additive to the existingCalvin Klein Underwearwomen’s customer base. As we make these changes, we also continue to advance our sourcing capabilities, including taking a more regionalized approach, reducing lead times to allow us to respond to customer purchasing patterns and improving speed-to-market for our core and replenishment categories.





Tommy Hilfiger Business



SinceTommy Hilfigerhas been under our ownership, the brand’s growth and performance has exceeded our expectations. We believe that we can further growTommy Hilfigerthrough a number of product and regional initiatives, including:





Category and region expansion.We have identified several categories where we believe that Tommy Hilfiger is underpenetrated. These categories include:

•Men’s tailored clothing — We believe that we can grow this business as we leverage our core competencies in dress furnishings and tailored apparel and expand internationally.

•Underwear — We see significant room to grow the Tommy Hilfigerunderwear business, as we leverage ourCalvin Klein Underwearexpertise with regards to fit, styling, sourcing and fabrics.

•Womenswear and accessories —We believe that we can grow our womenswear assortments, including accessories, particularly across high-growth markets in Asia and Latin America, where we are underpenetrated. Throughout 2015, we undertook several efforts to raise awareness of and support this business. On February 1, 2016, we entered into a










licensing agreement with G-III for the design, production and wholesale distribution ofTommy Hilfigerwomenswear in the United States and Canada, which includes our women’s sportswear business and additional categories previously licensed to G-III, including suit separates, dresses and performance.





Heritage Brands Business



Our Heritage Brands business is our original business, is where we developed our core competencies and is an important complement to our global designer brand businesses. We believe that this business can continue to grow, gain market share and generate healthy cash flows as we implement our key strategic initiatives, including:



Leveraging and enhancing each category’s positioning in the market.This includes:

•Dress Furnishings —  We operate the world’s largest dress shirt and neckwear business. We are focused on maintaining and expanding our positioning as we introduce innovative products and new styles and designs, such as theVan Heusen Flex Collarmen’s dress-shirt, designed with exclusive technology to provide extra comfort. Across our businesses, we are continually evaluating new brand licensing opportunities to leverage our strong established platforms in the dress furnishings category, while also evaluating and exiting existing licensing arrangements that are unproductive.

•Sportswear — We are focused on elevating our sportswear offerings through quality, detailing and fashion. ForIZOD, we seek to expand our offerings at Kohl’s, grow our golf business and continue to invest in in-store branding and new shop presentations. ForVan HeusenandARROW,we are focused on strengthening our position in the mid-tier department stores, reinforcing the value equation for each brand and growing through cross-channel expansion.

•Core Intimates — We see a healthy path of growth forWarner’sandOlga.We have enhanced our existing assortments, particularly bras, with new technologies, solutions-based innovation and more comfortable products. Along with these changes, we have been investing in new marketing campaigns, enhanced fixtures and additional signage across our wholesale presentations. We believe that we can expand our distribution, particularly within the mass market channel.

•Swimwear —  We plan to continue to extend our product offerings of swimwear and swim products to a wider audience.Speedois on the cutting edge of technology and innovation in the competitive swimwear arena and we are continually enhancing the product assortment to reflect the latest advancements. We see potential to broaden the brand’s customer base and relevance beyond the competitive swimmer population to reach more general fitness and recreational consumers. We see a significant opportunity for theSpeedobrand in 2016 with the Summer Olympics, which we believe we can commercialize throughspeedoUSA.com and with our wholesale partners.



International growth.We intend to expand the international distribution of our heritage brands. To date, we have done so principally through licensing. We have approximately 40 international license agreements, covering approximately 165 territories outside of the United States, to use our heritage brands in numerous product categories, including apparel, accessories, footwear, soft home goods and fragrance. In 2015, we expanded our joint venture in Australia and New Zealand to include the license forVan Heusen. We also conduct international business directly, selling dress furnishings and sportswear products to department and specialty stores throughout Canada and operating a select few stores in Canada. We believe that our strong brand portfolio and broad product offerings enable us to seek additional growth opportunities in geographic areas where we believe we are underpenetrated, such as Europe, Asia and Latin America.





Other Strategic Opportunities



While we believe we have an attractive and diverse portfolio of brands with growth potential, we will continue to explore acquisitions of companies or trademarks and licensing opportunities that we believe are additive to our overall business. New license opportunities allow us to fill product and brand portfolio needs. We take a disciplined approach to acquisitions, seeking brands with broad consumer recognition that we can grow profitably and expand by leveraging our infrastructure and core competencies and, where appropriate, by extending the brand through licensing.





Seasonality



Our business generally follows a seasonal pattern. Our wholesale businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales in the first and third quarters, while our retail businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales in the fourth quarter. Royalty, advertising and other revenue tends to be earned somewhat evenly throughout the year, although the third quarter has the










highest level of royalty revenue due to higher sales by licensees in advance of the holiday selling season. We expect this seasonal pattern will generally continue.



Design



Our businesses depend on our ability to stimulate and respond to consumer tastes and demands, as well as on our ability to remain competitive in the areas of quality and delivering a compelling price value proposition.



A significant factor in the continued strength of our brands is our in-house design teams. We form separate teams of designers and merchandisers for each of our brands, creating a structure that focuses on the special qualities and identity of each brand. These designers and merchandisers consider consumer taste and lifestyle and trends when creating a brand or product plan for a particular season. The process from initial design to finished product varies greatly but generally spans six to ten months prior to each retail selling season. Our product lines are developed primarily for two major selling seasons, Spring and Fall. However, certain of our product lines offer more frequent introductions of new merchandise.



Calvin Klein has a team of senior design directors who share a vision for theCalvin Kleinbrands and who each lead a separate design team. These teams control all design operations and product development for most licensees and other strategic partners. Products and fit for various categories are tailored for different regional markets in order to appeal to local tastes or preferences.



Tommy Hilfiger seeks to reinforce the premium positioning of theTommy Hilfigerbrands by taking a coordinated and consistent worldwide approach to brand management. Products are adapted and executed on a regional basis in order to adjust for local or regional sizing, fits, weather, trends and demand. Tommy Hilfiger management believes that regional execution and adaptation helps it anticipate, identify and respond more readily to changing consumer demand, fashion trends and local tastes or preferences. It also reduces the importance of any one collection and enables the brand to appeal to a wider range of customers.





Product Sourcing



Our products were produced in over 1,450 factories in over 50 countries worldwide during 2015. All of our products were produced by independent manufacturers located in foreign countries in Europe, the Far East, the Indian subcontinent, the Middle East, South America, the Caribbean, Central America and Africa, with the exception of handmade and handfinished neckwear, which is made in our Los Angeles, California facility and accounted for less than 10% of our total quantity of neckwear. The manufacturers of our products are required to meet our quality, human rights, safety, environmental and cost requirements. No single supplier is critical to our production needs and we believe that an ample number of alternative suppliers exist should we need to secure additional or replacement production capacity and raw materials. We source finished products and, to a lesser extent, raw materials. Raw materials include fabric, buttons, thread, labels and similar materials. Raw materials and production commitments are generally made two to six months prior to production, and quantities are finalized at that time. We believe we are one of the largest users of shirting fabric in the world. Finished products consist of manufactured and fully assembled products ready for shipment to our customers and our stores.





Our global supply chain teams, offices and buying agents enable us to monitor the quality of the goods manufactured by, and the delivery performance of, our suppliers, and work with our global compliance teams to ensure the enforcement of our human rights and labor standards and other code of conduct requirements through our ongoing extensive training, approval and monitoring system. Our purchases from our suppliers are effected through individual purchase orders specifying the price, quantity, delivery date and destination of the items to be produced. Sales are monitored regularly at both the retail and wholesale levels and modifications in production can be made either to increase or reduce inventories. We look to establish long-term supplier relationships in the appropriate locations throughout the world for our needs and place our orders in a manner designed to limit the risk a disruption of production at any one facility could cause a serious inventory problem while maximizing the business opportunity.



Tommy Hilfiger is a party to a nonexclusive agreement with Li & Fung Trading Limited under which Li & Fung performs a majority of Tommy Hilfiger’s sourcing work. Under the terms of the agreement, Tommy Hilfiger is required to use Li & Fung for at least 54% of its sourced products or pay a penalty. Our Tommy Hilfiger business uses other third party buying offices for a portion of its sourced products and has a small in-house sourcing team that places orders directly with suppliers.

We are continuing to develop strategies and make investments in skill sets, locations and systems that enhance our ability to provide our customers with timely product availability and delivery. These investments are focused at allowing us to reduce the cycle time between the design of products and the delivery of those products to our customers while increasing










service levels, reducing inventory exposure and improving quality and consumer value. We believe the enhancement of our supply chain efficiencies and working capital management through the effective use of our distribution network and overall infrastructure will allow us to better control costs and provide improved service to our customers.

The global supply chain teams monitor and track the primary cost inputs to the finished product to ensure that we pay the most appropriate cost for our finished goods. We continue to assess our manufacturing footprint to ensure we have the best network in place to meet the needs of our wholesale and retail businesses.



Corporate responsibility underpins how we operate and engage with all of our stakeholders — from business partners to factory workers and consumers. Our steadfast belief in doing the right thing has been part of our core values, even as we have experienced rapid growth over the last decade. As an industry leader, we recognize the great responsibility and opportunity to make positive impacts by striving to preserve the environment, empower people and support communities in which we work and live.



Warehousing, Distribution and Logistics



Our products are shipped from manufacturers to our wholesale and retail warehousing and distribution centers for inspection, sorting, packing and shipment. Centers range in size and our main facilities are located in the United States in Arkansas, California, Georgia, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Tennessee; and internationally in the Netherlands, Canada, China, Japan, Hong Kong, South Korea, Taiwan, Brazil and Mexico. In North America, the two largest centers, located in Georgia and North Carolina, use fully integrated and automated distribution systems, where the bar code scanning of merchandise and cartons provide timely, accurate and instantaneous updates to the distribution system. Our warehousing and distribution centers are designed to provide responsive service to our customers and our retail stores on a cost-effective basis. This includes the use of various forms of electronic communications to meet customer needs, including advance shipping notices for certain customers.



We believe that our investments in logistics and supply chain management allow us to respond rapidly to changes in sales trends and consumer demands while enhancing inventory management. We believe our customers can better manage their inventories as a result of our continuous analysis of sales trends, broad array of product availability and quick response capabilities. Certain of our products can be ordered at any time through our EDI replenishment systems. For customers who reorder these products, we generally ship these products within one to two days of order receipt. Our backlog of customer orders totaled $1.364 billion and $1.136 billion as of January 31, 2016 and February 1, 2015, respectively.



Material Customers



Our largest customers account for significant portions of our revenue. Sales to our five largest customers were 22.2% of our revenue in 2015, 21.8% of our revenue in 2014 and 20.8% of our revenue in 2013. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in 2015, 2014 or 2013.





Advertising and Promotion



We market our brands and products to target distinct consumer demographics and lifestyles. Our marketing programs are an integral feature of our brands and their associated product offerings. Advertisements generally portray a lifestyle rather than a specific item. We intend for each of our brands to be a leader in its respective market segment, with strong consumer awareness and consumer loyalty. We believe that our brands are successful in their respective segments because we have strategically positioned each brand to target a distinct consumer demographic. We design and market our products to complement each other, satisfy lifestyle needs, emphasize product features important to our target consumers and encourage consumer loyalty.



We advertise our brands through digital media, including our e-commerce platforms and social media outlets, in order to expand our reach to customers and enable us to provide timely information in an entertaining fashion to consumers about our products, special events, promotions and store locations. In addition, we advertise through print media (including fashion, entertainment/human interest, business, men’s, women’s and sports magazines and newspapers), on television and through outdoor signage, as well as participate in cooperative advertising programs with our retail partners.



We also advertise our brands through sport sponsorships and product tie-ins. OurVan HeusenFlex Collardress shirts are promoted through a marketing and media campaign that ties in professional football through individual endorsement agreements with Pro Football Hall of Famers Steve Young and Jerry Rice, as well as former NFL player Merril Hoge. OurIZODbrand is represented by PGA golfer Webb Simpson and pro golfer Cameron Wilson, as well as a regional sponsorship










with the Chelsea Piers Golf Club in New York for 2015. Speedo is endorsed by a number of world-class swimmers, including Ryan Lochte, Nathan Adrian, Natalie Coughlin, Conor Dwyer and Jessica Hardy. These athletes exclusively wearSpeedoproducts in competition and participate in various promotional activities on behalf of the brand. Five-time Olympic medalist, holder of two individual world records and competitive swimming superstar Missy Franklin joined TeamSpeedoin the Summer of 2015, serving as a year-round brand ambassador and wearingSpeedorace suits when she represents the United States at all major competitions globally. We have an all-brand, regional sponsorship agreement with the New York Giants, andCalvin Kleinhas an ongoing sponsorship agreement with the Brooklyn Nets and the Barclays Center.



With respect to our North America retail operations, we generally rely upon local outlet mall developers to promote traffic for their centers. Outlet center developers employ multiple formats, including signage (highway billboards, off-highway directional signs, on-site signage and on-site information centers), print advertising (brochures, newspapers and travel magazines), direct marketing (to tour bus companies and travel agents), radio and television and special promotions.



We believeCalvin Kleinis one of the best known designer names in the world, offering a modern and provocative design aesthetic. Its high-profile, often cutting-edge global advertising campaigns have periodically garnered significant publicity, notoriety and conversation among customers and consumers, as well as within the fashion industry, and have helped to establish and maintain theCalvin Kleinname and image. Calvin Klein has a dedicated in-house advertising agency, with experienced creative and media teams that develop and execute a substantial portion of the institutional consumer advertising for products under theCalvin Kleinbrands and work closely with other Calvin Klein departments and business partners to deliver a consistent and unified brand message to the consumer.



The core ofCalvin Kleinincludes its global marketing campaigns, which are designed to engage consumers through provocative, modern and iconic brand imagery. 2015 marked another year of engaging marketing campaigns forCalvin Klein, which were effective in raising the brand’s cultural and fashion relevance. Highlights included theCalvin Klein JeansandCalvin Klein Underwearadvertising campaigns for Spring 2015, which featured globally recognized musician Justin Bieber. Additionally, American model and social media star, Kendall Jenner, was featured in the brand’s#mycalvinsDenim Series capsule collection in Spring 2015 and theCalvin Klein Underwear Original Sexycampaign in Fall 2015. Calvin Klein furthered the brand’s relevancy and consumer engagement through these provocative campaigns and celebrity ambassadorships, with the brand garnering over 20 million consumer engagements across its owned social media channels during 2015. Calvin Klein is continuing its marketing momentum by featuring Justin Bieber and Kendall Jenner, in addition to a variety of global superstars, actors, musicians, activists and models, in the brand’s“I ________ in #mycalvins”campaign for Spring 2016.



Calvin Klein also has a dedicated in-house global communications team, which incorporates corporate communications, public relations, celebrity dressing and special events. This group coordinates many global events, including the Spring and FallCalvin Klein Collectionrunway shows in New York City and Milan, and oversees the dressing of celebrities for events, award ceremonies and film premieres.



We believe that

Tommy Hilfiger

is one of the world’s leading designer lifestyle brands and is internationally recognized for celebrating the essence of “classic American cool” style, featuring preppy with a twist designs. Tommy Hilfiger employs advertising, marketing and communications staff, including an in-house creative team, as well as outside agencies, to implement its global marketing and communications strategy across all channels of distribution. The Tommy Hilfiger marketing and communications team develops and coordinates Tommy Hilfiger advertising for all regions and product lines, licensees and regional distributors. Advertisements for

Tommy Hilfiger

brand products appear primarily in fashion and lifestyle magazines, newspapers, outdoor media and cinema and on television. We also have increased the digital and online focus of marketing for the

Tommy Hilfiger

brands. The marketing and communications team also coordinates personal appearances by Mr. Tommy Hilfiger, including at runway shows, brand events and flagship store openings as part of its efforts. Most of Tommy Hilfiger’s licensees and distributors are required to contribute a percentage of their net sales of

Tommy Hilfiger

products, generally subject to minimum amounts, to the advertising and promotion of the

Tommy Hilfiger

brand and products. We maintain multiple showroom facilities and sales offices in Europe, North and South America and Asia for

Tommy Hilfiger

,



as well as



an innovative digital sales showroom, located at Tommy Hilfiger’s global headquarters in the Netherlands, that enhances the sales experience for retailers. We launch significant brand advertising campaigns two times per year in Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter to provide maximum consumer visibility of the new seasonal collections and to support sell-through. For example, Rafael Nadal was signed as the global brand ambassador for

Tommy Hilfiger

underwear,

Tommy Hilfiger Tailored

and the

Tommy Hilfiger Bold

fragrance beginning with the Fall 2015 marketing campaigns. The launch of the Nadal partnership was accompanied by a global multi-media advertising strategy in over 40 countries and a campaign video that went viral, as Google ranked it in the Top 10 most watched YouTube videos during the launch month. On the women’s side, supermodel and Millennial icon Gigi Hadid will serve as the global brand ambassador for

Tommy Hilfiger

’s women’s collections beginning in Fall 2016, which we believe will allow us to leverage her impressive social media following and credibility with female










consumers. This follows our partnership with American street style icon Olivia Palermo and her husband, model Johannes Huebl, who were enlisted as guest editors for theTommy HilfigerSummer 2015 women’s and men’s collections, respectively.



In addition to offering a broad array of apparel and licensed products, Tommy Hilfiger’s e-commerce site,tommy.com, and Calvin Klein’s e-commerce site,calvinklein.com, also serve as marketing vehicles to complement the ongoing development of theTommy HilfigerandCalvin Kleinlifestyle brands, respectively.





Trademarks



We own theCalvin Klein,Tommy Hilfiger,Van Heusen,IZOD,ARROW,Warner’s,OlgaandEaglebrands, as well as related trademarks (e.g., the interlocking“IZ”logo forIZODand theTommy Hilfigerflag logo and crest design) and lesser-known names. These trademarks are registered for use in each of the primary countries where our products are sold and additional applications for registration of these and other trademarks are made in jurisdictions to accommodate new marks, uses in additional trademark classes or additional categories of goods or expansion into new countries.



We beneficially own theCalvin Kleinmarks and derivative marks in all trademark classes and for all product categories through our ownership of Calvin Klein and Warnaco. Calvin Klein and Warnaco together own the Calvin Klein Trademark Trust (“the Trust”), which is the sole and exclusive title owner of substantially all registrations of theCalvin Kleintrademarks. The sole purpose of the Trust is to hold these marks. Calvin Klein maintains and protects the marks on behalf of the Trust pursuant to a servicing agreement. The Trust licenses to Calvin Klein and Warnaco on an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual and royalty-free basis the use of the marks.



Mr. Calvin Klein retains the right to use his name, on a non-competitive basis, with respect to his right of publicity, unless those rights are already being used in the Calvin Klein business. Mr. Klein has also been granted a royalty-free worldwide right to use theCalvin Kleinmark with respect to certain personal businesses and activities, such as motion picture, television and video businesses, a book business, writing, speaking and/or teaching engagements, non-commercial photography, charitable activities and architectural and industrial design projects, subject to certain limitations designed to protect the image and prestige of theCalvin Kleinbrands and to avoid competitive conflicts.



Mr. Tommy Hilfiger is prohibited in perpetuity from using, or authorizing others to use, theTommy Hilfigermarks (except for the use by Mr. Hilfiger of his name personally and in connection with certain specified activities). In addition, we are prohibited in perpetuity from selling products not ordinarily sold under the names of prestige designer businesses or prestige global lifestyle brands without Mr. Hilfiger’s consent, from engaging in new lines of business materially different from such types of lines of business without Mr. Hilfiger’s consent, or from disparaging or intentionally tarnishing theTommy Hilfiger-related marks or Mr. Hilfiger’s personal name.



Our trademarks are the subject of registrations and pending applications throughout the world for use on a variety of apparel, footwear and related products, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage and registration of new and related trademarks. In general, trademarks remain valid and enforceable as long as the marks continue to be used in connection with the products and services with which they are identified and, as to registered tradenames, the required registration renewals are filed. In markets outside of the United States, particularly those where products bearing any of our brands are not sold by us or any of our licensees or other authorized users, our rights to the use of trademarks may not be clearly established.



Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are valuable assets and we vigorously seek to protect them on a worldwide basis against infringement. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. This is especially the case with respect to theCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands, as these brands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and their generally higher pricing provides significant opportunity and incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. We have broad, proactive enforcement programs that we believe have been generally effective in controlling the sale of counterfeit products in the United States and in major markets abroad.





Competition



The apparel industry is competitive as a result of its fashion orientation, mix of large and small producers, the flow of domestic and imported merchandise and the wide diversity of retailing methods. We compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, including, in certain circumstances, the private label brands of our wholesale customers.



We compete primarily on the basis of style, quality, price and service. Our business depends on our ability to stimulate consumer tastes and demands, as well as on our ability to remain competitive in these areas. We believe we are well-positioned










to compete in the apparel industry. Our diversified portfolio of brands and products and our use of multiple channels of distribution have allowed us to develop a business that produces results that are not dependent on any one demographic group, merchandise preference, distribution channel or geographic region. We have developed a portfolio of brands that appeal to a broad spectrum of consumers. Our owned brands have long histories and enjoy high recognition and awareness within their respective consumer segments. We develop our owned and licensed brands to complement each other and to generate strong consumer loyalty. TheCalvin KleinandTommy Hilfigerbrands generally provide us with the opportunity to develop businesses that target different consumer groups at higher price points and in higher-end distribution channels than our heritage brands, as well as with significant global opportunities due to the worldwide recognition of the brands.





Imports and Import Restrictions





Environmental Matters



Our facilities and operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. In addition, we may incur liability under environmental statutes and regulations with respect to the contamination of sites that we own or operate or previously owned or operated (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites, abutters or other persons) and the off-site disposal of hazardous materials. We believe our operations are in compliance with the terms of all applicable laws and regulations.





Employees



As of January 31, 2016, we employed approximately 18,200 persons on a full-time basis and approximately 16,000 persons on a part-time basis. Approximately 5% of our employees were represented for the purpose of collective bargaining by five different unions. Additional persons, some represented by these five unions, are employed from time to time based upon our manufacturing schedules and retailing seasonal needs. Our collective bargaining agreements generally are for one to three-year terms. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.












Executive Officers of the Registrant



The following table sets forth the name, age and position of each of our executive officers:



NameAgePositionEmanuel Chirico58Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerMichael A. Shaffer53Executive Vice President and Chief Operating & Financial OfficerFrancis K. Duane59Chief Executive Officer, Heritage Brands and North America WholesaleDaniel Grieder54Chief Executive Officer, Tommy Hilfiger Global and PVH EuropeSteven B. Shiffman58Chief Executive Officer, Calvin KleinMark D. Fischer54Executive Vice President, General Counsel & SecretaryDave Kozel60Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer



Mr. Chirico joined us as Vice President and Controller in 1993. Mr. Chirico was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1999, President and Chief Operating Officer in 2005, Chief Executive Officer in February 2006, and Chairman of the Board in June 2007.



Mr. Shaffer has been employed by us since 1990. He served as Senior Vice President, Retail Operations immediately prior to being named Executive Vice President, Finance in 2005, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in March 2006, and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating & Financial Officer in February 2012.



Mr. Duane served as President of our Izod division from 1998 until 2001, was named Vice Chairman, Sportswear in 2001, Vice Chairman, Wholesale Apparel in March 2006, Chief Executive Officer, Wholesale Apparel in February 2012, and Chief Executive Officer, Heritage Brands and North America Wholesale in February 2013.



Mr. Grieder has been employed by Tommy Hilfiger since 1997 (including time served with a predecessor organization). He served as Chief Executive Officer, Tommy Hilfiger Europe from 2008 until 2014, prior to being named Chief Executive Officer, Tommy Hilfiger Global and PVH Europe in July 2014.



Mr. Shiffman has been employed by us since 1992. Mr. Shiffman was named President & Chief Commercial Officer, Calvin Klein Retail in 2009, Group President, Calvin Klein Global Licensing and Retail in 2013, and Chief Executive Officer, Calvin Klein in July 2014.



Mr. Fischer joined us as Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary in 1999. He became Senior Vice President in 2007 and Executive Vice President in 2013.



Mr. Kozel has been employed by us since 2003. He was promoted from Vice President to Senior Vice President in 2007 and to Executive Vice President in 2013.





