Item 1A. Risk Factors.



This report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of United States (U.S.) federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as expectations relating to ore grades and milling rates; production and sales volumes; unit net cash costs; cash production costs per barrel of oil equivalent (BOE); operating cash flows; capital expenditures; exploration efforts and results; development and production activities and costs; liquidity; tax rates; the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum, cobalt and crude oil price changes; the impact of derivative positions; availability of power, water, labor and equipment; reclamation and closure costs and plans; litigation contingencies; political, economic and social conditions; the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings; reserve estimates; future dividend payments; debt reduction and share purchases. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include the following:



Financial risks



Declines in the market prices of copper, gold and/or oil could adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and asset values and, if sustained, could adversely affect our ability to repay debt. Fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold or oil can cause significant volatility in our financial performance and adversely affect the trading prices of our debt and common stock.



Our financial results vary with fluctuations in the market prices of the commodities we produce, primarily copper, gold and oil, and to a lesser extent molybdenum, silver, cobalt and natural gas. For further information about the market prices of our primary commodities, refer to the discussion below and MD&A. A substantial or extended decline in the market prices of these commodities could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, the value of our assets and/or our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations, and could depress the trading prices of our common stock and of our publicly traded debt securities.



Additionally, if the market prices for the commodities we produce decline for a sustained period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, halting or delaying expansion projects, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. We may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, and may incur losses.



Fluctuations in commodities prices can occur because of varied and complex factors beyond our control, including:



•Global supply and demand balances and inventory levels;



•Global economic and geopolitical conditions;



•Government regulatory, trade and tax policies;



•Commodities investment activity and speculation;



•Price and availability of substitute products; and



•Changes in technology.



Copper prices may also be affected by demand from China, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world, and by increases in demand for industrial products containing copper.



Factors particularly affecting gold prices may include the relative strength of the U.S. dollar to other currencies, inflation and interest rate expectations, purchases and sales of gold by governments and central banks, demand from China and India, two of the world’s largest consumers of gold, and demand for jewelry containing gold.













Crude oil prices may also be affected by actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other major oil producing nations; political and weather conditions in oil producing regions; transportation and refinery capacity; the amount of foreign imports of oil into the U.S.; and potential changes in U.S. laws restricting oil exports.



Substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted London Metal Exchange (LME) monthly average spot copper prices. Accordingly, in times of rising copper prices, our revenues benefit from adjustments to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior periods; in times of falling copper prices, the opposite occurs.



A decline in the price of crude oil, and to a lesser extent natural gas, could also result in a "ceiling" write-down of the carrying value of our proved oil and natural gas properties and/or of goodwill recorded in connection with our oil and gas acquisitions. AtDecember 31, 2013, the ceiling with respect to our oil and gas properties exceeded the net capitalized costs of those properties by approximately 4 percent, and we did not record an impairment. Given the volatility of crude oil and natural gas prices, it is likely that our estimate of discounted future net revenues from proved oil and natural gas reserves will change in the near term. If crude oil and natural gas prices decline in the future, even if only by a small amount, impairments of our oil and gas properties could occur.



For further discussion of our accounting policies and estimates used in evaluating our oil and gas properties and goodwill for impairment, refer to Note 1 and  MD&A. Any impairment charge related to our oil and gas properties or goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stockholders' equity, but would have no effect on cash flows.



Our debt and other financial commitments may limit our financial and operating flexibility.



AtDecember 31, 2013, our total consolidated debt was $20.7 billion, including $17.2 billion incurred or assumed in connection with the acquisition of Plains Exploration & Production Company (PXP), and our total consolidated cash was $2.0 billion. Although we have been successful in repaying significant amounts of debt in the past, there can be no assurance that we can do so in the future. We also have various other financial commitments, including for reclamation and environmental obligations, take-or-pay contracts, derivative contracts and leases. Our level of indebtedness and other financial commitments could have important consequences to our business, including the following:



•Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which we operate;



•Increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;



•Limiting our ability to fund future working capital and capital expenditures, to engage in future development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt; or



•Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments.



In addition, a future downgrade in our credit rating could negatively affect our cost of and ability to access capital. AtDecember 31, 2013, our senior unsecured debt was rated "BBB" with a negative outlook by Standard and Poor’s, "BBB" with a stable outlook by Fitch Ratings, and "Baa3" with a stable outlook by Moody’s Investors Service. We cannot be assured that our credit ratings will not be downgraded in the future. In addition, a downgrade could affect our requirements to provide significant financial assurance of our performance under certain legal requirements and contractual arrangements. Refer to the following risk factor for more information.



Under U.S. federal and state laws that require closure and reclamation plans for our mines, we generally are required to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement those plans if we are unable to do so. We are also required to provide bonds or other forms of financial assurance in connection with our oil and gas operations.The failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us.



We are required by U.S. federal and state mining laws to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans if we are unable to do so. The U.S. Environmental Protection











Agency (EPA) and state agencies may also seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions that are required under settlements of enforcement actions under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) or equivalent state regulations.



With respect to our mining operations, most of our financial assurance obligations are imposed by state laws that vary significantly by jurisdiction. Currently there are no financial assurance requirements under CERCLA, but in July 2009, EPA published a notice identifying classes of facilities within the hardrock mining industry for which the agency will develop financial responsibility requirements under CERCLA. In EPA's semi-annual regulatory agenda issued in November 2013, EPA indicated that it intends to propose regulations regarding hardrock mining financial responsibility in August 2016. It is uncertain how the new requirements, if promulgated, will affect the amount and form of our existing and future financial assurance obligations.



We are also subject to financial assurance requirements in connection with our oil and gas operations under both state and federal laws. For example, permits, bonding and insurance are required to drill, operate, and plug and abandon wells. Also, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) regulations applicable to lessees in federal waters require that lessees have substantial U.S. assets and net worth or post bonds or other acceptable financial assurance that the regulatory obligations will be met. Financial responsibility requirements are also required under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 to cover containment and cleanup costs resulting from an oil spill.



BOEM has signaled its intention to redesign and implement revised financial assurance requirements associated with offshore plugging and abandonment obligations. BOEM has recently taken a stricter approach regarding the level of decommissioning liabilities to be included in its financial test for purposes of determining eligibility for exemption from financial assurance requirements. It is uncertain whether additional changes will be implemented by the BOEM and how these changes might affect the form and amount of our existing and future financial assurance obligations associated with our offshore activities in federal waters.



As ofDecember 31, 2013, our financial assurance obligations associated with closure, reclamation and remediation in our mining and plugging and abandonment obligations in our oil and gas operations totaled approximately$2.4 billion, and a substantial portion of these obligations were satisfied by FCX guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. If our financial condition were to deteriorate substantially or our credit rating were downgraded, we may be required to provide additional or alternative forms of financial assurance, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or collateral. These other forms of assurance would be costly to provide and, depending on our financial condition and market conditions, may be difficult or impossible to obtain. Failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of mines or suspension of the affected oil and gas operations.



For additional information, refer to the environmental risk factor "Mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. We also have plugging and abandonment obligations relating to our oil and gas operations."



Movements in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our operating results.



The functional currency for most of our operations is the U.S. dollar. All of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in U.S.dollars; however, some costs and certain asset and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the Indonesian rupiah, Australian dollar, Chilean peso, Peruvian nuevo sol and euro. Generally, our results are positively affected when the U.S.dollar strengthens in relation to those foreign currencies and adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. Refer to Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" for a summary of the estimated impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs.



From time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates; however, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign currency payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations.













International risks



Our international operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in countries outside the U.S.



We are a U.S.-based natural resource company with substantial mining assets located outside of the U.S. (as ofDecember 31, 2013, substantially all of our oil and gas operations were in the U.S.). We conduct international mining operations in Indonesia, Peru, Chile and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in countries outside the U.S., our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries. Risks of conducting business in countries outside of the U.S. include:



•Renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts;



•Expropriation or nationalization of property;



•Changes in another country's laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, which because of rising "resource nationalism" in countries around the world, may impose increasingly onerous requirements on foreign operations and investment;



•Political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism;



•Changes in the aspirations and expectations of local communities in which we operate with respect to our contributions to employee health and safety, infrastructure and community development and other factors that may affect our social license to operate, all of which lead to increased costs;



•Foreign exchange controls; and



•The risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of an international court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of an international court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory.



Our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. Accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the U.S. may be substantially affected by many unpredictable factors beyond our control, some of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and  financial condition.



Our international operations must comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the other jurisdictions in which we operate. There has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of these laws. Although we have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of violations of such laws, any violation could result in significant criminal or civil fines and penalties, litigation, and loss of operating licenses or permits, and may damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.



We are involved in several significant tax proceedings and other tax matters with the Indonesian and Peruvian tax authorities (refer to Note12for further discussion of these matters). Other risks specific to certain countries in which we operate are discussed in more detail below.



Because our Grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in Indonesia.



Our mining operations in Indonesia are conducted by our subsidiary PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI) pursuant to a Contract of Work (COW) with the Indonesian government. Maintaining a good working relationship with the Indonesian government is important to us because of the significance of our Indonesia operations to our business, and because our mining operations there are among Indonesia's most significant business enterprises. Partially because of their significance to Indonesia's economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located,











and the number of people employed, our Indonesia operations have been the subject of political debates and of criticism in the Indonesian press, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence.



In 2009, Indonesia enacted a mining law (2009 Mining Law), which operates under a licensing system that is significantly less protective of licensees than the contract of work system that governs PT-FI. The 2009 Mining Law and the regulations issued pursuant to that law provide that contracts of work would continue to be honored until their expiration. However, the regulations, including those issued in January 2014, attempt to apply certain provisions of the 2009 Mining Law and regulations to existing contracts of work and seek to apply the licensing system to any extension periods of contracts of work.



In January 2012, the President of Indonesia issued a decree calling for the creation of a team of Ministers to evaluate contracts of work for adjustment to the 2009 Mining Law and to take steps to assess and determine the Indonesian government's position on reduction to the size of contract concessions, increasing government revenues and domestic processing of minerals. We have been engaged in discussions with officials of the Indonesian government to complete this evaluation process and obtain an extension of the PT-FI COW beyond its primary term ending in 2021 to 2041, as provided under the terms of the COW, which can only be modified by mutual agreement between PT-FI and the Indonesian government. We cannot predict the outcome of our engagement with the Indonesian government regarding the relationship between the 2009 Mining Law and related regulations and our COW, nor whether or on what terms we will be able to secure an extension of our COW, but the outcome of these discussions may result in revisions to certain terms of the COW.



In January 2014, the Indonesian government published regulations providing that holders of contracts of work with existing processing facilities in Indonesia may continue to export product through January 12, 2017, but established new requirements for the continued export of copper concentrates, including the imposition of a progressive export duty on copper concentrates in the amount of 25 percent in 2014, rising to 60 percent by mid-2016. PT-FI’s COW authorizes it to export concentrates and specifies the taxes and other fiscal terms available to its operations. The COW states that PT-FI shall not be subject to taxes, duties or fees subsequently imposed or approved by the Indonesian government except as expressly provided in the COW. Additionally, PT-FI complied with the requirements of its COW for local processing by arranging for the construction and commissioning of Indonesia’s only copper smelter and refinery, which is owned and operated by PT Smelting (PT-FI's 25 percent owned smelter).



The January 2014 regulations conflict with PT-FI’s contractual rights under its COW. We are working with the Indonesian government to clarify the situation and to defend PT-FI’s rights under its COW. PT-FI is also seeking to obtain the required administrative permits for 2014 exports, which have been delayed as a result of the new regulations.



As of February 21, 2014, PT-FI has not obtained administrative approval for 2014 exports. PT-FI has implemented near-term changes to its operations to coordinate its concentrate production with PT Smelting’s operating plans. Since mid-January 2014, PT-FI’s milling rate has averaged approximately 112,000 metric tons of ore per day, which is approximately half of normal rates. PT-FI is engaging with the government of Indonesia to reach a resolution that would enable PT-FI to resume normal operations as soon as possible. In the event that PT-FI is unable to resume normal operations for an extended period, we plan to consider further actions, including constraining operating costs, deferring capital expenditures and implementing workforce reductions. PT-FI may also be required to declare force majeure under its concentrate sales agreements.



In April 2014, Indonesia will hold elections for legislators at the national, provincial and district levels. The presidential election will be held in July 2014, with a run-off in September 2014, if required. The outcome of these elections could affect the country’s policies pertaining to foreign investment.



Indonesia has also faced separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. Several separatist groups have sought political independence for the province of Papua, where our Grasberg minerals district is located. In response, Indonesia enacted regional autonomy laws, which became effective January1, 2001. The manner in which those laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy they may bring to individual provinces, including Papua, remain uncertain and continue to be ongoing issues in Indonesian politics. In Papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the Indonesian military. Social, economic and political instability in Papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our Indonesian operations.













Since July 2009 there have been 51 incidents in and around the Grasberg minerals district, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations, which have resulted in 17 fatalities and 59 injuries. The safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and PT-FI continues to work with the Indonesian government to address security issues. The investigation of these incidents is ongoing. We also continue to limit the use of the road leading to our mining and milling operations to secured convoys. Any additional prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect our Indonesian operations.



Large numbers of illegal miners continue to operate along the river used to transport the tailings from the mill to PT-FI's government-approved tailings management area in the lowlands. The illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted unsuccessfully for years to move them away from our facilities. In 2006, the illegal miners temporarily blocked the road leading to the Grasberg mine and mill in protest, and PT-FI temporarily suspended mining and milling operations as a precautionary measure.



We cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our Indonesian operations. If other disruptive incidents occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in ways that we cannot predict at this time.



For discussion of labor disruptions at PT-FI, refer to the operational risk factor "Labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects."



We will not mine all of our ore reserves in Indonesia before the initial term of our COW expires.



The initial term of PT-FI's COW expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to Indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the COW cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. Our proven and probable ore reserves in Indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041, and our current mine plan and planned operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year extensions. As a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the current COW. Prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine 26 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore atDecember 31, 2013, representing 32percent of PT-FI's share of recoverable copper reserves and 45percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves. There can be no assurance that the Indonesian government will approve our COW extensions. For further discussion, refer to the above risk factor "Because our Grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in Indonesia."





PT-FI's COW may be subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of an international arbitration panel.



PT-FI's COW was entered into under Indonesia's 1967 Foreign Capital Investment Law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. The COW may be subject to termination by the Indonesian government if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements.



Certain Indonesian laws and regulations may conflict with the mining rights established under the COW. Although the COW grants to PT-FI the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the COW, government agencies may seek to impose additional restrictions on PT-FI that could affect exploration and operating requirements. For discussion of the regulations published in January 2014 by the Indonesian government, which conflict with our COW, refer to the risk factor "Because our Grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in Indonesia."



At times, certain government officials and others in Indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the Indonesian government prior to May 1998 (i.e.,during the Suharto regime, which lasted over 30years), including PT-FI's COW, which was signed in December 1991. We cannot provide assurance that the validity of, or our compliance with, the COW will not be challenged for political or other reasons.



PT-FI's COW requires that disputes with the Indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. Accordingly, if a dispute arises under the COW, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of an











international arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of an international arbitration panel against Indonesia within its own territory. Additionally, our operations may be adversely affected while resolution of a dispute is pending.



The Tenke Fungurume (Tenke) minerals district is located in the Katanga province of the DRC, and may be adversely affected by security risks and political, economic and social instability in the DRC.



Since gaining independence in 1960, the DRC has undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial crises. These factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy toward foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. As part of a review of all mining contracts by the Ministry of Mines (the Ministry) in the DRC, in February 2008, we received notification that the Ministry wished to renegotiate several material provisions of Tenke Fungurume Mining S.A.R.L.'s (TFM) mining contracts. In October 2010, the DRC government concluded its review of TFM's existing mining contracts and confirmed that they are in good standing. In connection with the review, several amendments were made to TFM’s mining contracts and governing documents, and in March 2012, FCX's effective ownership in TFM was reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent.



Political, economic, social and security risks in the DRC are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business. These risks include legal and regulatory uncertainties; exposure to an environment of governmental corruption and bribery; attempts to increase taxes or claims for fees and penalties by governmental officials, including retroactive claims; administrative disputes; security risks resulting from political instability in the DRC; and risk of loss because of civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism.



In addition to ongoing conflict in the eastern region of the DRC, there have been acts of violence in the Katanga province where the Tenke minerals district is located. The safety of our workforce at all of our operations is our highest priority, and TFM works cooperatively with government officials to address security issues; however, no assurance can be given that conflict or random acts of violence will not occur near or impact Tenke's operations.



Accordingly, our Tenke operations and future development activities at the Tenke minerals district may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could interrupt TFM’s operations or future development activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.



Operational risks



Our mining and oil and gas operations are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business.



Mining. Mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks, some of which are outside of our control, and many of which are not covered fully, or in some cases even partially, by insurance. These operational risks, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flow, include the following:



•Earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters;



•The occurrence of unexpected weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events;



•The failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications, design or expectations;



•Accidents;



•Wall failures and rock slides in our open-pit mines, and structural collapses in our underground mines;



•Interruption of energy supply;



•Lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates;













•Metallurgical and other processing problems;



•Unanticipated ground and water conditions;



•Adverse claims to water rights, adverse outcomes of pending water adjudications and physical shortages of water to which we have legal rights;



•Adjacent land ownership or usage that results in constraints on current or future mine operations;



•Delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government authorizations, approvals or permits;



•Delays in transportation and disruptions of supply routes; and



•The inability to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage.



Managing the volume of waste rock, leach material and tailings produced in our mining operations also presents significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and risks. We maintain large leach pads and tailings impoundments containing viscous material, which are monitored for structural stability and leakages; our tailings impoundments in arid areas must have effective programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions; and we must effectively monitor and treat acid rock drainage. In Indonesia, we use a river transport system for tailings management, which presents other risks, as discussed elsewhere in these risk factors. The failure to adequately manage these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, property damage and damage to the environment, both in and around our areas of operations, as well as damage to production facilities and delays in or curtailments of production.



Oil and gas

. Our oil and gas operations are also subject to operating hazards, including well blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids and pipeline ruptures, as well as natural disasters such as earthquakes, mudslides and hurricanes. Our operations in California, including transportation of oil by pipelines within the city and county of Los Angeles, are especially susceptible to damage from earthquakes and involve increased risks of personal injury, property damage and marketing interruptions because of the population density of southern California. Our operations in the Gulf of Mexico (GOM) and Gulf Coast region are particularly susceptible to interruption and damage from hurricanes. Any of these operating hazards could cause personal injuries, fatalities, oil spills, discharge of hazardous substances into the air, soil, water and groundwater and other property or environmental damage, lost production and revenue, remediation and clean-up costs and liability for damages, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and may not be fully covered by our insurance. Further, drilling, completing, and operating wells may also be delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected geologic conditions, increases in the cost of or shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and equipment, and delays in the issuance of required permits by governmental agencies.



Increased production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flows.



Our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. For the year 2013, energy represented approximately20 percentof our consolidated copper production costs. An inability to procure sufficient fuel and energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our consolidated copper production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we use in our operations, such as sulphuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, tires and explosives. The prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control, and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. Increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital costs of new projects.



In our oil and gas operations, increased costs or unavailability of drilling rigs, workboats, experienced personnel, or other equipment, supplies or oil field services, which may occur particularly during times of increased industry activity, may adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget, and could have a material adverse effect on the financial performance of our oil and gas operations.













Labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.



As further described in Part I, Items 1 and 2 "Business and Properties" we are party to labor agreements with various unions that represent employees at certain of our mining operations (none of the employees of our oil and gas operations are represented by a union or covered by a collective labor agreement). Labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and the risk exists that labor agreements may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. Issues that may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees are unpredictable and, if raised, negotiations concerning those issues may not be concluded successfully. Our production and sales volumes could be significantly reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations adversely affected by significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more of our operations. Additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected.



During 2011, PT-FI was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight-day work stoppage in July 2011 and an approximate three-month strike that concluded in December 2011. The strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. Additionally, during first-quarter 2012, PT-FI experienced work interruptions in connection with its efforts to resume normal operations and temporarily suspended operations. In October 2013, PT-FI entered into a new biennial labor agreement.



In fourth-quarter 2011, there was an approximate two-month labor strike at Cerro Verde during the negotiation of a new labor agreement. The strike did not have a significant impact on production, and a new three-year agreement with the union was reached in late December 2011. In November 2013, Cerro Verde entered into a new four-year labor agreement with its union, which is effective upon the expiration of the current agreement, beginning September 1, 2014.



As ofDecember 31, 2013,49 percentof our labor force was covered by collective bargaining agreements, andone percentof our labor force is covered by agreements that will expire during2014. If we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.



Our mining production depends on the availability of sufficient water supplies.



Our mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Most of our mining operations in North and South America are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. Continuous production at our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims, and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies.



At our North America mining operations, certain of our water supplies are supported by surface water rights, which allow us to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. In Arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which the Arizona courts have been attempting, for over 30 years, to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for two of the state's largest river systems, which affect four of our operating mines (Morenci, Safford, Sierrita and Miami). The legal precedent set in these proceedings may also affect our Bagdad mine. Groundwater has historically been treated differently from surface water under Arizona law, which has generally allowed land owners to pump at will, subject to the doctrine of reasonable use. However, court decisions in one of the adjudications have concluded that groundwater pumping may affect surface water, thereby bringing the pumping within the jurisdiction of the general stream adjudications. The effort to define the boundaries between groundwater and surface water remains contested, however, and is currently a primary focus of one of those adjudications. Because groundwater accounts for approximately 40 percent of Arizona

’

s water supplies, the re-characterization of any significant portion of that water as surface water could jeopardize the ability of consumers, farmers, ranchers, municipalities, and industrial users like us, to continue to access water supplies that have been relied on for decades. Because we are a significant user of groundwater in Arizona, we are an active participant in the adjudication proceedings.



In Colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes regarding priority and administration of rights, including priority of some of our rights for the Climax molybdenum mine. In New Mexico, our surface water and groundwater rights are fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated.













Water for our Cerro Verde mining operation in Peru comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. Due to occasional drought conditions and the possibility that climate change will reduce precipitation levels, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our current and planned Cerro Verde operations. Cerro Verde completed studies to assess opportunities for additional water supplies to support current operations and potential future expansion projects. Cerro Verde has reached agreements with the Regional Government of Arequipa, the National Government, the local water utility Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Arequipa S.A. (SEDAPAR), and other local institutions to allow it to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of Arequipa. Cerro Verde has obtained authorization to reuse an annual average of one cubic meter per second of the treated water, which is expected to supplement existing water supplies to support the concentrator expansion.



Water for our El Abra mining operation in Chile comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotán aquifer. In 2010, El Abra obtained regulatory approval, subject to certain conditions, for the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotán aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. El Abra has sufficient water rights to support current operations; however, a change to the sulfide ore project, such as increased production or mill processing, would require additional water beyond our allowable groundwater pumping, which is permitted through 2021. El Abra is conducting studies to assess the feasibility of constructing a desalination plant near the Pacific Ocean to treat seawater for possible increased sulfide ore production or mill processing.



Water for our Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining operations in Chile comes from a nearby wastewater treatment facility and our desalination plant and pipeline that were completed in 2013. Both of these sources will supply Candelaria's and Ojos del Salado’s long-term water needs.



Although each of our mining operations currently has access to sufficient water supplies to support current operational demands, some supplies are subject to unresolved claims by others, and additional supplies that may be needed to support expanded operations are expensive, in short supply, and can be difficult to access because of logistical and legal obstacles. Moreover, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. Loss of a water right, loss of continued use of a currently available water supply, or inability to expand our water resources could materially and adversely affect our mining operations, by significantly increasing the cost of water, forcing us to curtail operations, preventing us from expanding operations or forcing premature closures, thereby increasing and/or accelerating costs or foregoing profitable operations.



In addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our Indonesia operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually difficult terrain in a very remote area.



The Grasberg minerals district is located in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of Indonesia. These conditions require us to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. In addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. The mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster.



In May 2013, a tragic accident, which resulted in 28 fatalities and 10 injuries, occurred at PT-FI when the rock structure above an underground ceiling for a training facility collapsed. While the accident occurred outside the area of mining operations, PT-FI temporarily suspended mining and processing activities at the Grasberg complex to conduct inspections of its facilities in coordination with Indonesian government authorities. Following approval from Indonesia's Department of Energy and Mineral Resources, PT-FI resumed open-pit mining and concentrating activities at its Grasberg operations on June 24, 2013, and resumed underground operations on July 9, 2013.



In April 2011, two PT-FI employees died in an accident when a portion of the DOZ underground mine experienced an uncontrolled muck flow. The area was temporarily shut down during the investigation of the accident. We have experienced mud/topsoil slides and slippages of material in and near our open-pit operations in the past, which have since October 2003 resulted in 11 fatalities and some production delays.



No assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future.













In addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our Africa mining operations involve additional risks because it is located in a remote area of the DRC.



The Tenke minerals district is located in a remote area of the DRC and is subject to additional challenges, including severely limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in disrepair and receives minimal maintenance; limited and unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from power distribution corridors that are not maintained; challenges in obtaining experienced personnel; security risks; and limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria, cholera and HIV.



Additionally, because of limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of the production from the Tenke mines approximately 1,900 miles to ports in South Africa. The Tenke minerals district and its future development may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect their contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of future development.



Our reserves are estimates, and actual recoveries may vary significantly.



There are numerous uncertainties and assumptions inherent in estimating mineral and oil and natural gas reserves, and geological, technical and economic assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available. Assumptions and estimates include the geology of the ore body or reservoir, development methods to be used and projected operating costs. Fluctuations in these variables and in commodities prices may result in lower grade reserves or resources being deemed uneconomic, and could lead to a reduction in reserves or resources. Our actual recoveries may vary significantly from our estimated reserves. Decreases in estimated reserves could result in prospective increases in our depreciation, depletion and amortization expense, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations, and could also result in impairment charges. Refer to Notes 1, 20 and 21 and MD&Afor further discussion.



We must continually replace reserves depleted by production, but our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries.



Our existing mineral and oil and natural gas reserves will be depleted over time by production from our operations. Because our profits are derived from our mining and oil and gas operations, our ability to replenish our reserves is essential to our long-term success. Our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of additional deposits or reservoirs that can be produced profitably. We may not be able to discover, enhance, develop or acquire reserves in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow our current reserve levels, which could negatively affect our business and prospects.



Development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business.



There are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects (refer to MD&A for further discussion of our current development projects). The economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, estimated capital and operating costs, and estimated future prices of the relevant commodity. The capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines, wells, or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction or drilling schedules can adversely affect project economics. Key factors that may affect the timing, costs and outcome of such projects include the following:



•Geologic, geotechnical, hydrogeologic and weather conditions;



•Hiring and training of personnel;



•Issuance of necessary permits and licenses by governmental agencies;



•Civil and political environment of the country or region in which the project is located; and



•Access to or development of supporting infrastructure and availability of critical equipment.



New development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. The actual costs, production rates and economic returns of our development projects may differ materially from our estimates, which may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.













Operations in the Deepwater GOM present greater operating risks than operations in the shallower waters or onshore. In addition, our shallow water and onshore operations that target ultra-deep prospects involve greater risks and costs than conventional GOM Shelf and onshore Gulf Coast prospects.



The Deepwater GOM area presents significant challenges because of risks associated with geological complexity, water depth and higher drilling and development costs, any of which can cause substantial cost overruns. The Deepwater GOM also lacks the infrastructure present in shallower waters, which can result in significant delays in obtaining or maintaining production. As a result, deepwater operations may require significant time between a discovery and marketability, thereby increasing the financial risk of these operations.



Our Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous exploration prospects target formations below the salt weld on the GOM Shelf and onshore in South Louisiana. These targets have not traditionally been the subject of exploratory activity in these regions, so that little direct comparative data is available. To date, there has been no production of hydrocarbons from Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous reservoirs in these areas. The lack of comparative data and the limitations of diagnostic tools operating in the extreme temperatures and pressures encountered at these depths make it difficult to predict reservoir quality and well performance of these formations. Wells drilled in these formations are also significantly more expensive to drill and complete than wells drilled to more conventional depths. Major contributors to such increased costs include far higher temperatures and pressures encountered down hole, longer drilling times and the cost and extended procurement time related to the specialized equipment required to drill and complete these types of wells.



Our operations are subject to extensive regulations, some of which require permits and other approvals. These regulations increase our costs and in some circumstances may delay or suspend our operations.



Our operations are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that are subject to change and to changing interpretation by governmental agencies and other bodies vested with broad supervisory authority. As a natural resource company, compliance with environmental legal requirements is an integral and costly part of our business. For additional information, see "Environmental risks." We are also subject to extensive regulation of worker health and safety, including the requirements of the U.S. federal Occupational Safety and Health Act and similar laws of other jurisdictions. In the U.S., the operation of our mines is subject to regulation by the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) under the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977. MSHA inspects our mines on a regular basis and issues citations and orders when it believes a violation has occurred. If such inspections result in an alleged violation, we may be subject to fines and penalties and, in instances of alleged significant violations, our mining operations could be subject to temporary or extended closures.



Our oil and gas operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations that require, among other things, permits for the drilling and operation of wells and bonding and insurance to drill, operate and plug and abandon wells, and that regulate the safety of our pipelines. Our U.S. offshore operations in federal waters are subject to broad regulation by the BOEM/BSEE, which among other things must issue permits in connection with our exploration, drilling, development and production plans. Under certain circumstances BOEM/BSEE may impose penalties and may suspend or terminate any of our operations on federal leases. Many other governmental bodies regulate our operations, and our failure to comply with these legal requirements can result in substantial penalties. In addition, new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations by courts or regulatory authorities occur regularly, but are difficult to predict. Any such variations could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.



Certain of our undeveloped oil and gas leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage.



Approximately 41 percent of our total U.S. net undeveloped acres are covered by leases that expire from 2014 to 2016. With respect to our undeveloped oil and gas leaseholds, unless production in paying quantities is established on units during the term of the leases, the leases will expire. If leases expire and we are unable to renew or obtain new leases, we will lose our right to develop those properties. Our drilling plans are subject to change based upon various factors, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, and regulatory approvals. Refer to Items 1. and 2. "Business and Properties" for further discussion of our oil and gas operations' acreage.













We have limited control over the development of oil and gas properties in which we have an interest but do not operate.



Certain of our oil and gas properties, including Lucius, Ram Powell, Lineham Creek, Haynesville and portions of our Eagle Ford acreage, are operated by other companies and involve third party working interest owners. As a result, we have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures that we will be required to fund with respect to such properties. Additionally, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the operating costs and capital expenditures of such projects. These limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for their operation and/or funding of these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs, result in lower production and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.



Our business may be adversely affected by information technology disruptions.



Cybersecurity incidents are increasing in frequency, evolving in nature and include, but are not limited to, installation of malicious software, unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and the corruption of data. We have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past and may experience them in the future. We believe that we have implemented appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks. However, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, we could be subject to manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.



Environmental risks



Our operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with environmental regulatory requirements involves significant costs and may constrain our expansion opportunities.





For example, under the Clean Air Act, EPA recently lowered the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for sulfur dioxide. The area around our smelter in Miami, Arizona, has sulfur dioxide levels in excess of the new standard, and the smelter is the primary contributor to those levels. As a result, we are required to install pollution control equipment as part of an expansion that will allow the smelter to operate and comply with the new sulfur dioxide standard, but will increase our operating cost.



In addition, in response to the 2010 Deepwater Horizon incident in the GOM, the BOEM/BSEE issued new guidelines and regulations regarding, among other things, environmental matters and decommissioning applicable to oil and gas drilling in the GOM. These regulations require, among other things, independent third-party inspections, certification of well design and well control equipment and emergency response plans in the event of a blowout.













We also believe there has generally been more aggressive application of the Endangered Species Act, resulting in increases in the number of protected species and expansive designations of their critical habitat, which may make obtaining federal permits and securing additional water resources more time-consuming, unpredictable and expensive.



New or revised environmental legal requirements are frequently proposed, many of which result in substantially increased costs for our business. For example, EPA has proposed rules that, if effective, would reclassify some mineral processing  materials  as "hazardous waste" under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, which would reverse long-standing EPA regulatory determinations and subject the industry to significant new and costly waste management requirements.



Other regulation under consideration by environmental regulatory agencies include provisions that would impose additional restrictions on waterway discharges and land use, and regulate environmental impacts of radioactive materials associated with mining operations and expand regulation of solid wastes, among other things. Adoption of these or similar new environmental regulations or more stringent application of existing regulations may materially increase our costs and constrain our expansion opportunities.



During 2013, we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations of$595 million, compared with$612 millionin2012and$387 millionin2011. For2014, we expect to incur approximately$475 millionof aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs. The timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation and plug and abandonment activities, the settlement of environmental matters and as actual spending occurs.



We incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on mining properties that have not been operated in many years.



December 31, 2013

, we had more than


active remediation projects (including damaged natural resource claims) in


U.S. states. In addition, FMC and certain affiliates and predecessor companies were parties to agreements relating to the transfer of businesses or properties, which contained indemnification provisions relating to environmental matters, and which from time to time become the source of claims against us.



AtDecember 31, 2013, we had$1.2 billionrecorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributed to CERCLA or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of certain operating facilities. Our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon:



•Our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases involve events that occurred many decades ago;













•Our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and



•Our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates.



Significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. The actual environmental costs may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material.



In addition, remediation standards for environmental media imposed by EPA and state environmental agencies have generally become more stringent over time and may become more stringent in the future. Imposition of more stringent remediation standards poses a risk that additional remediation work could be required at sites that we have already remediated to the satisfaction of the responsible governmental agencies, and may increase the risk of toxic tort litigation.



Refer to Note12for further discussion of our environmental obligations.



Our Indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs.



Mining operations on the scale of our Indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. Our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. Our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the Indonesian government, uses the unnavigable river system in the highlands near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. Lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands.



Another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. In the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals that, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment.



From time to time, certain Indonesian government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than the river transport system for tailings management and disposition. Because our Indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. Based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical.



In connection with obtaining our environmental approvals from the Indonesian government, we committed to perform a one-time environmental risk assessment on the impacts of our tailings management plan. We completed this extensive environmental risk assessment with more than 90 scientific studies conducted over four years and submitted it to the Indonesian government in December 2002. We developed the risk assessment study using internationally recognized methods with input from an independent review panel, which included representatives from the Indonesian government, academia and non-governmental organizations. The risks identified during this process were consistent with our impact projections of the tailings management program contained in our environmental approval documents.



Since 2005, PT-FI has participated in the Indonesian government's PROPER (Program for Pollution Control, Evaluation and Rating) program. PT-FI received a Blue rating for the last PROPER audit by the Indonesian Ministry of Environment. That audit was conducted in 2010, and the Blue rating indicated that PT-FI's environmental management practices were in compliance with the laws and regulations of Indonesia. Since then, as allowed under Environmental Law 4/2009, the Indonesian Ministry of Environment has continued to audit PT-FI but not using the











PROPER protocol, which has proven to be impractical for the size of the PT-FI operation. There have been no compliance issues, and the latest audit was in fourth-quarter 2013.



Mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations.We also have plugging and abandonment obligations relating to our oil and gas operations.



Our U.S. mining operations are subject to various federal and state permitting requirements that include mine closure and mined-land reclamation obligations. These requirements are complex and vary depending upon the jurisdiction. The laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to meet the obligations of those plans if we are unable to do so.In general, our U.S. mines are required to review estimated closure and reclamation costs on either a periodic basis or at the time of significant permit modifications and to post increasing amounts of financial assurance as required by state regulators. It is uncertain how potential EPA requirements for financial assurance will affect the timing of periodic closure cost reviews or the scope of closure activities.



In July 2011, the Chilean senate passed legislation regulating mine closure, which established new requirements for closure plans and became effective in November 2012. Our Chilean operations are required to update closure plans and provide financial assurance for these obligations. Revised closure plans for the Chilean mine sites are due in November 2014.



Cerro Verde is subject to regulation under the Mine Closure Law administered by the Peruvian Ministry of Energy and Mines. Under the closure regulations, mines must submit a closure plan that includes the reclamation methods, closure cost estimates, methods of control and verification, closure and post-closure plans and financial assurance. An updated closure plan for the Cerro Verde mine expansion was submitted to the Peruvian Ministry of Energy and Mines in November 2013.



In December 2009, PT-FI submitted its revised mine closure plan to the Department of Energy and Mineral Resources for review and has addressed comments received during the course of this review process. In December 2010, the President of Indonesia issued a regulation regarding mine reclamation and closure, which requires a company to provide a mine closure guarantee in the form of a time deposit placed in a state-owned bank in Indonesia. In accordance with its COW, PT-FI is working with the Department of Energy and Mineral Resources to review these requirements, including discussions of other options for the mine closure guarantee.



We cannot predict at this time the cost of these mine closure plans or the levels or forms of financial assurance that may be required, which amounts could be substantial.



Additionally, substantially all of our oil and gas leases require that, upon termination of economic production, the working interest owners plug and abandon non-producing wellbores, remove equipment and facilities from leased acreage and restore land in accordance with applicable local, state and federal laws.



AtDecember 31, 2013, we had asset retirement obligations (AROs) of$2.3 billionrecorded in our consolidated balance sheet, which included$1.1 billionfor our oil and gas operations. ARO cost estimates may increase or decrease significantly in the future as a result of changes in closure regulations, changes in engineering designs and technology, permit modifications or updates, changes in mine plans, inflation or other factors and as actual reclamation spending occurs. Refer to Note12for further discussion.



Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adverselyaffect our operations and markets.



Many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and, therefore, contribute to climate change. Carbon-based energy is a significant input in our operations, and our revenues include significant sales of oil, NGLs and gas, and other carbon-based energy products.



A number of governments have introduced or are contemplating regulatory initiatives designed to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Many U.S. states have taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. For example, in California, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) has developed "cap and trade" regulations pursuant to the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 intended to achieve an overall reduction in greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels, a 15 percent reduction by 2020. Some of our operations in California are subject to these regulations, which require us to purchase offsets and allowance instruments (i.e.,











equivalent units equal to one metric ton of emissions under the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006). The total amount of instruments we must purchase will vary annually. While we do not expect these costs to be material, similar or more onerous state regulations could substantially increase our costs.



In June 2010, the EPA issued final regulations under the Clean Air Act for the control of greenhouse gases from new large stationary sources and major modifications to existing large stationary sources. This and other federal greenhouse gas regulations have been challenged in judicial proceedings. Certain of our operations, including the Miami smelter, could be materially affected by these regulations if plant emissions exceed applicable thresholds. In addition, anticipated future EPA regulations covering large fossil fuel fired power plants may materially increase energy costs at our operations. The U.S. may also become a party to international agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which could lead to new regulations affecting our U.S. operations.



From a medium and long-term perspective, we may experience increased costs relating to our greenhouse gas emissions as a result of regulatory initiatives in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. In addition, the cost of electricity that we purchase from others may increase if our suppliers incur increased costs from the regulation of their greenhouse gas emissions. Although we have modeled different scenarios, we cannot predict the magnitude of increased costs with any certainty given the wide scope of potential regulatory changes in the many countries in which we operate. Increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may also reduce demand for the oil and gas we produce.



The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. These may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. These effects may adversely affect the cost, production and financial performance of our operations.



Proposed federal, state or local regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could increase our oil and gas operating and capital costs.



Our oil and gas operations utilize hydraulic fracturing and other types of well stimulation. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate the flow of oil and gas. Hydraulic fracturing is necessary to produce commercial quantities of oil and gas from many reservoirs, especially shale formations such as the Haynesville and Eagle Ford shale plays.



The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions and agencies, and continues to receive significant regulatory and legislative attention at the federal, state, and local levels. Several proposals are before the U.S. Congress that, if implemented, would either prohibit or restrict the practice of hydraulic fracturing or subject the process to more extensive regulations. Several states have adopted or are considering legislation to regulate hydraulic fracturing practices that could impose more stringent permitting, transparency, and well construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. In addition, some municipalities have significantly limited or prohibited drilling activities and/or hydraulic fracturing, or are considering doing so.



Although it is not possible to predict the final outcome of any legislation regarding hydraulic fracturing, any new federal, state or local restrictions on hydraulic fracturing, including those related to use of land and water, that are enacted in areas where we conduct our oil and gas operations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions.



Other risks



Unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation or with respect to other contingencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.



We are a party to the litigation and subject to other contingencies, including those described in Note12and in Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" involving such matters as asbestos exposure cases, disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at Superfund and other sites, claims of personal injury and property damage arising from environmental contamination, disputes over water rights, disputes over taxes and other disputes with regulatory authorities. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. If any of these disputes results in a substantial











monetary judgment against us or is settled on unfavorable terms, or otherwise affects our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A negative outcome in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.



We depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of any of these employees could adversely affect our business.



Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees. Achieving this objective may be difficult because of many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, competitors' hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. Competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees to maintain our current business and support our future projects. A loss of such personnel could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be adversely affected.

Our holding company structure may impact our stockholders’ability to receive dividends.



We are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. Cash at our international operations is also subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the U.S.



In addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. Our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors.



Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult.



Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. These provisions:



•Authorize our Board of Directors (the Board) to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us;



•Establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the Board or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings;



•Limit removal of directors for cause only;



•Limit who may call stockholder meetings; and



•Require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certainbusiness combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price.



These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by the Board.













In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us.



These provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders.





