ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Overview





In addition to the customary banking services of accepting
    deposits and making loans, our bank and trust company
    subsidiaries offer personal and corporate trust services,
    personal financial services, access to mutual funds, cash
    management services, investment banking and capital markets
    products, and international banking services. Through our
    subsidiary bank, trust company and registered investment adviser
    subsidiaries, we provide investment management services to
    clients that include large corporate and public retirement
    plans, foundations and endowments,high-net-worthindividuals and multi-employer trust funds established for
    providing pension or other benefits to employees.



We provide other financial services — both within and
    outside of our primary banking markets — through
    various nonbank subsidiaries. These services include principal
    investing, community development financing, securities
    underwriting and brokerage, and merchant services. We also are
    an equity participant in a joint venture that provides merchant
    services to businesses.



KeyCorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banks
    and other subsidiaries. Accordingly, the right of KeyCorp, its
    security holders and its creditors to participate in any
    distribution of the assets or earnings of its banks and other
    subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of the respective
    creditors of such banks and other subsidiaries, except to the
    extent that KeyCorp’s claims in its capacity as creditor of
    such banks and other subsidiaries may be recognized.





Additional
    Information



The following financial data is included in the Financial Review
    section of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders
    (Exhibit 13 hereto) and is incorporated herein by reference
    as indicated below:



Description of Financial DataPage(s)Selected Financial Data17Consolidated Average Balance Sheets, Net Interest Income and
    Yields/Rates From Continuing Operations29-30Components of Net Interest Income Changes from Continuing
    Operations31Composition of Loans39Remaining Maturities and Sensitivity of Certain Loans to Changes
    in Interest Rates45Securities Available for Sale47Held-to-MaturitySecurities47Maturity Distribution of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More49Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses71Summary of Loan Loss Experience from Continuing Operations73Summary of Nonperforming Assets and Past Due Loans from
    Continuing Operations74Exit Loan Portfolio75Nonperforming Assets and Past Due Loans from Continuing
    Operations120Short-Term Borrowings123





44114-1306,

(216) 689-6300.

Form 10-K,

Form 10-Q

Form 8-K



Shareholders may obtain a copy of any of the above-referenced
    corporate governance documents by writing to our Investor
    Relations Department. Our Investor Relations Department can be
    contacted at Investor Relations, KeyCorp, 127 Public Square,
    Mailcode OH-01-27-1113, Cleveland, Ohio44114-1306,telephone(216) 689-6300,e-mail:investor_relations@keybank.com.



Acquisitions and Divestitures



The information presented in Note 3 (“Acquisitions and
    Divestitures”) of the Financial Review section of our 2009
    Annual Report to Shareholders (Exhibit 13 hereto) is
    incorporated herein by reference.



Competition



The market for banking and related financial services is highly
    competitive. KeyCorp and its subsidiaries (“Key”)
    compete with other providers of financial services, such as bank
    holding companies, commercial banks, savings associations,
    credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies,
    mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms,
    investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local,
    regional and national





institutions that offer financial services. Key competes by
    offering quality products and innovative services at competitive
    prices.



In recent years, mergers and acquisitions have led to greater
    concentration in the banking industry, placing added competitive
    pressure on Key’s core banking products and services.
    Consolidation efforts continued during 2009 as the challenges of
    the liquidity crisis and market disruption led to redistribution
    of deposits and certain banking assets to stronger and larger
    financial institutions. Financial institutions with liquidity
    challenges sought mergers and the deposits and certain banking
    assets of the 140 banks that failed during 2009, representing
    $170.9 billion in total assets, were redistributed through
    the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s
    (“FDIC”) least-cost resolution process. While the
    number of bank failures increased dramatically in 2009, from 26
    in 2008, the total asset value of the 2008 bank failures
    represented $373.6 billion, in large part due to the
    failure of Washington Mutual. These factors intensified the
    concentration of the industry and placed increased competitive
    pressure on Key’s core banking products and services.



The competitive landscape continued to be affected by the
    conversion of traditional investment banks to bank holding
    companies. The challenges of the liquidity crisis increased the
    desirability of the bank holding company structure due to the
    access it provides to government-sponsored sources of liquidity,
    such as the discount window and other programs designed
    specifically for bank holding companies and certain of their
    affiliates. The financial modernization legislation enacted in
    November 1999, which permits commercial bank affiliates to have
    affiliates that underwrite and deal in securities, underwrite
    insurance and make merchant banking investments under certain
    conditions, has enabled many of the more recent structural and
    regulatory changes. These structural and regulatory changes
    intensified the competitive landscape within which we compete,
    as these additional institutions now have access to low cost
    funding. For additional information on the financial
    modernization legislation, see the “Financial Modernization
    Legislation” section of this report.



Supervision
    and Regulation



The following discussion addresses certain material elements of
    the regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies
    and their subsidiaries and provides certain specific information
    regarding Key. This regulatory framework is intended primarily
    to protect customers and depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund
    (the “DIF”) of the FDIC and the banking system as a
    whole, and generally is not intended for the protection of
    security holders.



Below is a brief discussion of selected laws, regulations and
    regulatory agency policies applicable to Key. This discussion is
    not intended to be comprehensive and is qualified in its
    entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes,
    regulations and regulatory agency policies to which this
    discussion refers. We cannot necessarily predict changes in the
    applicable laws, regulations and regulatory agency policies, yet
    such changes may have a material effect on our business,
    financial condition or results of operations.



General



As a bank holding company, KeyCorp is subject to regulation,
    supervision and examination by the Board of Governors of the
    Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”)
    under the BHCA. Under the BHCA, bank holding companies may not,
    in general, directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or
    control of more than 5% of the voting shares, or substantially
    all of the assets, of any bank, without the prior approval of
    the Federal Reserve Board. In addition, bank holding companies
    are generally prohibited from engaging in commercial or
    industrial activities.



KeyCorp’s bank subsidiaries are also subject to extensive
    regulation, supervision and examination by applicable federal
    banking agencies. KeyCorp operates one full-service,
    FDIC-insured national bank subsidiary, KeyBank, and one national
    bank subsidiary whose activities are limited to those of a
    fiduciary. Both of KeyCorp’s national bank subsidiaries and
    their subsidiaries are subject to regulation, supervision and
    examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
    (the “OCC”). Because domestic deposits in KeyBank are
    insured (up to applicable limits) and certain deposits of
    KeyBank and debt obligations of KeyBank and KeyCorp are
    temporarily guaranteed (up to applicable limits) by the FDIC,
    the FDIC also has certain regulatory and supervisory authority
    over KeyBank and KeyCorp under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
    (the “FDIA”).





KeyCorp also has other financial services subsidiaries that are
    subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the
    Federal Reserve Board, as well as other applicable state and
    federal regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations.
    For example, KeyCorp’s brokerage and asset management
    subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by the
    SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and state
    securities regulators, and KeyCorp’s insurance subsidiaries
    are subject to regulation by the insurance regulatory
    authorities of the various states. Other nonbank subsidiaries of
    KeyCorp are subject to laws and regulations of both the federal
    government and the various states in which they are authorized
    to do business.



Dividend
    Restrictions



e.g.,

09-04





If, in the opinion of a federal banking agency, a depository
    institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to
    engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the
    financial condition of the institution, could include the
    payment of dividends), the agency may require that such
    institution cease and desist from such practice. The OCC and the
    FDIC have indicated that paying dividends that would deplete a
    depository institution’s capital base to an inadequate
    level would be an unsafe and unsound practice. Moreover, under
    the FDIA, an insured depository institution may not pay any
    dividend (i) if payment would cause it to become less than
    “adequately capitalized” or (ii) while it is in
    default in the payment of an assessment due to the FDIC. For
    additional information on capital guidelines see the
    “Federal Deposit Insurance Act — Prompt
    Corrective Action” section of this report. Also, the
    federal banking agencies have issued policy statements that
    provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their
    holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of
    their current operating earnings.



Holding
    Company Structure



Bank Transactions with Affiliates.Federal
    banking law and the regulations promulgated thereunder impose
    qualitative standards and quantitative limitations upon certain
    transactions by a bank with its affiliates. Transactions





covered by these provisions, which include bank loans and other
    extensions of credit to affiliates, bank purchases of assets
    from affiliates, and bank sales of assets to affiliates, must be
    on arm’s length terms, and cannot exceed certain amounts,
    determined with reference to the bank’s regulatory capital,
    and if a loan or other extension of credit, must be secured by
    collateral in an amount and quality expressly prescribed by
    statute. For these purposes, a bank includes certain of its
    subsidiaries and other companies it is deemed to control, while
    an affiliate includes the bank’s parent bank holding
    company, certain of its nonbank subsidiaries and other companies
    it is deemed to control, and certain other companies. As a
    result, these provisions materially restrict the ability of
    KeyBank, as a bank, to fund its affiliates including KeyCorp,
    KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., any of the Victory mutual funds,
    and KeyCorp’s nonbanking subsidiaries engaged in making
    merchant banking investments.



Source of Strength Doctrine.Under Federal
    Reserve Board policy, a bank holding company is expected to
    serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to each
    of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to
    commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This
    support may be required at a time when KeyCorp may not have the
    resources to, or would choose not to, provide it. Certain loans
    by a bank holding company to a subsidiary bank are subordinate
    in right of payment to deposits in, and certain other
    indebtedness of, the subsidiary bank. In addition, federal law
    provides that in the event of its bankruptcy, any commitment by
    a bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to
    maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the
    bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.



Regulatory
    Capital Standards and Related Matters



Risk-Based and Leverage Regulatory
    Capital.Federal law defines and prescribes
    minimum levels of regulatory capital for bank holding companies
    and their bank subsidiaries. Adequacy of regulatory capital is
    assessed periodically by the federal banking agencies in the
    examination and supervision process, and in the evaluation of
    applications in connection with specific transactions and
    activities, including acquisitions, expansion of existing
    activities and commencement of new activities.



Bank holding companies are subject to risk-based capital
    guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve Board. These
    guidelines establish minimum ratios of qualifying capital to
    risk-weighted assets. Qualifying capital includes Tier 1
    capital and Tier 2 capital. Risk-weighted assets are
    calculated by assigning varying risk-weights to broad categories
    of assets and off-balance sheet exposures, based primarily on
    counterparty credit risk. The required minimum Tier 1
    risk-based capital ratio, calculated by dividing Tier 1
    capital by risk-weighted assets, is currently 4.00%. The
    required minimum total risk-based capital ratio is currently
    8.00%. It is calculated by dividing the sum of Tier 1
    capital and Tier 2 capital (which cannot exceed the amount
    of Tier 1 capital), after certain deductions, by
    risk-weighted assets.



Tier 1 capital includes common equity, qualifying perpetual
    preferred equity (including the Series A Preferred Stock
    and the Series B Preferred Stock), and minority interests
    in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries less certain
    intangible assets (including goodwill) and certain other assets.
    Tier 2 capital includes qualifying hybrid capital
    instruments, perpetual debt, mandatory convertible debt
    securities, perpetual preferred equity not includable in
    Tier 1 capital, and limited amounts of term subordinated
    debt, medium-term preferred equity, certain unrealized holding
    gains on certain equity securities, and the allowance for loan
    and lease losses, limited as a percentage of net risk-weighted
    assets.



Bank holding companies, such as KeyCorp, whose securities and
    commodities trading activities exceed specified levels, also are
    required to maintain capital for market risk. Market risk
    includes changes in the market value of trading account, foreign
    exchange, and commodity positions, whether resulting from broad
    market movements (such as changes in the general level of
    interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, or
    commodity prices) or from position specific factors (such as
    idiosyncratic variation, event risk, and default risk). The
    federal banking agencies have developed and published for
    comment a proposed rule that would modify the existing market
    risk capital requirements. The proposed rule would enhance
    modeling requirements consistent with advances in risk
    management, enhance sensitivity to risks not adequately captured
    in the current methodologies of the existing requirements, and
    modify the definition of covered position to better capture
    positions for which the market risk capital requirements are
    appropriate. It would also impose an explicit capital
    requirement for incremental default risk to capture default risk
    over a time horizon of one year taking into account the impact
    of liquidity,





concentrations, hedging, and optionality. The proposed rule has
    not yet been adopted as a final rule. At December 31, 2009,
    Key had regulatory capital in excess of all minimum risk-based
    requirements, including all required adjustments for market risk.



In addition to the risk-based standard, bank holding companies
    are subject to the Federal Reserve Board’s leverage ratio
    guidelines. These guidelines establish minimum ratios of
    Tier 1 capital to total assets. The minimum leverage ratio,
    calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by average total
    consolidated assets, is 3.00% for bank holding companies that
    either have the highest supervisory rating or have implemented
    the Federal Reserve Board’s risk-based capital measure for
    market risk. All other bank holding companies must maintain a
    minimum leverage ratio of at least 4.00%. At December 31,
    2009, Key had regulatory capital in excess of all minimum
    leverage capital requirements.



KeyCorp’s national bank subsidiaries are also subject to
    risk-based and leverage capital requirements adopted by the OCC,
    which are substantially similar to those imposed by the Federal
    Reserve Board on bank holding companies. At December 31,
    2009, each of KeyCorp’s national bank subsidiaries had
    regulatory capital in excess of all minimum risk-based and
    leverage capital requirements.



In addition to establishing regulatory minimum ratios of capital
    to assets for all bank holding companies and their bank
    subsidiaries, the risk-based and leverage capital guidelines
    also identify various organization-specific factors and risks
    that are not taken into account in the computation of the
    capital ratios but that affect the overall supervisory
    evaluation of a banking organization’s regulatory capital
    adequacy and can result in the imposition of higher minimum
    regulatory capital ratio requirements upon the particular
    organization. Neither the Federal Reserve Board nor the OCC has
    advised KeyCorp or any of its national bank subsidiaries of any
    specific minimum risk-based or leverage capital ratios
    applicable to KeyCorp or such national bank subsidiary.



Basel Accords.The current minimum risk-based
    capital requirements adopted by the U.S. federal banking
    agencies are based on a 1988 international accord (“Basel
    I”) that was developed by the Basel Committee on Banking
    Supervision. In 2004, the Basel Committee published its new
    capital framework document (“Basel II”) governing the
    capital adequacy of large, internationally active banking
    organizations that generally rely on sophisticated risk
    management and measurement systems. Basel II is designed to
    create incentives for these organizations to improve their risk
    measurement and management processes and to better align minimum
    capital requirements with the risks underlying activities
    conducted by these organizations.



Basel II adopts a three-pillar framework for addressing
    capital adequacy — minimum capital requirements,
    supervisory review, and market discipline. The minimum capital
    requirement pillar includes capital charges for credit,
    operational, and market risk exposures of a banking
    organization. The supervisory review pillar addresses the need
    for a banking organization to assess its capital adequacy
    position relative to its overall risk, rather than only with
    respect to its minimum capital requirement, as well as the need
    for a banking organization supervisory authority to review and
    respond to the banking organization’s capital adequacy
    assessment. The market discipline pillar imposes public
    disclosure requirements on a banking organization that are
    intended to allow market participants to assess key information
    about the organization’s risk profile and its associated
    level of capital.



In December 2007, the federal banking agencies issued a final
    rule to implement the advanced approaches framework of
    Basel II in the U.S. The rule was effective
    April 1, 2008, but implementation is subject to a
    multi-year transition period in which limits are imposed upon
    the amount by which minimum required capital may decrease. It
    does not supersede or change the existing prompt corrective
    action and leverage capital requirements, and explicitly
    reserves the agencies’ authority to require organizations
    to hold additional capital where appropriate. Application of the
    final rule to U.S. banking organizations is mandatory for
    some and optional for others. Currently, neither KeyCorp nor
    KeyBank is required to apply the final rule.



In July 2008, the agencies issued a proposed rule for
    implementing the standardized approach framework of Basel II.
    The proposal would provide an alternative approach to
    determining risk-based capital requirements for banking
    organizations that are not required to use the advanced
    approaches framework final rule published in December 2007.
    While the advanced approaches framework is mandatory for large,
    internationally active banking organizations, the standardized
    approach framework would be optional for others (including
    KeyCorp and KeyBank), which could also choose to remain under
    the Basel I framework.





In December 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
    published proposals to substantially revamp international
    capital and liquidity standards for banks. This proposal
    includes major changes to the regulatory and leverage capital
    ratio calculations, including a revised definition of capital, a
    revised capital structure, revised definitions of qualifying
    capital for Tier 1 purposes, revised Tier 1 and
    Tier 2 limits, a new common equity to risk-weighted assets
    measure, new minimum capital ratios and certain measures to
    address systemic risk. Banks have the opportunity to submit
    comments on the proposal by April 16, 2010. Specific
    requirements remain undefined and, therefore, KeyCorp cannot
    determine what impact such measures may ultimately have on the
    company.



Federal Deposit Insurance Act



Deposit Insurance Coverage Limits.Prior to
    enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008
    (“EESA”), the FDIC standard maximum depositor
    insurance coverage limit was $100,000, excluding certain
    retirement accounts qualifying for a maximum coverage limit of
    $250,000. Pursuant to the EESA, the FDIC standard maximum
    coverage limit had been temporarily increased to $250,000
    through December 31, 2009. This temporary increase has been
    further extended to December 31, 2013, by the Helping
    Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009.



Deposit Insurance Assessments.



FICO Assessments.Since 1997, all FDIC-insured
    depository institutions have been required through assessments
    collected by the FDIC to service the annual interest on30-yearnoncallable bonds issued by the Financing Corporation
    (“FICO”) in the late 1980s to fund losses incurred by
    the former Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. FICO
    assessments are separate from and in addition to deposit
    insurance assessments, are adjusted quarterly and, unlike
    deposit insurance assessments, are assessed uniformly without
    regard to an institution’s risk category. Throughout 2009,
    the annualized FICO assessment rate ranged from $.0102 to $.0114
    for each $100 of assessable domestic deposits.



Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.In
    October 2008, the FDIC, with the written concurrence of the
    Federal Reserve Board, made a systemic risk recommendation to
    the Secretary of the Treasury, who in consultation with the
    President determined that the systemic risk exception to the
    least-cost resolution provision under the FDIA should be invoked
    to enable the FDIC to establish the Temporary Liquidity
    Guarantee Program (the “TLGP”).



The TLGP regulation permitted the FDIC to temporarily guarantee
    the unpaid principal and interest due under a limited amount of
    qualifying newly issued senior unsecured debt of participating
    eligible entities (the “Debt Guarantee”) as well as
    all depositor funds in qualifying noninterest-bearing
    transaction accounts maintained at participating FDIC-insured
    depository institutions (the “Transaction Account
    Guarantee”). For FDIC-guaranteed debt issued before
    April 1, 2009, the Debt Guarantee expires on the earlier of
    the maturity of the debt or June 30, 2012. For
    FDIC-guaranteed debt issued on or after April 1, 2009, the
    Debt Guarantee expires on the earlier of the maturity of the
    debt or December 31, 2012. Unless a participating
    institution elected to opt-out, the Transaction Account
    Guarantee expires on June 30, 2010.







KeyCorp is a participant in the Debt Guarantee component of the
    TLGP. KeyBank is a participant in both the Transaction Account
    Guarantee and the Debt Guarantee components of the TLGP,
    including the special election to issue long-term, senior
    unsecured debt not guaranteed by the FDIC. As of
    December 31, 2009, KeyCorp had $937.5 million of
    guaranteed debt outstanding under the TLGP and KeyBank had
    $1.0 billion of guaranteed debt outstanding under the TLGP.



Liability of Commonly Controlled
    Institutions.Under the FDIA, an insured
    depository institution which is under common control with
    another insured depository institution generally is liable to
    the FDIC for any loss incurred, or reasonably anticipated to be
    incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of any such
    commonly controlled institution, or any assistance provided by
    the FDIC to the commonly controlled institution which is in
    danger of default. The term “default” is defined
    generally to mean the appointment of a conservator or receiver
    and the term “in danger of default” is defined
    generally as the existence of certain conditions indicating that
    a “default” is likely to occur in the absence of
    regulatory assistance.



Conservatorship and Receivership of
    Institutions.If any insured depository
    institution becomes insolvent and the FDIC is appointed its
    conservator or receiver, the FDIC may, under federal law,
    disaffirm or repudiate any contract to which such institution is
    a party, if the FDIC determines that performance of the contract
    would be burdensome, and that disaffirmance or repudiation of
    the contract would promote the orderly administration of the
    institution’s affairs. Such disaffirmance or repudiation
    would result in a claim by its holder against the receivership
    or conservatorship. The amount paid upon such claim would depend
    upon, among other factors, the amount of receivership assets
    available for the payment of such claim and its priority
    relative to the priority of others. In addition, the FDIC as
    conservator or receiver may enforce most contracts entered into
    by the institution notwithstanding any provision providing for
    termination, default, acceleration, or exercise of rights upon
    or solely by reason of insolvency of the institution,
    appointment of a conservator or receiver for the institution, or
    exercise of rights or powers by a conservator or receiver for
    the institution. The FDIC as conservator or receiver also may
    transfer any asset or liability of the institution without
    obtaining any approval or consent of the institution’s
    shareholders or creditors.



Depositor Preference.The FDIA provides that,
    in the event of the liquidation or other resolution of an
    insured depository institution, the claims of its depositors
    (including claims by the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors)
    and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as
    receiver would be afforded a priority over other general
    unsecured claims against such an institution. If an insured
    depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors
    along with the FDIC will be placed ahead of unsecured,
    nondeposit creditors, including a parent holding company and
    subordinated creditors, in order of priority of payment.



Prompt Corrective Action.The “prompt
    corrective action” provisions of the FDIA create a
    statutory framework that applies a system of both discretionary
    and mandatory supervisory actions indexed to the capital level
    of FDIC-insured depository institutions. These provisions impose
    progressively more restrictive constraints on operations,
    management, and capital distributions of the institution as its
    regulatory capital decreases, or in some cases, based on
    supervisory information other than the institution’s
    capital level. This framework and the authority it confers on





the federal banking agencies supplements other existing
    authority vested in such agencies to initiate supervisory
    actions to address capital deficiencies. Moreover, other
    provisions of law and regulation employ regulatory capital level
    designations the same as or similar to those established by the
    prompt corrective action provisions both in imposing certain
    restrictions and limitations and in conferring certain economic
    and other benefits upon institutions. These include restrictions
    on brokered deposits, limits on exposure to interbank
    liabilities, determination of risk-based FDIC deposit insurance
    premium assessments, and action upon regulatory applications.





Financial Modernization Legislation



The provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the
    “GLBA”) authorized new activities for qualifying
    financial institutions. The GLBA repealed significant provisions
    of the Glass-Steagall Act to permit commercial banks, among
    other things, to have affiliates that underwrite and deal in
    securities and make merchant banking investments. The GLBA
    modified the BHCA to permit bank holding companies that meet
    certain specified standards (known as “financial holding
    companies”) to engage in a broader range of financial
    activities than previously permitted under the BHCA, and allowed
    subsidiaries of commercial banks that meet certain specified
    standards (known as “financial subsidiaries”) to
    engage in a wide range of financial activities that are
    prohibited to such banks themselves. In 2000, KeyCorp elected to
    become a financial holding company. Under the authority
    conferred by the GLBA, KeyCorp has been able to expand the
    nature and scope of its equity investments in nonfinancial
    companies, acquire its Victory Capital Advisers Inc. subsidiary,
    operate its KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. subsidiary with fewer
    operating restrictions, and establish financial subsidiaries to
    engage more efficiently in certain activities.



In order for a company to maintain its status as a financial
    holding company under the GLBA, its depository institution
    subsidiaries must remain well capitalized (as defined under the
    prompt corrective action provisions of the FDIA) and well
    managed (as determined by the depository institution’s
    primary regulator). If any of the depository institution
    subsidiaries of a financial holding company fail to satisfy
    these criteria, the holding company must enter into an agreement
    with the Federal Reserve Board setting forth a plan to correct
    the deficiencies. If these deficiencies are not corrected within
    a180-dayperiod, the Federal Reserve Board may order the financial
    holding company to divest its depository institution
    subsidiaries. Alternatively, the holding company could retain
    its depository institution subsidiaries but would have to cease
    engaging in any activities that are permissible under the GLBA
    but were not permissible for a bank holding company prior to the
    enactment of that statute. In addition, if a depository
    institution subsidiary of a financial holding company receives a
    less than satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment
    Act (“CRA”), the holding company will not be permitted
    to commence new activities or make new acquisitions in reliance
    on the GLBA until the CRA rating of the subsidiary improves to
    being at least satisfactory.





Entry Into Certain Covenants



44114-1306.



The following table identifies the (i) closing date for
    each transaction, (ii) issuer, (iii) series of
    Trust Preferred Securities issued, (iv) Junior
    Subordinated Debentures, and (v) applicable Covered Debt as
    of the date this annual report was filed with the SEC.



Trust PreferredClosing DateIssuerSecuritiesJunior SubordinatedCovered Debt6/20/06KeyCorp Capital VIII and KeyCorp$250,000,000 principal amount of 7% Enhanced Trust Preferred
    SecuritiesKeyCorp’s 7% junior subordinated debentures due June 15,
    2066KeyCorp’s 5.70% junior subordinated debentures due 2035,
    underlying the 5.70% trust preferred securities of KeyCorp
    Capital VII (CUSIP No. 49327LAA4011)11/21/06KeyCorp Capital IX and KeyCorp$500,000,000 principal amount of 6.750% Enhanced Trust Preferred
    SecuritiesKeyCorp’s 6.750% junior subordinated debentures due
    December 15, 2066KeyCorp’s 5.70% junior subordinated debentures due 2035,
    underlying the 5.70% trust preferred securities of KeyCorp
    Capital VII (CUSIP No. 49327LAA4011)2/27/08KeyCorp Capital X and KeyCorp$700,000,000 principal amount of 8.000% Enhanced Trust Preferred
    SecuritiesKeyCorp’s 8.000% junior subordinated debentures due March
    15, 2068KeyCorp’s 5.70% junior subordinated debentures due 2035,
    underlying the 5.70% trust preferred securities of KeyCorp
    Capital VII (CUSIP No. 49327LAA4011)3/3/2008KeyCorp Capital X and KeyCorp$40,000,000 principal amount of 8.000% Enhanced Trust Preferred
    SecuritiesKeyCorp’s 8.000% junior subordinated debentures due March
    15, 2068KeyCorp’s 5.70% junior subordinated debentures due 2035
    underlying the 5.70% trust preferred securities of KeyCorp
    Capital VII (CUSIP No. 49327LAA4011)







