ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

Overview

KeyCorp, organized in 1958 under the laws of the State of Ohio, is headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio. We are a bank holding company under the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHCA”), and are one of the nation’s largest bank-based financial services companies, with consolidated total assets of approximately $89.2 billion at December 31, 2012. KeyCorp is the parent
holding company for KeyBank National Association (“KeyBank”), its principal subsidiary, through which most of our banking services are provided. Through KeyBank and certain other subsidiaries, we provide a wide range of retail and
commercial banking, commercial leasing, investment management, consumer finance and investment banking products and services to individual, corporate and institutional clients through two major business segments: Key Community Bank and Key Corporate
Bank.

As of December 31, 2012, these services were provided across the country through KeyBank’s 1,088 full-service retail banking
branches in 14 states, additional offices, a telephone banking call center services group and a network of 1,611 automated teller machines (“ATMs”) in 15 states. Additional information pertaining to our two business segments is included in
this report in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in the “Line of Business Results” section, and in Note 21 (“Line of Business Results”) of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements presented in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data are incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp and its subsidiaries had an average of 15,589 full-time equivalent employees for 2012.

In addition to the customary banking services of accepting deposits and making loans, our bank and trust company subsidiaries offer personal and
corporate trust services, personal financial services, access to mutual funds, cash management services, investment banking and capital markets products, and international banking services. Through our bank, trust companies and registered investment
adviser subsidiaries, we provide investment management services to clients that include large corporate and public retirement plans, foundations and endowments, high-net-worth individuals and multi-employer trust funds established for providing
pension or other benefits to employees.

We provide other financial services — both within and outside of our primary banking markets
— through various nonbank subsidiaries. These services include community development financing, securities underwriting and brokerage. We also are an equity participant in a joint venture that provides merchant services to businesses.

KeyCorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banks and other subsidiaries. Accordingly, the right of KeyCorp, its security
holders and its creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of its banks and other subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of the creditors of such banks and other subsidiaries, except to the extent that KeyCorp’s
claims in its capacity as a creditor may be recognized.

Important Terms Used in this Report

As used in this report, references to “Key,” “we,” “our,” “us” and similar terms refer to the consolidated entity
consisting of KeyCorp and its subsidiaries. KeyCorp refers solely to the parent holding company, and KeyBank refers solely to KeyCorp’s subsidiary, KeyBank National Association.

The acronyms and abbreviations identified in Part II, Item 8, Note 1 (“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”) hereof are used throughout this report, particularly in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements as well as in the Management’s Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition & Results of Operations. You may find it helpful to refer to that section as you read this report.






Demographics

We have two major business segments: Key Community Bank and Key Corporate Bank.

Key Community
Bank serves individuals and small to mid-sized businesses by offering a variety of deposit, investment, lending, credit card, and personalized wealth management products and services. These products and services are provided through our relationship
managers and specialists working in our 14-state branch network, which is organized into three internally defined geographic regions: Rocky Mountains and Northwest, Great Lakes, and Northeast.

The following table presents the geographic diversity of Key Community Bank’s average deposits, commercial loans and home equity loans.



Geographic RegionYear Ended December 31, 2012dollars in millionsRockyMountains andNorthwestGreat LakesNortheastNonregion(a)TotalAverage deposits$16,002$15,381$15,042$2,500$48,925Percent of total32.7%31.4%30.8%5.1%100.0%Average commercial loans$5,424$3,878$2,964$2,543$14,809Percent of total36.6%26.2%20.0%17.2%100.0%Average home equity loans$4,431$2,512$2,474$103$9,520Percent of total46.5%26.4%26.0%1.1%100.0%

(a)Represents average deposits, commercial loan and home equity loan products centrally managed outside of our three Key Community Bank regions.

Key Corporate Bank includes three lines of business that operate nationally, within and beyond our 14-state branch network: Real Estate Capital and
Corporate Banking Services; Equipment Finance; and Institutional and Capital Markets.

The Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services
business consists of two business units:



—Real Estate Capital professionals are located in select markets across the country and provide financial services for public and private owners,
investors and developers of nonowner-occupied commercial real estate properties. In addition to direct loans, this business unit is a Fannie Mae Delegated Underwriter and Servicer, Freddie Mac Program Plus Seller/Servicer and FHA-approved mortgagee.
KeyBank Real Estate Capital is also one of the nation’s largest and highest rated commercial mortgage servicers. Figure 20, which appears later in this report in the “Loans and loans held for sale” section, shows the diversity of our
commercial real estate lending business based on industry type and location.



—Corporate Banking Services provides cash management, interest rate derivatives, and foreign exchange products and services to existing clients. Through
its Public Sector and Financial Institutions businesses, Corporate Banking Services also provides a full array of commercial banking products and services to government and not-for-profit entities and to community banks. A variety of cash management
services are provided through the Global Treasury Management unit.

Equipment Finance is one of the largest bank-based
equipment finance providers based in the U.S. This business unit meets the equipment financing needs of companies worldwide and provides equipment manufacturers, distributors and resellers with a platform and funding options for their clients.
Equipment Finance specializes in the technology, healthcare, and renewable energy markets as well as the finance needs related to other capital assets.






The Institutional and Capital Markets business consists of two business units:



—KeyBanc Capital Markets provides commercial lending, treasury management, investment banking, derivatives, foreign exchange, equity and debt
underwriting and trading, and syndicated finance products and services, primarily to emerging and middle-market companies in the Industrial, Consumer, Real Estate, Energy, Technology and Healthcare sectors. This business unit’s focused industry
expertise and its consistent, integrated team approach, help our clients achieve their strategic objectives.



—Victory Capital Management is an investment advisory firm that manages or offers advice regarding investment portfolios. This business unit’s
national client base consists of both institutional and retail clients derived from four primary channels: public plans, Taft-Hartley plans, corporations, and endowments and foundations.

The products and services offered by our Key Community Bank and Key Corporate Bank segments are described further in this report in Note 21 (“Line
of Business Results”).

Additional Information

The following financial data is included in this report in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data are incorporated herein by reference as indicated below:



Description of Financial DataPage(s)Selected Financial Data38Consolidated Average Balance Sheets, Net Interest Income and Yields/Rates From Continuing
Operations49Components of Net Interest Income Changes from Continuing Operations51Composition of Loans62Remaining Maturities and Sensitivity of Certain Loans to Changes in Interest Rates70Securities Available for Sale72Held-to-Maturity Securities72Maturity Distribution of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More74Allocation of the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses93Summary of Loan and Lease Loss Experience from Continuing Operations95Summary of Nonperforming Assets and Past Due Loans from Continuing Operations96Exit Loan Portfolio from Continuing Operations97Summary of Changes in Nonperforming Loans from Continuing Operations98Short-Term Borrowings183

Our executive offices are located at 127 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306, and our telephone number is
(216) 689-3000. Our website is www.Key.com, and the investor relations section of our website may be reached through www.key.com/ir. We make available free of charge, on or through the investor relations links on our website, annual reports on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange
Act”), as well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Also posted on our website, and available in print upon request of any shareholder to our Investor
Relations Department, are the charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation and Organization Committee, Executive Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and Risk Committee; our Corporate Governance Guidelines; the Code of Ethics
governing our directors, officers and employees; our Standards for Determining Independence of Directors; our Limitation on Luxury Expenditures Policy; and our Statement of Political Activity. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New
York Stock Exchange, we will post on our website any amendment to the Code






of Ethics and any waiver applicable to any senior executive officer or director. We also make available a summary of filings made with the SEC of statements of beneficial ownership of our equity
securities filed by our directors and officers under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.

Shareholders may obtain a copy of any of the
above-referenced corporate governance documents by writing to our Investor Relations Department at Investor Relations, KeyCorp, 127 Public Square, Mailcode OH-01-27-1113, Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306; by calling (216) 689-3000; or by sending an
e-mail to investor_relations@keybank.com.

Acquisitions and Divestitures

The information presented in Note 13 (“Acquisitions and Discontinued Operations”) is incorporated herein by reference.

Competition

The market for banking and related financial services is highly competitive.
Key competes with other providers of financial services, such as bank holding companies, commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management
firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional and national institutions that offer financial services. Many of our competitors enjoy fewer regulatory constraints and some may have lower cost structures. The financial
services industry is likely to become more competitive as further technology advances enable more companies to provide financial services. Technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial
institutions. We compete by offering quality products and innovative services at competitive prices, and by maintaining our products and services offerings to keep pace with customer preferences and industry standards.

In recent years, mergers and acquisitions have led to greater concentration in the banking industry, placing added competitive pressure on Key’s
core banking products and services. Consolidation continued during 2012 and led to redistribution of deposits and certain banking assets to larger financial institutions, including through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the
“FDIC”) least-cost resolution process, albeit at a far slower pace than 2011 and 2010. Financial institutions with liquidity challenges sought mergers and other resolutions, and the deposits and certain banking assets of the 300 banks that
failed between 2010 and 2012, representing $138.6 billion in total assets, were redistributed through the FDIC’s least-cost resolution process.

Supervision and Regulation

The following discussion addresses elements of the regulatory
framework applicable to BHCs and banks and provides certain specific information regarding material elements of the regulatory framework applicable to us. This regulatory framework is intended primarily to protect customers and depositors, the DIF
and the banking system as a whole, rather than for the protection of security holders and creditors. Comprehensive reform of the legislative and regulatory environment occurred in 2010 and remains ongoing resulting from enactment of the Dodd-Frank
Act. We cannot predict changes in the applicable laws, regulations and regulatory agency policies, yet such changes may have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and access to liquidity or credit.

General

As a BHC, KeyCorp
is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve under the BHCA. Under the BHCA, BHCs may not, in general, directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares, or substantially all
of the assets, of any bank, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. In addition, BHCs are generally prohibited from engaging in commercial or industrial activities.






Under the Dodd-Frank Act and Federal Reserve policy, a BHC is expected to serve as a source of financial and
managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be required at a time when we may not have the resources to, or would choose not to,
provide it. Certain loans by a BHC to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits in, and certain other indebtedness of, the subsidiary bank. In addition, federal law provides that in the event of a bankruptcy, any commitment
by a BHC to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

Federal law also establishes a system of prudential and functional federal regulation under which the Federal Reserve is the umbrella regulator for BHCs, while their affiliates are principally regulated
by prudential and functional regulators such as the OCC for national banks and federal savings associations, the FDIC for non-member state banks and savings associations, the Federal Reserve for member state banks, the CFPB for federal consumer
financial laws and consumer financial products or services, the SEC and FINRA for securities broker/dealer activities, the SEC and CFTC for swaps and other derivatives, and state insurance regulators for insurance activities. Certain specific
activities, including traditional bank trust and fiduciary activities, may be conducted in a bank without the bank being deemed a “broker” or a “dealer” in securities for purposes of securities functional regulation. Although the
states generally must regulate bank insurance activities in a nondiscriminatory manner, the states may continue to adopt and enforce rules that specifically regulate bank insurance activities in certain identifiable risks.

Our national bank subsidiaries and their subsidiaries are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC. At December 31, 2012, we
operated one full-service, FDIC-insured national bank subsidiary, KeyBank, and two national bank subsidiaries that are limited to fiduciary activities. The FDIC also has certain regulatory, supervisory and examination authority over KeyBank and
KeyCorp under the FDIA and Dodd-Frank Act.

We have other financial services subsidiaries that are subject to regulation, supervision and
examination by the Federal Reserve, as well as other applicable state and federal regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. Our securities brokerage and asset management subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by the SEC,
FINRA and state securities regulators, and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the insurance regulatory authorities of the states in which they operate. Our other nonbank subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations of both
the federal government and the various states in which they are authorized to do business.

Regulatory Reform Developments

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act became law. It was intended to address perceived deficiencies and gaps in the regulatory framework for
financial services in the U.S., reduce the risks of bank failures, better equip the nation’s regulators to guard against or mitigate any future financial crises, and manage systemic risk through increased supervision of bank and nonbank SIFIs,
such as KeyCorp and KeyBank. The following provides a summary of relevant regulatory developments relating to the Dodd-Frank Act.

Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau

Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB as a new consumer financial services regulator. We are now
subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the CFPB. The CFPB supervises banks and their affiliates, such as Key, with assets of more than $10 billion for compliance with federal consumer protection laws. The CFPB also regulates consumer
financial products and services sold by banks and non-bank companies and has rule making authority with respect to federal consumer financial laws. Any new regulatory requirements promulgated by the CFPB or modifications in the interpretations of
existing regulations could require changes to our consumer businesses. In addition, we may face potential enforcement actions by the CFPB and civil actions by state attorneys general for violation of various state and federal consumer protection
laws.






On January 10, 2013, the CFPB issued its final rule to implement sections of the Dodd-Frank Act that
will require lenders to verify a consumer’s ability to repay a mortgage loan. The rule establishes certain minimum requirements for creditors when making ability to pay determinations, and establishes certain protections from liability for
mortgages meeting the definition of “qualified mortgages”. The final rule becomes effective on January 10, 2014. We are currently analyzing the final rule in order to determine its impact on Key’s mortgage lending business.

The CFPB issued its final rules on January 17, 2013, to implement sections of the Dodd-Frank Act addressing certain obligations of
mortgage servicers to correct errors asserted by mortgage loan borrowers and to provide certain information requested by such borrowers. The final rules also: impose requirements on a mortgage servicer in connection with the force placement of
collateral insurance; mandate certain notices prior to rate adjustments on adjustable-rate mortgages; and establish requirements for periodic disclosures to borrowers. These rules will apply directly to Key and to any third-party mortgage servicer
engaged by Key, and become effective on January 10, 2014.

Financial Stability Oversight Council

Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act created the FSOC as a new systemic risk oversight body to identify, monitor and address potential threats to U.S. financial
stability. We are now subject to oversight and regulation by the FSOC. The FSOC is responsible for identifying systemic risks, promoting stronger financial regulation and identifying those non-bank companies that are systemically important and thus
should be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve. In addition, in extraordinary cases the FSOC, together with the Federal Reserve, could require the breakup of financial firms that are deemed to present a grave threat to U.S. financial
stability.

“Volcker Rule”

Debit Card Interchange

Federal Reserve Regulation II — Debit II — Debit Card Interchange Fees and Routing — limits debit card interchange fees, eliminates
exclusivity arrangements between issuers and networks for debit card transactions, and imposes limits for restrictions on merchant discounting for the use of certain payment forms and minimum or maximum amount thresholds as a condition for
acceptance of credit cards. The relevant portions of Regulation II became effective October 1, 2011.

Resolution Plans

BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including KeyCorp, are required to periodically submit to the Federal Reserve and FDIC a plan
discussing how the company could be resolved in a rapid and orderly fashion if the company were to fail or experience material financial distress. In a related rulemaking, the






FDIC adopted a final rule on January 23, 2012, requiring insured depository institutions with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including KeyBank, to prepare and submit a
resolution plan to the FDIC. The initial plans for KeyCorp and KeyBank are each due December 31, 2013, and updated plans must be submitted annually thereafter.

Enhanced Prudential Standards

On January 5, 2012, the Federal Reserve published
proposed Regulation YY — Enhanced Prudential Standards — as part of its efforts to implement enhanced prudential standards and early remediation requirements to be imposed upon SIFIs pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act. It generally
applies to SIFIs like KeyCorp and includes a wide range of measures addressing issues such as risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits, liquidity requirements, single-counterparty credit limits, risk management, supervisory and
company-run stress testing requirements, and early remediation. As indicated below, the Federal Reserve has finalized Regulation YY only with respect to supervisory and company-run stress testing requirements.

Supervisory and Company-Run Stress Testing

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to conduct an annual supervisory stress test on certain banking organizations, including KeyCorp, to evaluate whether they have sufficient capital, on a
total consolidated basis, to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions. Stress testing scenarios (including those describing hypothetical baseline, adverse, and severely adverse economic and financial conditions) were published by the
Federal Reserve. On January 28, 2013, the Federal Reserve announced that it will release results from the supervisory stress tests conducted on KeyCorp and other banking organizations on March 7, 2013. Under the final rule, we are required
to consider the results of the stress test as part of our capital planning process and must update our resolution plan as the Federal Reserve determines appropriate based on the results of the stress test.

Company-run stress tests conducted by KeyCorp and KeyBank are also required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Stress testing scenarios (including those describing
hypothetical baseline, adverse, and severely adverse economic and financial conditions) were published by the Federal Reserve and OCC. Results of these stress tests were reported to the Federal Reserve and OCC on January 7, 2013, and will be
publicly disclosed (the first public disclosure is required by the rules to be made between March 15 and March 31, 2013).

Credit
Risk Retention Requirements

Section 941 of the Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal banking agencies and the SEC to jointly prescribe
regulations to require any securitizer to retain an economic interest in a portion of the credit risk for any asset that the securitizer transfers to a third party through the issuance of an asset-backed security. It also requires these agencies,
together with the FHFA and HUD, to jointly prescribe regulations to require any securitizer to retain an economic interest in a portion of the credit risk for any residential mortgage asset that the securitizer transfers to a third party through the
issuance of an asset-backed security. These agencies jointly proposed the required regulations in 2011, but have not yet published their final rules. The rules are required to become effective for residential mortgage securitizations one year after
publication of final rules and for other securitizations two years after publication of the final rules in the Federal Register.

The proposed
rules provide a menu of numerous alternatives for meeting the risk retention requirements, including some options available for any type of securitization and others specifically designed for certain asset classes. They would also provide a full
exemption from the risk retention requirements for securitizations backed by residential mortgages, commercial loans, commercial real estate loans and automobile loans meeting certain precisely specified product and underwriting criteria.

We are a significant servicer of commercial mortgages held by others, including securitization vehicles. We anticipate that these Dodd-Frank
Act credit risk retention requirements will impact the market for loans of types that historically have been securitized, potentially affecting the volumes of loans securitized, the types of loan






products made available, the terms on which loans are offered, consumer and business demand for loans, and the need for third party loan servicers. The risk retention rules themselves could have
the effect of slowing the rebound in the securitization markets and, as a result, may impact the willingness of banks, including us, to make loans due to balance sheet management requirements.

Derivatives

Preemption

Federal preemption and the application of state consumer protection laws to national banks is still an evolving area of the law.
Depending on how such questions are ultimately resolved, as a national bank with multi-state operations and a multi-state customer base, KeyBank may experience an increase in state and local regulation of our retail banking business and additional
compliance obligations, revenue impacts and costs.

New Assessments, Fees and Other Charges

Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require or authorize certain U.S. governmental departments, agencies and instrumentalities to collect new
assessments, fees and other charges from BHCs and banks, like KeyCorp and KeyBank, regardless of risk. For example, on May 21, 2012, the U.S. Treasury adopted a final rule under the Dodd-Frank Act establishing an assessment schedule for SIFIs
to collect semiannual assessments to pay the expenses of the OFR, including the expenses of the FSOC and certain expenses for implementing the orderly liquidation activities of the FDIC. The assessment upon KeyCorp is based on Key’s average
total consolidated assets as reported in its Federal Reserve regulatory reports over four quarters preceding the relevant determination date. Key’s initial semiannual assessment of $684,250 was collected on July 20, 2012. Similarly, and
although no proposals have yet been issued, Section 318 of the Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve, and authorizes the OCC and FDIC, to charge SIFIs and institutions regulated by these agencies new assessments, fees and other charges in
connection with their examination, supervision, and regulation of such companies.

Bank Transactions with Affiliates

Federal banking law and the regulations adopted to implement it impose qualitative standards and quantitative limitations upon certain transactions by a
bank with its affiliates, including the bank’s parent BHC and certain companies in which it may have as little as a 15% equity interest or may otherwise be deemed to control for these purposes. Transactions covered by these provisions must be
on arm’s length terms, and cannot exceed certain amounts which are determined with reference to the bank’s regulatory capital. Moreover, if the transaction is a






loan or other extension of credit, it must be secured by collateral in an amount and quality expressly prescribed by statute, and if the affiliate is unable to pledge sufficient collateral, the
BHC may be required to provide it. These provisions materially restrict the ability of KeyBank, as a bank, to fund its affiliates, including KeyCorp, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Victory Capital Advisers, Inc., any of the Victory mutual funds, and
KeyCorp’s nonbanking subsidiaries engaged in making merchant banking investments (and certain companies in which these subsidiaries have invested).

Provisions added by the Dodd-Frank Act expanded the scope of (i) the definition of “affiliate” to include any “investment fund” having any bank or BHC affiliated company as an
investment adviser, (ii) credit exposures subject to the prohibition on the acceptance of low-quality assets or securities issued by an affiliate as collateral, the quantitative limits, and the collateralization requirements to now include
credit exposures arising out of derivative, repurchase agreement, and securities lending/borrowing transactions, and (iii) transactions subject to quantitative limits to now also include credit collateralized by affiliate-issued debt
obligations that are not securities. In addition, these provisions require that a credit extension to an affiliate remain secured in accordance with the collateral requirements “at all times” that it is outstanding, rather than the
previous requirement of only at the inception or upon material modification of the transaction. They also raise significantly the procedural and substantive hurdles required to obtain a regulatory exemption from the affiliate transaction
requirements. These provisions became effective on July 21, 2012, and the Federal Reserve has indicated that a proposed rule is expected to be released in 2013. Until the Federal Reserve publishes final rules, it will be difficult to assess the
impact of these provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.

Capital

Current Regulatory Capital Requirements

Federal banking regulators have promulgated
risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements applicable to BHCs and their bank subsidiaries. Adequacy of regulatory capital is assessed periodically by the federal banking agencies in the examination and supervision process, and in the
evaluation of applications in connection with specific transactions and activities, including acquisitions, expansion of existing activities and commencement of new activities.

Under the current risk-based capital requirements, KeyCorp and its bank subsidiaries are each generally required to maintain a minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets (which include certain
off-balance sheet exposures) of 8%. At least half of the total capital must be composed of common shareholders’ equity excluding the over- or underfunded status of post-retirement benefit obligations, unrealized gains or losses on debt
securities available for sale, unrealized gains on equity securities available for sale, and unrealized gains or losses on cash flow hedges, net of deferred income taxes; plus certain mandatorily redeemable equity investments. This is called
“Tier 1 capital.” The remainder may consist of qualifying subordinated debt, certain hybrid capital instruments, qualifying preferred stock and a limited amount of the allowance for credit losses. This is called “Tier 2 capital.”

Federal banking regulators also have established minimum leverage ratio requirements for banking organizations. The leverage ratio is defined
as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets. The minimum leverage ratio is currently 3% for BHCs that are considered “strong” by the Federal Reserve or which have implemented the Federal Reserve’s risk-based capital
measure for market risk. Similarly, the minimum leverage ratio is currently 3% for national banks considered “strong” by the OCC. Other BHCs and national banks must have a minimum leverage ratio of 4%.

Pursuant to Section 171 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the risk-based and leverage capital standards that were in effect prior to enactment of the
Dodd-Frank Act and applicable to FDIC-insured depository institutions are imposed upon U.S. BHCs like KeyCorp, subject to a phased-in three year transition period that began on January 1, 2013. One effect of this provision is to eliminate trust
preferred securities at the U.S. BHC level as an element of Tier 1 capital.






BHCs and banks with securities and commodities trading activities that exceed specified levels are required
to maintain capital for market risk. Market risk includes changes in the market value of trading account, foreign exchange and commodity positions, whether resulting from broad market movements (such as changes in the general level of interest
rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates or commodity prices) or from position specific factors (such as idiosyncratic variation, event risk and default risk).

On January 1, 2013, a joint final rule to implement changes to the market risk capital rule became effective, replacing the rule that originally was adopted effective January 1, 1997. It applies
to banking organizations, such as KeyCorp and KeyBank, with trading assets and liabilities of at least $1 billion, or 10% of total assets. The rule changes the methodology for calculating the risk-weighted assets related to trading assets and
includes, among other things, the addition of a stressed VaR component. Additionally, the rule eliminates the use of credit ratings in calculating specific risk capital requirements for certain debt and securitization positions. We do not currently
anticipate that the changes to this rule will have a material impact on Key’s or KeyBank’s risk-weighted assets or capital ratios.

BHCs and national banks may be expected to maintain ratios well above the minimum levels, depending upon their particular condition, risk profile or
growth plans. At December 31, 2012, Key and KeyBank had regulatory capital in excess of all current minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements.

The FDIA requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a FDIC-insured depository institution if that institution does not meet certain
capital adequacy standards. Such institutions are grouped into one of five prompt corrective action capital categories — well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized
— using the Tier 1 risk-based, total risk-based, and Tier 1 leverage capital ratios as the relevant capital measures. An institution is considered well-capitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.00%, a Tier 1
risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.00% and a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 5.00% and is not subject to any written agreement, order or capital directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. At
December 31, 2012, KeyBank satisfied the criteria for the prompt corrective action well-capitalized capital category. Federal law also requires that the bank regulatory agencies implement systems for prompt corrective action for institutions
that fail to meet minimum capital requirements within the five capital categories, with progressively more restrictions on operations, management and capital distributions.

The prompt corrective action requirements apply only to FDIC-insured depository institutions and not to BHCs. However, the Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action against the BHC based on
the undercapitalized status of any such subsidiary institution and, in certain instances, the BHC would be required to guarantee the performance of the capital restoration plan for its undercapitalized subsidiary institution. Nevertheless, if such
prompt corrective action capital categories applied to BHCs, we believe that KeyCorp would satisfy the criteria for the well-capitalized capital category at December 31, 2012. An institution’s prompt corrective action capital category,
however, may not constitute an accurate representation of the overall financial condition or prospects of the institution or parent BHC, and should be considered in conjunction with other available information regarding the financial condition and
results of operations of the institution and its parent BHC.

Basel Accords

Basel I

The current minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the U.S. federal
banking agencies and applicable to Key and described above are based on a 1988 international accord (“Basel I”) that was developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”).

Basel III Capital and Liquidity Framework

In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation (“Basel III”). Basel III is a comprehensive set of reform
measures designed to strengthen the






regulation, supervision and risk management of the banking sector. These measures aim to improve the banking sector’s ability to absorb shocks arising from financial and economic stress,
whatever the source, improve risk management and governance, and strengthen banks’ transparency and disclosures. Basel III requires higher and better-quality capital, better risk coverage, the introduction of a new leverage ratio as a backstop
to the risk-based requirement, measures to promote the buildup of capital that can be drawn down in periods of stress, and the introduction of two global liquidity standards.

The Basel III final capital framework, among other things, introduces as a new capital measure, “common equity Tier 1,” and specifies that Tier 1 capital consists of common equity Tier 1 and
“additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting specified requirements.

The implementation of the Basel III final capital framework
commenced January 1, 2013 and will be fully phased-in on January 1, 2019. Beginning January 2013, banks with regulators adopting these standards in full are required to meet the following minimum capital ratios; 3.5% common equity Tier 1
to risk-weighted assets, 4.5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, and 8.0% total capital to risk-weighted assets. The implementation of a capital conservation buffer, effectively raising the minimum capital requirements, will begin on
January 1, 2016, at 0.625% and be phased-in over a four-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).

When fully phased-in, the Basel III capital framework will require banks to maintain: (a) a minimum ratio of common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% capital
conservation buffer; (b) a Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 6%, plus the capital conservation buffer; (c) a minimum ratio of total (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus
the capital conservation buffer; and (d) a minimum leverage ratio of 3%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to balance sheet exposures plus certain off-balance sheet exposures (as the average for each quarter of the month-end ratios for
the quarter). Thus, when the capital conservation buffer is fully phased-in, minimum ratios will effectively be 7% for common equity Tier 1, 8.5% for Tier 1 capital and 10.5% for total capital, with the 3% leverage ratio being maintained. Basel III
also provides for a “countercyclical capital buffer,” generally to be imposed when national regulators determine that excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk, that would be a common equity Tier 1
add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5% when fully implemented (potentially resulting in total buffers of between 2.5% and 5%).

The Basel III final capital framework provides for a number of adjustments to, including new deductions from, Tier 1 capital. These include, for example, the inclusion of the mark to market on the
available for sale investment securities portfolio, the deduction of the defined pension benefit asset, the deduction of certain deferred tax assets, and the requirement that mortgage servicing rights and significant investments in non-consolidated
financial entities be deducted from common equity Tier 1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of common equity Tier 1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of common equity Tier 1. Implementation of the adjustments and
new deductions from common equity Tier 1 will begin on January 1, 2014, and will be phased-in over a five-year period (20% per year).

The final Basel III liquidity framework requires banks to comply with two measures of liquidity risk exposure:



—the “liquidity coverage ratio,” based on a 30-day time horizon and calculated as the ratio of the “stock of high-quality liquid
assets” divided by “total net cash outflows over the next 30 calendar days,” which must be at least 100%; and



—the “net stable funding ratio,” calculated as the ratio of the “available amount of stable funding” divided by the “required
amount of stable funding,” which must be at least 100%.

Both of these measures are subject to observation periods and
transitional arrangements. The Basel III liquidity framework provides specifically that revisions to the liquidity coverage ratio will be made by mid-2013, with such ratio being introduced as a requirement on January 1, 2015, revisions to the
net stable funding ratio will be made by mid-2016, and the net stable funding ratio will be introduced as a requirement on January 1, 2018.






In January 2013, the Basel Committee issued its revisions to the liquidity coverage ratio. Important changes
include a phased-in implementation (introduction as planned on January 1, 2015, but with minimum requirements beginning at 60%, rising in equal annual steps of 10% to reach full implementation on January 1, 2019), an expansion of the range
of assets eligible to be high-quality liquid assets, and some refinements to the assumed inflow and outflow rates to better reflect actual experience in times of stress.

Given our strong capital position, we expect to be able to satisfy the Basel III capital framework when corresponding U.S. capital regulations are finalized. While we have a strong liquidity position, the
Basel III liquidity framework could require us and other U.S. banks to initiate additional liquidity management initiatives, including adding additional liquid assets, issuing term debt, and modifying our product pricing for loans, commitments, and
deposits. U.S. regulators have indicated that they may elect to make certain refinements to the Basel III liquidity framework. Accordingly, at this point it is premature to assess its impact.

Proposed Implementation of the Basel III Capital Framework

On August 30, 2012, the
federal banking agencies jointly published three separate NPRs seeking comment on proposed rules that would revise and replace their current capital rules in a manner consistent both with relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act as well as the
implementation of the Basel III capital framework. The comment period on these NPRs ended on October 22, 2012.

Implementation
of the Basel III final capital framework was proposed to begin on January 1, 2013, with minimum capital ratios and prompt corrective action requirements implemented by January 1, 2015, and the capital conservation buffer phased-in from
January 1, 2016, through January 1, 2019. On November 9, 2012, however, the agencies issued a joint press release (the “November 2012 Release”) indicating that none of the Basel III, Standardized Approach, and Advanced
Approaches NPRs would become effective on January 1, 2013, and that the agencies would take operational and other considerations into account when determining appropriate implementation dates and associated transition periods for them.

New Proposed Minimum Capital Requirements

As originally proposed, beginning January 1, 2013, banking organizations subject to the Basel III and Standardized Approach NPRs, like Key, would be required to meet the minimum capital and leverage
ratios set forth in the following table. At December 31, 2012, Key had a Tier 1 common equity ratio of 11.36% under current Basel I. Also at December 31, 2012, based on the fully phased-in Basel III and Standardized Approach NPRs, Key
estimates that its capital and leverage ratios, after adjustment for market risk pursuant to the new joint final market risk rule, would be as set forth in the following table. There can be no guarantee, however, that the Basel III and Standardized
Approach NPRs will be adopted in their current form, what changes may be made before adoption, or when ultimate adoption will occur.






Estimated Ratios vs. Proposed Minimum Capital Ratios Calculated Under the Fully Phased-In
Basel III and Standardized Approach NPRs



Ratios (including Capital conservation buffer)Key12-31-2012EstimatedProposedMinimum1-1-2013(a)Phase-inPeriod(a)ProposedMinimum1-1-2019(a)Common Equity Tier 110.4%3.5%1/1/13 - 1/1/154.5%Capital conservation buffer(b)—1/1/16 - 1/1/192.5Common Equity Tier 1 + Capital conservation buffer3.51/1/13 - 1/1/197.0Tier 1 Capital10.74.51/1/13 - 1/1/156.0Tier 1 Capital + Capital conservation buffer4.51/1/13 - 1/1/198.5Total Capital13.58.0None8.0Total Capital + Capital conservation buffer8.01/1/16 - 1/1/1910.5Leverage(c)10.24.0None4.0



(a)Per the November 2012 Release, the proposed implementation dates and phase-in periods are subject to extension.



(b)Capital conservation buffer must consist of Common Equity Tier 1 capital. Key is not subject to the proposed countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% imposed under
the Advanced Approaches NPR.



(c)Key is not subject to the proposed 3% supplemental leverage ratio requirement imposed under the Advanced Approaches NPR.

Revised Prompt Corrective Action Standards

Under the Basel III NPR, the prompt corrective action capital category threshold ratios applicable to FDIC-insured depository institutions, such as KeyBank, are proposed to be revised. The table below
identifies the proposed capital category threshold ratios for a well capitalized and an adequately capitalized institution under current law and the Basel III and Standardized Approach NPRs.

Proposed Revised Prompt Corrective Action Well Capitalized and Adequately Capitalized Capital Category Ratios



Prompt Corrective ActionCapital CategoryWell CapitalizedAdequately CapitalizedRatioProposedCurrentProposedCurrentCommon Equity Tier 1 Risk-Based6.5%N/A4.5%N/ATier 1 Risk-Based8.06.0%6.04.0%Total Risk-Based10.010.08.08.0Tier 1 Leverage5.05.04.03.0 or 4.0

We believe that, as of December 31, 2012, Key and KeyBank would meet all capital adequacy and corrective action
capital and leverage ratio requirements under the Basel III and Standardized Approach NPRs on a fully phased-in basis if such requirements were currently effective. There can be no guarantee that the Basel III and Standardized Approach NPRs will be
adopted in their current form, what changes may be made before adoption, or when ultimate adoption will occur.

As previously indicated, the
prompt corrective action requirements apply only to FDIC-insured depository institutions and not to BHCs. Nevertheless, if such prompt corrective action capital categories applied to BHCs, we believe that KeyCorp would meet all prompt corrective
action capital and leverage ratio requirements for a well-capitalized capital category at December 31, 2012, under the Basel III and Standardized Approach NPRs on a fully phased-in basis if such requirements were currently effective.






Capital Planning and Review of Capital Actions

U.S. BHCs with total consolidated assets of at least $50 billion, including KeyCorp, must submit capital plans to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis
and, notwithstanding written non-objection to the capital plan, must obtain in certain circumstances written approval or non-objection to make capital distributions. Such BHCs are also subject to Federal Reserve supervisory guidance with respect to
the declaration and payment of dividends, capital redemptions, and capital repurchases in the context of such BHC’s capital planning processes, including the supervisory expectation for prior notification to, and consultation with, Federal
Reserve supervisory staff regarding certain dividends and capital redemptions and repurchases.

The Federal Reserve’s supervisory review
of a BHC’s capital plan includes an assessment of:



—the comprehensiveness of the plan, including the extent to which the analysis underlying the plan captures and addresses potential risks stemming from
all activities across the BHC under baseline and stressed operating conditions and the BHC’s capital policy;



—the reasonableness of the BHC’s assumptions and analysis underlying the plan and the BHC’s methodologies for reviewing the robustness of the
BHC’s capital adequacy process; and



—the BHC’s ability to maintain capital above each minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5% on a pro forma basis under
expected and stressful conditions throughout the planning horizon.

Nineteen of the largest BHCs, including KeyCorp, are
required to submit a capital plan to the Federal Reserve for CCAR. CCAR is an annual exercise by the Federal Reserve to ensure that the largest BHCs have sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of financial and economic stress and
robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for their unique risks. As part of CCAR, the Federal Reserve evaluates such BHC’s capital adequacy, internal capital adequacy assessment processes, and plans to take capital
actions, including capital distributions. KeyCorp filed its CCAR 2013 capital plan on January 7, 2013. On January 28, 2013, the Federal Reserve announced that the results from CCAR 2013 will be released on March 14, 2013.

As part of CCAR, the Federal Reserve will continue to evaluate whether proposed capital actions are appropriate in light of the BHC’s plans to meet
the proposed Basel III requirements. As part of its capital plan submission, the BHC should provide a transition plan that includes pro forma estimates under baseline conditions of the BHC’s regulatory capital ratios under the proposed Basel
III capital framework as it would be implemented in the U.S. BHCs that meet the minimum ratio requirement during the Basel III transition period but remain below the 7% tier 1 common equity target (minimum plus capital conservation buffer) will be
expected to maintain prudent earnings retention policies with a view to meeting the capital conservation buffer under the time-frame described in the Basel III NPR, subject to extension pursuant to the November 2012 Release.

The Federal Reserve will approve dividend increases or other capital distributions for companies whose capital plans are approved by regulators and who
are able to demonstrate sufficient financial strength to continue to operate as financial intermediaries under stressed macroeconomic and financial market scenarios, even after making the planned capital distributions.

Dividend Restrictions

Federal banking
law and regulations impose limitations on the payment of dividends by our national bank subsidiaries. Historically, dividends paid by KeyBank have been an important source of cash flow for KeyCorp to pay dividends on its equity securities and
interest on its debt. Our national bank subsidiaries are limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under an earnings retention test and an undivided profits test. Under the earnings retention test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of
all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year is in






excess of the current year’s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the national bank obtains the approval of the OCC. Under the undivided
profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of a bank’s undivided profits. In addition, if in the opinion of a federal banking agency a banking organization (such as KeyCorp and KeyBank) under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about
to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the organization, could include the payment of dividends), the agency may require that such organization cease and desist from such practice.

During 2012, KeyBank paid KeyCorp a total of $1.8 billion in dividends; nonbank subsidiaries did not pay any cash or noncash dividends to KeyCorp. As of
January 1, 2013, KeyBank had fully utilized its regulatory capacity to pay dividends to KeyCorp. During 2012, KeyCorp did not make any capital infusions to KeyBank. At December 31, 2012, KeyCorp held $2.2 billion in short-term investments,
which can be used to pay dividends to shareholders, service debt and finance corporate operations.

Federal Deposit Insurance Act

Deposit Insurance and Assessments

The FDIC’s DIF provides insurance coverage for domestic deposits, which insurance is funded through assessments on insured depository institutions, like KeyBank. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the
amount of deposit insurance coverage for deposits increased permanently from $100,000 to $250,000 per depository, and the coverage of non-interest bearing transaction accounts was unlimited through December 31, 2012.

The FDIC assesses an insured depository institution an amount for deposit insurance premiums. The Dodd-Frank Act required the FDIC to change the
assessment base from domestic deposits to average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. KeyBank’s current annualized deposit insurance premium assessments range from $.025 to $.45 for each $100 of its assessment base,
depending on its scorecard performance factors incorporating KeyBank’s regulatory rating, ability to withstand asset and funding related stress, and relative magnitude of potential losses to the FDIC in the event of KeyBank’s failure.

On October 31, 2012, the FDIC amended its large bank assessment final rule applicable to KeyBank. The amendment revises the definitions
of certain risk assets, specifically higher-risk commercial and industrial loans and securities and higher-risk consumer loans, clarifies when an asset must be identified as higher-risk, and clarifies the way securitizations are identified as
higher-risk. These definitions affect the higher-risk concentration measure (higher-risk assets to Tier 1 capital and reserves) found in the large and highly complex institution scorecards. The amendment generally becomes effective on April 1,
2013. We estimate that our 2013 expense for deposit insurance assessments will be in the range of $37 to $41 million.

Conservatorship and
Receivership of Institutions






Depositor Preference

The FDIA provides that, in the event of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, the claims of its depositors (including claims by the FDIC as subrogee of insured
depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as receiver would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured
depositors along with the FDIC will be placed ahead of unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including a parent BHC, such as KeyCorp, and subordinated creditors, in order of priority of payment.

The Bank Secrecy Act

The BSA requires all financial institutions, including banks and
securities broker-dealers, to, among other things, establish a risk-based system of internal controls reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. It includes a variety of recordkeeping and reporting requirements
(such as cash and suspicious activity reporting) as well as due diligence/know-your-customer documentation requirements. Key has established an anti-money laundering program to comply with the BSA requirements.



