ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

Overview

KeyCorp, organized in 1958 under the laws of the State of Ohio, is headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio. We are a bank holding company under the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHCA”), and are one of the nation’s largest bank-based financial services companies, with consolidated total assets of $89 billion at December 31, 2011. KeyCorp is the parent holding company for
KeyBank National Association (“KeyBank”), its principal subsidiary, through which most of our banking services are provided. Through KeyBank and certain other subsidiaries, we provide a wide range of retail and commercial banking,
commercial leasing, investment management, consumer finance and investment banking products and services to individual, corporate and institutional clients through two major business segments: Key Community Bank and Key Corporate Bank.

As of December 31, 2011, these services were provided across the country through KeyBank’s 1,058 full-service retail banking branches in 14
states, additional offices, a telephone banking call center services group and a network of 1,579 automated teller machines (“ATMs”) in 15 states. Additional information pertaining to our two business segments is included in this report in
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (the “MD&A”), in the “Line of Business Results” section, and in Note 21 (“Line of Business Results”) of the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements presented in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data are incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp and its subsidiaries had an average of 15,381 full-time equivalent employees for 2011.

In addition to the customary banking services of accepting deposits and making loans, our bank and trust company subsidiaries offer personal
and corporate trust services, personal financial services, access to mutual funds, cash management services, investment banking and capital markets products, and international banking services. Through our bank, trust company and registered
investment adviser subsidiaries, we provide investment management services to clients that include large corporate and public retirement plans, foundations and endowments, high-net-worth individuals and multi-employer trust funds established for
providing pension or other benefits to employees.

We provide other financial services — both within and outside of our primary banking
markets — through various nonbank subsidiaries. These services include community development financing, securities underwriting and brokerage. We also are an equity participant in a joint venture that provides merchant services to businesses.

KeyCorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banks and other subsidiaries. Accordingly, the right of KeyCorp, its security
holders and its creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of its banks and other subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of the creditors of such banks and other subsidiaries, except to the extent that KeyCorp’s
claims in its capacity as a creditor may be recognized.

Demographics

We have two major business segments: Key Community Bank and Key Corporate Bank.

Key Community
Bank serves individuals and small to mid-sized businesses by offering a variety of deposit, investment, lending, and personalized wealth management products and services. These products and services are provided through our relationship managers and
specialists working in our 14-state branch network, which is organized into three internally defined geographic regions: Rocky Mountains and Northwest, Great Lakes, and Northeast.

The following table presents the geographic diversity of Key Community Bank’s average deposits, commercial loans and home equity loans.









Geographic RegionYear Ended December 31, 2011dollars in millionsRockyMountains andNorthwestGreat LakesNortheastNonregion(a)TotalAverage deposits$15,717$15,446$14,149$2,581$47,893Percent of total32.8%32.3%29.5%5.4%100.0%Average commercial loans$5,332$3,602$2,667$2,398$13,999Percent of total38.1%25.7%19.1%17.1%100.0%Average home equity loans$4,239$2,614$2,432$105$9,390Percent of total45.1%27.9%25.9%1.1%100.0%

(a)Represents average deposits, commercial loan and home equity loan products centrally managed outside of our three Key Community Bank regions.

Key Corporate Bank includes three lines of business that operate nationally, within and beyond our 14-state branch network: Real Estate Capital and
Corporate Banking Services; Equipment Finance; and Institutional and Capital Markets.

The Real Estate Capital and Corporate Banking Services
business consists of two business units:



—Real Estate Capital professionals are located in select markets across the country and provide financial services for public and private owners,
investors and developers of nonowner-occupied commercial real estate properties. In addition to direct loans, this business unit is a Fannie Mae Delegated Underwriter and Servicer, Freddie Mac Program Plus Seller/Servicer and FHA-approved mortgagee.
KeyBank Real Estate Capital is also one of the nation’s largest and highest rated commercial mortgage servicers. Figure 20, which appears later in this report in the “Loans and loans held for sale” section, shows the diversity of our
commercial real estate lending business based on industry type and location.



—Corporate Banking Services provides cash management, interest rate derivatives, and foreign exchange products and services to existing clients. Through
its Public Sector and Financial Institutions businesses, Corporate Banking Services also provides a full array of commercial banking products and services to government and not-for-profit entities and to community banks. A variety of cash management
services are provided through the Global Treasury Management unit.

Equipment Finance is one of the largest bank-based
equipment finance providers based in the U.S. This business unit meets the equipment financing needs of companies worldwide and provides equipment manufacturers, distributors and resellers with a platform and funding options for their clients.
Equipment finance specializes in the technology, healthcare, and renewable energy markets as well as the finance needs related to other capital assets.

The Institutional and Capital Markets business consists of two business units:



—KeyBanc Capital Markets provides commercial lending, treasury management, investment banking, derivatives, foreign exchange, equity and debt
underwriting and trading, and syndicated finance products and services, primarily to emerging and middle-market companies in the Industrial, Consumer, Real Estate, Energy, Technology and Healthcare sectors. This business unit’s focused industry
expertise and its consistent, integrated team approach, help our clients achieve their strategic objectives.

—Victory Capital Management is an investment advisory firm that manages or offers advice regarding investment portfolios. This business unit’s
national client base consists of both institutional and retail clients derived from four primary channels: public plans, Taft-Hartley plans, corporations, and endowments and foundations.

The products and services offered by our Key Community Bank and Key Corporate Bank segments are described further in this report in Note 21 (“Line
of Business Results”).







Additional Information

A comprehensive list of acronyms and abbreviations used throughout this report is included in Note 1 (“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”) in Item 8 of this report.

The following financial data is included in this report in the MD&A and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data are incorporated
herein by reference as indicated below:



Description of Financial DataPage(s)Selected Financial Data37Consolidated Average Balance Sheets, Net Interest Income and Yields/Rates From Continuing
Operations47-48Components of Net Interest Income Changes from Continuing Operations49Composition of Loans59Remaining Maturities and Sensitivity of Certain Loans to Changes in Interest Rates67Securities Available for Sale69Held-to-Maturity Securities69Maturity Distribution of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More71Allocation of the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses89Summary of Loan and Lease Loss Experience from Continuing Operations91Summary of Nonperforming Assets and Past Due Loans from Continuing Operations92Exit Loan Portfolio from Continuing Operations93Summary of Changes in Nonperforming Loans from Continuing Operations94Short-Term Borrowings172

Shareholders may obtain a copy of any of the
above-referenced corporate governance documents by writing to our Investor Relations Department at Investor Relations, KeyCorp, 127 Public Square, Mailcode OH-01-27-1113, Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306; by calling (216) 689-3000; or by sending an
e-mail to investor_relations@keybank.com.

Acquisitions and Divestitures

The information presented in Note 13 (“Acquisition, Divestiture and Discontinued Operations”) is incorporated herein by reference.







Competition

The market for banking and related financial services is highly competitive. KeyCorp and its subsidiaries (“Key”) compete with other providers of financial services, such as bank holding
companies, commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional and
national institutions that offer financial services. Many of our competitors enjoy fewer regulatory constraints and some may have lower cost structures. The financial services industry is likely to become more competitive as further technology
advances enable more companies to provide financial services. Technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial institutions. We compete by offering quality products and innovative services at
competitive prices, and by maintaining our products and services offerings to keep pace with customer preferences and industry standards.

In
recent years, mergers and acquisitions have led to greater concentration in the banking industry, placing added competitive pressure on Key’s core banking products and services. Consolidation continued during 2011 and led to redistribution of
deposits and certain banking assets to larger financial institutions, including through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) least cost resolution process, albeit at a slower pace than 2010. Financial institutions with
liquidity challenges sought mergers and the deposits and certain banking assets of the 157 banks that failed during 2010, representing $96.7 billion in total assets, were redistributed through the FDIC’s least-cost resolution process.

Supervision and Regulation

The following discussion addresses elements of the regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies, financial holding companies and banks and
provides certain specific information regarding material elements of the regulatory framework applicable to us. This regulatory framework is intended primarily to protect customers and depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) of
the FDIC and the banking system as a whole, rather than for the protection of security holders and creditors. As described in detail in Item 1A: Risk Factors, comprehensive reform of the legislative and regulatory environment occurred in 2010
and remains ongoing due to the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act. We cannot predict changes in the applicable laws, regulations and regulatory agency policies, yet such changes may have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results
of operations.

General

As
a bank holding company, KeyCorp is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) under the BHCA. Pursuant to the BHCA, bank holding companies may not, in
general, directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares, or substantially all of the assets, of any bank, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. In addition, bank holding companies are
generally prohibited from engaging in commercial or industrial activities.

Under the Dodd-Frank Act and long-standing Federal Reserve policy,
a bank holding company is expected to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be required
at a time when we may not have the resources to, or would choose not to, provide it. Certain loans by a bank holding company to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits in, and certain other indebtedness of, the subsidiary
bank. In addition, federal law provides that in the event of a bankruptcy, any commitment by a bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and
entitled to a priority of payment.

Federal law also establishes a system of functional regulation under which the Federal Reserve is the
umbrella regulator for bank holding companies, but bank holding company affiliates are principally regulated by







functional regulators such as the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) for national banks, the SEC for securities affiliates and state insurance regulators for insurance
affiliates. Certain specific activities, including traditional bank trust and fiduciary activities, may be conducted in the bank without the bank being deemed a “broker” or a “dealer” in securities for purposes of functional
regulation. Although the states generally must regulate bank insurance activities in a nondiscriminatory manner, the states may continue to adopt and enforce rules that specifically regulate bank insurance activities in certain identifiable risks.

Our national bank subsidiaries and their subsidiaries are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC. At December 31,
2011, we operated one full-service, FDIC-insured national bank subsidiary, KeyBank, and one national bank subsidiary whose activities are limited to those of a fiduciary. On January 17, 2012, we opened another national bank subsidiary; its
activities are limited to those of a fiduciary. The FDIC also has certain regulatory and supervisory authority over KeyBank and KeyCorp under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the “FDIA”), because domestic deposits in KeyBank
are insured (up to applicable limits) and certain debt obligations of KeyBank and KeyCorp are guaranteed until maturity by the FDIC.

We have
other financial services subsidiaries that are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve, as well as other applicable state and federal regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. Our brokerage and asset
management subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and state securities regulators, and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the insurance regulatory
authorities of the states in which they operate. Our other nonbank subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations of both the federal government and the various states in which they are authorized to do business.

Capital

Dividend Restrictions

Federal banking law and regulations impose limitations on the payment of dividends by our national bank subsidiaries. Historically,
dividends paid to us by KeyBank have been an important source of cash flow for KeyCorp to pay dividends on its equity securities and interest on its debt. Our national bank subsidiaries are limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under an
earnings retention test and an undivided profits test. Under the earnings retention test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year is in excess of the current year’s net income combined
with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the national bank obtains the approval of the OCC. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of a bank’s undivided profits. During 2008, 2009 and 2010,
and the first three quarters of 2011, KeyBank did not pay any dividends to us, and non-bank subsidiaries paid $25 million in dividends during 2010 and $45 million in dividends during 2011. During the fourth quarter of 2011, KeyBank paid $300 million
in dividends to us. At January 1, 2012, KeyBank has capacity to pay $1.3 billion in dividends to KeyCorp under the applicable supervisory guidance tests. At December 31, 2011, we held $2.1 billion in short-term investments, which can be
used to pay dividends, service debt and finance operations.

If, in the opinion of a federal banking agency, a banking organization, including
KeyCorp and KeyBank, under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the institution, could include the payment of dividends), the agency may require that
such institution cease and desist from such practice.

Capital Assessment and Review of Capital Actions

The Federal Reserve has issued supervisory guidance and published a capital plans final rule requiring bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in
assets, such as KeyCorp, to consult with the Federal Reserve staff before taking actions, such as increasing dividends, implementing common stock repurchase programs, or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. Such guidance and final rule
provide for a Comprehensive







Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”), including a supervisory capital assessment review, and outlines the Federal Reserve’s expectations concerning the processes that such bank
holding companies should have in place to ensure they hold adequate capital under adverse conditions to maintain ready access to funding. The procedures require the implementation of a comprehensive capital plan and demonstration that the bank
holding company will meet the Basel III regulatory capital standards, including the Basel III fully-phased in 7% tier 1 common equity target after giving effect to proposed dividend increases or other capital actions. KeyCorp is currently undergoing
a capital assessment review pursuant to the supervisory program.

Regulatory Capital Standards

Federal banking regulators have promulgated risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries.
Adequacy of regulatory capital is assessed periodically by the federal banking agencies in the examination and supervision process, and in the evaluation of applications in connection with specific transactions and activities, including
acquisitions, expansion of existing activities and commencement of new activities.

As part of the
Dodd-Frank Act, federal banking agencies are required to develop capital requirements that address systemically risky activities. The effect of these capital rules will disallow trust preferred securities from counting as Tier 1 capital at the
holding company level for entities with greater than $15 billion in assets with a three- year phase-in period beginning on January 1, 2013.

Bank holding companies with securities and commodities trading activities that exceed specified levels are required to maintain capital for market risk. Market risk includes changes in the market value of
trading account, foreign exchange and commodity positions, whether resulting from broad market movements (such as changes in the general level of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates or commodity prices) or from position specific
factors (such as idiosyncratic variation, event risk and default risk).

Prompt Corrective Action

The FDIA requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that
institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. FDIC-insured depository institutions are grouped into one of five prompt corrective action capital categories — well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized,
significantly undercapitalized and critically







undercapitalized — using the Tier 1 risk-based, total risk-based, and Tier 1 leverage capital ratios as the relevant capital measures. An institution is considered well-capitalized if it has
a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.00%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.00% and a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 5.00% and is not subject to any written agreement, order or capital directive to meet and
maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. At December 31, 2011, KeyBank was well-capitalized under the prompt corrective action standards. Federal law also requires that the bank regulatory agencies implement systems for
“prompt corrective action” for institutions that fail to meet minimum capital requirements within the five capital categories, with progressively more restrictions on operations, management and capital distributions.

The regulations apply only to banks and not to bank holding companies, such as KeyCorp. However, the Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate
action against the bank holding company based on the undercapitalized status of any bank subsidiary. In certain instances, the bank holding company would be required to guarantee the performance of the capital restoration plan for its
undercapitalized subsidiary. If such categories applied to bank holding companies, we believe that KeyCorp would satisfy the well-capitalized criteria at December 31, 2011. An institution’s prompt corrective action capital category,
however, may not constitute an accurate representation of the overall financial condition or prospects of the institution or parent bank holding company, and should be considered in conjunction with other available information regarding the
financial condition and results of operations of the institution and its parent bank holding company.

Basel Accords

Overview

The current minimum
risk-based capital requirements adopted by the U.S. federal banking agencies are based on a 1988 international accord (“Basel I”) that was developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). In 2004,
the Basel Committee published a new capital framework document (“Basel II”) governing the capital adequacy of large, internationally active banking organizations that generally rely on sophisticated risk management and measurement systems.
Basel II is designed to create incentives for these organizations to improve their risk measurement and management processes and to better align minimum capital requirements with the risks underlying their activities.

Basel II adopts a three-pillar framework for addressing capital adequacy — minimum capital requirements, supervisory review, and market discipline.
In December 2007, U.S. federal banking regulators issued a final rule for Basel II implementation, requiring banks with over $250 billion in consolidated total assets or on-balance sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion (core banks) to adopt the
advanced approach of Basel II while allowing other institutions to elect to opt-in. Currently, neither KeyCorp nor KeyBank is required to apply this final rule.

Basel III Capital Framework

In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final
framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation (“Basel III”). Basel III is a comprehensive set of reform measures designed to strengthen the regulation, supervision and risk management of the banking sector.
These measures aim to improve the banking sector’s ability to absorb shocks arising from financial and economic stress, whatever the source, improve risk management and governance, and strengthen banks’ transparency and disclosures. Basel
III requires higher and better-quality capital, better risk coverage, the introduction of a new leverage ratio as a backstop to the risk-based requirement, measures to promote the build up of capital that can be drawn down in periods of stress, and
the introduction of two global liquidity standards.

The Basel III final capital framework, among other things, introduces as a new capital
measure, “Tier 1 common equity,” and specifies that Tier 1 capital consists of Tier 1 common equity and “additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting specified requirements.







The implementation of the Basel III final capital framework will commence January 1, 2013 and be fully
phased-in on January 1, 2019. Beginning January 2013, banks with regulators adopting these standards in full would be required to meet the following minimum capital ratios – 3.5% common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets, 4.5% Tier 1
capital to risk-weighted assets, and 8.0% total capital to risk-weighted assets. The implementation of a capital conservation buffer, effectively raising the minimum capital requirements, will begin on January 1, 2016 at 0.625% and be phased-in
over a four-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).

The Basel III final framework
provides for a number of adjustments to, including new deductions from, Tier 1 capital. These include, for example, the inclusion of the mark to market on the available for sale investment securities portfolio, the deduction of the defined pension
benefit asset, the deduction of certain deferred tax assets, and the requirement that mortgage servicing rights and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from Tier 1 common equity to the extent that any one such
category exceeds 10% of Tier 1 common equity or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of Tier 1 common equity. Implementation of the adjustments and new deductions from Tier 1 common equity will begin on January 1, 2014 and will be
phased-in over a five-year period (20% per year).







Basel III Liquidity Framework

The final Basel III liquidity framework requires banks to comply with two measures of liquidity risk exposure:



—the “liquidity coverage ratio,” based on a 30-day time horizon and calculated as the ratio of the “stock of high-quality liquid
assets” divided by “total net cash outflows over the next 30 calendar days,” which must be at least 100%; and



—the “net stable funding ratio,” calculated as the ratio of the “available amount of stable funding” divided by the “required
amount of stable funding,” which must be at least 100%.

Each of the components of these ratios is defined, and the
ratio calculated, in accordance with detailed requirements in the Basel III liquidity framework. Although the Basel Committee has not asked for additional comment on these ratios, both are subject to observation periods and transitional
arrangements. The Basel III liquidity framework provides specifically that revisions to the liquidity coverage ratio will be made by mid-2013, with such ratio being introduced as a requirement on January 1, 2015, revisions to the net stable
funding ratio will be made by mid-2016, and the net stable funding ratio will be introduced as a requirement on January 1, 2018.

The
Federal Reserve is expected to publish in the first-half of 2012 a notice of proposed rulemaking for the implementation of the Basel III liquidity framework. While we have a strong liquidity position, the Basel III liquidity framework could require
us and other U.S. banks to initiate additional liquidity management initiatives, including adding additional liquid assets, issuing term debt, and modifying our product pricing for loans, commitments, and deposits. U.S. regulators have indicated
that they may elect to make certain refinements to the Basel III liquidity framework. Accordingly, at this point it is premature to assess its impact.

Federal Deposit Insurance Act

Deposit Insurance

The FDIC’s DIF provides insurance coverage for certain deposits, which insurance is funded through assessments on banks, like KeyBank. During the
period of 2007-2010, higher bank failures dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the DIF. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the amount of deposit insurance coverage for deposits increased permanently from $100,000 to $250,000
per depository, and the coverage of non-interest bearing demand deposit accounts is unlimited, effective from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2012.

Deposit Insurance Assessments

Substantially all of KeyBank’s domestic deposits are
insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC. The FDIC assesses an insured depository institution an amount for deposit insurance premiums. The Dodd-Frank Act required the FDIC to change the assessment base from domestic deposits to average
consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, and requires the DIF reserve ratio to increase to 1.35% by September 30, 2020. Under the final rule, which was effective on April 1, 2011, KeyBank’s annualized deposit insurance
premium assessments ranged from $.025 to $.45 for each $100 of its new assessment base, depending on its new scorecard performance factors that will incorporate KeyBank’s regulatory rating, ability to withstand asset and funding related stress,
and relative magnitude of potential losses to the FDIC in the event of KeyBank’s failure. We estimate that our 2012 expense for deposit insurance assessments will be $45 million to $60 million.

Conservatorship and Receivership of Institutions

Upon the insolvency of an insured depository institution, the FDIC will be appointed the conservator or receiver under the FDIA. In such an insolvency, the FDIC may repudiate or disaffirm any contract to
which such







institution is a party if the FDIC determines that performance of the contract would be burdensome, and that disaffirmance or repudiation of the contract would promote the orderly administration
of the institution’s affairs. Such disaffirmance or repudiation would result in a claim by the other party to the contract against the receivership or conservatorship. The amount paid upon such claim would depend upon, among other factors, the
amount of receivership assets available for the payment of such claim and the priority of the claim relative to the priority of others. In addition, the FDIC as conservator or receiver may enforce most contracts entered into by the institution
notwithstanding any provision regarding termination, default, acceleration, or exercise of rights upon or solely by reason of insolvency of the institution, appointment of a conservator or receiver for the institution, or exercise of rights or
powers by a conservator or receiver for the institution. The FDIC as conservator or receiver also may transfer any asset or liability of the institution without obtaining any approval or consent of the institution’s shareholders or creditors.

The above provisions would be applicable to obligations and liabilities of Key’s bank subsidiaries that are insured depository
institutions, such as KeyBank, including, without limitation, obligations under senior or subordinated debt issued by those banks to investors in the public markets.

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC may be appointed receiver to conduct an orderly liquidation of a systemically important financial institution. The FDIC has adopted certain rules to implement its
orderly liquidation authority. As KeyCorp has over $50 billion in assets, we are subject to these requirements.

Depositor Preference

The FDIA provides that, in the event of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, the claims of its
depositors (including claims by the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as receiver would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution. If an
insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors along with the FDIC will be placed ahead of unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including a parent holding company, such as KeyCorp, and subordinated creditors, in order of priority
of payment.

The Bank Secrecy Act

The Bank Secrecy Act (the “BSA”) requires all financial institutions, including banks and securities broker-dealers, to, among other things, establish a risk-based system of internal controls
reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The BSA includes a variety of recordkeeping and reporting requirements (such as cash and suspicious activity reporting) as well as due diligence/know-your-customer
documentation requirements. Key has established an anti-money laundering program to comply with the BSA requirements.

Bank Transactions
with Affiliates

Federal banking law and the regulations promulgated thereunder impose qualitative standards and quantitative limitations
upon certain transactions by a bank with its affiliates. Transactions covered by these provisions must be on arm’s length terms, and cannot exceed certain amounts, determined with reference to the bank’s regulatory capital. Moreover, if
the transaction is a loan or other extension of credit, it must be secured by collateral in an amount and quality expressly prescribed by statute. These provisions materially restrict the ability of KeyBank, as a bank, to fund its affiliates,
including KeyCorp, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., any of the Victory mutual funds, and KeyCorp’s nonbanking subsidiaries engaged in making merchant banking investments.



