ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Forward-looking
    Statements



From time to time, we have made or will make forward-looking
    statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements do not relate
    strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking
    statements usually can be identified by the use of words such as
    “goal,” “objective,” “plan,”
    “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,”
    “project,” “believe,” “estimate,”
    or other words of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements
    provide our current expectations or forecasts of future events,
    circumstances, results or aspirations. Our disclosures in this
    report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of
    the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We may
    also make forward-looking statements in our other documents
    filed or furnished with the SEC. In addition, we may make
    forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors,
    representatives of the media and others.



Forward-looking statements are not historical facts and, by
    their nature, are subject to assumptions, risks and
    uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. Our
    actual results may differ materially from those set forth in our
    forward-looking statements. There is no assurance that any list
    of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete. Factors
    that could cause actual results to differ from those described
    in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to:



♦ indications of an improving economy may prove to be
    premature;





♦the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
    (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) will subject us to a variety of
    new and more stringent legal and regulatory requirements;



♦changes in local, regional and international business, economic
    or political conditions in the regions where we operate or have
    significant assets;



♦changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies of various
    governmental bodies and central banks could affect the economic
    environment in which we operate;



♦our ability to effectively deal with an economic slowdown or
    other economic or market difficulty;



♦adverse changes in credit quality trends;



♦our ability to determine accurate values of certain assets and
    liabilities;



♦reduction of the credit ratings assigned to KeyCorp and KeyBank;



♦adverse behaviors in securities, public debt, and capital
    markets, including changes in market liquidity and volatility;



♦changes in investor sentiment, consumer spending or saving
    behavior;



♦our ability to manage liquidity;



♦our ability to anticipate interest rate changes correctly and
    manage interest rate risk presented through unanticipated
    changes in our interest rate risk positionand/orshort- and long-term interest rates;



♦unanticipated changes in our liquidity position, including but
    not limited to our ability to enter the financial markets to
    manage and respond to any changes to our liquidity position;



♦changes in foreign exchange rates;



♦limitations on our ability to return capital to shareholders and
    potential dilution of our Common Shares as a result of the
    United States Department of the Treasury’s (the
    “U.S. Treasury”) investment under the terms of
    its Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”);



♦adequacy of our risk management program;



♦increased competitive pressure due to consolidation;



♦other new or heightened legal standards and regulatory
    requirements, practices or expectations;



♦our ability to timely and effectively implement our strategic
    initiatives;



♦increases in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the
    “FDIC”) premiums and fees;



♦unanticipated adverse affects of acquisitions and dispositions
    of assets, business units or affiliates;



♦our ability to attractand/orretain talented executives and employees;







♦operational or risk management failures due to technological or
    other factors;♦changes in accounting principles or in tax laws, rules and
    regulations;♦adverse judicial proceedings;♦occurrence of natural or man-made disasters or conflicts or
    terrorist attacks disrupting the economy or our ability to
    operate; and♦other risks and uncertainties summarized in Part 1,
    Item 1A: Risk Factors in this report.



Any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf speak
    only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any
    obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect
    the impact of subsequent events or circumstances. Before making
    an investment decision, you should carefully consider all risks
    and uncertainties disclosed in our SEC filings, including our
    reports onForms 8-K,10-Kand10-Qand our
    registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended, all of which are accessible on the SEC’s website
    at www.sec.gov and on our website at www.Key.com/IR.



Overview



KeyCorp, organized in 1958 under the laws of the State of Ohio,
    is headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio. We are a bank holding
    company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended
    (“BHCA”), and are one of the nation’s largest
    bank-based financial services companies, with consolidated total
    assets of $91.8 billion at December 31, 2010. KeyCorp
    is the parent holding company for KeyBank National Association
    (“KeyBank”), its principal subsidiary, through which
    most of our banking services are provided. Through KeyBank and
    certain other subsidiaries, we provide a wide range of retail
    and commercial banking, commercial leasing, investment
    management, consumer finance and investment banking products and
    services to individual, corporate and institutional clients
    through two major business segments: Key Community Bank and Key
    Corporate Bank.



As of December 31, 2010, these services were provided
    across the country through KeyBank’s 1,033 full-service
    retail banking branches in fourteen states, additional offices,
    a telephone banking call center services group and a network of
    1,531 automated teller machines (“ATMs”) in fifteen
    states. Additional information pertaining to our two business
    segments is included in this report in Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations (the “MD&A”), in the
    “Line of Business Results” section, and in
    Note 21 (“Line of Business Results”) of the Notes
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements presented in
    Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data are
    incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp and its subsidiaries
    had an average of 15,610 full-time equivalent employees for
    2010.



In addition to the customary banking services of accepting
    deposits and making loans, our bank and trust company
    subsidiaries offer personal and corporate trust services,
    personal financial services, access to mutual funds, cash
    management services, investment banking and capital markets
    products, and international banking services. Through our bank,
    trust company and registered investment adviser subsidiaries, we
    provide investment management services to clients that include
    large corporate and public retirement plans, foundations and
    endowments,high-net-worthindividuals and multi-employer trust funds established for
    providing pension or other benefits to employees.



We provide other financial services — both within and
    outside of our primary banking markets — through
    various nonbank subsidiaries. These services include principal
    investing, community development financing, securities
    underwriting and brokerage, and merchant services. We also are
    an equity participant in a joint venture that provides merchant
    services to businesses.



KeyCorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banks
    and other subsidiaries. Accordingly, the right of KeyCorp, its
    security holders and its creditors to participate in any
    distribution of the assets or earnings of its banks and other
    subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of the creditors of
    such banks and other subsidiaries, except to the extent that
    KeyCorp’s claims in its capacity as a creditor may be
    recognized.



Additional
    Information



A comprehensive list of acronyms and abbreviations used
    throughout this report is included in Note 1 (“Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies”) in Item 8 of this
    report.





The following financial data is included in this report in the
    MD&A and Item 8. Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data are incorporated herein by reference as
    indicated below:



Description of Financial
    DataPage(s)Selected Financial Data39Consolidated Average Balance Sheets, Net Interest Income and
    Yields/Rates From Continuing Operations48-49Components of Net Interest Income Changes from Continuing
    Operations50Composition of Loans56Remaining Maturities and Sensitivity of Certain Loans to Changes
    in Interest Rates63Securities Available for Sale65Held-to-MaturitySecurities65Maturity Distribution of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More66Allocation of the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses82Summary of Loan and Lease Loss Experience from Continuing
    Operations84Summary of Nonperforming Assets and Past Due Loans from
    Continuing Operations85Exit Loan Portfolio from Continuing Operations86Asset Quality110Short-Term Borrowings144





44114-1306,

(216) 689-3000.

Form 10-K,

Form 10-Q

Form 8-K,



Shareholders may obtain a copy of any of the above-referenced
    corporate governance documents by writing to our Investor
    Relations Department at Investor Relations, KeyCorp, 127 Public
    Square, Mailcode OH-01-27-1113, Cleveland,Ohio 44114-1306;by calling(216) 689-3000;or by sending ane-mailto
    investor_relations@keybank.com.



Acquisitions
    and Divestitures



The information presented in Note 13 (“Acquisition,
    Divestiture, and Discontinued Operations”) is incorporated
    herein by reference.



Competition



The market for banking and related financial services is highly
    competitive. KeyCorp and its subsidiaries (“Key”)
    compete with other providers of financial services, such as bank
    holding companies, commercial banks, savings associations,
    credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies,
    mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms,
    investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local,
    regional and national institutions that offer financial
    services. Many of our competitors enjoy fewer regulatory
    constraints and some may have lower cost structures. The
    financial services industry is likely to become more competitive
    as further technology advances enable more companies to provide
    financial services. Technological advances may diminish the
    importance of depository institutions and other financial
    institutions. We compete by offering quality products and
    innovative services at competitive prices, and by maintaining
    our products and services offerings to keep pace with customer
    preferences and industry standards.



In recent years, mergers and acquisitions have led to greater
    concentration in the banking industry, placing added competitive
    pressure on Key’s core banking products and services.
    Consolidation continued during 2010 and led to redistribution of
    deposits and certain banking assets to larger financial
    institutions. Financial institutions with liquidity challenges
    sought mergers and the





deposits and certain banking assets of the 157 banks that failed
    during 2010, representing $96.7 billion in total assets,
    were redistributed through the FDIC’s least-cost resolution
    process. These factors have intensified the concentration of the
    industry over the last few years and placed increased
    competitive pressure on Key’s core banking products and
    services.



Supervision
    and Regulation



The following discussion addresses elements of the regulatory
    framework applicable to bank holding companies, financial
    holding companies and their subsidiaries and provides certain
    specific information regarding material elements of the
    regulatory framework applicable to us. This regulatory framework
    is intended primarily to protect customers and depositors, the
    Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) of the FDIC and the
    banking system as a whole, rather than for the protection of
    security holders and creditors. We cannot necessarily predict
    changes in the applicable laws, regulations and regulatory
    agency policies, yet such changes may have a material effect on
    our business, financial condition or results of operations.



General



As a bank holding company, KeyCorp is subject to regulation,
    supervision and examination by the Board of Governors of the
    Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) under
    the BHCA. Pursuant to the BHCA, bank holding companies may not,
    in general, directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or
    control of more than 5% of the voting shares, or substantially
    all of the assets, of any bank, without the prior approval of
    the Federal Reserve. In addition, bank holding companies are
    generally prohibited from engaging in commercial or industrial
    activities.



Our bank subsidiaries are also subject to extensive regulation,
    supervision and examination by applicable federal banking
    agencies. We operate one full-service, FDIC-insured national
    bank subsidiary, KeyBank, and one national bank subsidiary whose
    activities are limited to those of a fiduciary. Both of our
    national bank subsidiaries and their subsidiaries are subject to
    regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the
    Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”). Because
    domestic deposits in KeyBank are insured (up to applicable
    limits) and certain debt obligations of KeyBank and KeyCorp are
    temporarily guaranteed by the FDIC, the FDIC also has certain
    regulatory and supervisory authority over KeyBank and KeyCorp
    under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the “FDIA”).



We also have other financial services subsidiaries that are
    subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the
    Federal Reserve, as well as other applicable state and federal
    regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. For
    example, our brokerage and asset management subsidiaries are
    subject to supervision and regulation by the SEC, the Financial
    Industry Regulatory Authority and state securities regulators,
    and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the
    insurance regulatory authorities of the states in which they
    operate. Our other nonbank subsidiaries are subject to laws and
    regulations of both the federal government and the various
    states in which they are authorized to do business.



Capital
    Actions, Dividend Restrictions and the Supervisory Capital
    Assessment Program



On November 14, 2008, KeyCorp sold $2.5 billion of
    Fixed-Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B
    (the “Series B Preferred Stock”) and a warrant to
    purchase 35,244,361 common shares, par value $1.00 (the
    “Warrant”), to the U.S. Treasury in conjunction
    with its CPP. The terms of the transaction with the
    U.S. Treasury include limitations on our ability to pay
    dividends and repurchase Common Shares. For three years after
    the issuance or until the U.S. Treasury no longer holds any
    Series B Preferred Stock, we will not be able to increase
    our dividends above the level paid in the third quarter of 2008,
    nor will we be permitted to repurchase any of its Common Shares
    or preferred stock without the approval of the
    U.S. Treasury, subject to the availability of certain
    limited exceptions (e.g., for purchases in connection with
    benefit plans).



The Federal Reserve advised in its Supervisory Letter SR09-4(revised March 27, 2009) that recipients of CPP funds
    should communicate reasonably in advance with Federal Reserve
    staff concerning how any proposed dividends, capital redemptions
    and capital repurchases are consistent with the requirements of
    CPP, and related Federal Reserve supervisory policy.
    Furthermore, the Federal Reserve’s Revised Temporary
    Addendum to SR09-4issued
    in November 2010 (the “Revised Addendum”), outlined
    its Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (“SCAP”)
    expectations, and clarified that SCAP bank holding companies
    (“BHCs”) planned capital actions, including plans to
    repay any outstanding U.S. government investment in common
    or preferred shares, requests to increase common stock
    dividends, reinstate or increase common stock repurchase
    programs, or make other capital distributions, would be
    evaluated as part of the supervisory assessment. As with all of
    the nineteen SCAP BHCs, should we seek to raise our Common
    Shares dividend following any repayment of the
    U.S. Treasury, we must consult with the Federal Reserve and
    demonstrate that such actions are consistent with existing
    supervisory guidance.



Federal banking law and regulations also limit the amount of
    dividends that may be paid to us by our bank subsidiaries
    without regulatory approval. Historically, dividends paid to us
    by KeyBank have been an important source of cash flow for
    KeyCorp to pay dividends on our equity securities and interest
    on its debt. The approval of the OCC is required for the payment
    of any dividend by a national bank if the total of all dividends
    declared by the board of directors of such bank in any calendar
    year would exceed the total of: (i) the bank’s net
    income for the current year plus (ii) the retained net
    income (as defined and





interpreted by regulation) for the preceding two years, less any
    required transfer to surplus or a fund for the retirement of any
    preferred stock. In addition, a national bank can pay dividends
    only to the extent of its undivided profits. Our national bank
    subsidiaries are subject to these restrictions. During 2010,
    KeyBank did not pay any dividends to us; nonbank subsidiaries
    paid us a total of $25 million in dividends. During 2010,
    KeyBank could not pay dividends to us without prior regulatory
    approval because KeyBank’s net losses of
    $1.151 billion for 2009 and $1.161 billion for 2008
    exceeded KeyBank’s net income during 2010. We made capital
    infusions of $100 million and $1.2 billion for 2010
    and 2009, respectively, into KeyBank in the form of cash. At
    December 31, 2010, we held $3.3 billion in short-term
    investments, which can be used to pay dividends, service debt,
    and finance corporate operations.



If, in the opinion of a federal banking agency, a depository
    institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to
    engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the
    financial condition of the institution, could include the
    payment of dividends), the agency may require that such
    institution cease and desist from such practice. The OCC and the
    FDIC have indicated that paying dividends that would deplete a
    depository institution’s capital base to an inadequate
    level would be an unsafe and unsound practice. Moreover, under
    the FDIA, an insured depository institution may not pay any
    dividend: (i) if payment would cause it to become less than
    “adequately capitalized” or (ii) while it is in
    default in the payment of an assessment due to the FDIC. For
    additional information on capital categories see the
    “Regulatory Capital Standards and Related
    Matters —Prompt Corrective Action” section below.
    Also, the federal banking agencies have issued policy statements
    that provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their
    holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of
    their current operating earnings.



SCAP



The Federal Reserve’s Revised Addendum related to the
    conduct of SCAP for 2011 requested that each SCAP BHC submit its
    Comprehensive Capital Plan by January 7, 2011. The
    Comprehensive Capital Plan requirements include, among other
    things:



♦the incorporation of stress testing with a minimum planning
    horizon of 24 months;♦a review of planned capital actions and pro forma estimates;♦management’s plans for addressing proposed revisions to the
    regulatory capital framework agreed to by the Basel Committee;♦a transition plan with pro forma estimates of regulatory capital
    ratios under the Basel III framework over the phase-in
    period; and♦detail supporting the actions and assumptions to be taken over
    the entire period necessary for the BHC to meet the fully
    phased-in 7% Tier 1 common equity target.



Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve is required
    beginning in 2012 to perform an annual supervisory assessment of
    certain covered BHCs and non-banks, and these same financial
    companies will be required to conduct semi-annual stress tests.
    Currently, we conduct stress testing on a quarterly basis. The
    Dodd-Frank Act also requires the Federal Reserve to issue
    regulations concerning its supervisory assessment and stress
    testing by January 2012, which must: (1) prescribe that
    three scenarios be used in the stress test—baseline,
    adverse, and severely adverse; (2) establish the
    methodologies for the conduct of the test; (3) establish
    the form and content of the report required to be submitted to
    the Federal Reserve and the financial institution’s primary
    regulator; and (4) require companies to publish a summary
    of the required stress test. These regulations have yet to be
    issued.



Holding
    Company Structure



Bank Transactions with Affiliates.Federal banking
    law and the regulations promulgated thereunder impose
    qualitative standards and quantitative limitations upon certain
    transactions by a bank with its affiliates. Transactions covered
    by these provisions must be on arm’s length terms, and
    cannot exceed certain amounts, determined with reference to the
    bank’s regulatory capital. Moreover, if a loan or other
    extension of credit, it must be secured by collateral in an
    amount and quality expressly prescribed by statute. These
    provisions materially restrict the ability of KeyBank, as a
    bank, to fund its affiliates including KeyCorp, KeyBanc Capital
    Markets Inc., any of the Victory mutual funds, and
    KeyCorp’s nonbanking subsidiaries engaged in making
    merchant banking investments.



Source of Strength Doctrine.Under the Dodd-Frank
    Act and long-standing Federal Reserve policy, a bank holding
    company is expected to serve as a source of financial and
    managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and, under
    appropriate circumstances, to commit resources to support each
    such subsidiary bank. This support may be required at a time
    when we may not have the resources to, or would choose not to,
    provide it. Certain loans by a bank holding company to a
    subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits
    in, and certain other indebtedness of, the subsidiary bank. In
    addition, federal law provides that in the event of a
    bankruptcy, any commitment by a bank holding company to a
    federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a
    subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and
    entitled to a priority of payment.





Regulatory
    Capital Standards and Related Matters



Risk-Based and Leverage Regulatory Capital.Federal
    law defines and prescribes minimum levels of regulatory capital
    for bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries. Adequacy
    of regulatory capital is assessed periodically by the federal
    banking agencies in the examination and supervision process, and
    in the evaluation of applications in connection with specific
    transactions and activities, including acquisitions, expansion
    of existing activities and commencement of new activities.



Bank holding companies are subject to risk-based capital
    guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve. These guidelines
    establish minimum ratios of qualifying capital to risk-weighted
    assets. Qualifying capital includes Tier 1 capital and
    Tier 2 capital. Risk-weighted assets are calculated by
    assigning varying risk-weights to broad categories of assets and
    off-balance sheet exposures, based primarily on counterparty
    credit risk. The required minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital
    ratio, calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by
    risk-weighted assets, is currently 4.00%. The required minimum
    total risk-based capital ratio is currently 8.00%. It is
    calculated by dividing the sum of Tier 1 capital and
    Tier 2 capital (which cannot exceed the amount of
    Tier 1 capital), after certain deductions, by risk-weighted
    assets.



Tier 1 capital includes common equity, qualifying perpetual
    preferred equity (including the Series A Preferred Stock
    and the Series B Preferred Stock), and minority interests
    in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries less certain
    intangible assets (including goodwill) and certain other assets.
    Tier 2 capital includes qualifying hybrid capital
    instruments, perpetual debt, mandatory convertible debt
    securities, perpetual preferred equity not includable in
    Tier 1 capital, limited amounts of term subordinated debt,
    and medium-term preferred equity, certain unrealized holding
    gains on certain equity securities, and the allowance for loan
    and lease losses, limited as a percentage of net risk-weighted
    assets.



Bank holding companies, whose securities and commodities trading
    activities exceed specified levels also are required to maintain
    capital for market risk. Market risk includes changes in the
    market value of trading account, foreign exchange, and commodity
    positions, whether resulting from broad market movements (such
    as changes in the general level of interest rates, equity
    prices, foreign exchange rates, or commodity prices) or from
    position specific factors (such as idiosyncratic variation,
    event risk, and default risk).



On January 11, 2011, the federal banking agencies published
    a proposal to revise their market risk capital rules. The
    proposal would modify the scope of such rules to better capture
    positions for which the market risk capital rules are
    appropriate, reduce pro-cyclicality in market risk capital
    requirements, enhance the rules’ sensitivity to risks that
    are not adequately captured under the current regulatory
    measurement methodologies, and increase transparency through
    enhanced disclosures. The proposal does not include the
    methodologies adopted by the Basel Committee on Banking
    Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) for calculating
    the specific risk capital requirements for debt and
    securitization positions because those methodologies relay on
    credit ratings, which is impermissible under the Dodd-Frank Act.
    Consequently, the proposal retains the current specific risk
    treatment for these positions until the agencies develop
    alternative standards of creditworthiness as required by the
    Dodd-Frank Act. At December 31, 2010, we had regulatory
    capital in excess of all minimum risk-based requirements,
    including all required adjustments for market risk.



In addition to the risk-based standards, bank holding companies
    are subject to the Federal Reserve’s leverage ratio
    guidelines. These guidelines establish minimum ratios of
    Tier 1 risk-based capital to total assets. The minimum
    leverage ratio, calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by
    average total consolidated assets, is 3.00% for bank holding
    companies that either have the highest supervisory rating or
    have implemented the Federal Reserve’s risk-based capital
    measure for market risk. All other bank holding companies must
    maintain a minimum leverage ratio of at least 4.00%. At
    December 31, 2010, Key had regulatory capital in excess of
    all minimum leverage capital requirements, and satisfied the
    SCAP requirements set forth in supervisory guidance.



Our national bank subsidiaries are also subject to risk-based
    and leverage capital requirements adopted by the OCC, which are
    substantially similar to those imposed by the Federal Reserve on
    bank holding companies. At December 31, 2010, each of our
    national bank subsidiaries had regulatory capital in excess of
    all minimum risk-based and leverage capital requirements.



In addition to establishing regulatory minimum ratios of capital
    to assets for all bank holding companies and their bank
    subsidiaries, the risk-based and leverage capital guidelines
    also identify various organization-specific factors and risks
    that are not taken into account in the computation of the
    capital ratios but that affect the overall supervisory
    evaluation of a banking organization’s regulatory capital
    adequacy and can result in the imposition of higher minimum
    regulatory capital ratio requirements upon the particular
    organization. Neither the Federal Reserve nor the OCC has
    advised us or any of our national bank subsidiaries of any
    specific minimum risk-based or leverage capital ratios
    applicable to us or such national bank subsidiary.



Prompt Corrective Action.The federal banking
    agencies are required to take prompt corrective action in
    respect of depository institutions, that do not meet minimum
    capital requirements under federal law. Such prompt corrective
    action includes imposing progressively more restrictions on
    operations, management, and capital distributions as an
    institution’s capital decreases. FDIC-insured depository
    institutions are grouped into one of five prompt corrective
    action capital categories — well capitalized,
    adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly
    undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized —
    using the Tier 1 risk-based, total risk-based, and
    Tier 1 leverage capital ratios as the relevant capital
    measures. An institution is considered well





capitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of at
    least 10.00%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least
    6.00% and a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 5.00%
    and is not subject to any written agreement, order or capital
    directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any
    capital measure. At December 31, 2010, KeyBank was well
    capitalized under the prompt corrective action standards.
    Federal law also requires that the bank regulatory agencies
    implement systems for “prompt corrective action” for
    institutions that fail to meet minimum capital requirements
    within the five capital categories, with progressively more
    restrictions on operations, management and capital distributions.



Bank holding companies are not grouped into any of the five
    capital categories applicable to insured depository
    institutions. If such categories applied to bank holding
    companies, we believe that KeyCorp would satisfy the well
    capitalized criteria at December 31, 2010. An
    institution’s prompt corrective action capital category,
    however, may not constitute an accurate representation of the
    overall financial condition or prospects of the institution or
    parent bank holding company, and should be considered in
    conjunction with other available information regarding the
    financial condition and results of operations of the institution
    and its parent bank holding company.



Basel
    Accords



Overview



The current minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by
    the U.S. federal banking agencies are based on a 1988
    international accord (“Basel I”) that was developed by
    the Basel Committee. In 2004, the Basel Committee published a
    new capital framework document (“Basel II”) governing
    the capital adequacy of large, internationally active banking
    organizations that generally rely on sophisticated risk
    management and measurement systems. Basel II is designed to
    create incentives for these organizations to improve their risk
    measurement and management processes and to better align minimum
    capital requirements with the risks underlying their activities.



Basel II adopts a three-pillar framework for addressing
    capital adequacy — minimum capital requirements,
    supervisory review, and market discipline. In December 2007,
    U.S. federal banking regulators issued a final rule for
    Basel II implementation, requiring banks with over
    $250 billion in consolidated total assets or on-balance
    sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion (core banks) to adopt
    the advanced approach of Basel II while allowing other
    institutions to elect to opt-in. Currently, neither KeyCorp nor
    KeyBank is required to apply this final rule.



Basel III
    Capital Framework



In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final
    framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity
    regulation (“Basel III”). Basel III is a
    comprehensive set of reform measures designed to strengthen the
    regulation, supervision and risk management of the banking
    sector. These measures aim to improve the banking sector’s
    ability to absorb shocks arising from financial and economic
    stress, whatever the source, improve risk management and
    governance, and strengthen banks’ transparency and
    disclosures. Basel III requires higher and better-quality
    capital, better risk coverage, the introduction of an
    international leverage ratio as a backstop to the risk-based
    requirement, measures to promote the build up of capital that
    can be drawn down in periods of stress, and the introduction of
    two global liquidity standards.



The Basel III final capital framework, among other things:





•introduces as a new capital measure, “common equity
    Tier 1,” and specifies that Tier 1 capital consists of
    common equity Tier 1 and “additional Tier 1
    capital” instruments meeting specified requirements;



•when fully phased in on January 1, 2019, will require banks
    to maintain: (a) a minimum ratio of common equity
    Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a
    2.5% “capital conservation buffer” (which effectively
    results in a minimum ratio of common equity Tier 1 to
    risk-weighted assets of at least 7%); (b) a Tier 1
    capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 6%, plus the
    capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0%
    Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in,
    effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of
    8.5% upon full implementation); (c) a minimum ratio of
    total (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to
    risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital
    conservation buffer (effectively resulting in a minimum total
    capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation); and (d) a
    minimum leverage ratio of 3%, calculated as the ratio of
    Tier 1 capital to balance sheet exposures plus certain
    off-balance sheet exposures (as the average for each quarter of
    the month-end ratios for the quarter);



•provides for a “countercyclical capital buffer”,
    generally to be imposed when national regulators determine that
    excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup
    of systemic risk, that would be a common equity Tier 1
    add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0% to
    2.5% when fully implemented (potentially resulting in total
    buffers of between 2.5% and 5%); and







•the capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses
    during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a
    ratio of common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets above
    the minimum but below the conservation buffer (or below the
    combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital
    buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on
    dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the
    amount of the short fall.



The implementation of the Basel III final capital framework
    will commence January 1, 2013. On that date, banks with
    regulators adopting these standards in full would be required to
    meet the following minimum capital ratios – 3.5%
    common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets, 4.5%
    Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, and 8.0% total
    capital to risk-weighted assets. The implementation of the
    capital conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016
    at 0.625% and be phased in over a four-year period (increasing
    by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it
    reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).



The Basel III final framework provides for a number of new
    deductions from and adjustments to common equity Tier 1.
    These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage
    servicing rights, deferred tax assets dependent upon future
    taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated
    financial entities be deducted from common equity Tier 1 to
    the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of common
    equity Tier 1 or all such categories in the aggregate
    exceed 15% of common equity Tier 1. Implementation of the
    deductions and other adjustments to common equity Tier 1
    will begin on January 1, 2014 and will be phased-in over a
    five-year period (20% per year).



Basel III
    Liquidity Framework



The Basel III final liquidity framework requires banks to
    comply with two measures of liquidity risk exposure:



•the “liquidity coverage ratio”, based on a30-daytime
    horizon and calculated as the ratio of the “stock of
    high-quality liquid assets” divided by “total net cash
    outflows over the next 30 calendar days”, which must be at
    least 100%; and•the “net stable funding ratio”, calculated as the
    ratio of the “available amount of stable funding”
    divided by the “required amount of stable funding”,
    which must be at least 100%.



Each of the components of these ratios is defined, and the ratio
    calculated, in accordance with detailed requirements in the
    Basel III liquidity framework. Although the Basel Committee
    has not asked for additional comment on these ratios, both are
    subject to observation periods and transitional arrangements.
    The Basel III liquidity framework provides specifically
    that revisions to the liquidity coverage ratio will be made by
    mid-2013, with such ratios being introduced as a requirement on
    January 1, 2015, revisions to the net stable funding ratio
    will be made by mid-2016, and the net stable funding ratio will
    be introduced as a requirement on January 1, 2018.



On January 13, 2011, the Basel Committee issued its final
    “minimum requirements to ensure loss absorbency at the
    point non-viability” document. It requires that all
    non-common Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments (e.g.,
    non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock and subordinated debt)
    issued by an internationally active bank must have a provision
    that such instruments, at the option of the relevant regulator,
    are to either be written-off or converted into common equity
    upon the occurrence of certain trigger events. The final loss
    absorbency requirements specify that instruments issued on or
    after January 1, 2013, must meet the new criteria to be
    included in regulatory capital. Instruments issued prior to
    January 1, 2013, that do not meet the criteria, but that
    meet all of the entry criteria for additional Tier 1 or
    Tier 2 capital, will be considered as instruments that no
    longer qualify as additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital
    and will be phased out from January 1, 2013 in accordance
    with the Basel III framework. These provisions are similar
    to the concept set forth in the Dodd-Frank Act of phasing out of
    trust preferred securities, cumulative preferred securities and
    certain other securities as Tier 1 capital over a
    three-year period beginning January 1, 2013, as well as the
    application of similar capital standards to BHCs as are
    currently applied to depository institutions.



The U.S. bank regulatory agencies have not yet set forth a
    formal timeline for a notice of proposed rulemaking or final
    adoption of regulations responsive to Basel III. However, they
    have indicated informally that a notice of proposed rulemaking
    likely will be released in mid-2011, with final amendments to
    regulations becoming effective in mid-2012. Given our strong
    capital position, we expect to be able to satisfy the
    Basel III capital framework should U.S. capital
    regulations corresponding to it be finalized. While we also have
    a strong liquidity position, the Basel III liquidity
    framework could require us and other U.S. banks to initiate
    additional liquidity management initiatives, including adding
    additional liquid assets, issuing term debt, and modifying our
    product pricing for loans, commitments, and deposits.
    U.S. regulators have indicated that they may elect to make
    certain refinements to the Basel III liquidity framework.
    Accordingly, at this point it is premature to assess the impact
    of the Basel III liquidity framework.





Federal
    Deposit Insurance Act



Deposit
    Insurance Coverage Limits.



Throughout 2010, the FDIC standard maximum depositor insurance
    coverage limit was $250,000. This limit, which was made
    permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act, applies per depositor, per
    insured depository institution, for each account ownership
    category. Also under the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by H.R.
    6398, the FDIC is required to provide temporary unlimited
    coverage for qualifying noninterest-bearing transaction
    accounts, including Interest on Lawyers Trust Accounts.
    This temporary unlimited coverage is effective from
    December 31, 2010, through December 31, 2012.



Deposit
    Insurance Assessments



Substantially all of KeyBank’s domestic deposits are
    insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC. The FDIC assesses
    an insured depository institution an amount for deposit
    insurance premiums equal to its deposit insurance assessment
    base times a risk-based assessment rate. Under the risk-based
    assessment system in effect during 2010, annualized deposit
    insurance premium assessments ranged from $.07 to $.775 for each
    $100 of assessable domestic deposits based on the
    institution’s risk category. This system will remain in
    effect for the first quarter of 2011. In 2009, the FDIC amended
    its assessment regulations to require insured depository
    institutions to prepay, on December 30, 2009, their
    estimated quarterly assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009,
    and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. KeyBank’s assessment
    prepayment was $539 million. For 2010, our FDIC insurance
    assessment was $124 million. As of December 31, 2010,
    we had $388 million of prepaid FDIC insurance assessment
    recorded on our balance sheet.



The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to change the assessment
    base from domestic deposits to average consolidated total assets
    minus average tangible equity, and requires the DIF reserve
    ratio to increase to 1.35% by September 30, 2020, rather
    than 1.15% by December 31, 2016, as previously required. To
    implement these and other changes to the current deposit
    insurance assessment regime, the FDIC issued several proposed
    rules in 2010. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC adopted their
    final rule on assessments. Under the final rule, which is
    effective on April 1, 2011, KeyBank’s annualized
    deposit insurance premium assessments would range from $.025 to
    $.45 for each $100 of its new assessment base, depending on its
    new scorecard performance incorporating KeyBank’s
    regulatory rating, ability to withstand asset and funding
    related stress, and relative magnitude of potential losses to
    the FDIC in the event of KeyBank’s failure. We estimate
    that our 2011 expense for deposit insurance assessments will be
    $60 to $90 million.



FICO
    Assessments



All FDIC-insured depository institutions have been required
    through assessments collected by the FDIC to service the annual
    interest on certain30-yearnoncallable bonds issued by the Financing Corporation
    (“FICO”) to fund losses incurred in the 1980s by the
    former Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. For 2010,
    the annualized FICO assessment rate ranged from $.0104 to $.0106
    for each $100 of assessable domestic deposits.



Temporary
    Liquidity Guarantee Program



In 2008, the FDIC implemented its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
    Program (the “TLGP”). The TLGP has two components: a
    “Debt Guarantee Program” temporarily guaranteeing the
    unpaid principal and interest due under a limited amount of
    qualifying newly-issued senior unsecured debt of participating
    eligible entities, and a “Transaction Account
    Guarantee” providing a temporary guarantee of depositor
    funds in qualifying noninterest-bearing transaction accounts
    maintained at participating FDIC-insured depository
    institutions. For FDIC-guaranteed debt issued before
    April 1, 2009, the Debt Guarantee expires on the earlier of
    the maturity of the debt or June 30, 2012. For
    FDIC-guaranteed debt issued on or after April 1, 2009, the
    Debt Guarantee expires on the earlier of the maturity of the
    debt or December 31, 2012. The Transaction Account
    Guarantee expired on December 31, 2010. As of
    December 31, 2010, KeyCorp had $687.5 million of
    guaranteed debt outstanding under the TLGP and KeyBank had
    $1.0 billion of guaranteed debt outstanding under the TLGP.
    KeyBank participated in the Transaction Account Guarantee
    component of the TLGP during the first half of 2010.



Liability
    of Commonly Controlled Institutions



Under the FDIA, an insured depository institution generally is
    liable to the FDIC for any loss incurred, or reasonably
    anticipated to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the
    default of any commonly controlled insured institution, or for
    any assistance provided by the FDIC to a commonly controlled
    institution that is in danger of default. The term
    “default” is defined generally to mean the appointment
    of a conservator or receiver and the term “in danger of
    default” is defined generally as the existence of certain
    conditions indicating that a “default” is likely to
    occur in the absence of regulatory assistance.





Conservatorship
    and Receivership of Institutions



If any insured depository institution becomes insolvent and the
    FDIC is appointed its conservator or receiver, the FDIC may,
    under federal law, disaffirm or repudiate any contract to which
    such institution is a party if the FDIC determines that
    performance of the contract would be burdensome, and that
    disaffirmance or repudiation of the contract would promote the
    orderly administration of the institution’s affairs. Such
    disaffirmance or repudiation would result in a claim by the
    other party to the contract against the receivership or
    conservatorship. The amount paid upon such claim would depend
    upon, among other factors, the amount of receivership assets
    available for the payment of such claim and the priority of the
    claim relative to the priority of others. In addition, the FDIC
    as conservator or receiver may enforce most contracts entered
    into by the institution notwithstanding any provision regarding
    termination, default, acceleration, or exercise of rights upon
    or solely by reason of insolvency of the institution,
    appointment of a conservator or receiver for the institution, or
    exercise of rights or powers by a conservator or receiver for
    the institution. The FDIC as conservator or receiver also may
    transfer any asset or liability of the institution without
    obtaining any approval or consent of the institution’s
    shareholders or creditors.



Depositor
    Preference



The FDIA provides that, in the event of the liquidation or other
    resolution of an insured depository institution, the claims of
    its depositors (including claims by the FDIC as subrogee of
    insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative
    expenses of the FDIC as receiver would be afforded a priority
    over other general unsecured claims against such an institution.
    If an insured depository institution fails, insured and
    uninsured depositors along with the FDIC will be placed ahead of
    unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including a parent holding
    company and subordinated creditors, in order of priority of
    payment.



Regulatory
    Reform Developments



On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act
    into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is intended to address perceived
    deficiencies and gaps in the regulatory framework for financial
    services in the United States, reduce the risks of bank failures
    and better equip the nation’s regulators to guard against
    or mitigate any future financial crises, and manage systemic
    risk through increased supervision of systemically important
    financial companies (including nonbank financial companies). The
    Dodd-Frank Act implements numerous and far-reaching changes
    across the financial landscape affecting financial companies,
    including banks and bank holding companies such as Key. For a
    review of the various reform measures being taken as a result of
    the Dodd-Frank Act, we refer you to the risk factor on the
    Dodd-Frank Act on page 12 in Item 1A: Risk Factors.



The Dodd-Frank Act defers many of the details of its mandated
    reforms to future rulemakings by a variety of federal regulatory
    agencies. For further detail on the Dodd-Frank Act, see Pub. L.111-203,H.R. 4173 (for the full text of the Act).



Entry
    Into Certain Covenants



44114-1306.





The following table identifies the (i) closing date for
    each transaction, (ii) issuer, (iii) series of
    Trust Preferred Securities issued, (iv) Junior
    Subordinated Debentures, and (v) applicable Covered Debt as
    of the date this annual report was filed with the SEC.



Trust PreferredJunior SubordinatedClosing DateIssuerSecuritiesDebenturesCovered Debt6/20/2006KeyCorpCapital VIII andKeyCorp$250,000,000 principalamount of 7% EnhancedTrust Preferred SecuritiesKeyCorp’s 7% junior subordinated debenturesdue June 15, 2066KeyCorp’s 5.70% juniorsubordinated debentures due 2035, underlying the 5.70% trust
    preferred securities of KeyCorp Capital VII (CUSIP No.
    49327LAA4011)11/21/2006KeyCorpCapital IX andKeyCorp$500,000,000 principal amount of 6.750%Enhanced Trust PreferredSecuritiesKeyCorp’s 6.750% junior subordinated debenturesdue December 15, 2066KeyCorp’s 5.70% juniorsubordinated debentures due 2035, underlying the 5.70% trust
    preferred securities of KeyCorp Capital VII (CUSIP No.
    49327LAA4011)2/27/2008KeyCorpCapital X andKeyCorp$700,000,000 principal amount of 8.000%Enhanced Trust PreferredSecuritiesKeyCorp’s 8.000% junior subordinated debenturesdue March 15, 2068KeyCorp’s 5.70% juniorsubordinated debentures due 2035, underlying the 5.70% trust
    preferred securities of KeyCorp Capital VII (CUSIP No.
    49327LAA4011)3/3/2008KeyCorpCapital X andKeyCorp$40,000,000 principal amount of 8.000%Enhanced Trust PreferredSecuritiesKeyCorp’s 8.000% junior subordinated debentures due March
    15, 2068KeyCorp’s 5.70% juniorsubordinated debentures due 2035 underlying the 5.70% trust
    preferred securities of KeyCorp Capital VII (CUSIP No.
    49327LAA4011)





