ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

Overview

KeyCorp, organized in 1958 under the laws of the State of Ohio, is headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio. We are a bank holding company under the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHCA”), and are one of the nation’s largest bank-based financial services companies, with consolidated total assets of approximately $92.9 billion at December 31, 2013. KeyCorp is the parent
holding company for KeyBank National Association (“KeyBank”), its principal subsidiary, through which most of our banking services are provided. Through KeyBank and certain other subsidiaries, we provide a wide range of retail and
commercial banking, commercial leasing, investment management, consumer finance, commercial mortgage servicing and special servicing, and investment banking products and services to individual, corporate, and institutional clients through two major
business segments: Key Community Bank and Key Corporate Bank.

As of December 31, 2013, these services were provided across the country
through KeyBank’s 1,028 full-service retail banking branches and a network of 1,335 automated teller machines (“ATMs”) in 12 states, as well as additional offices, online and mobile banking capabilities, and a telephone banking call
center. Additional information pertaining to our two business segments is included in the “Line of Business Results” section in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this
report, and in Note 23 (“Line of Business Results”) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements presented in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which are incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp and its
subsidiaries had an average of 14,783 full-time equivalent employees for 2013.

In addition to the customary banking services of accepting
deposits and making loans, our bank and trust company subsidiaries offer personal, securities lending and custody services, personal financial services, access to mutual funds, treasury services, investment banking and capital markets products, and
international banking services. Through our bank, trust companies and registered investment adviser subsidiaries, we provide investment management services to clients that include large corporate and public retirement plans, foundations and
endowments, high-net-worth individuals, and multi-employer trust funds established for providing pension or other benefits to employees.

We
provide other financial services — both within and outside of our primary banking markets — through various nonbank subsidiaries. These services include community development financing, securities underwriting, and
brokerage. We also provide merchant services to businesses directly and through an equity participation in a joint venture.

KeyCorp is a
legal entity separate and distinct from its banks and other subsidiaries. Accordingly, the right of KeyCorp, its security holders and its creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of its banks and other subsidiaries is
subject to the prior claims of the creditors of such banks and other subsidiaries, except to the extent that KeyCorp’s claims in its capacity as a creditor may be recognized.

Important Terms Used in this Report

As used in this report, references to
“Key,” “we,” “our,” “us” and similar terms refer to the consolidated entity consisting of KeyCorp and its subsidiaries. KeyCorp refers solely to the parent holding company, and KeyBank refers solely to
KeyCorp’s subsidiary bank, KeyBank National Association.

The acronyms and abbreviations identified in Part II, Item 8. Note 1
(“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”) hereof are used throughout this report, particularly in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as well as in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations. You may find it helpful to refer to that section as you read this report.







Demographics

We have two major business segments: Key Community Bank and Key Corporate Bank.

Key Community
Bank serves individuals and small to mid-sized businesses by offering a variety of deposit, investment, lending, credit card, and personalized wealth management products and business advisory services. These products and services are provided
through our relationship managers and specialists working in our12-statebranch network, which was reorganized during 2013 into nine internally-defined geographic regions: Oregon and Alaska, Washington, Rocky
Mountains, Indiana, Western Ohio and Michigan, Eastern Ohio, Eastern New York, New England, and Western New York.

The following table
presents the geographic diversity of Key Community Bank’s average deposits, commercial loans, and home equity loans.



Geographic RegionYear endedDecember 31, 2013dollars in millionsOregon &AlaskaWashingtonRockyMountainsIndianaWest Ohio/MichiganEast OhioEasternNew YorkNewEnglandWesternNew YorkNonRegion(a)TotalAverage deposits$4,289$6,597$4,768$2,312$4,461$8,675$8,055$2,913$5,005$2,648$49,723Percent of total8.6%13.3%9.6%4.6%9.0%17.4%16.2%5.9%10.1%5.3%100.0%Average commercial loans$1,649$1,815$1,620$806$1,179$2,064$1,753$790$526$2,839$15,041Percent of total11.0%12.1%10.8%5.4%7.8%13.7%11.6%5.2%3.5%18.9%100.0%Average home equity loans$1,338$1,861$1,553$467$832$1,255$1,284$625$760$111$10,086Percent of total13.3%18.5%15.4%4.6%8.3%12.4%12.7%6.2%7.5%1.1%100.0%



(a)Represents average deposits and commercial loan and home equity loan products centrally managed outside of our nine Key Community Bank regions.

Key Corporate Bank is a full-service corporate and investment bank focused principally on serving the needs of middle market
clients in six industry sectors: consumer, energy, healthcare, industrial, public sector and real estate. Key Corporate Bank delivers a broad product suite of banking and capital markets products to its clients, including syndicated finance, debt
and equity capital markets, commercial payments, equipment finance, commercial mortgage banking, derivatives, foreign exchange, financial advisory, and public finance. Key Corporate Bank is also a significant servicer of commercial mortgage loans
and a significant special servicer of CMBS. Key Corporate Bank delivers many of its product capabilities to clients of Key Community Bank.

Further information regarding the products and services offered by our Key Community Bank and Key Corporate Bank segments is included in this report in
Note 23 (“Line of Business Results”).







Additional Information

The following financial data is included in this report in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data, and is incorporated herein by reference as indicated below:



Description of Financial DataPage(s)Selected Financial Data35Consolidated Average Balance Sheets, Net Interest Income and Yields/Rates from Continuing
Operations45Components of Net Interest Income Changes from Continuing Operations47Composition of Loans57Remaining Maturities and Sensitivity of Certain Loans to Changes in Interest Rates65Securities Available for Sale67Held-to-Maturity Securities67Maturity Distribution of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More69Allocation of the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses89Summary of Loan and Lease Loss Experience from Continuing Operations91Summary of Nonperforming Assets and Past Due Loans from Continuing Operations92Exit Loan Portfolio from Continuing Operations93Summary of Changes in Nonperforming Loans from Continuing Operations94Short-Term Borrowings199

Information contained on or accessible through our website or any other website referenced in this report is not part of this report.

Shareholders may obtain a copy of any of the above-referenced corporate governance documents by writing to our Investor Relations Department at Investor
Relations, KeyCorp, 127 Public Square, MailcodeOH-01-27-1113,Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306; by calling (216) 689-3000; or by
sending an e-mail to investor_relations@keybank.com.







Acquisitions and Divestitures

The information presented in Note 13 (“Acquisitions and Discontinued Operations”) is incorporated herein by reference.

Competition

The market for banking and related financial services is highly competitive.
Key competes with other providers of financial services, such as bank holding companies, commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management
firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers, and other local, regional, and national institutions that offer financial services. Many of our competitors enjoy fewer regulatory constraints and some may have lower cost structures. The financial
services industry is likely to become more competitive as further technology advances enable more companies to provide financial services. Technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial
institutions. We compete by offering quality products and innovative services at competitive prices, and by maintaining our products and services offerings to keep pace with customer preferences and industry standards.

In recent years, mergers and acquisitions have led to greater concentration in the banking industry, placing added competitive pressure on Key’s
core banking products and services. Consolidation continued during 2013 and led to redistribution of deposits and certain banking assets to larger financial institutions, including through the FDIC least-cost resolution process, albeit at a far
slower pace than during 2012 and 2011. Financial institutions with liquidity challenges sought mergers and other resolutions, and the deposits and certain banking assets of the 167 banks that failed between 2011 and 2013, representing $52.6 billion
in total assets, were redistributed through the FDIC’s least-cost resolution process.

Supervision and Regulation

The regulatory framework applicable to BHCs and banks is intended primarily to protect customers and depositors, the DIF and the
banking system as a whole, rather than to protect the security holders and creditors of financial services companies. Comprehensive reform of the legislative and regulatory environment for financial services companies occurred in 2010 and remains
ongoing. We cannot predict changes in applicable laws, regulations or regulatory agency policies, but such changes may materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or access to liquidity or credit.

Overview

As a BHC, KeyCorp is subject
to regulation, supervision, and examination by the Federal Reserve under the BHCA. Under the BHCA, BHCs generally may not directly or indirectly own or control more than 5% of the voting shares, or substantially all of the assets, of any bank,
without prior approval by the Federal Reserve. In addition, BHCs are generally prohibited from engaging in commercial or industrial activities.

Under federal law, a BHC must serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary depository institutions by providing financial assistance to them
in the event of their financial distress. This support may be required when we do not have the resources to, or would prefer not to, provide it. Certain loans by a BHC to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits in, and
certain other indebtedness of, the subsidiary bank. In addition, federal law provides that in the bankruptcy of a BHC, any commitment by the BHC to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the
bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment.

Federal law establishes a system of regulation under which the Federal Reserve is the
umbrella regulator for BHCs, while their subsidiaries are principally regulated by prudential and functional regulators such as the OCC







for national banks and federal savings associations, the FDIC for non-member state banks and savings associations, the Federal Reserve for member state banks, the CFPB for consumer financial
products or services, the SEC and FINRA for securities broker/dealer activities, the SEC and CFTC for swaps and other derivatives, and state insurance regulators for insurance activities. Certain specific activities, including traditional bank trust
and fiduciary activities, may be conducted in a bank without the bank being deemed a “broker” or a “dealer” in securities for purposes of securities functional regulation. Although the states generally must regulate bank
insurance activities in a nondiscriminatory manner, the states may continue to adopt and enforce rules that specifically regulate bank insurance activities in certain identifiable risks.

Our national bank subsidiaries and their subsidiaries are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC. At December 31, 2013, we operated one full-service, FDIC-insured national bank
subsidiary, KeyBank, and two national bank subsidiaries that are limited to fiduciary activities. The FDIC also has certain regulatory, supervisory and examination authority over KeyBank and KeyCorp under the FDIA and the Dodd-Frank Act.

We have other financial services subsidiaries that are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve, as well as other
applicable state and federal regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. Our securities brokerage and asset management subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by the SEC, FINRA and state securities regulators, and our
insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the insurance regulatory authorities of the states in which they operate. Our other nonbank subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations of both the federal government and the various states in
which they are authorized to do business.

Regulatory capital and liquidity

Current regulatory capital requirements

Federal banking regulators have promulgated
risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements applicable to Key and KeyBank. The adequacy of regulatory capital is assessed periodically by federal banking agencies in their examination and supervision processes, and in the evaluation of
applications in connection with certain expansion activities.

The current minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by federal banking
regulators are based on a 1988 international accord (“Basel I”) developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). Under current requirements, Key and KeyBank generally must maintain a minimum ratio
of total capital to risk-weighted assets of 8%. At least half of the total capital must be “Tier 1 capital,” comprised of qualifying perpetual preferred stock, common shareholders’ equity (excluding AOCI other than the cumulative
effect of foreign currency translation), a limited amount of qualifying trust preferred securities, and certain mandatorily convertible preferred securities. The remainder may consist of “Tier 2 capital,” including qualifying subordinated
debt, certain hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt, mandatory convertible debt instruments, qualifying perpetual preferred stock, and a limited amount of the allowance for credit losses.

BHCs and banks with securities and commodities trading activities exceeding specified levels are required to maintain capital to cover their market risk
exposure in accordance with regulations adopted by federal banking regulators. Market risk includes changes in the market value of trading account, foreign exchange and commodity positions, whether resulting from broad market movements (such as
movements in interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, or commodity prices) or from position specific factors (such as idiosyncratic variation, event risk, and default risk). Because Key and KeyBank each have trading assets and
liabilities of at least $1 billion or 10% of total assets, Key is subject to the Federal Reserve’s rule and KeyBank is subject to the OCC’s rule on market risk regulatory capital, which became effective in January 2013. In December 2013,
the Federal Reserve revised, effective April 1, 2014 (or earlier if a BHC elects to adopt it earlier), its market risk capital rule relating to the treatment of certain securitization, sovereign, and investment company exposures as well as the
timing of disclosures to align the rule to the Regulatory Capital Rules







described below until they become fully effective for all BHCs. As part of the Regulatory Capital Rules described below, the OCC included in its market risk capital rule revisions relating to the
treatment of the securitization and sovereign exposures addressed in the Federal Reserve’s revisions.

Federal banking regulators also
have established a minimum leverage ratio requirement for banking organizations. The leverage ratio is Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets. The minimum leverage ratio is currently 3% for BHCs and national banks that are
considered “strong” by the Federal Reserve or the OCC, respectively, 3% for any BHC that has implemented the Federal Reserve’s risk-based capital measure for market risk, and 4% for all other BHCs and national banks. The current
minimum leverage ratio for Key and KeyBank is 3% and 4%, respectively.

BHCs and national banks may be expected to maintain ratios well above
the minimum levels, depending upon their particular condition, risk profile or growth plans. At December 31, 2013, Key and KeyBank had regulatory capital in excess of all current minimum risk-based capital (including all adjustments for market
risk) and leverage ratio requirements.

The FDIA requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action”
with respect to a FDIC-insured depository institution that does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. Such institutions are grouped into one of five prompt corrective action capital categories — “well capitalized,”
“adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized” — using the Tier 1 risk-based, total risk-based, and Tier 1 leverage capital ratios as the
relevant capital measures. Restrictions on operations, management and capital distributions begin to apply at “adequately capitalized” status and become progressively stricter as the insured depository institution approaches
“critically undercapitalized” status. An institution is considered “well capitalized” if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.00%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.00% and a Tier 1 leverage
capital ratio of at least 5.00%, and is not subject to any written agreement, order or capital directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. While the prompt corrective action requirements only apply to
FDIC-insured depository institutions and not to BHCs, the mandatory prompt corrective action “capital restoration plan” required of an undercapitalized institution by its relevant regulator must be guaranteed to a limited extent by the
institution’s parent BHC.

Basel III capital and liquidity frameworks

In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework to strengthen international capital regulation of banks, and revised it in June 2011 (as revised, the “Basel III capital
framework”). The Basel III capital framework requires higher and better-quality capital, better risk coverage, the introduction of a new leverage ratio as a backstop to the risk-based requirement, and measures to promote the buildup of capital
that can be drawn down in periods of stress. The Basel III capital framework, among other things, introduces a new capital measure, “Common Equity Tier 1,” to be included in Tier 1 capital with other capital instruments meeting specified
requirements.

For banks with regulators adopting Basel III capital framework in full, implementation of the Basel III capital framework
commenced January 1, 2013, to be fully phased in on January 1, 2019. Beginning January 2013, such banks are required to meet the following minimum capital ratios: 3.5% Common Equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets; 4.5% Tier 1 capital to
risk-weighted assets; and 8.0% total (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets. A “capital conservation buffer,” effectively raising each of the minimum capital requirements by 2.5%, will be phased-in pro rata over a
four-year period beginning January 1, 2016, reaching the full 2.5% on January 1, 2019. Accordingly, such banks subject to the fully phased-in Basel III capital framework would be required to maintain effective minimum capital ratios of: 7%
Common Equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets, 8.5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and 10.5% total capital to risk-weighted assets. A minimum leverage ratio of 3%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to “total exposure”
(including on- and certain off-balance sheet exposures), is also imposed on such banks beginning January 1, 2018. The Basel III capital framework also provides for a “countercyclical capital buffer,” generally to be imposed when
national regulators determine that excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk. The “countercyclical capital







buffer,” if imposed, would impose an additional 0% to 2.5% buffer to the “capital conservation buffer” for Common Equity Tier 1 when fully implemented. The Basel III capital
framework also provides for a number of adjustments to and deductions from Tier 1 capital, which began on January 1, 2014. In January 2014, the Basel Committee’s oversight body endorsed certain revisions to the leverage ratio framework and
disclosure requirements of the Basel III capital framework (the “January 2014 Basel III leverage ratio revisions”).

The Basel
Committee published its international liquidity standards in 2010, and revised these standards in January 2013 (as revised, the “Basel III liquidity framework”). It established quantitative standards for liquidity by introducing a
liquidity coverage ratio (“Basel III LCR”) and a net stable funding ratio (“Basel III NSFR”). The Basel III LCR, calculated as the ratio of the stock of high-quality liquid assets divided by total net cash outflows over 30
consecutive calendar days, must be at least 100%. The Basel III NSFR, calculated as the ratio of the available amount of stable funding divided by the required amount of stable funding, must also be at least 100%. The implementation of Basel III LCR
begins on January 1, 2015, with minimum requirements beginning at 60%, rising in annual steps of 10% until full implementation on January 1, 2019. The Basel Committee has indicated that revisions to the Basel III NSFR will be made by
mid-2016, and the net stable funding ratio will be introduced as a requirement on January 1, 2018. In January 2014, the Basel Committee’s oversight body endorsed certain final Basel III LCR disclosure standards and certain proposed Basel
III NSFR revisions (the “January 2014 Basel III liquidity framework revisions”).

U.S. implementation of the Basel III capital
framework

In October 2013, the federal banking regulators published the final Basel III capital framework for U.S. banking organizations
(the “Regulatory Capital Rules”). The Regulatory Capital Rules generally implement the Basel III capital framework as described above in the United States, but set a minimum leverage ratio of 4% to be calculated consistently with currently
applicable regulatory capital requirements (calculated as Tier 1 capital to average total consolidated assets less any amounts that were also deducted from Tier 1 capital). In addition, the Regulatory Capital Rules address two capital-related
provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act: first, the provision that general risk-based and leverage capital requirements applicable to FDIC-insured deposit institutions that are not “advanced approaches” depository institutions (like KeyBank) act
as a floor for the requirements applicable to all BHCs (like KeyCorp) as well as to all “advanced approaches” banking organizations; and, second, the provision that references to external credit ratings be removed from the regulators’
rules and replaced with alternative standards of creditworthiness.

The impact of the January 2014 Basel III leverage ratio revisions on U.S.
banking organizations, including Key and KeyBank, will be determined by the extent to which they are implemented by the federal banking agencies. Neither the Federal Reserve nor the OCC have proposed any rule to implement these revisions.







New minimum capital requirements

Under the Regulatory Capital Rules, “standardized approach” banking organizations, like Key, will be required to meet the minimum capital and leverage ratios set forth in the table below. At
December 31, 2013, Key had an estimated Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio of 10.7% under Basel III. Also at December 31, 2013, based on the fully phased-in Regulatory Capital Rules, Key estimates that its capital and leverage ratios would
be as set forth in the table below.

Estimated Ratios vs. Minimum Capital Ratios Calculated Under the Fully Phased-In

Regulatory Capital Rules



Ratios (including Capital conservation buffer)KeyDecember 31, 2013EstimatedMinimumJanuary 1,2015Phase-inPeriodMinimumJanuary 1,2019Common Equity Tier 110.7%4.5%None4.5%Capital conservation buffer(a)—1/1/16 - 1/1/192.5Common Equity Tier 1 + Capital conservation buffer4.51/1/16 - 1/1/197.0Tier 1 Capital11.06.0None6.0Tier 1 Capital + Capital conservation buffer6.01/1/16 - 1/1/198.5Total Capital13.48.0None8.0Total Capital + Capital conservation buffer8.01/1/16 - 1/1/1910.5Leverage(b)10.34.0None4.0



(a)Capital conservation buffer must consist of Common Equity Tier 1 capital. Key is not subject to the countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% imposed under the
“advanced approaches” portion of the Regulatory Capital Rules.



(b)Key is not subject to the proposed 3% supplemental leverage ratio requirement imposed under the “advanced approaches” portion of the Regulatory Capital Rules
or to the supplemental leverage buffer of at least 2% proposed for “advanced approaches” banks under an NPR published by the federal banking agencies in August 2013 (the “August 2013 NPR”).

Revised prompt corrective action standards

Under the Regulatory Capital Rules, the prompt corrective action capital category threshold ratios applicable to FDIC-insured depository institutions such as KeyBank will be revised, effective
January 1, 2015. The Revised Prompt Corrective Action table, below, identifies the capital category threshold ratios for a “well capitalized” and an “adequately capitalized” institution under the current rule and the
Regulatory Capital Rules.

“Well Capitalized” and “Adequately Capitalized” Capital Category Ratios under
Current and

Revised Prompt Corrective Action Rules



Prompt Corrective ActionCapital CategoryWell CapitalizedAdequately CapitalizedRatioRevisedCurrentRevisedCurrentCommon Equity Tier 1 Risk-Based6.5%N/A4.5%N/ATier 1 Risk-Based8.06.0%6.04.0%Total Risk-Based10.010.08.08.0Tier 1 Leverage(a)5.05.04.03.0 or 4.0



(a)KeyBank is not subject to the enhanced supplementary leverage ratio proposed under the August 2013 NPR.

We believe that, as of December 31, 2013, KeyBank would meet all “well capitalized” capital adequacy requirements under the Regulatory
Capital Rules if such requirements were currently effective. As previously indicated, the prompt corrective action requirements only apply to FDIC-insured depository institutions and not to BHCs (like KeyCorp).







U.S. implementation of the Basel III liquidity framework

In November 2013, the federal banking agencies published a joint NPR seeking comment on proposed rules that would create a minimum liquidity coverage
ratio (“LCR”) for certain internationally active bank and nonbank financial companies (not including Key) and a modified version of the LCR (“Modified LCR”) for certain depository institution holding companies that are not
internationally active (including Key). The LCR and Modified LCR created by the NPR are based on the Basel III liquidity framework and would be an enhanced prudential liquidity standard consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act. Comments on the NPR were
due by January 31, 2014.

Capital planning and
stress testing

The Federal Reserve’s capital plan rule requires each U.S.-domiciled, top-tier BHC with total consolidated assets of
at least $50 billion (like KeyCorp) to develop and maintain a written capital plan supported by a robust internal capital adequacy process. The capital plan must be submitted annually to the Federal Reserve for supervisory review in connection with
its annual CCAR. The supervisory review includes an assessment of many factors, including Key’s ability to maintain capital above each minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5% on a pro forma basis under expected
and stressful conditions throughout the planning horizon. KeyCorp is also subject to the Federal Reserve capital plan rule and supervisory guidance regarding the declaration and payment of dividends and capital redemptions repurchases, including the
supervisory expectation in certain circumstances for prior notification to, and consultation with, Federal Reserve supervisory staff.

The
Federal Reserve’s annual CCAR is an intensive assessment of the capital adequacy of large, complex U.S. BHCs and of the policies and practices these BHCs use to assess their capital needs. Through CCAR, the Federal Reserve assesses the capital
plans of these BHCs to ensure that they have both sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of financial and economic stress and robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for their unique risks. The Federal
Reserve expects BHCs subject to CCAR to have sufficient capital to withstand a severely adverse operating environment and to be able to continue operations, maintain ready access to funding, meet obligations to creditors and counterparties, and
serve as credit intermediaries. In addition, the Federal Reserve evaluates the planned capital actions of these BHCs, including planned capital distributions such as dividend payments or stock repurchases.

KeyCorp filed its 2014 CCAR capital plan on January 6, 2014. Under the Federal Reserve’s November 2013 CCAR instructions and guidance,
KeyCorp’s 2014 capital plan was required to reflect the Regulatory Capital







Rules, including their minimum regulatory capital ratios and transition arrangements, as well as Key’s Tier 1 common ratio for each quarter of the planning horizon using the definitions of
Tier 1 capital and total risk-weighted assets as in effect in 2013, as well as a transition plan for full implementation of the Regulatory Capital Rules. Results from 2014 CCAR, which will include the 2014 supervisory stress test methodology and
certain firm-specific results for the participating 30 covered companies (including KeyCorp), are expected to be released in March 2014.

As
part of the annual CCAR, the Federal Reserve conducts an annual supervisory stress test on KeyCorp. As part of this test, the Federal Reserve projects revenue, expenses, losses, and resulting post-stress capital levels, regulatory capital ratios,
and the Tier 1 common ratio under conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of KeyCorp, including baseline, adverse, and severely adverse scenarios, that are determined annually by the Federal Reserve.

KeyCorp and KeyBank must also conduct their own company-run stress tests to assess the impact of stress scenarios on their consolidated earnings, losses,
and capital over a nine-quarter planning horizon, taking into account their current condition, risks, exposures, strategies, and activities. While KeyBank must only conduct an annual stress test, KeyCorp must conduct both an annual and a mid-cycle
stress test. KeyCorp and KeyBank are required to report the results of their annual stress tests to the Federal Reserve and OCC in early January of each year, and KeyCorp is required to report the results of its mid-cycle stress test to the Federal
Reserve in early July of each year. Summaries of the results of these tests are disclosed, in March of each year for the annual tests and September of each year for the mid-cycle test, on the “Regulatory Disclosure” tab of Key’s
Investor Relations website: http://www.key.com/ir.

Dividend restrictions

Federal banking law and regulations impose limitations on the payment of dividends by our national bank subsidiaries (like KeyBank). Historically, dividends paid by KeyBank have been an important source
of cash flow for KeyCorp to pay dividends on its equity securities and interest on its debt. Dividends by our national bank subsidiaries are limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under an earnings retention test and an undivided profits
test. Under the earnings retention test, without the prior approval of the OCC, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year is in excess of the current year’s net income combined with the
retained net income of the two preceding years. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of a bank’s undivided profits. Moreover, under the FDIA, an insured depository institution may not pay a dividend if the
payment would cause it to be in a less than “adequately capitalized” prompt corrective action capital category or if the institution is in default in the payment of an assessment due to the FDIC. For more information about the payment of
dividends by KeyBank to KeyCorp, please see Note 3 (“Restrictions on Cash, Dividends and Lending Activities”) in this report.

FDIA, Resolution Authority and Financial Stability

Deposit insurance and assessments

The DIF provides insurance coverage for domestic
deposits funded through assessments on insured depository institutions like KeyBank. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the amount of deposit insurance coverage for deposits increased permanently from $100,000 to $250,000 per depository.

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC must assess the premium based on an insured depository intuition’s assessment base, calculated as its average
consolidated total assets minus its average tangible equity. KeyBank’s current annualized premium assessments can range from $.025 to $.45 for each $100 of its assessment base. The rate charged depends on KeyBank’s performance on the
FDIC’s “large and highly complex institution” risk-assessment scorecard, which includes factors such as KeyBank’s regulatory rating, its ability to withstand asset and funding-related stress, and the relative magnitude of
potential losses to the FDIC in the event of KeyBank’s failure.







Conservatorship and receivership of insured depository institutions

Receivership of certain SIFIs

The
Dodd-Frank Act created a new resolution regime, as an alternative to bankruptcy, known as the “orderly liquidation authority” (“OLA”) for certain SIFIs, including BHCs and their affiliates. Under the OLA, the FDIC would generally
be appointed as receiver to liquidate and wind up a failing SIFI. The determination that a SIFI should be placed into OLA receivership is made by the U.S. Treasury Secretary, who must conclude that the SIFI is in default or in danger of default and
that the SIFI’s failure poses a risk to the stability of the U.S. financial system. This determination must come after supermajority recommendations by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC, and consultation between the U.S. Treasury Secretary and
the President.

If the FDIC is appointed as receiver under the OLA, its powers and the rights and obligations of creditors and other relevant
parties would be determined exclusively under the OLA. The powers of a receiver under the OLA are generally based on the FDIC’s powers as receiver for insured depository institutions under the FDIA. Certain provisions of the OLA were modified
to reduce disparate treatment of creditors’ claims between the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and the OLA. However, substantial differences between the two regimes remain, including the FDIC’s right to disregard claim priority in some circumstances,
the use of an administrative claims procedure under OLA to determine creditors’ claims (rather than a judicial procedure in bankruptcy), the FDIC’s right to transfer claims to a bridge entity, and limitations on the ability of creditors to
enforce contractual cross-defaults against potentially viable affiliates of the entity in receivership. OLA liquidity would be provided through credit support from the U.S. Treasury and assessments made, first, on claimants against the receivership
that received more in the OLA resolution than they would have received in ordinary liquidation (to the full extent of the excess), and second, if necessary, on SIFIs, like KeyCorp, utilizing a risk-based methodology.

In December 2013, the FDIC published a notice for comment regarding its “single point of entry” resolution strategy under the OLA. This
strategy involves the appointment of the FDIC as receiver for the SIFI’s top-level U.S. holding company only, while permitting the operating subsidiaries of the failed holding company to continue operations uninterrupted. As receiver, the FDIC
would establish a bridge financial company for the failed holding company and would transfer the assets and a very limited set of liabilities of the receivership estate. The claims of unsecured creditors and other claimants in the receivership would
be satisfied by the exchange of their claims for the securities of one or more new holding companies emerging from the bridge company. Comments on the notice are due by February 18, 2014.

Depositor preference

The FDIA provides
that, in the event of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, the claims of its depositors (including claims of its depositors that have subrogated to the FDIC) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the
FDIC as receiver have priority over other general unsecured claims. If an







insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will be placed ahead of unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including the institution’s parent BHC
and subordinated creditors, in order of priority of payment.

Resolution plans

BHCs with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets, like KeyCorp, are required to periodically submit to the Federal Reserve and FDIC a plan
discussing how the company could be rapidly and orderly resolved if the company failed or experienced material financial distress. Insured depository institutions with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets, like KeyBank, are also
required to submit a resolution plan to the FDIC. These plans are due annually by December 31 of each year. For 2013, KeyCorp and KeyBank elected to submit a joint resolution plan given Key’s organizational structure and business
activities and the significance of KeyBank to Key. This resolution plan, the first required from KeyCorp and KeyBank, was submitted on December 9, 2013. In January 2014, the Federal Reserve and FDIC made available on their websites the public
sections of resolution plans for the companies that submitted plans for the first time in December 2013. The public section of the joint resolution plan of KeyCorp and KeyBank is available at
http://www.federalreserve.gov/bankinforeg/resolution-plans.htm.

Financial Stability Oversight Council

The Dodd-Frank Act created the FSOC, a systemic risk oversight body, to (i) identify risks to U.S. financial stability that could arise from the
material financial distress or failure, or ongoing activities, of large, interconnected SIFIs, or that could arise outside the financial services marketplace, (ii) promote market discipline, by eliminating expectations that the U.S. government
will shield shareholders, creditors, and counterparties from losses in the event of failure, and (iii) respond to emerging threats to the stability of the U.S. financial system. The FSOC is responsible for facilitating regulatory coordination,
information collection and sharing, designating nonbank financial companies for consolidated supervision by the Federal Reserve, designating systemic financial market utilities and systemic payment, clearing, and settlement activities requiring
prescribed risk management standards and heightened federal regulatory oversight, recommending stricter standards for SIFIs, and, together with the Federal Reserve, determining whether action should be taken to break up firms that pose a grave
threat to U.S. financial stability.

The Bank Secrecy Act

The BSA requires all financial institutions (including banks and securities broker-dealers) to, among other things, maintain a risk-based system of internal controls reasonably designed to prevent money
laundering and the financing of terrorism. It includes a variety of recordkeeping and reporting requirements (such as cash and suspicious activity reporting) as well as due diligence and know-your-customer documentation requirements. Key has
established and maintains an anti-money laundering program to comply with the BSA’s requirements.

Other Regulatory Developments under
the Dodd-Frank Act

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, a consumer financial services regulator with supervisory authority over banks and their affiliates with assets of more than $10 billion, like Key, for
compliance with federal consumer protection laws. The CFPB also regulates financial products and services sold to consumers and has rulemaking authority with respect to federal consumer financial laws. Any new regulatory requirements promulgated by
the CFPB or modifications in the interpretations of existing regulations could require changes to our consumer-facing businesses. The Dodd-Frank Act also gives the CFPB broad data collecting powers for fair lending for both small business and
mortgage loans, as well as extensive authority to prevent unfair, deceptive and abusive practices.







During 2013, the CFPB issued a series of final rules related to residential mortgage loan origination and
servicing. In particular, in January 2013, the CFPB issued a final rule implementing the ability-to-repay rules and qualified mortgage provisions of the Truth in Lending Act, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under these rules, a lender must make a
reasonable, good faith determination that a borrower is able to repay a mortgage before extending the credit, based on a number of factors and consideration of financial information about the borrower. Loans meeting the definition of “qualified
mortgage” are granted a presumption that the lender satisfied the ability-to-repay requirements. The CFPB has also issued rules affecting other aspects of the residential mortgage loan process, ranging from the customer application to servicing
of the loan. These changes and additions to consumer mortgage banking rules have required enhancements to our compliance programs, as well as changes to Key’s systems and loan processing practices. The ability to repay and qualified mortgage
rules became effective on January 10, 2014.

Debit Card Interchange

Federal Reserve Regulation II — Debit Card Interchange Fees and Routing (the “Interchange Rule”) — limits debit card interchange fees and eliminates exclusivity arrangements between
issuers and networks for debit card transactions. The relevant portions of the Interchange Rule became effective October 1, 2011.

On
July 31, 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia issued a ruling inNACS v. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, vacating the Interchange Rule. Retail merchants and merchant groups challenged the Federal
Reserve’s final rule, which allowed debit card issuers to recover from merchants an interchange fee of $.21 per transaction, a fee of five basis points of the value of the transaction, and an additional $.01 fraud prevention adjustment. The
district court held that this fee structure, and the Interchange Rule’s requirements regarding the number of networks over which each debit card transaction can be processed, did not comply with the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act. On
September 19, 2013, the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit granted a joint motion by the parties for expedited appeal of the district court’s opinion. The parties filed briefs with the court in December 2013, and oral arguments were
held in January 2014. The Interchange Rule remains in effect until resolution of the appeal by the circuit court. We continue to monitor these developments.

“Volcker Rule”

In December 2013, federal banking regulators issued a joint
final rule (the “Final Rule”) implementing Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, known as the “Volcker Rule.” The Final Rule prohibits “banking entities,” such as KeyCorp, KeyBank and their affiliates and
subsidiaries, from owning, sponsoring, or having certain relationships with hedge funds and private equity funds (referred to as “covered funds”) and engaging in short-term proprietary trading of securities, derivatives, commodity futures
and options on these instruments.

The Final Rule excepts certain transactions from the general prohibition against proprietary trading,
including: transactions in government securities (e.g., U.S. Treasuries or any instruments issued by the GNMA, FNMA, FHLMC, a Federal Home Loan Bank, or any state or a political division of any state, among others); transactions in connection with
underwriting or market-making activities; and, transactions as a fiduciary on behalf of customers. Banking entities may also engage in risk-mitigating hedges if the entity can demonstrate that the hedge reduces or mitigates a specific, identifiable
risk or aggregate risk position of the entity. The banking entity is required to conduct an analysis supporting its hedging strategy and the effectiveness of the hedges must be monitored and, if necessary, adjusted on an ongoing basis. Banking
entities with more than $50 billion in total consolidated assets and liabilities, like Key, that engage in permitted trading transactions are required to implement enhanced compliance programs, to regularly report data on trading activities to the
regulators, and to provide a CEO attestation that the entity’s compliance program is reasonably designed to comply with the Final Rule.

Although the Final Rule will take effect April 1, 2014, the Federal Reserve exercised its unilateral authority to extend the compliance deadline
until July 21, 2015. Key does not anticipate that the proprietary trading restrictions in the Final Rule will have a material impact on its business, but it may be required to divest certain fund investments as discussed in more detail under
the heading “Other investments” in Item 7 of this report.







Derivatives

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act imposes a new, comprehensive regulatory regime on the U.S. derivatives markets, subjecting nearly all derivative transactions to CFTC or SEC regulation. In May 2012, the
CFTC and the SEC issued joint final rules defining the terms “swap dealer” and “security-based swap dealer.” The final rules specified that, generally, a swap dealer is an entity engaging in $3 billion in notional value of
non-exempt swap activity in any 12-month period commencing October 12, 2012, subject to an initial phase-in threshold of $8 billion in notional value. As a result, in November 2013, KeyBank provisionally registered as a swap dealer with the
CFTC and became a member of the National Futures Association, the self-regulatory organization for participants in the U.S. derivatives industry. As a provisionally-registered swap dealer, KeyBank is required to develop and adhere to a specified
compliance program.

The CFTC has also finalized regulations establishing recordkeeping requirements, swap data reporting requirements, swap
dealer business conduct standards, mandatory swap clearing requirements, and swap trade execution requirements. Other regulations required by the Dodd-Frank Act, including capital and margin requirements, additional mandatory clearing designations,
and position limits, have not been finalized and the timeframe for their completion remains unclear.

Enhanced prudential standards and
early remediation requirements

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve must impose enhanced prudential standards and early
remediation requirements upon BHCs with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets (like KeyCorp). Prudential standards must include enhanced risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits, enhanced liquidity requirements, a
single-counterparty credit limit, enhanced risk management and risk committee requirements, both supervisory and company-run stress tests and, for certain financial companies, a debt-to-equity limit. Early remediation requirements must include
limits on capital distributions, acquisitions, and asset growth in early stages of financial decline and capital restoration plans, capital raising requirements, limits on transactions with affiliates, management changes, and asset sales in later
stages of financial decline, which are to be triggered by forward-looking indicators including regulatory capital and liquidity measures. On February 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve issued its final rule implementing a number of enhanced prudential
standards regarding liquidity, risk management, and capital. Key is currently reviewing the final rule to determine its impact.

Bank
transactions with affiliates

Federal banking law and regulation imposes qualitative standards and quantitative limitations upon certain
transactions by a bank with its affiliates, including the bank’s parent BHC and certain companies the parent BHC may be deemed to control for these purposes. Transactions covered by these provisions must be on arm’s-length terms, and
cannot exceed certain amounts which are determined with reference to the bank’s regulatory capital. Moreover, if the transaction is a loan or other extension of credit, it must be secured by collateral in an amount and quality expressly
prescribed by statute, and if the affiliate is unable to pledge sufficient collateral, the BHC may be required to provide it. These provisions materially restrict the ability of KeyBank to fund its affiliates, including KeyCorp, KeyBanc Capital
Markets Inc., certain of the Victory mutual funds with which we continue to have a relationship, and KeyCorp’s nonbanking subsidiaries engaged in making merchant banking investments (and certain companies in which these subsidiaries have
invested).

Provisions added by the Dodd-Frank Act expanded the scope of (i) the definition of affiliate to include any investment fund
having any bank or BHC-affiliated company as an investment adviser, (ii) credit exposures subject to the prohibition on the acceptance of low-quality assets or securities issued by an affiliate as collateral, the quantitative limits, and the
collateralization requirements to now include credit exposures arising out of derivative, repurchase agreement, and securities lending/borrowing transactions, and (iii) transactions subject to quantitative limits to now also include credit
collateralized by affiliate-issued debt obligations that are not securities. In addition, these provisions require that a credit extension to an affiliate remain secured in accordance







with the collateral requirements at all times that it is outstanding, rather than the previous requirement of only at the inception or upon material modification of the transaction. They also
raise significantly the procedural and substantive hurdles required to obtain a regulatory exemption from the affiliate transaction requirements. While these provisions became effective on July 21, 2012, the Federal Reserve has not yet issued a
proposed rule to implement them.

New assessments, fees and other charges

Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require or authorize certain U.S. governmental departments, agencies and instrumentalities to collect new assessments, fees and other charges from BHCs and banks,
like KeyCorp and KeyBank. The U.S. Treasury has adopted a final rule establishing an assessment schedule to collect from SIFIs, including KeyCorp, based on their average total consolidated assets semiannual assessments to pay the expenses of the
OFR, including the expenses of the FSOC and certain expenses for implementing the orderly liquidation activities of the FDIC. The Federal Reserve has established an annual assessment upon SIFIs, including KeyCorp, based on their average total
consolidated assets for the Federal Reserve’s examination, supervision, and regulation of such companies.



