
10-K
10-K




- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                  UNITED STATES

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]   Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
      Act of 1934 For the fiscal year ended December 26, 1998,

                                       OR

[ ]   Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934
      For the transition period from                   to
                                    ------------------    ------------------

                          Commission File Number 0-6217

                                INTEL CORPORATION

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                        Delaware                            94-1672743
            (State or other jurisdiction of               (I.R.S. Employer
             incorporation or organization)              Identification No.)

       2200 Mission College Boulevard, Santa Clara, California, 95052-8119
               (Address of principal executive offices, Zip Code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (408) 765-8080

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

            Title of each class                     Name of each exchange on
                                                         which registered

                                      NONE

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                          Common Stock, $.001 par value

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES  X  NO
                                                  -----   -----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

                   Aggregate market value of voting stock held
           by non-affiliates of the registrant as of February 26, 1999
                                 $187.0 billion

3,324.7 million shares of Common Stock outstanding as of February 26, 1999 ***

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1) Portions of Annual Report to Stockholders for fiscal year ended December 26,
1998 - Parts I, II and IV. 
(2) Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement related to the 1999 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed subsequent to the date hereof - Part III
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
*** Share amounts shown have been adjusted for stock splits through April 1999,
including the stock split declared in January 1999.




                                    PART I **

ITEM 1.           BUSINESS

INDUSTRY

Intel Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively called "Intel," the 
"Company" or the "Registrant") design, develop, manufacture and market 
computer components and related products at various levels of integration. 
Intel's principal components consist of silicon-based semiconductors etched 
with complex patterns of transistors. Many of these integrated circuits can 
perform the functions of millions of individual transistors, diodes, 
capacitors and resistors. The Company was incorporated in California in 1968 
and reincorporated in Delaware in 1989.

PRODUCTS

The Company's major products include microprocessors, chipsets, embedded 
processors and microcontrollers, flash memory products, graphics products, 
network and communications products, systems management software, 
conferencing products and digital imaging products. Intel sells its products 
to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") of computer systems and 
peripherals; PC users (including individuals, large and small businesses and 
Internet service providers) who buy Intel's PC enhancements, business 
communications products and networking products through resellers and retail 
and industrial distributors throughout the world; and other manufacturers, 
including makers of a wide range of industrial and telecommunications 
equipment.

The Company is organized into four operating segments according to Intel's 
various product lines: the Intel Architecture Business Group, the Computing 
Enhancement Group, the Network Communications Group, and the New Business 
Group. Each group has a vice president who reports directly to the Chief 
Executive Officer of Intel. Reference is made to the information regarding 
revenues and operating profit by reportable segments, and revenues from 
unaffiliated customers by geographic region, under the headings "Operating 
segment and geographic information" on pages 27 and 28 of the Registrant's 
1998 Annual Report to Stockholders and "Management's discussion and analysis 
of financial condition and results of operations" on pages 30 and 31, which 
information is hereby incorporated by reference.

INTEL ARCHITECTURE BUSINESS GROUP

The Intel Architecture Business Group tailors microprocessors for the 
different segments of the computing market, using a tiered branding approach, 
and seeks to develop higher performance microprocessors specifically for each 
computing market segment. Products in the Intel Architecture Business Group 
include processors based on the P6 microarchitecture (including the Intel 
- -Registered Trademark- Celeron -TM-, the Pentium -Registered Trademark- II, 
the Pentium -Registered Trademark- III, the Pentium -Registered Trademark- II 
Xeon -TM- and the Pentium -Registered Trademark- III Xeon -TM- processors) 
and related board-level products as well as the Pentium -Registered 
Trademark- family of microprocessors.

MICROPROCESSORS. A microprocessor is the central processing unit of a 
computer system. It processes system data and controls other devices in the 
system, acting as the brains of a computer. Intel's developments in the area 
of semiconductor design and manufacturing have made it possible to decrease 
the size of circuits etched into silicon, permitting a greater number of 
transistors to be used on each microprocessor die, and a greater number of 
microprocessors to be placed on each silicon wafer. The result is smaller, 
faster microprocessors that consume less power and cost less to manufacture. 
In 1998, Intel completed the conversion of microprocessor manufacturing to the


- ----------
** Page references to the 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders or to the
Registrant's 1999 Proxy Statement related to the 1999 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders under Item 1 in Part I and Items 5, 6, 7, 7A and 8 in Part II;
Items 10, 11, 12 and 13 in Part III; and Item 14 in Part IV relate to the bound,
printed versions of such Report and Proxy Statement, not to the electronic
versions appearing at the Intel Internet site (www.intel.com and www.intc.com).
However, all data referred to also appears in the electronic versions.




0.25-micron process technology and ended 1998 with all microprocessor 
shipments manufactured on the 0.25-micron process. One micron equals one 
millionth of a meter, and the length of the individual transistors on a chip 
is measured in microns.

In 1998, Intel announced several new microprocessor products aimed at the 
various computing market segments ranging from the value PC (systems costing 
less than $1,000) to high-performance workstations and servers.

Tailored for the value PC market segment, the Intel Celeron microprocessor 
meets the core computing needs and affordability requirements common to many 
new PC users. The Celeron processor was introduced in April 1998 at 266 MHz 
and was followed in June 1998 by a 300-MHz version. Megahertz ("MHz") is the 
standard used to measure the rate at which a microprocessor's internal logic 
operates, based on the number of cycles processed per second, with one 
megahertz equal to one million cycles per second. In August 1998, Intel 
introduced enhanced versions of the Celeron processor, the Intel Celeron 333 
MHz and 300A MHz, which include 128 KB of integrated Level 2 ("L2") cache on 
the processor core. The memory stored on a chip is measured in bytes, with 
approximately 1,000 bytes equaling a kilobyte ("KB"), 1 million bytes 
equaling a megabyte ("MB") and 1 billion bytes equaling a gigabyte ("GB"). 
Cache is a high-speed memory subsystem in which frequently used data is 
duplicated for quick access. A second level of cache (L2), located directly 
on the microprocessor, can also be used to further increase system 
performance.

In January 1999, Intel introduced 366- and 400-MHz versions of the Celeron 
processor with 128 KB of integrated L2 cache. The Company introduced the 
first mobile Intel Celeron processor in January 1999, running at 266 and 300 
MHz and providing a performance boost for low-cost mobile PCs. In March, 1999 
Intel announced the Intel Celeron processor at 433 MHz with 128KB of 
integrated L2 cache on the processor core.

The Pentium II microprocessor, aimed at the performance desktop and 
entry-level server and workstation market segments, comprised the majority of 
Intel units sold worldwide in 1998. In January 1998, the Company introduced 
the Pentium II processor running at 333 MHz--the first Pentium II processor 
manufactured on Intel's 0.25-micron process technology. During 1998, Intel 
also introduced versions of the Pentium II processor running at 350, 400 and 
450 MHz.

The Pentium II processor for mobile PCs is designed to provide mobile users 
with the advanced performance capabilities of the P6 microarchitecture while 
meeting power consumption and size requirements. In April 1998, the Company 
introduced 233- and 266-MHz versions of the Pentium II processor for mobile 
PCs. In September 1998, Intel introduced a 300-MHz version. In January 1999, 
the Company introduced the new mobile Pentium II processor running at 333 and 
366 MHz as the first Pentium II processor built on a single processor silicon 
die, with 256 KB of on-die L2 cache, resulting in higher performance than 
previous off-die cache versions.

Specifically designed to meet the requirements of mid-range and 
high-performance servers and workstations, the Pentium II Xeon processor 
features high-performance, scalability, manageability and mission-critical 
reliability. In June 1998, the Company introduced the first Pentium II Xeon 
microprocessor, based on the P6 microarchitecture core, operating at 400 MHz 
and available with 512 KB and 1 MB L2 cache options. In January 1999, Intel 
introduced three new versions of the Pentium II Xeon processor incorporating 
512 KB, 1 MB and 2 MB of L2 cache and running at 450 MHz.

During 1998, sales of microprocessors and related board-level products based 
on the P6 microarchitecture comprised a majority of the Company's 
consolidated revenues and a substantial majority of its gross margin. Sales 
of these microprocessors first became a significant portion of the Company's 
revenues and gross margin in 1997. Also during 1998, sales of Pentium family 
processors, including Pentium processors with MMX -TM- technology, were a 
rapidly declining but still significant portion of the Company's revenues and 
gross margin. During 1997, sales of Pentium family processors were a majority 
of the Company's revenues and gross margin, and in 1996 were a majority of 
its revenues and a substantial majority of its gross margin.

In February 1999, Intel introduced the Pentium III microprocessor. Targeted for
the performance desktop personal computer and low-end server and workstation
market segments, the Pentium III processor is the first Intel processor designed
specifically to enhance the Internet experience and offers higher performance
and enhanced multimedia




realism for Internet applications. The Pentium III processor core, which is 
based on Intel's P6 microarchitecture, includes Internet Streaming SIMD 
Extensions--70 new instructions that enhance the performance of advanced 
imaging, 3-D, streaming audio, video and speech recognition applications. The 
450- and 500-MHz versions, with 512 KB L2 cache, began shipping in March and 
the 550-MHz version is expected to be available in the second quarter of 
1999. In March 1999, Intel announced the Intel Pentium III Xeon 
microprocessor, targeted to enhance Internet software and application 
performance for the mid-range to high-performance server and workstation 
market segments. The Pentium III Xeon is initially being offered at a speed 
of 500 MHz, available in 512 KB, 1 MB and 2 MB L2 cache versions for two-, 
four- and eight-way (and higher) servers and workstations.

The Company's family of 64-bit microprocessors under development is expected 
to expand the capabilities of the Intel architecture to address the 
high-performance server and workstation market segments while still running 
the software that currently operates on the 32-bit Intel processor-based 
machines. A 64-bit microprocessor is more complex than a 32-bit 
microprocessor and requires a more complex system architecture, but it 
handles twice as much data on each clock cycle. Intel has been working with 
industry leaders to help them develop operating systems, applications 
software and systems that will capitalize on the new IA-64 architecture. The 
first processor in Intel's IA-64 product family, the Merced processor, is 
expected to be available to OEMs in sample volumes in 1999 and initial 
production volumes in mid-2000.

While many of Intel's OEM customers use the Company's microprocessors as 
components in designing their own computer products, some OEMs use 
Intel-designed board-level products as basic building blocks in their 
computer products. OEM customers may buy at this level of integration to 
accelerate their time-to-market and to direct their investments to other 
areas of their product lines. The Company provides board-level products to 
give OEM customers flexibility by enabling them to choose whether to buy at 
the component or board level. Board-level products based on Intel's new 
microprocessors were introduced simultaneously with each corresponding 
microprocessor product in 1998.

COMPUTING ENHANCEMENT GROUP

Intel's Computing Enhancement Group's products include chipsets; embedded 
processors, including Pentium processors with MMX technology and StrongARM 
- -Registered Trademark- processors; microcontrollers; flash memory products; 
and graphics products.

CHIPSETS. The Company's core-logic chipsets support incremental performance, 
ease of use and new capabilities for systems based on the Intel Celeron, 
Pentium II, Pentium III and Pentium II Xeon microprocessors. Chipsets perform 
essential logic functions surrounding the central processing unit and support 
and extend the graphics, video and other capabilities of many Intel 
processor-based systems. The Company's chipsets are compatible with a variety 
of industry-standard buses, such as the Peripheral Components Interconnect 
("PCI") Local Bus specification and the Accelerated Graphics Port ("AGP") 
specification. A bus is a circuit that carries data between parts of the 
system, for example, between the processor and main memory. Revenues from 
sales of chipsets represented a majority of revenues for the Computing 
Enhancement Group operating segment in 1998.

To help enable computer makers to speed their products to market, chipsets 
are introduced along with the corresponding processors. In April 1998, the 
440EX was introduced as the first AGPset designed specifically for Intel's 
Celeron processor and targets the value PC market segment. The Company 
introduced the 440BX AGPset in August 1998, optimizing Pentium II processor 
performance for 3-D and video applications with a 100-MHz system bus. With 
the June 1998 announcement of the Pentium II Xeon processor, the Company 
introduced two chipsets. The Intel 440GX AGPset provides 2 GB-memory support 
for workstations and for servers with one or two processors. The Intel 450NX 
PCIset for servers with four or more processors provides up to 8 GB-memory 
support and multiple 32-bit and 64-bit PCI buses.

EMBEDDED PRODUCTS. The Computing Enhancement Group provides embedded products 
such as microprocessors, microcontrollers and memory components to a wide 
range of OEMs who use the Company's embedded products in a variety of 
applications, including telecommunications, printers, hubs, routers, wide 
area networking, intelligent input/output, imaging, storage media, keyboards, 
point-of-sale terminals and automotive systems.




Intel i960 -Registered Trademark- processors provide developers with a family 
of 32-bit reduced instruction set computing (RISC) processors with integrated 
input/output capabilities. In March 1998, Intel announced the i960 JT 
processor targeted for markets such as inkjet printers, networking equipment, 
remote access equipment and high-speed modems. Introduced in October 1998, 
the 100-MHz i960 VH embedded PCI processor reduces the number of components 
typically required to design switches, hubs, routers, remote-access equipment 
and adapter cards for PCs and servers.

In October 1998, Intel announced the addition of the 166- and 266-MHz 
low-power-consumption Pentium processor with MMX technology to its embedded 
product line aimed at new point-of-sale, industrial automation and networking 
equipment applications.

Intel's StrongARM processors, acquired from Digital Equipment Corporation, 
are used in applications requiring a combination of low power and high 
performance with lower silicon and system costs. In October 1998, Intel 
introduced the SA-1100 StrongARM processor and SA-1101 companion chip to help 
give hand-held computing devices e-mail, fax and Internet access capabilities.

FLASH MEMORY. Flash memory components are used to store user data and 
computer program code and retain information when the power is off. Intel 
- -Registered Trademark- StrataFlash -TM- memory, the first flash memory 
product to store multiple bits of data in one memory cell, expands memory 
capacity for a variety of consumer and network applications. The Intel Series 
200 Flash Miniature Cards, based on the Company's StrataFlash memory, are 
designed to be used repeatedly without loss of image quality in applications 
such as electronic film for today's digital cameras. New products introduced 
in 1998 include the Intel Advanced+ Boot Block flash that improves phone 
number security on cellular phones and the Intel Fast Boot Block flash that 
reduces memory bottlenecks by increasing memory performance in embedded 
systems.

GRAPHICS PRODUCTS. Chips and Technologies, Inc., acquired in January 1998, 
has been integrated into the graphics division of the Computing Enhancement 
Group. Their product line consists of the HQVideo -TM- family of multimedia 
accelerators. These graphics controllers provide enhanced graphics, 
full-motion video and other advanced display capabilities for notebook 
computers.

In February 1998, the Company announced the Intel740 -TM- graphics accelerator 
chip. Optimized for the Pentium II processor platform with Intel's AGPsets, 
the Intel740 graphics accelerator chip brings 3-D realism to Intel 
architecture PCs.

NETWORK COMMUNICATIONS GROUP

Network Communications Group products are designed to provide network and 
Internet connectivity solutions for medium-sized enterprise branch and campus 
offices, small businesses and consumers who buy the products through 
reseller, OEM and retail channels. These products include hubs, switches and 
routers for Ethernet networks, Ethernet client and server adapters, and 
communications silicon components.

The Network Communications Group introduced several products in 1998, 
including the Intel -Registered Trademark- InBusiness -TM- family of 
networking products introduced in January to help small businesses 
interconnect their PCs and gain Internet access simply and affordably. In 
November 1998, Intel introduced the Intel InBusiness eMail Station, a network 
appliance that provides small businesses with professional e-mail 
capabilities at an affordable price.

In March 1998, Intel announced the Intel PRO/100+ Adapter and the Intel 
PRO/100 Intelligent Server Adapter products to provide cost-effective network 
connections for workgroup and high-performance Web servers. In April 1998, 
Intel announced its first Gigabit Ethernet networking products: the Intel 
PRO/1000 Gigabit Server adapter, and the Intel Gigabit Switch. In May 1998, 
the Company announced the industry's first multi-platform, single-chip fast 
Ethernet controller, the 82559, designed to eliminate the need for 
information technology managers to support different networking solutions for 
servers, desktops, network PCs and mobile clients. In September 1998, Intel 
announced the Intel 21145 Phoneline/Ethernet LAN controller, which enables 
multiple PCs to be connected in a home over existing telephone lines.






Effective February 27, 1999, Intel completed the acquisition of Shiva 
Corporation for approximately $185 million in cash before consideration of 
cash acquired. The acquisition is aimed at expanding Intel's networking 
product line with remote access and virtual private networking solutions for 
the small to medium enterprise market segment and the remote needs of 
campuses and branch offices.

On March 4, 1999, Intel and Level One Communications, Inc. ("Level One") 
announced a definitive merger agreement under which Intel would acquire Level 
One. The acquisition is aimed at providing advanced networking capabilities 
through increased bandwidth and functionality through silicon integration. 
See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 
of Operations" under Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K for additional 
information regarding this proposed transaction.

NEW BUSINESS GROUP

In May 1998, Intel announced the formation of the New Business Group to focus 
on nurturing and growing opportunities in new market segments and to position 
the Company to serve these emerging market segments. During the second half 
of 1998, the New Business Group conducted market research and developed a 
strategic plan to execute to that strategy. The New Business Group also has 
products for the existing systems management software, conferencing and 
digital imaging market segments.

Intel's New Business Group products currently include the Intel-Registered 
Trademark- AnswerExpress-SM- Support Suite, an Internet-based PC support 
service; the LANDesk-Registered Trademark- Configuration Manager system 
management software; the Intel ProShare-Registered Trademark- Video System 
500 videoconferencing system; and the Intel-Registered Trademark-Create & 
Share-TM- camera pack.

MANUFACTURING

A substantial majority of the Company's wafer production, including 
microprocessor fabrication, is conducted at domestic Intel facilities in New 
Mexico, Arizona, Oregon, Massachusetts and California. Intel also produces 
microprocessor-related board-level products and systems at facilities in 
Puerto Rico, Oregon and Washington.

Outside the United States, a significant portion of Intel's wafer production 
is conducted at facilities in Ireland and Israel. In May 1998, Intel 
announced the opening of the Company's first 0.25-micron microprocessor 
production factory in Ireland and the conversion of the existing facility in 
Ireland to the 0.25-micron process technology. The Company also expanded its 
wafer production facilities in Israel during 1998. A substantial majority of 
the Company's components assembly and testing, including assembly and testing 
for processors based on the P6 microarchitecture, is performed at facilities 
in the Philippines, Malaysia, Ireland and Costa Rica. The Company also 
performs components assembly and testing at the newly opened facility in the 
People's Republic of China.

To augment both domestic and foreign capacity, Intel uses subcontractors to 
perform assembly of certain products and wafer fabrication for certain 
components, primarily flash memory and chipsets, and for production capacity 
of board-level products and systems.

In February 1999, Intel announced that the first product to be manufactured 
using the 0.18-micron process technology, the next generation of process 
technology, will be the mobile Pentium II processor. Production of this 
processor is expected to begin in the first half of 1999.

In general, if Intel were unable to fabricate wafers or assemble or test its 
products abroad, or if air transportation between its foreign facilities and 
the United States were disrupted, there could be a material adverse effect 
upon the Company's operations. In addition to normal manufacturing risks, 
foreign operations are subject to certain additional exposures, including 
political instability, currency controls and fluctuations, and tariff, import 
and other restrictions and regulations. To date, Intel has not experienced 
significant difficulties related to these foreign business risks.

The manufacture of integrated circuits is a complex process. Normal
manufacturing risks include errors and interruptions in the fabrication process
and defects in raw materials, as well as other risks, all of which can affect





yields. A substantial decrease in yields would result in higher manufacturing 
costs and the possibility of not being able to produce a sufficient volume of 
good units to meet demand.

EMPLOYEES

At December 26, 1998, the Company employed approximately 64,500 people 
worldwide.

SALES

Most of Intel's products are sold or licensed through sales offices located 
near major concentrations of users throughout the United States, Europe, 
Japan, Asia-Pacific and other parts of the world.

The Company also uses industrial and retail distributors and representatives 
to distribute its products both within and outside of the United States. 
Typically, distributors handle a wide variety of products, including those 
competitive with Intel products, and fill orders for many customers. Most of 
Intel's sales to distributors are made under agreements allowing for price 
protection and/or the right of return on unsold merchandise. Sales 
representatives generally do not offer directly competitive products but may 
carry complementary items manufactured by others. Representatives do not 
maintain a product inventory; instead, their customers place large orders 
directly with Intel and are referred to distributors for smaller orders. 
Intel sold products to more than 1,000 customers worldwide in 1998. Sales to 
Compaq Computer Corporation and Dell Computer Corporation in 1998 represented 
13% and 11% of total revenues, respectively. A majority of the sales to these 
two customers consisted of Intel Architecture Business Group products, but 
they also purchased products from other groups, including products from the 
Computing Enhancement Group. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of 
total revenues. Sales to the Company's five largest customers accounted for 
approximately 42% of total revenues.

Reference is made to the information regarding revenues and operating profit 
by reportable segments and revenues from unaffiliated customers by geographic 
region under the heading "Operating segment and geographic information" on 
pages 27 and 28 of the Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders, which 
information is hereby incorporated by reference.

BACKLOG

Intel's sales are primarily made pursuant to standard purchase orders for 
delivery of standard products. Intel has some agreements that give a customer 
the right to purchase a specific number of products during a specified time 
period. Although not generally obligating the customer to purchase any 
particular number of such products, some of these agreements do contain 
billback clauses. Under these clauses, customers who do not purchase the full 
volume agreed to are liable for billback on previous shipments up to the 
price appropriate for the quantity actually purchased. As a matter of 
industry practice, billback clauses are difficult to enforce. The quantity 
actually purchased by the customer, as well as the shipment schedules, are 
frequently revised during the agreement term to reflect changes in the 
customer's needs. In light of industry practice and experience, Intel does 
not believe that such agreements are meaningful for determining backlog 
amounts. Intel believes that only a small portion of its order backlog is 
noncancellable and that the dollar amount associated with the noncancellable 
portion is not material. Therefore, Intel does not believe that backlog as of 
any particular date is indicative of future results.

COMPETITION

The Company competes in different market segments to various degrees on the 
basis of functionality, quality, performance, availability and price. Intel 
is engaged in a rapidly advancing field of technology in which its ability to 
compete depends upon its ability to improve its products and processes, 
develop new products to meet changing customer requirements and to reduce 
costs. Prices decline rapidly in the semiconductor industry as unit volumes 
grow, as competition develops and as production experience is accumulated. 
Many companies compete with Intel in the various computing market segments 
and are engaged in the same basic fields of activity, including research and 
development. Both foreign and domestic, these competitors range in size from 
large multinationals to smaller companies competing in specialized market 
segments.





The Company's financial results are substantially dependent on sales of 
microprocessors by the Intel Architecture Business Group and to a lesser 
extent on sales of other semiconductor components by the Computing 
Enhancement Group. A number of competitors are marketing software-compatible 
products that are intended to compete with Intel's processors based on the P6 
microarchitecture. The Celeron processor, introduced in April 1998 and 
followed in August by enhanced versions, competes with existing and future 
products in the highly competitive value PC market segment. The Pentium II 
processor and the Pentium III processor, introduced in February 1999, compete 
with existing and future products in the performance desktop and entry-level 
workstation market segment.

Many of Intel's competitors are licensed to use Intel patents. Furthermore, 
based on the current case law, Intel's competitors can design microprocessors 
that are compatible with Intel microprocessors and avoid Intel patent rights 
through the use of foundry services that have licenses with Intel. 
Competitors' products may add features, increase performance or sell at lower 
prices. The Company also faces significant competition from companies that 
offer rival microprocessor architectures. The Pentium II Xeon processor, and 
the Pentium III Xeon processor introduced in March 1999, compete in the 
mid-range and high-end server and workstation market segments with 
established products based on rival architectures. The Company cannot predict 
whether its products will continue to successfully compete with such existing 
rival architectures or whether new architectures will establish or increase 
market acceptance or provide increased competition to the Company's products. 
Future distortion of price maturity curves could occur as software-compatible 
products enter the market in significant volume or alternative architectures 
gain market acceptance.

Intel's strategy is to introduce ever-higher performance microprocessors 
tailored for the different segments of the worldwide computing market, using 
a tiered branding approach. In line with this strategy, the Company is 
seeking to develop higher performance microprocessors for each market 
segment. The Company plans to cultivate new businesses and continue to work 
with the computing industry to expand Internet capabilities and product 
offerings and to develop compelling software applications that can take 
advantage of this higher performance, thus driving demand toward the newer 
products in each computing market segment. The Company may continue to take 
various steps, including reducing microprocessor prices at such times as it 
deems appropriate, in order to increase acceptance of its latest technology 
and to remain competitive within each relevant market segment. Intel is also 
committed to the protection of its intellectual property rights against 
illegal use. There can be no assurance, however, that competitors will not 
introduce new products (either software compatible or of rival architectural 
designs) or reduce prices on existing products. Such developments could have 
an adverse effect on Intel's revenues and margins.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company's competitive position has developed to a large extent because of 
its emphasis on research and development. This emphasis has enabled Intel to 
deliver many products before they have become available from competitors and 
has permitted Intel's customers to commit to the use of these new products in 
the development of their own products. Intel's research and development 
activities are directed toward developing new products, hardware technologies 
and processes, as well as improving existing products and lowering costs. 
Intel is jointly developing a new 64-bit microprocessor architecture and 
software optimizations with a third party. These new products, based on the 
IA-64 architecture, are expected to be targeted at server, workstation and 
enterprise computing market segments. The first product, the Merced 
processor, should be available to OEMs in initial production volumes in 
mid-2000. The second IA-64 processor is expected to be available for shipment 
in 2001. The Company also develops "enabling" software technologies, such as 
open software specifications and software tools, to enhance the functionality 
and acceptance of the personal computer platform.

In the United States, design and development of components and other products 
are performed at Intel's facilities in Arizona, California, Oregon, Texas and 
Washington. Outside the United States, Intel maintains product development 
facilities in Israel and Malaysia. Intel also maintains research and 
development facilities dedicated to improving manufacturing processes in 
Arizona, California and Oregon. Intel's expenditures for research and 
development were $2,674 million, $2,347 million and $1,808 million in fiscal 
years 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. At December 26, 1998, Intel had 
approximately 13,500 employees engaged in research and development. The 
success of Intel's research and development activities is dependent upon 
competitive circumstances as well as the Company's ability to bring new 
products to market in each computing market segment in a timely and 
cost-effective manner.





INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LICENSING

Intellectual property rights that apply to various Intel products include 
patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and maskwork rights. Intel has 
established an active program to protect its investment in technology by 
enforcing its intellectual property rights. Intel does not intend to broadly 
license its intellectual property rights unless it can obtain adequate 
consideration. Reference is also made to the heading "Competition" of this 
Form 10-K.

Intel has filed and obtained a number of patents in the United States and 
abroad. Intel has entered into patent cross-license agreements with many of 
its major competitors and other parties.

Intel protects many of its computer programs by copyrighting them. Intel has 
registered numerous copyrights with the United States Copyright Office. The 
ability to protect or to copyright software in some foreign jurisdictions is 
not clear. However, Intel has a policy of requiring customers to obtain a 
software license contract before providing a customer with certain computer 
programs. Certain components have computer programs embedded in them, and 
Intel has obtained copyright protection for some of these programs as well. 
Intel has obtained protection for the maskworks for a number of its 
components under the Chip Protection Act of 1984.

Intel has obtained certain trademarks and trade names for its products to 
distinguish genuine Intel products from those of its competitors and is 
currently engaged in a cooperative program with OEMs to identify personal 
computers that incorporate genuine Intel microprocessors with the Intel 
Inside-Registered Trademark- logo. Intel maintains certain details about its 
processes, products and strategies as trade secrets.

As is the case with many companies in the semiconductor industry, Intel has, 
from time to time, been notified of claims that it may be infringing certain 
intellectual property rights of others. These claims have been referred to 
counsel, and they are in various stages of evaluation and negotiation. If it 
appears necessary or desirable, Intel may seek licenses for these 
intellectual property rights. Intel can give no assurance that licenses will 
be offered by all claimants, that the terms of any offered licenses will be 
acceptable to Intel or that in all cases the dispute will be resolved without 
litigation. Reference is made to the information appearing under the heading 
"Legal Proceedings" in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K.

COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

To Intel's present knowledge, compliance with federal, state and local 
provisions enacted or adopted for protection of the environment has had no 
material effect upon its operations. Reference is made to the information 
appearing under the heading "Legal Proceedings" in Part I, Item 3 of this 
Form 10-K.





EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The following sets forth certain information with regard to executive 
officers of Intel (ages are as of December 26, 1998):

Craig R. Barrett (age 59) has been a director of Intel since 1992, Chief 
Executive Officer since May 1998 and President since 1997. Prior to that, Dr. 
Barrett was Chief Operating Officer from 1993 to May 1998 and Executive Vice 
President from 1990 to 1997.

Andrew S. Grove (age 62) has been a director of Intel since 1974 and Chairman 
of the Board since 1997. Dr. Grove was Chief Executive Officer from 1987 to 
May 1998 and President from 1979 to 1997.

Gordon E. Moore (age 69) has been a director of Intel since 1968 and Chairman 
Emeritus of the Board since 1997. Prior to that, Dr. Moore was Chairman of 
the Board from 1979 to 1997.

Leslie L. Vadasz (age 62) has been a director of Intel since 1988 and Senior 
Vice President, Director of Corporate Business Development since 1991.

Paul S. Otellini (age 48) has been Executive Vice President, and General 
Manager, Intel Architecture Business Group since January 1998. Prior to that, 
Mr. Otellini was Executive Vice President, Director Sales and Marketing Group 
from 1996 to January 1998; Senior Vice President and Director, Sales and 
Marketing Group from 1994 to 1996; and Senior Vice President and General 
Manager, Microprocessor Products Group from 1992 to 1994.

Gerhard H. Parker (age 55) has been Executive Vice President and General 
Manager, New Business Group since June 1998. Prior to that, Dr. Parker was 
Executive Vice President and General Manager, Technology and Manufacturing 
Group from 1996 to June 1998 and Senior Vice President and General Manager, 
Technology and Manufacturing Group from 1992 to 1996.

Andy D. Bryant (age 48) has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer since January 1999 and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
from 1994 to January 1999. Prior to that, Mr. Bryant was Vice President and 
Director of Finance for the Intel Products Group from 1990 to 1994.

Sean M. Maloney (age 42) has been Senior Vice President and Director, Sales 
and Marketing Group since January 1999 and Vice President and Director, Sales 
and Marketing Group from February 1998 to January 1999. Prior to that, Mr. 
Maloney was Vice President, Sales and General Manager, Asia-Pacific 
Operations from 1995 to February 1998 and Technical Assistant to the Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer from 1992 to 1995.

Michael J. Splinter (age 48) has been Senior Vice President and General 
Manager, Technology and Manufacturing Group since January 1999 and Vice 
President and General Manager, Technology and Manufacturing Group from June 
1998 to January 1999. Prior to that, Mr. Splinter was Vice President and 
Assistant General Manager, Technology and Manufacturing Group from 1996 to 
June 1998; and General Manager, Components Manufacturing from 1992 to 1996.

Albert Y. C. Yu (age 57) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, 
Microprocessor Products Group since 1993.

F. Thomas Dunlap, Jr. (age 47) has been Vice President, General Counsel and 
Secretary since 1987.

Arvind Sodhani (age 44) has been Vice President and Treasurer since 1990.





ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

At December 26, 1998, Intel owned the major facilities described below:


At December 26, 1998, Intel also leased 22 major facilities in the United 
States totaling approximately 829,000 square feet, and 23 facilities in other 
countries totaling approximately 651,000 square feet. These leases expire at 
varying dates through 2007 and include renewals at the option of Intel. Intel 
believes that its existing facilities are suitable and adequate for its 
present purposes, and that the productive capacity in such facilities is, in 
general, being utilized. Intel also has 2.2 million square feet of building 
space under various stages of construction in the United States and in 
various foreign locations, to be used for manufacturing and administrative 
purposes.

Intel does not identify or allocate assets or depreciation by operating 
segment. Reference is made to information on net property, plant and 
equipment by country under the heading "Operating segment and geographic 
information" on pages 27 and 28 of the Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to 
Stockholders, which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

- --------------
(A) Lease on a portion of the land used for these facilities expires in 2039.
(B) Leases on portions of the land used for these facilities expire in 2003
    through 2057.
(C) Leases on portions of the land used for these facilities expire in 2008
    through 2046.
(D) Lease on a portion of the land used for these facilities expires in 2046.





ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

A. LITIGATION

                         INTERGRAPH CORPORATION V. INTEL
               U.S. DISTRICT COURT, NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA,
                    NORTHEASTERN DIVISION (CV-97-N-3023-NE)

In November 1997, Intergraph Corporation ("Intergraph") filed suit in Federal 
District Court in Alabama generally alleging that Intel attempted to coerce 
Intergraph into relinquishing certain patent rights. The suit initially 
alleged that Intel infringes three Intergraph microprocessor-related patents 
and has been amended to add two other patents. The suit also includes alleged 
violations of antitrust laws and various state law claims. The suit seeks 
injunctive relief and unspecified damages. Intel has counterclaimed that the 
Intergraph patents are invalid and alleges infringement of seven Intel 
patents, breach of contract and misappropriation of trade secrets. In April 
1998, the Court ordered Intel to continue to deal with Intergraph on the same 
terms as it treats allegedly similarly situated customers with respect to 
confidential information and product supply. Intel's appeal of this order was 
heard in December 1998. In June 1998, Intel filed a motion for summary 
judgment on Intergraph's patent claims on the grounds that Intel is licensed 
to use those patents. In July 1998, the Company received a letter stating 
that Intergraph believes that the patent damages will be "several billion 
dollars by the time of trial." In addition, Intergraph alleges that Intel's 
infringement is willful and that any damages awarded should be trebled. The 
letter also stated that Intergraph believes that antitrust, unfair 
competition and tort and contract damages will be "hundreds of millions of 
dollars by the time of trial." The Company disputes Intergraph's claims and 
intends to defend the lawsuit vigorously. Although the ultimate outcome of 
this lawsuit cannot be determined at this time, management, including 
internal counsel, does not believe that the ultimate outcome will have a 
material adverse effect on Intel's financial position or overall trends in 
results of operations.

B. ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEEDINGS

Intel has been named to the California and U.S. Superfund lists for three of 
its sites and has completed, along with two other companies, a Remedial 
Investigation/Feasibility study with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
("EPA") to evaluate the groundwater in areas adjacent to one of its former 
sites. The EPA has issued a Record of Decision with respect to a groundwater 
cleanup plan at that site, including expected costs to complete. Under the 
California and U.S. Superfund statutes, liability for cleanup of this site 
and the adjacent area is joint and several. The Company, however, has reached 
agreement with those same two companies which significantly limits the 
Company's liabilities under the proposed cleanup plan. Also, the Company has 
completed extensive studies at its other sites and is engaged in cleanup at 
several of these sites. In the opinion of management, including internal 
counsel, the potential losses to the Company in excess of amounts already 
accrued arising out of these matters would not have a material adverse effect 
on the Company's financial position or overall trends in results of 
operations, even if joint and several liability were to be assessed.


ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.







                                   PART II **

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
            RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     (a)    Reference is made to the information regarding market, market
            price range and dividend information appearing under
            "Financial information by quarter (unaudited)" on page 37 of
            the Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders, which
            information is hereby incorporated by reference.

     (b)    As of February 26, 1999, there were approximately 216,000 
            registered holders of record of the Registrant's Common Stock.

     (c)    Unregistered sales of equity securities.

            None in the quarter ended December 26, 1998.

ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Reference is made to the information regarding selected financial data for 
the fiscal years 1994 through 1998, under the heading "Financial summary" on 
page 13 of the Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders, which 
information is hereby incorporated by reference.

In addition, the ratios of earnings to fixed charges for each of the five 
years in the period ended December 26, 1998 are as follows:



Fixed charges consist of interest expense and the estimated interest 
component of rent expense.







ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
            CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Reference is made to the information appearing under the heading 
"Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of 
operations" on pages 30 through 37 of the Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to 
Stockholders, which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

On March 4, 1999, Intel and Level One announced a definitive stock-for-stock 
merger agreement valued at approximately $2.2 billion under which Intel would 
acquire Level One. The acquisition is aimed at providing advanced networking 
capabilities through increased bandwidth and functionality through silicon 
integration. Under the terms of the agreement, each share of Level One stock 
would be exchanged for 0.86 shares of Intel stock, after adjusting for 
Intel's two for one stock split announced in January 1999. Approximately 37.2 
million shares of Intel stock would be issued, assuming the conversion of 
Level One's outstanding convertible subordinated notes into Level One Common 
Stock when permissible under their terms. The completion of this transaction 
is subject to compliance with regulatory requirements, Level One stockholder 
approval, and conditions customary in a transaction of this type.

On March 17, 1999, the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC" or "Commission") 
tentatively approved a settlement agreement (the "Consent Order") jointly 
developed by Intel and the FTC's Bureau of Competition. Under the terms of 
the Consent Order, if an intellectual property dispute arises and the 
customer chooses to waive its right to seek an injunction to block the 
manufacture and sale of Intel's processor products, Intel would continue to 
share certain advance technical information and product samples with that 
customer. Among other things, the Consent Order also allows Intel to continue 
to seek value for its intellectual property; make product and information 
supply decisions based on business justifications other than the existence of 
the intellectual property dispute; and include use restrictions on the use of 
its intellectual property. The Commission will give final approval or reject 
the Consent Order following a 60-day public comment period. Intel continues 
to cooperate with the staff of the FTC in the ongoing investigation 
authorized by the Commission in September 1997.

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Reference is made to the information appearing under the subheading 
"Financial market risks" under the heading "Management's discussion and 
analysis of financial condition and results of operations" on pages 32 and 33 
of the Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders, which information is 
hereby incorporated by reference.

ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Consolidated financial statements of Intel Corporation at December 26, 1998 
and December 27, 1997, and for each of the three years in the period ended 
December 26, 1998 and the Report of Independent Auditors thereon, and Intel 
Corporation's unaudited quarterly financial data for the two-year period 
ended December 26, 1998 are incorporated by reference from the Registrant's 
1998 Annual Report to Stockholders, on pages 13 through 29 and page 37.

ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
            ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.








                                   PART III **

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Reference is made to the information regarding Directors and Executive 
Officers appearing under the heading "Election of Directors" on pages 3 
through 6 of the Registrant's Proxy Statement related to the 1999 Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders (the "1999 Proxy Statement"), which information is 
hereby incorporated by reference, and to the information under the heading 
"Executive Officers" in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Reference is made to the information appearing under the headings "Directors' 
Compensation," "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation," 
and "Executive Compensation," on pages 9, 14 and 16, respectively, of the 
1999 Proxy Statement, which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
            MANAGEMENT

Reference is made to information appearing in the 1999 Proxy Statement under 
the heading "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management," 
on pages 19 and 20, which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Reference is made to information appearing in the 1999 Proxy Statement under 
the heading "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions," on page 14, 
which information is hereby incorporated by reference.






                                   PART IV **

ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
            FORM 8-K

       (a)  1.     Financial Statements

                   The financial statements listed in the accompanying index
                   to financial statements and financial statement schedules
                   are filed or incorporated by reference as part of this
                   annual report.

            2.     Financial Statement Schedule

                   The financial statement schedule listed in the
                   accompanying index to financial statements and financial
                   statement schedules is filed as part of this annual
                   report.

            3.     Exhibits

                   The exhibits listed in the accompanying index to exhibits
                   are filed or incorporated by reference as part of this
                   annual report.

       (b)        Reports on Form 8-K

                  On October 14, 1998, Intel filed a report on Form 8-K
                  relating to financial information for Intel Corporation
                  for the quarter ended September 26, 1998 and
                  forward-looking statements relating to the Fourth Quarter
                  of 1998 and the 2nd half of 1998, as presented in a press
                  release of October 13, 1998.







INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(ITEM 14 (a))

Schedules other than the one listed above are omitted for the reason that 
they are not required or are not applicable, or the required information is 
shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.

The consolidated financial statements listed in the above index, which are 
included in the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders, are hereby 
incorporated by reference. With the exception of the pages listed in the 
above index and the portions of such report referred to in Items 1, 5, 6, 7, 
7A and 8 of this Form 10-K, the 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders is not to 
be deemed filed as part of this report.





                                INTEL CORPORATION

                      -------------------------------------

                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

December 28, 1996, December 27, 1997 and December 26, 1998
(In Millions)


(A) Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries.







INDEX TO EXHIBITS
(Item 14(a))





* Compensation plans or arrangements in which directors and executive officers
  are eligible to participate.







SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

INTEL CORPORATION

Registrant

By  /s/ F. Thomas Dunlap, Jr.
   --------------------------
   F. Thomas Dunlap, Jr.
   Vice President and Secretary
   March 25,  1999

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

/s/ Craig R. Barrett                                 /s/ Gordon E. Moore
- --------------------                                 -------------------
Craig R. Barrett                                     Gordon E. Moore
President, Chief Executive                           Chairman Emeritus
Officer and Director,                                of the Board and Director
Principal Executive Officer                          March 25,  1999
March 25,  1999
                                                     /s/ David S. Pottruck
                                                     ---------------------
/s/ John P. Browne                                   David S. Pottruck
- ------------------                                   Director
John P. Browne                                       March 25,  1999
Director
March 25,  1999
                                                     /s/ Arthur Rock
                                                     ---------------
/s/ Andy D. Bryant                                   Arthur Rock
- ------------------                                   Director
Andy D. Bryant                                       March 25,  1999
Senior Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer and Principal
Accounting Officer                                   /s/ Jane E. Shaw
March 25,  1999                                      ----------------
                                                     Jane E. Shaw
                                                     Director
/s/ Winston H. Chen                                  March 25,  1999
- -------------------
Winston H. Chen
Director                                             /s/ Leslie L. Vadasz
March 25,  1999                                      --------------------
                                                     Leslie L. Vadasz
                                                     Senior Vice President
/s/ Andrew S. Grove                                  Director
- -------------------                                  March 25,  1999
Andrew S. Grove
Chairman of the Board
and Director                                         /s/ David B. Yoffie
March 25,  1999                                      -------------------
                                                     David B. Yoffie
                                                     Director
/s/ D. James Guzy                                    March 25,  1999
- -----------------
D. James Guzy
Director                                             /s/ Charles E. Young
March 25,  1999                                      --------------------
                                                     Charles E. Young
                                                     Director
                                                     March 25,  1999





