Item 1.BUSINESS

General

Packaging
Corporation of America (“we”, “us”, “our”, “PCA” or the “Company”) is the fourth largest producer of containerboard in the United States in terms of production capacity. During 2012, we produced
2.6 million tons of containerboard at our mills, of which about 83% was consumed in PCA’s corrugated products manufacturing plants, 10% was sold in the export market and 7% was sold to domestic customers. Our corrugated products
manufacturing plants sold about 34.7 billion square feet (BSF) of corrugated products. Our net sales to third parties totaled $2.8 billion in 2012.

Containerboard Production and Corrugated Shipments



FirstQuarterSecondQuarterThirdQuarterFourthQuarterFullYearContainerboard Production (thousand tons)20126406386706522,60020116026066506412,49920105695896466392,443Corrugated Shipments (BSF)20128.58.88.68.834.720117.88.28.38.232.520107.67.97.87.731.0

In 2012, we produced 1.6 million tons of kraft linerboard at our mills in Counce, Tennessee and
Valdosta, Georgia, and 1.0 million tons of semi-chemical corrugating medium at our mills in Tomahawk, Wisconsin and Filer City, Michigan.

Our corrugated products manufacturing plants produce a wide variety of corrugated packaging products, including conventional shipping containers used to protect and transport manufactured goods,
multi-color boxes and displays with strong visual appeal that help to merchandise the packaged product in retail locations. In addition, we are a large producer of meat boxes and wax-coated boxes for the agricultural industry.

Industry Overview

The
primary end-use markets for corrugated products are shown below (as reported in the most recent 2011 Fibre Box Association annual report):



Food, beverages and agricultural products52%Paper products16%Petroleum, plastic, synthetic and rubber products11%General retail and wholesale trade6%Miscellaneous manufacturing6%Appliances, vehicles, and metal products5%Textile mill products and apparel2%Other2%

Corrugated products plants tend to be located in close proximity to customers to minimize freight costs.
The U.S. corrugated products industry consists of approximately 570 companies and 1,240 plants.

Containerboard,
which includes both linerboard and corrugating medium, is the principal raw material used to manufacture corrugated products. Linerboard is used as the inner and outer facings, or liners, of corrugated







products. Corrugating medium is fluted and laminated to linerboard to produce corrugated sheets. The sheets are subsequently printed, cut, folded and glued to produce corrugated products.

Containerboard may be manufactured from both softwood and hardwood fibers, as well as from recycled fibers from used
corrugated and waste from converting operations in corrugated products plants. Kraft linerboard is made predominantly from softwoods like pine. Semi-chemical corrugating medium is made from hardwoods such as oak. The finished paper product is wound
into large rolls, which are slit to size as required, and shipped to converters.

PCA Operations and Products

Containerboard Mills

Our two linerboard mills can manufacture a broad range of linerboard grades ranging from 26 lb. to 96 lb. Our two semi-chemical corrugating medium mills can manufacture grades ranging in weight from 20
lb. to 47 lb. Mill capacities described below are estimated based on expected mix of paper basis weights, and production can exceed estimated capacity if a higher-than-estimated mix of heavier grade paper is produced. All four of our mills have
completed an extensive independent review process to become ISO 9002 certified. ISO 9002 is an international quality certification that verifies a facility maintains and follows stringent procedures for manufacturing, sales and customer service.

The following four paragraphs describe our containerboard mills’ annual practical maximum capacity, 2012 actual
production and production capabilities.

Counce.Our Counce, Tennessee mill is one of the
largest kraft linerboard mills in the United States. Its year-end 2012 annual estimated production capacity, as reported to the American Forest and Paper Association (“AF&PA”), is 1,057,000 tons. In 2012, we produced 1,056,000 tons of
kraft linerboard on two paper machines at Counce. The mill produces a broad range of basis weights from 26 lb. to 90 lb. The mill also produces a variety of performance and specialty grades of linerboard.

Valdosta.Our Valdosta, Georgia mill is a kraft linerboard mill. Its year-end 2012 annual estimated
production capacity, as reported to the AF&PA, is 559,000 tons. In 2012, our single paper machine at Valdosta produced 561,000 tons of kraft linerboard. Valdosta produces a range of basis weights from 35 lb. to 96 lb.

Tomahawk.Our Tomahawk, Wisconsin mill is one of the largest semi-chemical corrugating medium mills in the
United States. Its year-end 2012 annual estimated production capacity, as reported to the AF&PA, is 545,000 tons. In 2012, we produced 543,000 tons of semi-chemical corrugating medium on two paper machines at Tomahawk. The Tomahawk mill produces
a broad range of basis weights from 23 lb. to 47 lb. and a variety of performance and specialty grades of corrugating medium.

Filer City.Our Filer City, Michigan mill is a semi-chemical corrugating medium mill. Its year-end 2012
annual estimated production capacity on three paper machines, as reported to the AF&PA is 439,000 tons. In 2012, we produced 440,000 tons of corrugating medium on three paper machines at Filer City. Filer City produces corrugating medium grades
ranging in basis weight from 20 lb. to 47 lb.

Corrugated Products

We operate 71 corrugated manufacturing operations, a technical and development center, seven regional graphic design centers, a
rotogravure printing operation and a complement of packaging supplies and distribution centers. Of the 71 manufacturing facilities, 41 operate as combining operations, commonly called corrugated plants, which manufacture corrugated sheets and
finished corrugated containers. The remaining 30 manufacturing facilities, commonly called sheet plants, procure combined sheets and manufacture finished corrugated containers.







We have corrugated manufacturing operations in 26 states in the U.S., with no
manufacturing facilities outside of the continental U.S. Each corrugated plant, for the most part, serves a market radius of around 150 miles. Our sheet plants are generally located in close proximity to our larger corrugated plants, which
enables us to offer additional services and converting capabilities such as small volume and quick turnaround items.

We
produce a wide variety of products ranging from basic corrugated shipping containers to specialized packaging such as wax-coated boxes for the agriculture industry. We also have multi-color printing capabilities to make high-impact graphics boxes
and displays that offer customers more attractive packaging.

Timberland

We currently lease the cutting rights to approximately 88,000 acres of timberland located near our Counce, Tennessee and Valdosta,
Georgia mills. Virtually all of the acres under cutting rights agreements are located within 100 miles of these two mills which results in lower wood transportation costs and provides a secure source of wood fiber. These leased cutting rights
agreements have terms with about 11 years remaining, on average. In addition, we have in place supply agreements covering approximately 318,000 acres with the majority of the acreage covered by the supply agreements located in close proximity
to our Counce mill.

PCA also participates in the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) and is certified under the SFI
sourcing standards. These standards are aimed at ensuring the long-term health and conservation of forestry resources. PCA is committed to sourcing wood fiber through environmentally, socially and economically sustainable practices and promoting
resource and conservation stewardship ethics.

Sales and Marketing

Our corrugated products are sold through a direct sales and marketing organization. We have sales representatives and a sales manager at
most of our corrugated manufacturing operations and also have corporate account managers who serve customer accounts with a national presence. Additionally, our graphic design centers maintain an on-site dedicated graphics sales force. In addition
to direct sales and marketing personnel, we utilize new product development engineers and product graphics and design specialists. These individuals are located at both the corrugated plants and the graphic design centers. General marketing support
is located at our corporate headquarters.

Our containerboard sales group is responsible for the sale of linerboard and
corrugating medium to our corrugated plants, to other domestic customers and to the export market. This group handles order processing for all shipments of containerboard from our mills to our corrugated plants. These personnel also coordinate and
execute all containerboard trade agreements with other containerboard manufacturers.

Distribution

Containerboard produced in our mills is shipped by rail or truck. Rail shipments typically represent from 50% to 55% of the tons shipped
and the remaining 45% to 50% is comprised of truck shipments. Our individual mills do not own or maintain outside warehousing facilities.

Our corrugated products are delivered by truck due to our large number of customers and their demand for timely service. Our converting operations typically service customers within a 150 miles
radius. We use third-party warehouses for short-term storage of corrugated products.







Customers

PCA’s corrugated products group sells to approximately 9,500 customers in over 18,000 locations. About two-thirds of our corrugated products sales are to regional and local accounts, which are
broadly diversified across industries and geographic locations. The remaining one-third consists primarily of national accounts who have multiple locations and are served by a number of PCA plants.

Major Raw Materials Used

Fiber supply.Fiber is the single largest cost in the manufacture of containerboard. PCA consumes both wood
fiber and recycled fiber in its containerboard mills. We have no 100% recycled mills, or those mills whose fiber consumption consists solely of recycled fiber. To reduce our fiber costs, we have invested in processes and equipment to ensure a high
degree of fiber flexibility. Our mill system has the capability to shift a portion of its fiber consumption between softwood, hardwood and recycled sources. All of our mills, other than our Valdosta mill, can utilize some recycled fiber in their
containerboard production. Our ability to use various types of virgin and recycled fiber helps mitigate the impact of changes in the prices of various fibers. Our corrugated manufacturing operations generate recycled fiber as a by-product from the
manufacturing process, which is sold to our mills directly or through trade agreements. During 2012, our containerboard mills consumed approximately 564,000 tons of recycled fiber, and our corrugated converting operations generated approximately
197,000 tons of recycled fiber. As a result, PCA was a net recycled fiber buyer of 367,000 tons, or 14% of PCA’s total mill fiber requirements.

Energy supply.Energy at PCA’s four mills is obtained through purchased or self-generated fuels and electricity. Fuel sources include by-products of the containerboard
manufacturing and pulping process, including black liquor and wood waste, and natural gas, purchased wood waste, coal and oil. Each of PCA’s mills self-generates process steam requirements from by-products (black liquor and wood waste), as well
as from the various purchased fuels. The process steam is used throughout the production process and also to generate electricity.

In 2012, PCA’s four mills consumed about 47 million MMBTU’s of fuel to produce both steam and electricity. Of the 47 million MMBTU’s consumed, about 68% was from mill generated
by-products, and 32% was from purchased fuels. Of the 32% in purchased fuels, 52% was from natural gas, 26% from purchased wood waste, and 15% was from coal.

In 2012, our mills purchased approximately 7.6 million CkWh (hundred kilowatt hours) of electricity, or the equivalent of 2.6 million MMBTU’s. Approximately 55% of the electricity consumed
by our four mills in 2012 was generated on-site.

In 2012, PCA’s corrugated products plants consumed about
2.0 million MMBTU’s of natural gas.

Competition

According to industry sources, corrugated products are produced by about 570 U.S. companies operating approximately 1,240 plants. Most corrugated products are manufactured to the customer’s
specifications. Corrugated producers generally sell within a 150-mile radius of their plants and compete with other corrugated producers in their local market.

The larger, multi-plant integrated companies may also solicit larger, multi-plant customers who purchase for all of their facilities on a consolidated basis. These customers are often referred to as
national or corporate accounts.

Corrugated products businesses seek to differentiate themselves through pricing, quality,
service, design and product innovation. We compete for both local and national account business, and we compete against producers







of other types of packaging products. On a national level, our primary competitors include International Paper Company, Georgia-Pacific (owned by Koch Industries, Inc.) and Rock-Tenn Company.
However, with our strategic focus on local and regional accounts, we also compete with the smaller, independent converters.

Our principal competitors with respect to sales of our containerboard produced but not consumed at our own corrugated products plants are
a number of large, diversified paper companies, including International Paper Company, Georgia-Pacific and Rock-Tenn Company, as well as other regional manufacturers. Containerboard is generally considered a commodity-type product and can be
purchased from numerous suppliers.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 8,600 employees. Approximately 2,600 of these employees were salaried and approximately 6,000 were hourly. Approximately 75% of our hourly employees
are represented by unions. The majority of our unionized employees are represented by the United Steel Workers (USW), the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT) and the International Association of Machinists (IAM).

Based on an agreement reached with the USW in 2008, the existing labor agreements at our containerboard mills covering USW-represented
employees (91% of mill hourly workforce) were extended five years. With this extension, the USW contracts at our mills are currently set to expire between September 2013 and June 2015. Agreements with other union mill employees (9% of mill hourly
workforce) expire between October 2014 and June 2017. Based on an agreement reached with the USW in 2009, the labor agreement at 25 corrugated plants covering USW represented employees was extended up to five years. Contracts for unionized
corrugated products plant employees expire between November 2012 and March 2018. We are currently in negotiations to renew or extend any union contracts that have recently expired or are expiring in the near future.

During 2012, we experienced no work stoppages and have experienced no instances of significant work stoppages in the ten years prior to
2012. We believe we have satisfactory labor relations with our employees.

Environmental Matters

Compliance with environmental requirements is a significant factor in our business operations. We commit substantial resources to
maintaining environmental compliance and managing environmental risk. We are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the
cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. The most significant of these laws affecting us are:

1.   Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA)

2.   Clean Water Act (CWA)

3.   Clean Air Act (CAA)

4.   The Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know-Act (EPCRA)

5.
  Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA)

6.   Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA)

We believe that we are currently in material compliance with these and all applicable environmental rules and regulations. Because
environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with these and other environmental laws. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, we spent
$25.8 million, $26.0 million and $24.6 million, respectively, to comply with the requirements of these and other environmental laws. We work diligently to anticipate and budget for the impact of applicable environmental regulations,
and do not currently expect that future







environmental compliance obligations will materially affect our business or financial condition. For a further discussion of the financial impact of our compliance with environmental laws, please
see “ Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Environmental Matters.”

Available Information

PCA’s internet website address iswww.packagingcorp.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, our Code of Ethics may be
accessed in the Investor Relations section of PCA’s website. PCA’s website and the information contained or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this report.

Financial Information About Segments

We operate as one segment and our revenues are generated primarily in one geographic segment. See “Segment Information” of Note 2 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
contained in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”

