ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

General

Stryker Corporation is one of the world's leading medical technology companies with 2011 revenues of $8,307 and net earnings of $1,345.  Stryker's products include implants used in joint replacement and trauma surgeries; surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems; endoscopic and communications systems; patient handling and emergency medical equipment; neurosurgical, neurovascular and spinal devices; as well as other medical device products used in a variety of medical specialties.

As used herein, and except where the context otherwise requires, "Stryker," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Stryker Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Stryker was incorporated in Michigan in 1946 as the successor company to a business founded in 1941 by Dr. Homer H. Stryker, a prominent orthopaedic surgeon and the inventor of several orthopaedic products. In the United States, most of our products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other health-care facilities. Internationally, our products are sold in over 100 countries through Company-owned sales subsidiaries and branches as well as third-party dealers and distributors.

Business Segments and Geographic Information

In 2011 we began segregating our reporting into three reportable business segments: Reconstructive, MedSurg, and Neurotechnology and Spine.  Financial information regarding our reportable business segments and certain geographic information is included underResults of Operationsin Item 7 of this report and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.  We have restated prior period segment information to conform to the current presentation.

Reconstructive

Reconstructive products consist primarily of implants used in hip and knee joint replacements and trauma surgeries.  Many of our technologically advanced reconstructive implants are suited to minimally invasive surgery procedures that are intended to reduce soft-tissue damage and pain while hastening return to function. We support surgeons with technology, procedural development and specialized instrumentation as they develop new surgical techniques.

In 2011 we received 510(k) approval to market our ShapeMatch Cutting Guides for use with our Triathlon Total Knee System.  ShapeMatch technology utilizes proprietary 3D imaging software to develop a customized preoperative surgical plan for each patient and is available only for use with the Triathlon system.

In 2011 we acquired Memometal Technologies, which develops, manufactures and markets products for extremity (hand and foot) indications that enhance the offerings in our trauma product line.

Stryker is one of five leading competitors in the United States for joint replacement products; the other four are DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (DePuy, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (Zimmer), Biomet, Inc. and Smith & Nephew plc.  We are also a leading player in the international markets, with these same companies as our principal competitors.  In trauma systems, we compete principally with Synthes, Inc., Smith & Nephew Orthopaedics (a division of Smith & Nephew plc), Zimmer and DePuy.

MedSurg

MedSurg products include surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems (Instruments); endoscopic and communications systems (Endoscopy); patient handling and emergency medical equipment (Medical); reprocessed and remanufactured medical devices; as well as other medical device products used in a variety of medical specialties.

In 2010 we acquired the assets used to produce the Sonopet Ultrasonic Aspirator control consoles, handpieces and accessories, which are used by surgeons to fragment soft and hard tissue for tumor removal and bone cutting and have applications in our Instruments product line.

In 2010 we acquired Gaymar Industries (Gaymar), which specializes in support surfaces and pressure ulcer management solutions as well as the temperature management segment of the healthcare industry. Gaymar enhances the offerings in our Medical product line.

Stryker is one of three market leaders in Instruments, competing principally with Medtronic, Inc. and Conmed Linvatec, Inc. (a subsidiary of CONMED Corporation) globally; internationally, we also compete with Aesculap-Werke AG (a division of B. Braun Melsungen AG).  In Endoscopy, we compete with Smith & Nephew Endoscopy (a division of Smith & Nephew plc), ConMed Linvatec, Inc., Arthrex, Inc., Karl Storz GmbH & Co. and Olympus Optical Co. Ltd.  Our primary competitors in Medical are Hill-Rom Holdings, Inc., Hausted, Inc. (a subsidiary of STERIS Corporation), Midmark Hospital Products Group (a subsidiary of Ohio Medical Instrument Company, Inc.) and Ferno-Washington, Inc.





1Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.





Neurotechnology and Spine

Our Neurotechnology and Spine products include a comprehensive portfolio of products including both neurosurgical and neurovascular devices. Our neurotechnology offering includes products used for minimally invasive endovascular techniques, as well as a comprehensive line of products for traditional brain and open skull base surgical procedures, orthobiologic and biosurgery products including synthetic bone grafts and vertebral augmentation products, as well as minimally invasive products for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke.   We also develop, manufacture and market spinal implant products including cervical, thoracolumbar and interbody systems used in spinal injury, deformity and degenerative therapies.

In 2011 we acquired the assets of the Neurovascular division of Boston Scientific Corporation (Neurovascular), as well as Concentric Medical, Inc., a manufacturer of minimally invasive products for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke.  These acquisitions complement our product offerings within our Neurovascular product line.

In June 2011 we completed the acquisition of Orthovita, Inc. (Orthovita), a developer of orthobiologic and biosurgery products, including synthetic bone grafts and vertebral augmentation products. The acquisition of Orthovita complements our existing product offerings, primarily within our Spine product line.

Our primary competitors in neurotechnology are Covidien and Micrus Endovascular, LLC (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson).  We are one of four market leaders in spine products, along with Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc.), DePuy Spine, Inc. (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson) and Synthes, Inc.

Geographic Areas

In 2011 approximately 63% of our revenues were generated from customers in the United States. Internationally, our products are sold in over 100 countries through local dealers and direct sales efforts. Additional geographic information is included underResults of Operationsin Item 7 of this report and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.

Raw Materials and Inventory

Raw materials essential to our business are generally readily available from multiple sources.  Substantially all products we manufacture are stocked in inventory, while certain MedSurg products are assembled to order. The dollar amount of backlog orders at any given time is not considered to be significant.

Patents and Trademarks

Patents and trademarks are significant to our business to the extent that a product or an attribute of a product represents a unique design or process.  Patent protection of such products restricts competitors from duplicating these unique designs and features.  We seek to obtain patent protection on our products whenever appropriate for protecting our competitive advantage. As of December 31, 2011, we own approximately 1,456 United States patents and 2,579 international patents.

Seasonality

Our business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the number of reconstructive implant surgeries is generally lower during the summer months.

Competition

In all of our product lines, we compete with local and global companies located throughout the world.  Competition exists in all product lines without regard to the number and size of the competing companies involved. The development of new and innovative products is important to our success in all areas of our business and competition in research, involving the development and the improvement of new and existing products and processes, is particularly significant.  The competitive environment requires substantial investments in continuing research and in maintaining sales forces.

The principal factors that we believe differentiate us in the highly competitive product categories in which we operate and enable us to compete effectively include our commitment to innovation and quality, service and reputation. We believe that our competitive position in the future will depend to a large degree on our ability to develop new products and make improvements to existing products.

Product Development

Most of our products and product improvements, with the exception of our neurotechnology products, have been developed internally at research facilities located in manufacturing locations in the United States, Ireland, Puerto Rico, Germany, Switzerland and France.   We also invest through acquisitions in technologies developed by third parties that have the potential to expand the markets in which we operate.  We maintain close working relationships with physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist us in product development efforts. The total costs of worldwide Company-sponsored research, development and engineering activities



2Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.





relating to the development of new products, improvement of existing products, technical support of products and compliance with governmental regulations for the protection of customers and patients were $462, $394 and $336 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Research, development and engineering expenses represented 5.6% of sales, 5.4% of sales and 5.0% of sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Regulation

Most of our businesses are subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which operations are conducted, and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation.

In the United States, the Medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990, and the regulations issued or proposed thereunder, provide for regulation by the federal Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, including most of our products.  Most of our new products fall into FDA classifications that require notification of and review by the FDA before marketing, submitted as a 510(k). Certain of our products require extensive clinical testing, consisting of safety and efficacy studies, followed by pre-market approval applications for specific surgical indications.

The FDA's Quality System regulations set forth standards for our product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the FDA. There are also certain requirements of state, local and foreign governments that must be complied with in the manufacturing and marketing of our products.  We have previously been subject to warning letters issued by the FDA but all warning letters have been resolved as of May 10, 2010 and none are currently outstanding.

The member states of the European Union (EU) have adopted the European Medical Device Directives that form a single set of medical device regulations for all EU member countries. These regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member countries to obtain CE Marking for their products. We have authorization to apply the CE Marking to substantially all of our products.

Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare expenses generally and hospital costs in particular, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where we do business. It is not possible to predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost-containment measures on our future business.

In addition, business practices in the health care industry have come under increased scrutiny, particularly in the United States, by government agencies and state attorneys general, and resulting investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties.

Employees

At December 31, 2011, we had approximately 21,241 employees worldwide.  Certain international employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  We believe that we maintain positive relationships with our employees worldwide.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information regarding our executive officers appears under the caption "Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance" in Item 10 of this Report.

Available Information

Our main corporate website address iswww.stryker.com.Copies of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Annual Report on Form 10-K and Current Reports on Form 8-K filed or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) will be provided without charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to the Secretary at our principal executive offices. All of our SEC filings are also available free of charge on our website within the "Investor-SEC Filings & Ownership Reports" link as soon as reasonably practicable after having been electronically filed or furnished to the SEC.  All SEC filings are also available at the SEC's website atwww.sec.gov.



