ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

General

Stryker Corporation is one of the world's leading medical technology companies, with2014revenues of$9,675and net earnings of$515.  Stryker's products include implants used in joint replacement and trauma surgeries; surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems; endoscopic and communications systems; patient handling and emergency medical equipment; neurosurgical, neurovascular and spinal devices; as well as other medical device products used in a variety of medical specialties.

Stryker was incorporated in Michigan in 1946 as the successor company to a business founded in 1941 by Dr. Homer H. Stryker, a prominent orthopaedic surgeon and the inventor of several orthopaedic products. In the United States, most of our products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities. Internationally, our products are sold in over 100 countries through company-owned sales subsidiaries and branches as well as third-party dealers and distributors.

As used herein, and except where the context otherwise requires, "Stryker," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Stryker Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Business Segments and Geographic Information

In December 2014 we changed the name of our Reconstructive business segment to Orthopaedics. This change did not change the composition of any of our business segments and had no financial impact.

We segregate our reporting into three reportable business segments: Orthopaedics, MedSurg, and Neurotechnology and Spine.   Financial information regarding our reportable business segments and certain geographic information is included under "Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.

Net sales by reportable segment over the last three years were:

201420132012Orthopaedics$4,15343%$3,94944%$3,82344%MedSurg3,78139%3,41438%3,26538%Neurotechnology and Spine1,74118%1,65818%1,56918%Total$9,675100%$9,021100%$8,657100%

Orthopaedics

Orthopaedics products consist primarily of implants used in hip and knee joint replacements and trauma and extremities surgeries.  We bring patients and physicians advanced implant designs and specialized instrumentation that make orthopaedic surgery and recovery simpler, faster and more effective.  We support surgeons with the technology and services they need as they develop new surgical techniques.

Stryker is one of five leading competitors globally for joint replacement and trauma products; the other four are Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (Zimmer), DePuy Synthes Company, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson,  Biomet, Inc. and Smith & Nephew plc (Smith & Nephew).



The composition of net sales of Orthopaedics products over the last three years was:

201420132012Knees$1,39634%$1,37135%$1,35635%Hips1,29131%1,27232%1,23332%Trauma and Extremities1,23030%1,11628%98926%Other2365%1905%2457%Total$4,153100%$3,949100%$3,823100%

In September 2014 we acquired certain assets of Small Bone Innovations, Inc. (SBi) for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $358. SBi products are designed and promoted for upper and lower extremity small bone indications, with a focus on small joint replacement.

In December 2013 we acquired MAKO Surgical Corp. (MAKO).  The acquisition of MAKO, combined with our strong history in joint reconstruction, capital equipment (operating room integration and surgical navigation) and surgical instruments, will help further advance the growth of robotic arm assisted surgery. Our combined expertise offers the potential to simplify joint reconstruction procedures, reduce variability and enhance the surgeon and patient experience.

In March 2013 we acquired Trauson Holdings Company Limited (Trauson). The acquisition of Trauson enhances our product offerings, primarily within our Orthopaedics segment, broadens our presence in China and enables us to expand into the fast growing value segment of the emerging markets.

In 2013 we launched the Tritanium Cementless Baseplate for our Triathlon Knee Arthroscopy (TKA) system, which combines biologic fixation with Triathlon’s kinematics to provide surgeons with a superior option for cementless TKA. We also launched the Secur-Fit Advanced Femoral Hip Stem, which facilitates the accurate restoration of biomechanics when used with our new and unique Stryker Orthopaedics Modeling and Analytics system.

In 2012 we voluntarily recalled our Rejuvenate and ABG II Modular-Neck hip stems and terminated global distribution of these hip products.  We notified healthcare professionals and regulatory bodies of this recall, which was taken due to potential risks associated with fretting and/or corrosion that may lead to adverse local tissue reactions.  In November 2014 we entered into a Settlement Agreement (the “Settlement Agreement”) to compensate eligible United States patients who had surgery to replace their Rejuvenate and ABG II modular-neck hip stems, known as a "revision surgery", prior to November 3, 2014. To date we have recorded charges to earnings totaling $1,534 ($1,713 before $179 of third party insurance recoveries) representing the actuarially determined low end of the range of probable loss to resolve this entire matter globally. It is expected that a majority of the payments under the Settlement Agreement will be made by the end of 2015. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for further information.

In 2012 we launched Accolade II, the first hip stem with a Morphometric Wedge design, an evolution of the tapered wedge stem.

MedSurg

MedSurg products include surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems (Instruments); endoscopic and communications systems (Endoscopy); patient handling and emergency medical equipment (Medical); and reprocessed and remanufactured medical devices (Sustainability) as well as other medical device products used in a variety of medical specialties.





1Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.



STRYKER CORPORATION                                                                                                                           2014 Form 10-K



Stryker is one of four market leaders in Instruments, competing principally with Zimmer, Medtronic plc. and ConMed Linvatec, Inc., a subsidiary of CONMED Corporation (ConMed Linvatec) globally.  In Endoscopy, we compete with Smith & Nephew Endoscopy, ConMed Linvatec, Inc., Arthrex, Inc., Karl Storz GmbH & Co. and Olympus Optical Co. Ltd.  Our primary competitor in Medical is Hill-Rom Holdings, Inc.

The composition of net sales of MedSurg products over the last three years was:

201420132012Instruments$1,42438%$1,26937%$1,26139%Endoscopy1,38237%1,22236%1,11134%Medical76620%71021%69121%Sustainability2095%2136%2026%Total$3,781100%$3,414100%$3,265100%

In January 2015 we announced the asset acquisition of privately-held CHG Hospital Beds, Inc. ("CHG") in an all cash transaction. CHG, headquartered in London, Ontario, Canada, manufactures and markets low-height hospital beds and related accessories  across Canada, and in the United States and the United Kingdom.

In April 2014 we acquired Berchtold Holding, AG (Berchtold), a privately-held business with operations in Germany and the United States, for an aggregate purchase price  of approximately $184. Berchtold sells surgical tables, equipment booms and surgical lighting systems.  In March 2014 we acquired Patient Safety Technologies, Inc. (PST), for an aggregate purchase price of  $120. PST conducts its business through its wholly owned subsidiary, SurgiCount Medical, Inc. PST’s proprietary Safety-Sponge®System and SurgiCount 360™ compliance software help prevent Retained Foreign Objects in the operating room. Other business acquisitions in 2014 include the acquisition of Pivot Medical, Inc. (Pivot), which develops and sells innovative products for hip arthroscopy.

In March 2013 we received a warning letter from the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) concerning quality system observations made during an inspection and citing us for failing to notify the FDA of a product recall and for marketing devices, including certain of our Neptune Waste Management Systems, without a required 510(k) clearance.  We were notified in January 2014 that the actions taken to address issues raised in the warning letter were sufficient and no further corrective actions related to the warning letter were required.

In December 2013 we received 510(k) clearance to market a modified Neptune 2 Waste Management System. The Neptune 2 Waste Management System mitigates risks to healthcare workers by eliminating harmful exposure to fluids and smoke in the operating room. This constantly closed system collects surgical waste and disposes of it without exposing the operator to contact with infectious fluids and surgical plumes.

In 2012 we launched System 7, the next generation of heavy duty surgical power tools. These tools are used in total joint procedures, such as hip and knee replacements, and offer the latest in advanced cutting technology.  We also launched the 1488 HD 3-Chip Endoscopic Camera System, which utilizes advanced CMOS technology and premium optics to provide a clear bright image designed to enhance patient outcomes.  In addition, we launched Power-LOADTM, our cot fastener system that lifts and lowers the cot into and out of ambulances, thereby reducing spinal loads and the risk of cumulative trauma injuries to emergency responders.



Neurotechnology and Spine

Our Neurotechnology and Spine products include both neurosurgical and neurovascular devices. Our neurotechnology offering includes products used for minimally invasive endovascular techniques; a comprehensive line of products for traditional brain and open skull base surgical procedures; orthobiologic and biosurgery products, including synthetic bone grafts and vertebral augmentation products; and minimally invasive products for the treatment of acute ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke. We also develop, manufacture and market spinal implant products including cervical, thoracolumbar and interbody systems used in spinal injury, deformity and degenerative  therapies.

Our primary competitors in Neurotechnology are Medtronic, including Covidien, which was recently acquired by Medtronic, and Johnson & Johnson.  We are one of five market leaders in Spine, along with Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic), DePuy Synthes (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), Nuvasive, Inc. and Globus Medical, Inc.

The composition of net sales of Neurotechnology and Spine products over the last three years was:

201420132012Neurotechnology$1,00157%$91555%$84254%Spine74043%74345%72746%Total$1,741100%$1,658100%$1,569100%

In 2012 we received 510(k) clearance to market the Trevo®Pro Retriever, our next generation clot removal technology that utilizes proprietary Stentriever®Technology for optimized clot integration and retrieval in patients experiencing acute ischemic stroke.  In addition, we received 510(k) clearance to market our Trevo®ProVEUTMRetriever, the first clot removal device fully visible during the procedure for precise positioning within the clot and optimized clot retrieval in patients experiencing acute ischemic stroke.

Geographic Areas

In2014approximately68.0%of our revenues were generated from customers in the United States. Additional geographic information is included under "Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.

Raw Materials and Inventory

Raw materials essential to our business are generally readily available from multiple sources.  Substantially all products we manufacture are stocked in inventory, while certain MedSurg products are assembled to order. The dollar amount of backlog orders at any given time is not considered material to an understanding of our business taken as a whole.

Patents and Trademarks

Patents and trademarks are significant to our business to the extent that a product or an attribute of a product represents a unique design or process.  Patent protection of such products restricts competitors from duplicating these unique designs and features.  We seek to obtain patent protection on our products whenever appropriate for protecting our competitive advantage.  As ofDecember 31, 2014we owned approximately 1,900 United States patents and approximately 3,400 international patents.

Seasonality

Our business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the number of Orthopaedics implant surgeries is generally lower during the summer months and sales of capital equipment are generally higher in the fourth quarter.





2Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.



STRYKER CORPORATION                                                                                                                           2014 Form 10-K



Competition

In all of our product lines we compete with local and global companies located throughout the world.  Competition exists in all product lines without regard to the number and size of the competing companies involved. The development of new and innovative products is important to our success in all areas of our business and competition in research, involving the development and the improvement of new and existing products and processes, is particularly significant.  The competitive environment requires substantial investments in continuing research and in maintaining sales forces.

The principal factors that we believe differentiate us in the highly competitive product categories in which we operate and enable us to compete effectively include our commitment to innovation and quality, service and reputation. We believe that our competitive position in the future will depend to a large degree on our ability to develop new products and make improvements to existing products.

Product Development

Most of our products and product improvements have been developed internally at research facilities in the United States, Ireland, Puerto Rico, Germany, Switzerland, India and France.  We also invest through acquisitions in technologies developed by third parties that have the potential to expand the markets in which we operate.  We maintain close working relationships with physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist us in product development efforts. The total costs of research, development and engineering activities were $614, $536, and $471 in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

Regulation

Our businesses are subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which we operate, and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation.

In the United States, the Medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and its subsequent amendments, and the regulations issued and proposed thereunder, provide for regulation by the FDA of the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, including most of our products.  Many of our new products fall into FDA classifications that require notification submitted as a 510(k) and review by the FDA before we begin marketing them. Certain of our products require extensive clinical testing, consisting of safety and efficacy studies, followed by pre-market approval (PMA) applications for specific surgical indications.

The FDA's Quality System regulations set forth standards for our product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the FDA. There are also certain requirements of state and local and foreign governments that must be complied with in the manufacture and marketing of our products.

The member states of the European Union (EU) have adopted the European Medical Device Directives that form a single set of medical device regulations for all EU member countries. These regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member countries to meet certain quality system requirements and obtain CE marking for their products. We have authorization to apply the CE marking to substantially all of our products. In addition, we comply with the unique regulatory requirements of each of the countries in Europe and other countries in which we market our products.

Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare expenses



generally and hospital costs in particular, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where we do business. It is not possible to predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost containment measures on our future business.  In addition, business practices in the healthcare industry have come under increased scrutiny, particularly in the United States, by government agencies and state attorneys general, and resulting investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties.

Employees

AtDecember 31, 2014, we had approximately 26,000 employees worldwide. Certain international employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  We believe that we maintain positive relationships with our employees worldwide.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The names and ages of our executive officers as ofJanuary 31, 2015and certain information about them are:

NameAgeFirst Became an Executive OfficerKevin A. Lobo49Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer2011Steven P. Benscoter47Vice President, Human Resources2012William E. Berry Jr.49Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer2014Lonny J. Carpenter53Group President, Global Quality and Operations2008David K. Floyd54Group President, Orthopaedics2012Michael D. Hutchinson44General Counsel2014William R. Jellison57Vice President and Chief Financial Officer2013Katherine A. Owen44Vice President, Strategy and Investor Relations2007Bijoy S.N. Sagar46Vice President, Chief Information Officer2014Timothy J. Scannell50Group President, MedSurg and Neurotechnology2008Ramesh Subrahmanian53Group President, International2011

Each of our executive officers was elected by our Board of Directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of shareholders in2015or until a successor is chosen and qualified or until his or her resignation or removal.  Each of our executive officers has held the position above or has served Stryker in various executive or administrative capacities for at least five years, except for Mr. Lobo, Mr. Berry, Mr. Jellison, Mr. Sagar, Mr. Subrahmanian and Mr. Floyd.  Prior to joining Stryker in April 2011, Mr. Lobo held a variety of senior level leadership roles for the previous nine years at Johnson & Johnson, most recently as Worldwide President of Ethicon Endo-Surgery.  Prior to joining Stryker in August 2011, Mr. Berry served for two years as Assistant Corporate Controller for Whirlpool Corporation, the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, and before that held a variety of senior finance roles at Delphi Automotive and Federal Mogul Corporation, both global automotive parts manufacturers. Prior to joining Stryker in April 2013, Mr. Jellison was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Dentsply International, the world's largest manufacturer of professional dental products, and before that held a variety of senior level leadership roles over a 15-year period at Dentsply. Prior to joining Stryker in May 2014, Mr. Sagar  served





3Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.



STRYKER CORPORATION                                                                                                                           2014 Form 10-K



as the Chief Information officer for Merck Millipore, and before that as Global Head of Information Systems and a member of the divisional board for the chemicals division of Merck KGaA. Prior to joining Stryker in September 2011, Mr. Subrahmanian was the Senior Vice President & President, Asia Pacific Human Health with Merck & Co. Inc. Prior to joining Stryker in November 2012, Mr. Floyd was the Chief Executive Officer for OrthoWorx and held a variety of senior level leadership roles with DePuy (a division of Johnson & Johnson), Abbott Spine, AxioMed Spine, and Centerpulse Orthopaedics.

Available Information

Our main corporate website address iswww.stryker.com.Copies of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Current Reports on Form 8-K filed or furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) will be provided without charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to our Corporate Secretary at our principal executive offices. All of our SEC filings are also available free of charge on our website within the "For Investors - SEC Filings & Ownership Reports" link as soon as reasonably practicable after having been electronically filed or furnished to the SEC.  All SEC filings are also available at the SEC's website atwww.sec.gov.



