ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

GENERAL

Stryker Corporation (the Company or Stryker) is one of the world’s leading medical technology companies and is dedicated to helping
healthcare professionals perform their jobs more efficiently while enhancing patient care. The Company provides innovative orthopaedic implants as well as state-of-the-art medical and surgical equipment to help people lead more active and more
satisfying lives. The Company’s products include implants used in joint replacement, trauma and spinal surgeries; surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems; endoscopic and communications systems; patient handling and emergency medical
equipment as well as other medical device products used in a variety of medical specialties. Stryker was incorporated in Michigan in 1946 as the successor company to a business founded in 1941 by Dr. Homer H. Stryker, a leading orthopaedic
surgeon and the inventor of several orthopaedic products.

Stryker’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC), including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, are accessible free of charge at www.stryker.com within the “Investor—SEC Filings & Ownership
Reports” link.

In 2010 the Company completed several acquisitions in all cash transactions, including the Sonopet
Ultrasonic Aspirator assets from Mutoh Co., Ltd. and Synergetics USA, Inc., Gaymar Industries, Inc. and the bioimplantable implants product line and related assets from Porex Surgical, Inc. In December 2009 the Company acquired Ascent Healthcare
Solutions, Inc. (Ascent), also in an all cash transaction.

In December 2010 the Company announced a definitive agreement to
sell its OP-1 product family for use in orthopaedic bone applications and its manufacturing facility based in West Lebanon, NH. This transaction was completed on February 1, 2011 for total consideration of $60.0 million.

In October 2010 the Company announced a definitive agreement to acquire the assets of the Neurovascular division of Boston Scientific
Corporation (Neurovascular) in an all cash transaction of up to $1.5 billion. This transaction was completed on January 3, 2011 for $1.45 billion in cash plus an additional $50.0 million to be paid upon the completion of certain milestones. The
acquisition of Neurovascular is expected to substantially enhance the Company’s presence in the neurovascular market, allowing it to offer a comprehensive portfolio of products in both neurosurgical and neurovascular devices.

PRODUCT SALES

The Company
segregates its operations into two reportable business segments: Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg Equipment. The Orthopaedic Implants segment sells orthopaedic reconstructive (hip and knee), trauma and spinal implant systems and other related
products. The MedSurg Equipment segment sells surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems; endoscopic and communications systems; patient handling and emergency medical equipment; as well as other medical device products used in a variety of
medical specialties.







The following amounts and percentages represent domestic/international and business segment
net sales during each of the three years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):



201020092008$%$%$%Domestic/international sales:Domestic$4,792.865%$4,317.464%$4,282.264%International2,527.235%2,405.736%2,436.036%Total net sales$7,320.0100%$6,723.1100%$6,718.2100%Business segment sales:Orthopaedic Implants$4,308.459%$4,119.761%$3,967.559%MedSurg Equipment3,011.641%2,603.439%2,750.741%Total net sales$7,320.0100%$6,723.1100%$6,718.2100%

Additional financial information regarding the Company’s operating segments and geographic
areas can be found under the captionResults of Operationsin Item 7 of this report and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.

Approximately 76% of the Company’s sales in 2010, 77% in 2009 and 74% in 2008 consisted of products with short lives, such as
reconstructive, trauma, craniomaxillofacial (CMF) and spinal implant systems (while implants have a long useful life to the patient, they have a one-time use to the hospital); disposables and expendable tools; and parts and service revenues,
including service and repair charges. The balance of sales in each of the years came from products that could be considered capital equipment, having useful lives in excess of one year.

The Company’s backlog of firm orders is not considered material to an understanding of its business.

Orthopaedic Implants

Orthopaedic Implants consist of such products as implants used in joint replacement, trauma, craniomaxillofacial and spinal surgeries;
bone cement; and the bone growth factor OP-1. Artificial joints are made of cobalt chromium, titanium alloys, ceramics or ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene and are implanted in patients whose natural joints have been damaged by arthritis,
osteoporosis, other diseases or injury. Many of Stryker’s technologically advanced reconstructive implants are suited to minimally invasive surgery (MIS) procedures that are intended to reduce soft-tissue damage and pain while hastening return
to function. The Company supports surgeons with technology, procedural development and specialized instrumentation as they develop new MIS techniques.

Hip Implant Systems

The Company offers a variety of hip implant systems
for the global reconstructive market. Total hip replacement surgeries involve the replacement of both the head of the femur as well as the acetabulum (socket) of the pelvis. Stryker offers hip replacement products to address first time (primary) hip
surgeries as well as revision systems. The ABG Hip System, Partnership Hip System, Secur-Fit Hip System, Omnifit Hip System, Accolade Hip System, CentPillar Hip System, Trident Acetabular Hip System, ADM Mobile Bearing Hip System, Rejuvenate Modular
Primary Hip System, Cormet Hip Resurfacing System and Restoration Hip System are all comprehensive systems of hip implants and associated instrumentation designed to provide physicians and patients with reliable clinical results across the continuum
of care, while enhancing value and operating room efficiency for the hospital.







Stryker is committed to following clinical outcomes and recognizes that long-term clinical
results are an important factor in the Company’s ability to market hip implants. Significant clinical milestones for the Company include more than 40 years of clinical history with the Exeter Hip System, more than 25 years of clinical history
with the Dall-Miles Cable System, more than 20 years of clinical history with the Omnifit HA stem and more than 10 years clinical history with the Accolade TMZF Hip System.

Stryker was the first company to receive clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the FDA) to commercially release for sale in the United States a hip implant with hydroxylapatite (HA)
surface treatment. HA is a naturally occurring calcium phosphate material that demonstrates a high level of biocompatibility due to its resemblance to bone. The Company’s global clinical experience with HA-coated hip stems now extends over 20
years, and reported clinical performance continues to equal or exceed that of comparable hip stems reported in the scientific literature.

Primary Femoral Hip Systems:

In 2009 Stryker introduced the Rejuvenate Modular Primary Hip System, the latest evolution in the Company’s OmniFit and Secur-Fit hip systems. The Rejuvenate Modular Primary Hip System offers
surgeons unparalleled options for personalizing the implant to each patient’s anatomy. The Rejuvenate System is designed to optimize anatomic restoration by providing options that offer enhanced stability, proven modularity and intraoperative
flexibility. The modular design enables the surgeon to independently manage stem size, leg length and offset to recreate the patient’s anatomy, restore biomechanics and, consequently, minimize the risk of dislocation.

The Accolade TMZF Hip System has demonstrated strong clinical results for more than 10 years, with 2009 marking the first introduction of
the product into Japan. The Accolade TMZF System is a tapered wedge implant, based on a broach only technique and is recognized for its simplicity and flexibility to accommodate all surgical approaches and navigation.

The ABG II Modular Hip System represents the next generation of design based on the ABG monolithic stem that has had positive clinical
experience for more than 10 years. This modular primary hip stem provides the opportunity to recreate patient anatomy through independent sizing of the stem and neck. Versatile instrumentation also accommodates surgeon preference for a navigated
procedure or direct anterior surgical approach.

The Company’s Exeter Total Hip System is based on a collarless, highly
polished, double-tapered femoral design that reduces shear stresses and increases compression at the cement/bone interface.

Primary
Acetabular Systems:

The Company’s advanced bearing system, Low Friction Ion Treatment (LFIT) Anatomic Femoral Heads
with X3 polyethylene liners represents a significant advance in hip-bearing technology through the combination of Stryker’s LFIT technology and X3 advanced bearing technology. The femoral heads are anatomically sized for more natural hip
performance. In 2010 the Company introduced the ADM X3 Mobile Bearing Acetabular System, a next-generation technology for hip replacement surgery designed to minimize the risk associated with total hip replacement surgery by offering a large
diameter bearing without a metal-on-metal articulation. X3 advanced bearing technology is based on the Company’s highly crosslinked polyethylene, which demonstrates enhanced material characteristics in laboratory testing, including improved
strength, reduced wear and oxidation resistance. This second generation bearing option offers a significant technological advance for both hip and knee replacements. The Company also offers the Biolox Delta Ceramic Anatomic head for further options
to reduce wear and potentially increase implant longevity.







The Company has a premarket approval (PMA) from the FDA for its ceramic-on-ceramic hip
replacement system, the Trident Ceramic Acetabular Insert, for patients in the United States. Stryker Orthopaedics has successfully launched the Trident ceramic insert in the United States, Europe, Australia and Canada. The Trident insert has
demonstrated low wear clinically, and it is protected and strengthened by a patented titanium sleeve.

In 2009 the Company
introduced the Tritanium Primary Acetabular System in Latin America, Australia, and Europe following a U.S. launch in 2008. This system is the only Advanced Fixation Technology manufactured from a commercially-pure Titanium matrix. Introduction of
this highly porous surface into the primary hip market provides a biologically-inspired enhanced fixation acetabular solution that was previously not available for primary use.

Hip Fracture Hip Systems:

Stryker offers a broad array of femoral stem
options and bearings to accommodate the hip fracture patient including the Accolade HFx stem and the UHR bipolar head.

Revision Hip
Systems:

The Restoration Modular Revision Hip System offers surgeons performing revision surgeries flexibility in treating
complex hip stem revisions and restoring patient biomechanics. The Restoration Modular Revision Hip System also takes advantage of Stryker’s long clinical history with HA by incorporating PureFix HA coating on many components. The Restoration
Modular Revision Hip System complements the Company’s existing Restoration HA and Restoration plasma spray (PS) monolithic revision systems.

The Company’s Trident Tritanium Acetabular Shell contains a highly porous surface that closely resembles the structure of bone. This shell is designed for revision surgery and contains multiple screw
holes to achieve bone fixation and initial stability.

Knee Implant Systems

The Company offers three major knee implant systems: Triathlon, Scorpio and the Global Modular Replacement System (GMRS).

The Triathlon Knee System utilizes the Company’s evolutionary design that more closely reproduces natural knee motion and provides
mobility with stability through more than 150 degrees of flexion. In 2008, Stryker continued to expand the Triathlon brand with the Triathlon Partial Knee Resurfacing (PKR) offering in the uni-condylar market segment and the Triathlon Total
Stabilizer (TS) offering in the fast growing revision knee market. Both products incorporate the single radius design to provide the potential for better ligament balancing. The Company also offers the X3 advanced bearing technology for use with the
Triathlon Knee System.

The Scorpio knee implant design is based on Stryker’s patented single radius; this approach to
total knee replacement addresses significant clinical issues, such as improved patient rehabilitation and midflexion stability. The Scorpio NRG is the high flexion evolution to the Scorpio line. This design includes increased rotational allowance,
an articulating design for deeper flexion and greater extension allowance without impingement. The Scorpio NRG with X3 advanced bearing technology is designed to lower wear rates compared to standard inserts. Scorpio ClassiQ was developed for the
emerging global markets and is based on the Scorpio System to offer a high-quality and clinically proven affordable technology.

The GMRS is a global product that offers a comprehensive solution for severe bone loss in oncology, trauma and revision surgery patients.
GMRS has tibial and femoral components, including a total femur, and a modular rotating hinge knee. The system employs both titanium and cobalt chrome alloys for strength and lightness of weight, together with the superior flexibility of the hinge.







Bone Cement

Simplex bone cement, a material used to secure cemented implants to bone, was first approved for orthopaedic use in the United States in 1971 and is the most widely used bone cement in the world. The
Company manufactures and provides several variations of Simplex bone cement to meet specific patient needs. Simplex has nearly 50 years of clinical history, the longest of any bone cement, with more than 600 published clinical papers.

Trauma Implant Systems

The Company develops, manufactures and markets trauma, extremities and deformity correction systems. These systems include Intramedullary
(IM) and cephlomedullary nails, locked and non-locked plating, hip fracture solutions and external fixation systems, as well as bone substitutes that are used primarily for the treatment of traumatic injuries.

The Company’s internal fixation portfolio includes a full array of IM & cephlomedullary nails; hip fracture solutions,
including compression hip screws, cannulated screws as well as anatomically designed plates and screws in both titanium and stainless steel. These products provide a possible restorative option prior to joint reconstruction. These products are
marketed worldwide as: Gamma3, Asnis III, AxSOS, VariAx, HydroSet, and T2.

The Company’s external fixation portfolio
includes products such as Hoffmann II MRI, Hoffmann Xpress, Monotube Triax mono-lateral, as well as the Hoffmann II Hybrid (TenXor) circular fixation systems. These systems are used to construct frames for bone stabilization that are either
definitive or as a temporary step in the treatment process associated with damage control orthopaedics. Hoffmann systems have been defined by their ease of assembly with “snap-fit” couplers. The use of a proprietary Vectran coating on the
bars makes Hoffmann II MRI an MRI conditional solution.

The Company also offers a product portfolio for the treatment of
fractures and injuries of the extremities. These products include fracture specific locked plating for the wrist, shoulder, elbow, fibula and foot, as well as bone substitutes and external fixation systems. These are all designed to treat the unique
nature of upper extremity and foot and ankle injuries. These products are marketed worldwide under the brands VariAx, AxSOS and Hoffmann. New products launched in 2010 include the VariAx Fibula and VariAx Elbow Systems.

Spinal Implant Systems

The Company develops, manufactures and markets spinal implant products including cervical, thoracolumbar and interbody systems used in
spinal injury, deformity and degenerative therapies. Spinal implant products include plates, rods, screws, connectors, spacers and cages, along with proprietary implant instrumentation.

In 2009 the Company introduced the Xia 3 Sacral Iliac system that completes the thoracolumbar system and makes it one of the most
comprehensive platforms on the market. Also in 2009, the Company introduced the Dynatran-Dynamic/Translational Anterior Cervical Plate, which expands the Company’s presence in the cervical space with its unique locking mechanism. In 2008
the Company introduced the Radius Thoracolumbar Spinal Implant System. The Radius system provides a non-threaded wedgelock locking mechanism designed to reduce the potential for false locking and cross-threading and to increase the speed, ease and
reliability of connecting rods to screws. Also in 2008, the Company launched Xia 3, the next generation of its thoracolumbar spinal implant system, and THOR, its anterior lumbar plating system that incorporates a proprietary screw locking
technology. The Company also offers the Mantis minimally invasive access system for posterior instrumented spinal fusion and the Reflex Zero Profile anterior cervical plating system. In addition the Company offers the VLIFT vertebral body
replacement system consisting of a preassembled, cylindrically shaped titanium







cage with a distractible or retractable center. The hollow core of the cage allows for packing bone graft. The Company’s AVS AS and AL Spacers are used as vertebral body support devices in
anterior procedures. Other product lines include the OASYS fixation system that serves the posterior cervical fusion market, the Reflex Hybrid anterior cervical plate and the AVS PL and TL vertebral spacer systems.

Craniomaxillofacial (CMF) Implant Systems

The Company develops, manufactures and markets plating systems and related implants and products for craniomaxillofacial surgery, including dura substitutes, bone substitutes, electrosurgical
microdissection needles and surgical instruments. They are primarily used in the fixation of fractures due to sudden injury as well as in the correction of congenital deformities. These products are marketed under such names as the Universal
Fixation System, Colorado Needle, DuraMatrix-Onlay, Leibinger Instruments and HydroSet.

In 2010 the Company acquired the
bioimplantable porous polyethylene (PPE) product line from Porex Surgical, Inc. for use primarily in reconstructive surgery of the head and face. These PPE products have a long history with considerable clinical data that is supported by over 350
references in peer-reviewed journals.

OP-1/BMP-7

Stryker’s OP-1 Implant is composed of recombinant human OP-1 and a bioresorbable collagen matrix. Stryker has received two approvals for a Humanitarian Device Exemption (HDE) from the FDA. An HDE, as
defined by the FDA, is for a product intended to benefit patients by treating or diagnosing a disease or condition that affects fewer than 4,000 individuals per year in the United States. OP-1 is currently used for orthopaedic bone applications,
including the use of OP-1 Implant as an alternative to autograft in recalcitrant long-bone nonunions where use of autograft is not feasible and alternative treatments have failed. A second application is for revision posterolateral spine fusion
using a new formulation of OP-1 known as OP-1 Putty. In 2010 the Company announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement with Olympus Corporation for the sale of its OP-1 product family as used in orthopaedic bone applications and
completed this transaction on February 1, 2011.

The Company continues to conduct research and development efforts
directed toward exploring the cartilage regeneration properties of BMP-7 for potential use in osteoarthritis as well as other non-orthopaedic applications. The Company has successfully completed preclinical studies showing that BMP-7 can stimulate
new cartilage formation and increase disc height in animal models of degenerative disc disease. In 2008 the Company completed enrollment in a Phase I dose-ranging clinical safety study for the first time use of BMP-7 to treat the disc. Stryker has
also filed an Investigational New Drug application with the FDA to treat osteoarthritis in the knee with the injectable form of BMP-7. Following FDA concurrence in 2007, the Company proceeded with patient enrollment in the Phase I clinical study,
which was completed in 2008. Based on the results of that study, a Phase II protocol was submitted to and approved by the FDA. The Company began enrollment in the Phase II study in 2010. Given the early stage of these clinical efforts and the
expected scope of data to be required by the FDA, commercialization of BMP-7 is not expected for at least five years.

MedSurg Equipment

MedSurg Equipment products include surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems; endoscopic and communications
systems; patient handling and emergency medical equipment; as well as other medical device products used in a variety of medical specialties.

Surgical Equipment and Surgical Navigation Systems

The Company offers a broad line of surgical, neurologic, ENT and interventional spine equipment that is used in surgical specialties for drilling, burring, rasping or cutting bone in small-bone
orthopaedic, neurosurgical, spine and ENT procedures; wiring or pinning bone fractures; and preparing hip or knee surfaces for the placement of artificial implants. Stryker also manufactures an array of different attachments and cutting accessories
for use by orthopaedic, neurologic and small-bone specialists.







In 2010 the Company acquired the assets used to produce the Sonopet Ultrasonic Aspirator
control consoles, handpieces and accessories. The Sonopet Ultrasonic Aspirator is used in the fields of neurosurgery as well as for orthopedic, general, laparoscopic and plastic surgeries. The device is used by surgeons to fragment soft and hard
tissue and for tumor removal and bone cutting.

The System 6 heavy duty, large-bone power system represents the Company’s
primary heavy-duty, cordless product offering. The System 6 Rotary Handpieces provide multiple options to surgeons by allowing both high-speed drilling and high-torque reaming in one handpiece.

In 2009 Stryker introduced the RemB micro electric system, combining the Company’s Consolidated Operating Room Equipment (CORE)
platform with lightweight, specialized handpieces, allowing surgeons to work effectively with greater precision and control. This versatile system is an evolution in the Company’s offering of powered surgical instruments designed to remove and
reshape bone in a wide variety of medical specialties including hand surgery, podiatry, orthopaedic foot and ankle surgery and extremity trauma surgery. The Maestro drill represents Stryker’s line of micro powered instruments for spine,
neurology and ENT applications. The Maestro drill leverages the Company’s Total Performance System (TPS) and CORE platforms by using the same cutting attachments. The Stryker Bone Mill, launched in 2008, further leverages the CORE platform and
is designed for use in spine, orthognathic and orthopaedic primary and revision joint procedures.

To promote safety for
patients and medical staff, Stryker works closely with hospitals and other healthcare organizations to develop a broad product portfolio. In 2009 the Company introduced the Flyte personal protection system, the latest version of Stryker’s
Sterishield line of personal protection products combining improved comfort and support with higher levels of protection against contamination, exposure to infectious bodily fluids and transfer of microorganisms and particulate matter. Additionally,
Flyte’s integrated helmet with illumination represents enhancements aimed towards improving the surgical environment.

The Company also offers a broad line of surgical navigation systems that give surgeons in several specialties the ability to use
electronic imaging to see more clearly, better align instruments and more accurately track where the instruments are relative to a patient’s anatomy during surgical procedures. The Company offers the Navigation System II Cart, the eNlite
suitcase system and the Navigation iSuite. All of these product offerings are either image based or imageless platforms, incorporating intuitive Smart hardware and software functionality, and a highly accurate digital infrared camera that result in
greater ease of use and less invasive procedures.

Endoscopic and Communications Systems

The Company develops, manufactures and markets medical video and communications equipment and instruments for arthroscopy, general surgery
and urology. Stryker has established a position of leadership in the production of medical video technology and accessories for minimally invasive surgery, as well as communications equipment to facilitate local and worldwide sharing of medical
information among operating rooms, doctors’ offices and teaching institutions. Products include medical video cameras, digital documentation equipment, arthroscopes, laparoscopes, powered surgical instruments, radio frequency ablation systems,
irrigation fluid management systems, i-Suite operating room solutions and state-of-the-art equipment for telemedicine and enterprise-wide connectivity. Stryker’s line of rigid scopes, which range in diameter from 1.9 millimeters to 10
millimeters, contains a series of precision lenses as well as fiber optics that, when combined with Stryker’s high-definition (HD) camera systems, allow the physician to view internal anatomy with a high degree of clarity.

In 2010 Stryker continued to expand its wireless platform by launching the WiSe 1:3 Transmitter, which allows simultaneous transmission
to three high-definition wireless WiSe monitors. The Switchpoint Infinity 3 video router provides surgeons and operating room staff with an integrated platform tailored specifically to each individual operating room. This router increases efficiency
and flexibility during procedures.







In 2009 Stryker introduced the 1288 HD Camera, the next generation Stryker 3-Chip HD medical
video camera. This latest version has HD 1080p resolution with wireless high definition transmission to the new Stryker WiSe wide screen monitor system. This new camera system provides superior image quality compared to previous camera systems and
ease of use through customized programmable buttons. This product provides surgical teams with improved visibility during endoscopic procedures, which can improve overall surgical and patient outcomes. In conjunction with the launch of the 1288 HD
Camera, Stryker also introduced the L-9000 lightsource. This new lightsource includes proprietary LED technology that provides the customer with a cooler and longer lasting bulb. Also introduced in 2009 was the IDEAL EYES line of HD arthroscopes and
laparoscopes. To accommodate the recording of HD images, the Company offers the SDC HD digital documentation system. The Company also offers its Formula shaver system, which is small, light and equipped with radio frequency identification (RFID),
facilitating communication between the blade and console.

Patient Handling and Emergency Medical Equipment

Stryker is a leader in the patient handling equipment segment, offering a wide variety of stretchers customized to fit the needs of acute
care and specialty surgical care facilities with a focus on providing a safe and comfortable surface for patients while reducing the risk of back injury for hospital staff.

In 2010 the Company acquired Gaymar Industries, which specializes in support surfaces and pressure ulcer management solutions as well as the temperature management segment of the healthcare industry. The
acquisition expands the Company’s product offerings while also providing a complementary product offering to its existing customer base through its temperature management technology platform.

In 2010 Stryker introduced the Prime series of stretchers, designed to ensure caregiver safety and efficiency while enhancing patient
comfort. Patients can adjust their own positions without calling a caregiver for assistance. The Prime stretchers incorporate Glideaway siderails with Zero Transfer Gap; the Zoom Motorized Drive System, virtually eliminating push force; Big Wheel
technology, reducing start-up force by up to 50 percent and increasing maneuverability; and a 700-pound weight capacity.

To serve the worldwide pre-hospital market, the Company offers a line of manually operated and powered ambulance cots and cot-to-ambulance fastening systems. In addition, Stryker offers the Stair-PRO
stair chairs with Stair-TREAD track systems that facilitate patient transport up and down stairs. The Company’s Power-PRO ambulance cot incorporates an advanced battery-powered hydraulic lift system that enables emergency medical
professionals to raise and lower the cot with the press of a button. The use of Stair-PRO and the Power-PRO helps prevent caregiver back injuries. Stryker expanded the Power-PRO line with a version customized for streamlined incubator transport on
both inter-facility and intra-facility transports and with a version customized for ambulances that use hydraulic tail lifts or ramps that are popular in the United Kingdom.







Medical Device Reprocessing

In December 2009 the Company acquired Ascent, the market leader in the medical device reprocessing industry. Ascent’s reprocessing of medical devices includes collecting recyclable medical devices
from hospitals and cleaning, function testing and sterilizing the medical devices for reuse in subsequent procedures. The reprocessed medical device is equivalent to a new medical device in terms of function, quality and effectiveness. Extending the
life of these medical devices beyond a single use enables the Company to partner with health care providers in managing costs without compromising the quality of patient care and diverts thousands of pounds of medical waste from landfills.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

Most of the Company’s products and product improvements have been developed internally. The Company maintains close working
relationships with physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. New and improved products play a critical role in the Company’s sales growth. The Company continues to place
emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. The Company has a decentralized research and development focus, with manufacturing locations responsible for new
product development and product improvements. Research, development and engineering personnel at the various manufacturing locations maintain relationships with staff at distribution locations and with customers to understand changes in the market
and product needs.

Total expenditures for product research, development and engineering were $393.9 million in 2010, $336.2
million in 2009 and $367.8 million in 2008. Research, development and engineering expenses represented 5.4% of sales in 2010, compared to 5.0% in 2009 and 5.5% in 2008. The spending level in 2010 increased due to the Company’s increased focus
on new product development for anticipated future product launches and investments in new technologies. Recent new product introductions in the Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg Equipment segments are more fully described under the captionProduct
Sales.

In addition to internally developed products, the Company invests in technologies developed by third parties that
have the potential to expand the markets in which the Company operates. In 2010 the Company acquired the Sonopet Ultrasonic Aspirator control consoles, handpieces and accessories from Mutoh Co., Ltd. and Synergetics USA, Inc., Gaymar Industries, a
manufacturer of specialized support surface and pressure ulcer management solutions, and the bioimplantable porous polyethylene (PPE) product line from Porex Surgical, Inc. for use primarily in reconstructive surgery of the head and face. In
December 2009 the Company acquired Ascent, the market leader in the reprocessing and remanufacturing of medical devices in the U.S. During 2010 and 2009, the Company acquired certain additional companies all of which are expected to enhance the
Company’s product offerings to its customers within its Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg Equipment business segments.

MARKETING

Domestic sales accounted for 65% of total revenues in 2010. Most of the Company’s products are marketed directly to
doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities through dedicated sales forces for each of its principal product lines to provide focus and a high level of expertise to each medical specialty served. International sales accounted for 35% of total
revenues in 2010. The Company’s products are sold in approximately 100 countries through local dealers and direct sales efforts. Additional information regarding the Company’s international and domestic operations and sales appears in Note
13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.

The Company’s business is generally not
seasonal in nature; however, the number of orthopaedic implant surgeries is lower during the summer months.







COMPETITION

The Company is one of five leading competitors in the United States for orthopaedic reconstructive products. The four other leading competitors are DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (a subsidiary of
Johnson & Johnson), Zimmer Holdings, Inc., Biomet, Inc., and Smith & Nephew plc. While competition abroad varies from area to area, the Company believes it is also a leading player in the international markets with these same
companies as its principal competitors.

In the trauma implant segment, Stryker is one of five leaders competing principally
with Synthes, Inc., Smith & Nephew Orthopaedics (a division of Smith & Nephew plc), Zimmer Holdings, Inc., and DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc.

In the spinal implant segment, the Company is one of four leaders, competing principally with Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc.), DePuy Spine, Inc. (a subsidiary of
Johnson & Johnson), and Synthes, Inc.

In the craniomaxillofacial implant segment, Stryker is one of four leaders,
competing principally with Synthes, Inc., Biomet Microfixation, LLC (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.), and KLS Martin L.P.

In
the surgical equipment segment, Stryker is one of three leaders, competing principally with Medtronic, Inc. and Conmed Linvatec, Inc. (a subsidiary of CONMEDCorporation). These companies are also competitors in the international
segments, along with Aesculap-Werke AG (a division of B. Braun Melsungen AG), a large European manufacturer.

In the surgical
navigation segment, Stryker is one of six principal competitors, including Medtronic Surgical Navigation Technologies (a division of Medtronic, Inc.), BrainLAB Inc. (a subsidiary of BrainLAB AG), AESCULAPAG & Co. KG (a
division of B. Braun Melsungen AG), Radionics, Inc. (a subsidiary of Integra LifeSciences Corporation), and GE Medical Systems Navigation and Visualization, Inc. (a subsidiary of General Electric Company).

In the arthroscopy segment, the Company is one of four leaders, together with Smith & Nephew Endoscopy (a division of
Smith & Nephew plc), ConMed Linvatec, Inc., and Arthrex, Inc. In the laparoscopic imaging products segment, the Company is one of three leaders, together with Karl Storz GmbH & Co. (a German company) and Olympus Optical Co. Ltd. (a
Japanese company).

The Company’s primary competitor in the patient handling segment is Hill-Rom Holdings, Inc. In the
specialty stretcher segment, the primary competitors are Hausted, Inc. (a subsidiary of STERISCorporation), Hill-Rom Holdings, Inc., and Midmark Hospital Products Group (a subsidiary of Ohio Medical Instrument Company, Inc.). In the
emergency medical services segment, Ferno-Washington, Inc. is the Company’s principal competitor.

The Company’s
primary competitor in the U.S. market for reprocessing and remanufacturing of medical devices is SteriMed Inc.

The principal
factors that the Company believes differentiate it in the highly competitive market segments in which it operates and enable it to compete effectively are innovation, reliability, service and reputation. The Company believes that its competitive
position in the future will depend to a large degree on its ability to develop new products and make improvements to existing products. While the Company does not consider patents a major factor in its overall competitive success, patents and
trademarks are significant to the extent that a product or an attribute of a product represents a unique design or process. Patent protection of such products restricts competitors from duplicating these unique designs and features. Stryker seeks to
obtain patent protection on its products whenever appropriate for protecting its competitive advantage. As of December 31, 2010, the Company owns approximately 1,125 United States patents and 1,945 international patents.







MANUFACTURING AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY

The Company’s manufacturing processes consist primarily of precision machining, metal fabrication and assembly operations; the forging and investment casting of cobalt chrome; and the finishing of
cobalt chrome and titanium. Approximately 12% of the Company’s cost of sales in 2010 represented finished products that were purchased complete from outside suppliers. The Company also purchases parts and components, such as forgings, castings,
gears, bearings, casters and electrical components, and uses outside sources for certain finishing operations, such as plating, hardening and coating of machined components and sterilization of certain products. The principal raw materials used by
the Company are stainless steel, aluminum, cobalt chrome and titanium alloys. In all, purchased parts and components from outside sources were approximately 38% of the total cost of sales in 2010.

While the Company relies on single sources for certain purchased materials and services, it believes alternate sources are available if
needed. The Company has not experienced any significant difficulty in the past in obtaining the materials necessary to meet its production schedules.

Substantially all products manufactured by the Company are stocked in inventory, while certain products manufactured within the Company’s MedSurg Equipment segment are assembled to order.

REGULATION AND PRODUCT QUALITY

The Medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990, together with
regulations issued or proposed thereunder, provide for regulation by the FDA of the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, including most of the Company’s products.

The FDA’s Quality System regulations set forth standards for the Company’s product design and manufacturing processes, require
the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of the Company’s facilities by the FDA. There are also certain requirements of state, local and foreign governments that must be complied with in the manufacturing and marketing of
the Company’s products.

In 2009 the Company received a warning letter from the FDA related to compliance issues for one
of its CMF implant products that was previously sold through its CMF distribution facility in Portage, Michigan. In 2008 the Company received a warning letter from the FDA related to quality systems and compliance issues at its OP-1 implant
manufacturing facility in Hopkinton, Massachusetts. In 2007 the Company received two warning letters from the FDA regarding compliance with certain quality system specifications at its reconstructive implant manufacturing facilities: one letter for
its facility in Cork, Ireland and another for its facility in Mahwah, New Jersey. In October 2009, the FDA informed the Company that the warning letter related to its OP-1 implant manufacturing facility had been resolved following a productive
reinspection earlier in 2009. In March 2010, the FDA informed the Company that the warning letter related to its Mahwah manufacturing facility had been resolved following a re-inspection in 2009 and additional corrective actions. In May 2010, the
FDA informed the Company that the warning letters related to its Cork, Ireland and CMF facilities had been resolved following FDA re-inspection of the Cork, Ireland facility and additional corrective actions at both the Cork and CMF facilities.

Most of the Company’s new products fall into FDA classifications that require notification of and review by the FDA
before marketing, submitted as a 510(k). Certain of the Company’s products require extensive clinical testing, consisting of safety and efficacy studies, followed by PMA applications for specific surgical indications.

Stryker also is subject to the laws that govern the manufacture and distribution of medical devices of each country in which the Company
manufactures or sells products. The member states of the European Union (EU) have adopted the European Medical Device Directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations







for all EU member countries. These regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member countries to obtain CE Marking for their products. Stryker
has authorization to apply the CE Marking to substantially all of its products. The Company’s OP-1 product has been considered a drug under the regulations for Europe, Australia and Japan.

Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare expenses
generally and hospital costs in particular, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the Company does business. It is not possible to predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost-containment measures
on the Company’s future business.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2010, the Company had 20,036 employees worldwide. Certain international employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are updated annually. The Company believes that
its employee relations are satisfactory.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information regarding the executive officers of the Company appears under the caption “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance” in Item 10 of this report.



