ITEM 1.BUSINESS.



General



Stryker Corporation is one of the world's leading medical technology companies with2013revenues of$9,021and net earnings of$1,006.  Stryker's products include implants used in joint replacement and trauma surgeries; surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems; endoscopic and communications systems; patient handling and emergency medical equipment; neurosurgical, neurovascular and spinal devices; as well as other medical device products used in a variety of medical specialties.



Stryker was incorporated in Michigan in 1946 as the successor company to a business founded in 1941 by Dr. Homer H. Stryker, a prominent orthopaedic surgeon and the inventor of several orthopaedic products. In the United States, most of our products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities. Internationally, our products are sold in over 100 countries through company-owned sales subsidiaries and branches as well as third-party dealers and distributors.



As used herein, and except where the context otherwise requires, "Stryker," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Stryker Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.



Business Segments and Geographic Information



We segregate our reporting into three reportable business segments: Reconstructive, MedSurg, and Neurotechnology and Spine.  Financial information regarding our reportable business segments and certain geographic information is included under "Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.



The net sales for each reportable segment over the last three years was:

201320122011Reconstructive$4,00444%$3,82344%$3,71045%MedSurg3,35937%3,26538%3,16038%Neurotechnology and Spine1,65819%1,56918%1,43717%Total$9,021100%$8,657100%$8,307100%



Reconstructive



Reconstructive products consist primarily of implants used in hip and knee joint replacements and trauma and extremities surgeries.  We bring patients and physicians advanced implant designs and specialized instrumentation that make orthopaedic surgery and recovery simpler, faster and more effective.  We support surgeons with the technology and services they need as they develop new surgical techniques.







The composition of net sales of Reconstructive products over the last three years was:

201320122011Knees$1,37134%$1,35635%$1,31635%Hips1,27232%1,23332%1,22833%Trauma and Extremities1,11628%98926%93125%Other2456%2457%2357%Total$4,004100%$3,823100%$3,710100%



In December 2013 we acquired MAKO Surgical Corp. (MAKO).  The acquisition of MAKO, combined with our strong history in joint reconstruction, capital equipment (operating room integration and surgical navigation) and surgical instruments, will help further advance the growth of robotic arm assisted surgery. Our combined expertise offers the potential to simplify joint reconstruction procedures, reduce variability and enhance the surgeon and patient experience.

In March 2013 we acquired Trauson Holdings Company Limited (Trauson). The acquisition of Trauson will enhance our product offerings, primarily within our Reconstructive segment, broaden our presence in China and enable us to expand into the fast growing value segment of the emerging markets.

In 2013 we launched the Tritanium Cementless Baseplate for our Triathlon Knee System (TKA), which combines biologic fixation with Triathlon’s ideal kinematics to provide surgeons with a superior option for cementless TKA. We also launched the Secur-Fit Advanced Femoral Hip Stem aimed at accurately restoring biomechanics by leveraging our new and unique Stryker Orthopaedics Modeling and Analytics system.



In June 2012 we voluntarily recalled our Rejuvenate and ABG II modular-neck hip stems and terminated global distribution of these hip products.  We notified healthcare professionals and regulatory bodies of this recall, which was taken due to potential risks associated with fretting and/or corrosion that may lead to adverse local tissue reactions.  We continue to work with the medical community to evaluate the data and further understand this matter and the associated costs as more fully described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report; this information is incorporated herein by reference.



In 2012 we launched Accolade II, the first hip stem with a Morphometric Wedge design, an evolution of the tapered wedge stem.



In 2011 we acquired Memometal Technologies, which develops, manufactures and markets products for extremity (hand and foot) indications that enhance the offerings in our trauma and extremities product line.



Stryker is one of five leading competitors in the United States for joint replacement and trauma products; the other four are Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (Zimmer), DePuy Synthes Company (DePuy Synthes, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson),  Biomet, Inc. and





1Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified





Smith & Nephew plc.  We are also a leading player in the international markets, with these same companies as our principal competitors.



MedSurg



MedSurg products include surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems (Instruments); endoscopic and communications systems (Endoscopy); patient handling and emergency medical equipment (Medical); and reprocessed and remanufactured medical devices as well as other medical device products used in a variety of medical specialties.



The composition of net sales of MedSurg products over the last three years was:

201320122011Instruments$1,26938%$1,26139%$1,18738%Endoscopy1,16735%1,11134%1,08034%Medical71021%69121%72223%Other2136%2026%1715%Total$3,359100%$3,265100%$3,160100%



In December 2013 we announced our intent to acquire Patient Safety Technologies, Inc. (PST).  PST's proprietary Safety-Sponge®System and SurgiCount 360™ compliance software help prevent Retained Foreign Objects in the operating room. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to close in the first quarter of 2014.

In March 2013 we received a warning letter from the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) concerning quality system observations made during an inspection and citing us for failing to notify the FDA of a product recall and for marketing devices, including certain of our Neptune Waste Management Systems, without a required 510(k) clearance.  We were notified in January 2014 that the actions taken to address issues raised in the warning letter are sufficient and no further corrective actions related to the warning letter are required.



In December 2013 we received 510(k) clearance to market a modified Neptune 2 Waste Management System. The Neptune 2 Waste Management System mitigates risk to healthcare workers by eliminating harmful exposure to fluids and smoke in the operating room. This constantly closed system collects surgical waste and disposes of it without exposing the operator to contact with infectious fluids and surgical plumes.



In 2012 we launched System 7, the next generation of heavy duty surgical power tools. These tools are used in total joint procedures, such as hip and knee replacements, and offer the latest in advanced cutting technology.  We also launched the 1488 HD 3-Chip Endoscopic Camera System, which utilizes advanced CMOS technology and premium optics to provide a clear bright image designed to enhance patient outcomes.  In addition, we launched Power-LOADTM, our cot fastener system that lifts and lowers the cot into and out of ambulances, thereby reducing spinal loads and the risk of cumulative trauma injuries to emergency responders.





Stryker is one of four market leaders in Instruments, competing principally with Zimmer, Medtronic, Inc. and Conmed Linvatec, Inc. (a subsidiary of CONMED Corporation) globally; internationally, we also compete with Aesculap-Werke AG (a division of B. Braun Melsungen AG).  In Endoscopy, we compete with Smith & Nephew Endoscopy (a division of Smith & Nephew plc), ConMed Linvatec, Inc., Arthrex, Inc., Karl Storz GmbH & Co. and Olympus Optical Co. Ltd.  Our primary competitors in Medical are Hill-Rom Holdings, Inc. and Kinetic Concepts, Inc.



Neurotechnology and Spine



Our Neurotechnology and Spine products include both neurosurgical and neurovascular devices. Our neurotechnology offering includes products used for minimally invasive endovascular techniques; a comprehensive line of products for traditional brain and open skull base surgical procedures; orthobiologic and biosurgery products, including synthetic bone grafts and vertebral augmentation products; and minimally invasive products for the treatment of acute ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke. We also develop, manufacture and market spinal implant products including cervical, thoracolumbar and interbody systems used in spinal injury, deformity and degenerative therapies.



The composition of net sales of Neurotechnology and Spine products over the last three years was:

201320122011Neurotechnology$91555%$84254%$75052%Spine74345%72746%68748%Total$1,658100%$1,569100%$1,437100%



In 2012 we received 510(k) clearance to market the Trevo®Pro Retriever, our next generation clot removal technology that utilizes proprietary Stentriever®Technology for optimized clot integration and retrieval in patients experiencing acute ischemic stroke.  In addition, we received 510(k) clearance to market our Trevo®ProVEUTMRetriever, the first clot removal device fully visible during the procedure for precise positioning within the clot and optimized clot retrieval in patients experiencing acute ischemic stroke.



In 2012 we acquired Surpass Medical, Ltd. (Surpass).  Surpass is developing and commercializing next-generation flow diversion stent technology to treat brain aneurysms using a unique mesh design and delivery system.   The acquisition of Surpass enhances our product offerings in Neurotechnology.



In 2011 we acquired the assets of the Neurovascular division of Boston Scientific Corporation (Neurovascular), as well as Concentric Medical, Inc., a manufacturer of minimally invasive products for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke.  These acquisitions significantly expanded our product offerings in Neurotechnology.  In addition, we acquired Orthovita, Inc. (Orthovita), a developer of orthobiologic and biosurgery products, including synthetic bone grafts and vertebral augmentation





2Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified





products. The acquisition of Orthovita complements our existing product offerings, primarily in Spine.



Our primary competitors in Neurotechnology are Micrus Endovascular, LLC and DePuy Synthes (subsidiaries of Johnson & Johnson), Covidien and Medtronic.  We are one of five market leaders in Spine, along with Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc.), DePuy Synthes, Nuvasive, Inc. and Globus Medical.



Geographic Areas



In2013approximately66.3%of our revenues were generated from customers in the United States. Internationally our products are sold in over 100 countries through local dealers and direct sales efforts. Additional geographic information is included under "Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.



Raw Materials and Inventory



Raw materials essential to our business are generally readily available from multiple sources.  Substantially all products we manufacture are stocked in inventory, while certain MedSurg products are assembled to order.  The dollar amount of backlog orders at any given time is not considered material to an understanding of our business taken as a whole.



Patents and Trademarks



Patents and trademarks are significant to our business to the extent that a product or an attribute of a product represents a unique design or process.  Patent protection of such products restricts competitors from duplicating these unique designs and features.  We seek to obtain patent protection on our products whenever appropriate for protecting our competitive advantage.  As ofDecember 31, 2013we owned approximately 1,783 United States patents and 3,420 international patents.



Seasonality



Our business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the number of reconstructive implant surgeries is generally lower during the summer months and sales of capital equipment are generally stronger in the fourth quarter.



Competition



In all of our product lines we compete with local and global companies located throughout the world.  Competition exists in all product lines without regard to the number and size of the competing companies involved. The development of new and innovative products is important to our success in all areas of our business and competition in research, involving the development and the improvement of new and existing products and processes, is particularly significant.  The competitive environment requires substantial investments in continuing research and in maintaining sales forces.



The principal factors that we believe differentiate us in the highly competitive product categories in which we operate and enable us to compete effectively include our commitment to innovation and quality, service and reputation. We believe that our competitive position in the future will depend to a large degree on our ability to develop new products and make improvements to existing products.



Product Development



Most of our products and product improvements have been developed internally at research facilities in the United States, Ireland, Puerto Rico, Germany, Switzerland, India and France.  We also invest through acquisitions in technologies developed by third parties that have the potential to expand the markets in which we operate.  We maintain close working relationships with physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist us in product development efforts. The total costs of worldwide company-sponsored research, development and engineering activities relating to the development of new products, improvement of existing products, technical support of products and compliance with governmental regulations for the protection of customers and patients were$536,$471and$462in2013,2012and2011, respectively.  Research, development and engineering expenses as a percentage of sales were5.9%,5.4%and5.6%in2013,2012and2011, respectively. The spending level in 2013 increased due to the timing of projects and continued investment in new technologies.  The spending level in 2012 as a percentage of sales decreased primarily due to the termination of all development of the OP-1 molecule in late 2011.



Regulation



Our businesses are subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which we operate, and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation.



In the United States, the Medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and its subsequent amendments, and the regulations issued or proposed thereunder, provide for regulation by the FDA of the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, including most of our products.  Many of our new products fall into FDA classifications that require notification of and review by the FDA before we begin marketing them, submitted as a 510(k). Certain of our products require extensive clinical testing, consisting of safety and efficacy studies, followed by pre-market approval (PMA) applications for specific surgical indications.



The FDA's Quality System regulations set forth standards for our product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the FDA. There are also certain requirements of state, local and foreign governments that must be complied with in the manufacture and marketing of our products.



The member states of the European Union (EU) have adopted the European Medical Device Directives that form a single set of





3Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified





medical device regulations for all EU member countries. These regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member countries to meet certain quality system requirements and obtain CE marking for their products. We have authorization to apply the CE marking to substantially all of our products. In addition, we comply with the unique regulatory requirements of each of the countries in which we market our products.



Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare expenses generally and hospital costs in particular, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where we do business. It is not possible to predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost containment measures on our future business.  In addition, business practices in the healthcare industry have come under increased scrutiny, particularly in the United States, by government agencies and state attorneys general, and resulting investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties.



Employees



AtDecember 31, 2013, we had approximately25,000employees worldwide. Certain international employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  We believe that we maintain positive relationships with our employees worldwide.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



Information regarding our executive officers appears under the caption "Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance" in Item 10 of this Report.



Available Information



Our main corporate website address iswww.stryker.com.Copies of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Current Reports on Form 8-K filed or furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) will be provided without charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to our Corporate Secretary at our principal executive offices. All of our SEC filings are also available free of charge on our website within the "For Investors - SEC Filings & Ownership Reports" link as soon as reasonably practicable after having been electronically filed or furnished to the SEC.  All SEC filings are also available at the SEC's website atwww.sec.gov.



