ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

GENERAL

Stryker Corporation (the Company or Stryker) is one of the world’s leading medical technology companies with the most broadly based
range of products in orthopaedics and a significant presence in other medical specialties. Stryker works with respected medical professionals to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. The Company’s products include implants
used in joint replacement, trauma, spinal and craniomaxillofacial surgeries; surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems, endoscopic and communications systems; patient handling and emergency medical equipment as well as other medical device
products used in a variety of medical specialties. Stryker was incorporated in Michigan in 1946 as the successor company to a business founded in 1941 by Dr. Homer H. Stryker, a leading orthopaedic surgeon and the inventor of several
orthopaedic products.

Stryker’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including its annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, are accessible free of charge at www.stryker.com within the “Investor—SEC Filings & Ownership Reports” link.

In 2009 the Company acquired Ascent Healthcare Solutions, Inc. for $525 million in an all cash transaction. In 2007 the Company completed
the sale of its outpatient physical therapy business, Physiotherapy Associates, for $150 million in cash less certain indebtedness. Physiotherapy Associates’ operating results are reported as discontinued operations for the year ended
December 31, 2007.

PRODUCT SALES

The Company segregates its operations into two reportable business segments: Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg Equipment. The Orthopaedic Implants segment sells orthopaedic reconstructive (hip and knee),
trauma and spinal implant systems and other related products. The MedSurg Equipment segment sells surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems; endoscopic and communications systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment.
The following amounts and percentages represent domestic/international and business segment net sales during each of the three years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):



200920082007$%$%$%Domestic/international sales:Domestic$4,317.464%$4,282.264%$3,850.364%International2,405.736%2,436.036%2,150.236%Total net sales$6,723.1100%$6,718.2100%$6,000.5100%Business segment sales:Orthopaedic Implants$4,119.761%$3,967.559%$3,587.360%MedSurg Equipment2,603.439%2,750.741%2,413.240%Total net sales$6,723.1100%$6,718.2100%$6,000.5100%

Additional financial information regarding the Company’s operating segments and geographic
areas can be found under the captionsResults of Operationsin Item 7 of this report and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.

Approximately 77% of the Company’s sales in 2009 and 74% in both 2008 and 2007 consisted of products with short lives, such as
reconstructive, trauma, craniomaxillofacial and spinal implant systems (while implants







have a long useful life to the patient, they have a one-time use to the hospital); disposables and expendable tools; and parts and service revenues, including service and repair charges. The
balance of sales in each of the years came from products that could be considered capital equipment, having useful lives in excess of one year.

The Company’s backlog of firm orders is not considered material to an understanding of its business.

Orthopaedic Implants

Orthopaedic Implants are designed and manufactured by Stryker Orthopaedics, Stryker
Osteosynthesis, Stryker Spine and Stryker Biotech and consist of such products as implants used in joint replacement, trauma, craniomaxillofacial and spinal surgeries; bone cement; and the bone growth factor OP-1. Artificial joints are made of
cobalt chromium, titanium alloys, ceramics or ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene and are implanted in patients whose natural joints have been damaged by arthritis, osteoporosis, other diseases or injury. Many of Stryker’s technologically
advanced reconstructive implants are suited to minimally invasive surgery (MIS) procedures that are intended to reduce soft-tissue damage and pain while hastening return to function. The Company supports surgeons with technology, procedural
development and specialized instrumentation as they develop new MIS techniques.

Hip Implant Systems

Through Stryker Orthopaedics, the Company offers a variety of hip implant systems for the global reconstructive market. The ABG Hip System,
Partnership Hip System, Secur-Fit Hip System, Omnifit Hip System, Accolade Hip System, Centpillar Hip System, Trident Acetabular Hip System, ADM Mobile Bearing Hip System, Rejuvenate Modular Primary Hip System, Cormet Hip Resurfacing System and
Restoration Hip System are all comprehensive systems of hip implants and associated instrumentation designed to provide physicians and patients with reliable clinical results across the continuum of care, while enhancing value and operating room
efficiency for the hospital.

During 2009 significant clinical milestones for the Company were met, including 40 years of
clinical history with the Exeter Hip System, 25 years of clinical history with the Dall-Miles Cable System, more than 20 years of clinical history with the Omnifit HA stem, and more than 10 years clinical history with Accolade TMZF Hip System.
Stryker is committed to following clinical outcomes and recognizes that long-term clinical results are an important factor in the Company’s ability to market hip implants.

Stryker was the first company to receive clearance from the FDA to commercially release for sale in the United States a hip implant with
hydroxylapatite (HA) surface treatment. HA is a naturally occurring calcium phosphate material that demonstrates a high level of biocompatibility due to its resemblance to bone. The Company’s global clinical experience with HA-coated hip stems
now extends over 20 years, and reported clinical performance continues to equal or exceed that of comparable hip stems reported in the scientific literature.

Primary Femoral Hip Systems:

In 2009 Stryker introduced the Rejuvenate
Modular Primary Hip System, the latest evolution in the Company’s OmniFit and Secur-Fit hip systems. The Rejuvenate Modular Primary Hip System offers surgeons unparalleled options for personalizing the implant to each patient’s anatomy.
The Rejuvenate System is designed to optimize anatomic restoration by providing options that offer enhanced stability, proven modularity and introperative flexibility. The modular design enables the surgeon to independently manage stem size, leg
length, version and offset to recreate the patient’s anatomy, restore biomechanics and, consequently, minimize the risk of dislocation.

The Accolade TMZF Hip System has demonstrated strong clinical results for more than 10 years, with 2009 marking the first introduction of the product into Japan. Recognized for simplicity, and flexible to
accommodate all surgical approaches and navigation, the Accolade TMZF System is a tapered wedge implant, based on a broach only technique.







The ABG II Modular Hip System, released in Europe in 2007, represents the next generation of
design based on the ABG monolithic stem that has had positive clinical experience for more than 10 years. This modular primary hip stem provides the opportunity to recreate patient anatomy through independent sizing of the stem and neck. Versatile
instrumentation also accommodates surgeon preference for a navigated procedure or direct anterior surgical approach.

The
Company’s Exeter Total Hip System is based on a collarless, highly polished, double-tapered femoral design that reduces shear stresses and increases compression at the cement/bone interface.

Primary Acetabular Systems:

The Company’s advanced bearing system, Low Friction Ion Treatment (LFIT) Anatomic Femoral Heads with X3 polyethylene liners represents a significant advance in hip-bearing technology through the combination of Stryker’s LFIT
technology and X3 advanced bearing technology. The femoral heads are anatomically sized for more natural hip performance. In 2007 the Company further expanded its anatomic femoral head offerings with the introduction of the Biolox Delta Ceramic
Anatomic head for even greater options to reduce wear and potentially increase implant longevity. X3 advanced bearing technology is the Company’s highly crosslinked polyethylene, which demonstrates enhanced material characteristics in
laboratory testing, including improved strength, reduced wear and oxidation resistance. This second generation bearing option offers a significant technological advance for both hip and knee replacements.

The Company received premarket approval (PMA) from the FDA in 2003 for its ceramic-on-ceramic hip replacement system, the Trident Ceramic
Acetabular Insert, for patients in the United States. Stryker Orthopaedics has successfully launched the Trident ceramic insert in the United States, Europe, Australia and Canada. The Trident insert has demonstrated low wear clinically, and it is
protected and strengthened by a patented titanium sleeve.

In 2009 the Company introduced the Primary Tritanium Shell in Latin
America, Australia, and Europe following a US launch in 2008. Introduction of this highly porous surface into the primary hip market provides an enhanced fixation acetabular solution that was previously not available for primary use.

Hip Fracture Hip Systems:

Stryker offers a broad array of femoral stem options and bearings to accommodate the hip fracture patient including the Accolade HFx stem and the UHR bipolar head.

Revision Hip Systems:

The Restoration Modular Revision Hip System offers
surgeons performing revision surgeries flexibility in treating complex hip stem revisions and restoring patient biomechanics. The Restoration Modular Revision Hip System also takes advantage of Stryker’s long clinical history with HA by
incorporating PureFix HA coating on many components. The Restoration Modular Revision Hip System complements the Company’s existing Restoration HA and Restoration plasma spray (PS) monolithic revision systems.

The Company’s Trident Tritanium Acetabular Shell contains a highly porous surface that closely resembles the structure of bone. This
shell is designed for revision surgery and contains multiple screw holes to achieve bone fixation and initial stability.

Resurfacing Hip
Systems:

In 2007 the Company began selling the Cormet Hip Resurfacing System in the United States pursuant to an exclusive
10-year marketing and distribution agreement with Corin Group PLC following the initial launch of







another hip resurfacing product in certain international markets. These products represent a less invasive option for younger patients who have the potential for enhanced stability and range of
motion. In hip resurfacing procedures, very little bone is removed from the femoral head, the femoral neck is preserved and the femoral canal is spared.

Knee Implant Systems

The Company offers three major knee implant systems:
Triathlon, Scorpio and the Global Modular Replacement System (GMRS).

The Triathlon Knee System represents the Company’s
evolutionary design that has been developed to more closely reproduce natural knee motion and is designed to provide mobility with stability through more than 150 degrees of flexion. The Triathlon Knee instrumentation is designed to improve
operating room efficiency through a streamlined, integrated system providing options and flexibility to meet surgeons’ varying preferences and multiple surgical techniques. In 2008, Stryker continued to expand the Triathlon brand with the
Trtiathlon Partial Knee Resurfacing (PKR) offering in the uni-condylar market segment. The PKR incorporates the single radius design to provide the potential for better ligament balancing. PKR also offers value and efficiency in the femoral
component design by only requiring one femoral cutting block for preparation of all sizes of femoral components. In 2007 Stryker introduced the condylar stabilizing (CS) ultra-congruent insert for the Triathlon Knee System. The Triathlon CS insert
is a high-performance insert designed to provide patients with more natural motion and the potential for greater implant longevity. The Company also offers the X3 advanced bearing technology as well as anterior referencing instruments for use with
the Triathlon Knee System. The Company also offers a posteriorly stabilized (PS) version of the Triathlon knee and a cruciate-retaining (CR) version.

The GMRS is a global product that offers a comprehensive solution for severe bone loss in oncology, trauma and revision surgery patients. GMRS has tibial and femoral components, including a total femur,
and a modular rotating hinge knee. The system employs both titanium and cobalt chrome alloys for strength and lightness of weight, together with the superior flexibility of the hinge. The MRS, the predecessor to the GMRS, was the first modular
segmental replacement system when it was introduced in 1988. These system components have maintained a leadership position in this market segment since their introduction.

The Scorpio knee implant design is based on the epicondylar axis of the knee. This patented approach addresses significant clinical issues,
such as improved patient rehabilitation and midflexion stability, through an increase in the patella-femoral moment arm and a single anterior-posterior radius. The Scorpio HA CR product is designed to minimize polyethylene wear and the Scorpio HA PS
product features a minimally invasive open box design and maximized stability. The ScorpioFlex, which is available for both posterior cruciate-retaining and cruciate-substituting indications, is specifically designed for patients who have the
ability and motivation to return to high-flexion activities such as gardening and golfing.The Scorpio NRG provides additional kinematic benefits over ScorpioFlex, including increased rotational allowance, an articulating design for deeper flexion
and greater extension allowance without impingement. In 2007 the Scorpio NRG with X3 advanced bearing technology was launched. This new version of the Scorpio NRG is designed to lower wear rates compared with standard inserts. The Scorpio System is
supported by the Passport instrumentation system, which was designed to provide intraoperative flexibility and precision as well as a simple, cost-effective approach to total knee replacement surgery.

Other Joint Replacement Products

The Company develops and markets shoulder and elbow replacement implants, as well as associated instrumentation. The Solar Shoulder portfolio provides surgeons with increased intra-operative flexibility to restore the patient’s
shoulder functionality and pain relief. These products are marketed worldwide under the ReUnion and Solar brands.







Bone Cement

Simplex bone cement, a material used to secure cemented implants to bone, was first approved for orthopaedic use in the United States in 1971 and is the most widely used bone cement in the world. The
Company manufactures and provides several variations of Simplex bone cement to meet specific patient needs. Simplex has nearly 50 years of clinical history, the longest of any bone cement, with more than 400 published clinical papers.

Trauma Implant Systems

Through Stryker Osteosynthesis, the Company develops, manufactures and markets trauma, extremities and deformity correction systems. These systems include Intramedullary (IM) and cephlomedullary nails, locked and non-locked plating, hip
fracture solutions and external fixation systems, as well as bone substitutes that are used primarily for the treatment of traumatic injuries.

The Company’s internal fixation portfolio includes a full array of IM & cephlomedullary nails; hip fracture solutions, including compression hip screws, canulated screws, as well as
anatomically designed plates and screws in both titanium and stainless steel. These products provide a restorative option prior to joint reconstruction. These products are marketed worldwide as leading brands such as Gamma3, Asnis III, AxSOS,
VariAx, HydroSet, and T2.

The Company’s external fixation portfolio includes products such as Hoffmann II MRI, Hoffmann
Xpress, Monotube Triax mono-lateral, as well as the Hoffmann II Hybrid (TenXor) circular fixation systems. These systems are used to construct frames for bone stabilization that are either definitive or as a temporary step in the treatment process
associated with damage control orthopaedics. Hoffmann systems have been defined by their ease of assembly with “snap-fit” couplers. The use of a proprietary Vectran coating on the bars makes Hoffmann II MRI an MRI compatible solution.

The Company also offers a product portfolio for the treatment of fractures and injuries of the extremities. These products
include fracture specific locked plating for the wrist, shoulder and foot, as well as bone substitutes and external fixation systems. These are all designed to treat the unique nature of upper extremity injuries. These products are marketed
worldwide under the brands VariAx, AxSOS, and Hoffmann.

The VariAx Distal Radius System offers surgeons a comprehensive
solution for the treatment of wrist fractures. These titanium plates are anatomically designed and offer poly-axial SmartLock technology. SmartLock enables surgeons to place either locking or non-locking screws at angles of up to 15-degrees, which
allows the surgeon to target specific bone fragments for fixation. The VariAx Hand Plating and Foot Plating Systems were launched in 2008 and expanded the treatable indications for the wrist (hand) and for the hind, mid and fore foot, all under the
same poly-axial SmartLock platform.

Spinal Implant Systems

Through Stryker Spine, the Company develops, manufactures and markets spinal implant products including cervical, thoracolumbar and interbody
systems used in spinal injury, deformity and degenerative therapies. Spinal implant products include plates, rods, screws, connectors, spacers and cages, along with proprietary implant instrumentation.

In 2009 the Company introduced the Xia 3 Sacral Iliac system that completes the thoracolumbar system and makes it one of the most
comprehensive platforms on the market. Also in 2009, the Company introduced the Dynatran-Dynamic/Translational Anterior Cervical Plate which expands the Company’s presence in the cervical space with its unique locking mechanism. In 2008
the Company introduced the Radius Thoracolumbar Spinal Implant System. The Radius system provides a non-threaded wedgelock locking mechanism designed to







reduce the potential for false locking and cross-threading and to increase the speed, ease and reliability of connecting rods to screws. Also in 2008, the Company launched Xia 3, the next
generation of its thoracolumbar spinal implant system and THOR, its anterior lumbar plating system that incorporates a proprietary screw locking technology. In 2007 the Company introduced the Mantis minimally invasive access system for posterior
instrumented spinal fusion and the Reflex Zero Profile anterior cervical plating system. The Company also offers the VLIFT vertebral body replacement system consisting of a preassembled, cylindrically shaped titanium cage with a distractible or
retractable center. The hollow core of the cage allows for packing bone graft. The Company’s AVS AS and AL Spacers are used as vertebral body support devices in anterior procedures. Other product lines include the OASYS fixation system that
serves the posterior cervical fusion market, the Reflex Hybrid anterior cervical plate and the AVS PL and TL vertebral spacer systems.

Craniomaxillofacial (CMF) Implant Systems

Through Stryker Osteosynthesis, the Company develops, manufactures
and markets plating systems and related implants and products for craniomaxillofacial surgery. These products include plating systems, dura substitutes, bone substitutes, electrosurgical microdissection needles and surgical instruments. They are
primarily used in the fixation of fractures due to sudden injury as well as in the correction of congenital deformities. These products are marketed under such names as the Universal Fixation System, Colorado Needle, DuraMatrix-Onlay, Leibinger
Instruments and HydroSet.

OP-1/BMP-7

Stryker’s OP-1 Implant is composed of recombinant human OP-1 and a bioresorbable collagen matrix. Stryker has received two approvals for a Humanitarian Device Exemption (HDE) from the FDA. An HDE, as
defined by the FDA, is for a product intended to benefit patients by treating or diagnosing a disease or condition that affects fewer than 4,000 individuals per year in the United States. The first is for the use of OP-1 Implant as an alternative to
autograft in recalcitrant long-bone nonunions where use of autograft is not feasible and alternative treatments have failed. The second is for revision posterolateral spine fusion using a new formulation of OP-1 known as OP-1 Putty. In March 2009,
the FDA Orthopaedic and Rehabilitation Devices Advisory Panel voted not to recommend that the Company receive broad-based marketing approval for its OP-1 Putty.

Stryker filed a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) with the European Medicines Evaluation Agency for the posterolateral lumbar spine fusion indication in 2006 under the name Opgenra. In 2008 the
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use in Europe recommended this indication for approval. The Opgenra product has not yet been launched in Europe.

In 2006 Stryker filed an investigational device exemption (IDE) application with the FDA to start a pilot clinical study in transforaminal lumbar interbody fusions using OP-1 Putty. The IDE was approved
and patient recruitment was completed in 2008.

Stryker is also interested in exploring the cartilage regeneration properties
of BMP-7 and has successfully completed preclinical studies showing that BMP-7 can stimulate new cartilage formation and increase disc height in animal models of degenerative disc disease. In 2005 Stryker filed its first Investigational New Drug
(IND) application with the FDA to treat degenerative disc disease with a new injectable form of BMP-7 in a dose-ranging study in humans. In 2008 the Company completed enrollment in this Phase I dose-ranging clinical safety study for the first time
use of BMP-7 to treat the disc. In 2006 Stryker filed an IND application with the FDA to treat osteoarthritis in the knee with the injectable form of BMP-7. Following FDA concurrence in 2007, the Company proceeded with patient enrollment in the
Phase I clinical study, which was completed in 2008. Based on the results of that study, a Phase II protocol has been submitted to the FDA with the intention of beginning a clinical trial in the same indication in 2010.

The Company is in the process of reviewing its strategic alternatives for the use of OP-1.







MedSurg Equipment

MedSurg Equipment products include surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems; endoscopic and communications systems and patient handling and emergency medical equipment. These products are
designed and manufactured by Stryker Instruments, Stryker Endoscopy and Stryker Medical.

Surgical Equipment and Surgical Navigation
Systems

Through Stryker Instruments, the Company offers a broad line of surgical, neurologic, ENT and interventional spine
equipment that is used in surgical specialties for drilling, burring, rasping or cutting bone in small-bone orthopaedics, neurosurgical, spine and ENT procedures; wiring or pinning bone fractures; and preparing hip or knee surfaces for the placement
of artificial implants. Stryker Instruments also manufactures an array of different attachments and cutting accessories for use by orthopaedic, neurologic and small-bone specialists.

The System 6 heavy duty, large-bone power system represents the Company’s primary heavy-duty, cordless product offering. This system,
which includes several attachments, is more powerful and has a longer battery life than its predecessor. The System 6 Rotary Handpieces provide multiple options to surgeons by allowing both high-speed drilling and high-torque reaming in one
handpiece. System 6 Heavy Duty Saws provide increased torque for a faster and more efficient cut.

The
Company’s Stryker Precision Oscillating Tip Saw is an innovative saw incorporating a stationary cartridge blade shaft with an oscillating tip in contrast with standard surgical saws with oscillating blades. This feature gives surgeons the
opportunity for greater accuracy while simplifying cuts and reducing the potential for soft tissue damage and facilitating less invasive procedures. This saw represents an advance in procedural simplification, offering customers the potential for
time and cost savings by reducing the number of steps in the surgical process.

Stryker Instruments also produces disposable
products that are utilized in conjunction with joint replacement surgery. These products include the Revolution Cement Mixing System, designed to provide one solution for mixing all surgical cements, in addition to offering mixing efficacy, safety
and ease of use; the InterPulse, a self-contained pulsed lavage system used by surgeons to cleanse the surgical site during total joint arthroplasty; and the ConstaVac CBC II Blood Conservation System, a postoperative wound drainage and blood
reinfusion device that enables joint replacement patients to receive their own blood rather than donor blood.

To serve the
postsurgical technology market, the Company offers the PainPump2 and BlockAid products that are designed for continuous nerve block applications and enable the delivery of a local anesthetic to specific neurologic anatomy. The pumps facilitate
peri-operative pain control by allowing physicians to program the







pump and offer a patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) option of non-narcotic medication to manage break-through pain. The Blockaid also offers a reprogramming feature, previously unavailable
to the market in a disposable, single-use pump.

To promote safety for patients and medical staff, Stryker works closely with
hospitals and other healthcare organizations to develop a broad product portfolio. In 2009 the Company introduced the Flyte personal protection system, the latest version of Stryker’s Sterishield line of personal protection products combining
improved comfort and support with higher levels of protection against contamination, exposure to infectious bodily fluids and transfer of microorganisms and particulate matter. Additionally, Flyte’s integrated helmet with illumination
represents enhancements aimed towards improving the surgical environment.

The Neptune Waste Management System represents
Stryker’s leading product for liquid waste management in the operating room. The self-contained device, first introduced in 2000 and consistently improved, collects and disposes of fluid and smoke waste from surgical procedures, minimizing the
need for operator intervention and, therefore, the risk of exposure to these waste byproducts. In 2008 Stryker introduced the Neptune 2 Waste Management platform. This next-generation system allows for increased fluid collection capacity while
enhancing end user system preferences based on surgical procedures.

Through Stryker Instruments, the Company offers a broad
line of surgical navigation systems that give surgeons in several specialties the ability to use electronic imaging to see more clearly, better align instruments and more accurately track where the instruments are relative to a patient’s
anatomy during surgical procedures. The Company offers the Navigation System II Cart, the eNlite suitcase system, which creates a smaller footprint in the operating room while retaining the full functionality of all software programs offered on the
Navigation System II Cart, and the Navigation iSuite, a fully integrated navigation system housed in the ceiling and walls of an existing operating room. All of these product offerings are either image based or imageless platforms, incorporating
intuitive Smart hardware and software functionality, and a highly accurate digital infrared camera that result in greater ease of use, less invasive procedures, and reduced surgical time.

Endoscopic and Communications Systems

Stryker Endoscopy develops, manufactures and markets medical video-imaging and communications equipment and instruments for arthroscopy, general surgery and urology. Stryker Endoscopy has established a
position of leadership in the production of medical video-imaging technology and accessories for minimally invasive surgery, as well as communications equipment to facilitate local and worldwide sharing of medical information among operating rooms,
doctors’ offices and teaching institutions. Products include medical video cameras, digital documentation equipment, digital image and viewing software, arthroscopes, laparoscopes, powered surgical instruments, sports medicine instrumentation,
radio frequency ablation systems, irrigation fluid management systems, i-Suite operating room solutions and state-of-the-art equipment for telemedicine and enterprise-wide connectivity. Stryker’s line of rigid scopes, which range in diameter
from 1.9 millimeters to 10 millimeters, contains a series of precision lenses as well as fiber optics that, when combined with Stryker’s high-definition (HD) camera systems, allow the physician to view internal anatomy with a high degree of
clarity.

In 2009 Stryker introduced the 1288 HD Camera, the next generation of Stryker 3-chip HD medical video camera. This
latest version has HD 1080p resolution with wireless high definition transmission to the new Stryker WiSe wide screen monitor system. This new camera system provides superior image quality compared to previous camera systems and usability through
customized programmable buttons. This product provides surgical teams with improved visibility during endoscopic procedures, which can improve overall surgical and patient outcomes. In conjunction with the launch of the 1288 HD Camera, Stryker also
introduced the L-9000 lightsource. This new lightsource includes proprietary LED technology that provides the customer with a cooler and longer lasting bulb. Also introduced was the IDEAL EYES line of HD arthroscopes and laparoscopes. To accommodate
the recording of HD images, the Company offers the SDC HD digital documentation system. The Company also offers its Formula shaver system, which is small, light and equipped with radio frequency identification (RFID), facilitating communication
between the blade and console.







In 2008 Stryker introduced the High Definition Digital Radiography (HDDR) 3000, a space
efficient and multifunctional direct digital radiography system designed to accommodate the demanding requirements of modern orthopaedic practices. The HDDR 3000 features a Q-arm design with the x-ray tube always centered to the detector for fast,
precise and convenient patient positioning. The system efficiently performs all general radiographic procedures with a single detector.

In 2007 the Company launched the Stryker Digital Capture (SDC) Ultra, an all-in-one medical imaging information management system allowing for patient scheduling, video capture and storage, DVD burning
and other capabilities. The SDC Ultra archives surgical images and videos on its 250-gigabyte internal hard drive. This system also allows for the recording of all surgical footage in high-definition video. Through dual-channel input support, the
SDC Ultra can capture images and video independently on two separate video channels, in synchronized mode or in picture-in-picture format.

Also in 2007 Stryker introduced the 45L PneumoSure insufflator that provides exceptional performance with enhanced safety and reliability. This new insufflator is designed to handle the needs of
today’s dynamic surgical environment and includes two additional modes for bariatric and vessel harvesting. The 45L PneumoSure insufflator offers real-time pressure sensing for increased accuracy during a procedure. Its ability to maintain
pneumoperitoneum under the most extreme conditions, coupled with a fully integrated color touch screen, allows for increased ease of use.

Patient Handling and Emergency Medical Equipment

Stryker Medical is a leader in the patient handling equipment
segment, offering a wide variety of stretchers customized to fit the needs of acute care and specialty surgical care facilities with a focus on providing a safe and comfortable surface for patients while reducing the risk of back injury for hospital
staff. The Company offers the M-Series Stretcher, which has become the standard in patient mobility. The M-Series Stretcher incorporates the Company’s BackSmart side rail design elements, reducing the risk of back injury for caregivers; the
Zoom Motorized Drive System, virtually eliminating push force; Big Wheel technology, reducing start-up force by up to 50 percent and increasing maneuverability; and a 700-pound weight capacity. The Company’s Glide Lateral Air Transfer System
allows two caregivers to easily transfer even the largest patients while reducing the risk for caregiver back injury by lifting and floating the patient on a cushion of air.

To serve
the worldwide pre-hospital market, the Company offers a line of manually operated and powered ambulance cots and cot-to-ambulance fastening systems. In addition, Stryker offers the Stair-PRO stair chairs with Stair-TREAD track systems that
facilitate patient transport up and down stairs. The Company’s Power-PRO







ambulance cot incorporates an advanced battery-powered hydraulic lift system that enables emergency medical professionals to raise and lower the cot with the press of a button. The use of
Stair-PRO and the Power-PRO helps prevent caregiver back injuries. Stryker expanded the Power-PRO line with a version customized to carry transport incubators on both inter-facility and intra-facility transports and with a version customized for
ambulances that use hydraulic tail lifts or ramps that are popular in the United Kingdom.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

Most of the Company’s products and product improvements have been developed internally. The Company maintains close working
relationships with physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. New and improved products play a critical role in the Company’s sales growth. The Company continues to place
emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. The Company has a decentralized research and development focus, with manufacturing locations responsible for new
product development and product improvements. Research, development and engineering personnel at the various manufacturing locations maintain relationships with staff at distribution locations and with customers to understand changes in the market
and product needs.

Total expenditures for product research, development and engineering were $336.2 million in 2009, $367.8
million in 2008 and $375.3 million in 2007. Research, development and engineering expenses represented 5.0% of sales in 2009, compared with 5.5% in 2008 and 6.3% in 2007. The spending level in 2009 decreased due to the Company’s tight control
on discretionary spending as well as the Company’s focus of certain research and development resources on compliance initiatives. Recent new product introductions in the Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg Equipment segments are more fully
described under the captionProduct Sales.

In addition to internally developed products, the Company invests in
technologies developed by third parties that have the potential to expand the markets in which the Company operates. In 2009 the Company acquired Ascent Healthcare Solutions, Inc. (Ascent) the market leader in the reprocessing and remanufacturing of
medical devices in the U.S. The acquisition of Ascent is expected to enhance the Company’s presence in a variety of product offerings in its MedSurg Equipment segment and allow for cost savings to its customers. During 2009, the Company
acquired certain additional companies that are expected to enhance the Company’s product offerings to its customers within its Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg Equipment business segments.

MARKETING

Domestic sales
accounted for 64% of total revenues in 2009. Most of the Company’s products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities through dedicated sales forces for each of its principal product lines to provide focus and
a high level of expertise to each medical specialty served.

International sales accounted for 36% of total revenues in 2009.
The Company’s products are sold in more than 100 countries through local dealers and direct sales efforts. Stryker distributes its products through sales subsidiaries and branches with offices located in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium,
Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia and Montenegro, Singapore, South
Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Ukraine, the United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. Stryker exports products to dealers and to customers in Africa, Bangladesh, the Balkans, China, the CIS (former Soviet Union), Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Latin America, the Middle East, Paraguay, the Philippines, Slovakia, Thailand, Turkey, Uruguay and Vietnam. Additional information regarding the Company’s international and domestic
operations and sales appears in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.

The
Company’s business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the number of orthopaedic implant surgeries is lower during the summer months.







COMPETITION

The Company is one of five leading competitors in the United States for orthopaedic reconstructive products. The four other leading competitors are DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (a subsidiary of
Johnson & Johnson), Zimmer Holdings, Inc., Biomet, Inc., and Smith & Nephew plc. While competition abroad varies from area to area, the Company believes it is also a leading player in the international markets with these same
companies as its principal competitors.

In the trauma implant segment, Stryker is one of five leaders competing principally
with Synthes, Inc., Smith & Nephew Orthopaedics (a division of Smith & Nephew plc), Zimmer Holdings, Inc., and DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc.

In the spinal implant segment, the Company is one of five leaders, competing principally with Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc.), DePuy Spine, Inc. (a subsidiary of
Johnson & Johnson), Synthes, Inc., and Zimmer Holdings, Inc.

In the craniomaxillofacial implant segment, Stryker is
one of four leaders, competing principally with Synthes, Inc., Biomet Microfixation, LLC (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.), and KLS Martin L.P.

Several companies are engaged in the research and development of products for the repair of hard and soft tissues that, if approved, would compete with the Company’s OP-1 product. Medtronic Sofamor
Danek has received FDA approval for its recombinant bone morphogenetic protein (“rhBMP-2”) for certain spine, trauma and orthopaedic indications, including the treatment of acute, open fractures of the tibial shaft and spinal fusion
surgeries. A number of companies currently provide various other therapies, including allografts, bone fillers and electrical stimulation devices for the treatment, repair or replacement of bone and joint tissue. The Company believes that its OP-1
product, which is approved for limited trauma and spine indications in certain markets and is currently in clinical trials for other indications, will ultimately compete with these products and with traditional therapies, such as autograft and
allograft.

In the surgical equipment segment, Stryker is one of three leaders, competing principally with Medtronic, Inc.,
and Conmed Linvatec, Inc. (a subsidiary of CONMEDCorporation). These companies are also competitors in the international segments, along with Aesculap-Werke AG (a division of B. Braun Melsungen AG), a large European manufacturer.

In the surgical navigation segment, Stryker is one of six principal competitors, including Medtronic Surgical Navigation
Technologies (a division of Medtronic, Inc.), BrainLAB Inc. (a subsidiary of BrainLAB AG), AESCULAPAG & Co. KG (a division of B. Braun Melsungen AG), Radionics, Inc. (a subsidiary of Integra LifeSciences Corporation), and GE
Medical Systems Navigation and Visualization, Inc. (a subsidiary of General Electric Company).

In the arthroscopy segment,
the Company is one of four leaders, together with the principal competitors Smith & Nephew Endoscopy (a division of Smith & Nephew plc), Conmed Linvatec, Inc., and Arthrex, Inc. In the laparoscopic imaging products segment, the
Company is one of three leaders, together with the principal competitors, Karl Storz GmbH & Co. (a German company) and Olympus Optical Co. Ltd. (a Japanese company).

The Company’s primary competitor in the patient handling segment is Hill-Rom Holdings, Inc. In the specialty stretcher segment, the
primary competitors are Hausted, Inc. (a subsidiary of STERISCorporation), Hill-Rom Holdings, Inc., and Midmark Hospital Products Group (a subsidiary of Ohio Medical Instrument Company, Inc.). In the emergency medical services
segment, Ferno-Washington, Inc. is the Company’s principal competitor.

The principal factors that the Company believes
differentiate it in the highly competitive market segments in which it operates and enable it to compete effectively are innovation, reliability, service and reputation. The







Company believes that its competitive position in the future will depend to a large degree on its ability to develop new products and make improvements to existing products. While the Company
does not consider patents a major factor in its overall competitive success, patents and trademarks are significant to the extent that a product or an attribute of a product represents a unique design or process. Patent protection of such products
restricts competitors from duplicating these unique designs and features. Stryker seeks to obtain patent protection on its products whenever appropriate for protecting its competitive advantage. The Company currently owns approximately 1,145 United
States patents and 1,470 international patents.

MANUFACTURING AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY

The Company’s manufacturing processes consist primarily of precision machining, metal fabrication and assembly operations; the forging
and investment casting of cobalt chrome; and the finishing of cobalt chrome and titanium. In addition, the Company is the sole manufacturer of its OP-1 product. Approximately 12% of the Company’s cost of sales in 2009 represented finished
products that were purchased complete from outside suppliers. The Company also purchases parts and components, such as forgings, castings, gears, bearings, casters and electrical components, and uses outside sources for certain finishing operations,
such as plating, hardening and coating of machined components and sterilization of certain products. The principal raw materials used by the Company are stainless steel, aluminum, cobalt chrome and titanium alloys. In all, purchased parts and
components from outside sources were approximately 41% of the total cost of sales in 2009.

While the Company relies on single
sources for certain purchased materials and services, it believes alternate sources are available if needed. The Company has not experienced any significant difficulty in the past in obtaining the materials necessary to meet its production
schedules.

Substantially all products manufactured by the Company are stocked in inventory, while certain products
manufactured within the Company’s MedSurg Equipment segment are assembled to order.

REGULATION AND PRODUCT QUALITY

The Medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990, together with
regulations issued or proposed thereunder, provide for regulation by the FDA of the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, including most of the Company’s products.

The FDA’s Quality System regulations set forth standards for the Company’s product design and manufacturing processes, require the
maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of the Company’s facilities by the FDA. There are also certain requirements of state, local and foreign governments that must be complied with in the manufacturing and marketing of the
Company’s products.

In 2009 the Company received a warning letter from the FDA related to compliance issues for one of
its CMF implant products that was previously sold through its CMF distribution facility in Portage, Michigan. In 2008 the Company received a warning letter from the FDA related to quality systems and compliance issues at its OP-1 implant
manufacturing facility in Hopkinton, Massachusetts. In 2007 the Company received two warning letters from the FDA regarding compliance with certain quality system specifications at its reconstructive implant manufacturing facilities: one letter for
its facility in Cork, Ireland and another for its facility in Mahwah, New Jersey. In October 2009, the FDA informed the Company that the warning letter related to its OP-1 implant manufacturing facility had been resolved following a productive
reinspection earlier in 2009. The Company takes these matters very seriously and continues to fully cooperate with the FDA to address their observations at the other facilities.

Most of the Company’s new products fall into FDA classifications that require notification of and review by the FDA before marketing,
submitted as a 510(k). The Company’s FlexiCore and CerviCore artificial disc products and OP-1 products require extensive clinical testing, consisting of safety and efficacy studies, followed by PMA applications for specific surgical
indications.







Stryker also is subject to the laws that govern the manufacture and distribution of medical
devices of each country in which the Company manufactures or sells products. The member states of the European Union (EU) have adopted the European Medical Device Directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all EU member
countries. These regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member countries to obtain CE Marking for their products. Stryker has authorization to apply the CE Marking to substantially all of its
products. The Company’s OP-1 product has been considered a drug under the regulations for Europe, Australia and Japan.

Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare expenses generally and hospital costs in particular, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing
in markets where the Company does business. It is not possible to predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost-containment measures on the Company’s future business.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2009, the Company had 18,582 employees worldwide.
Certain international employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are updated annually. The Company believes that its employee relations are satisfactory.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information regarding the executive officers
of the Company appears under the caption “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance” in Item 10 of this report.



