ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

Stryker Corporation (Stryker or the Company) is one of the world's leading medical technology companies and, together with its customers, is driven to make healthcare better. The Company offers innovative products and services in Orthopaedics, Medical and Surgical, and Neurotechnology and Spine that help improve patient and hospital outcomes.

Our core values guide our behaviors and actions and are fundamental to how we execute our mission.



Stryker was incorporated in Michigan in 1946 as the successor company to a business founded in 1941 by Dr. Homer H. Stryker, a prominent orthopaedic surgeon and the inventor of several medical products. Our products are sold in over75countries through company-owned subsidiaries and branches, as well as third-party dealers and distributors, and include implants used in joint replacement and trauma surgeries; surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems; endoscopic and communications systems; patient handling, emergency medical equipment and intensive care disposable products; neurosurgical, neurovascular and spinal devices; as well as other products used in a variety of medical specialties. In the United States most of our products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities.

As used herein, and except where the context otherwise requires, "Stryker," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Stryker Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Business Segments and Geographic Information

We segregate our operations into three reportable business segments: Orthopaedics, MedSurg and Neurotechnology and Spine. Financial information regarding our reportable business segments and certain geographic information is included under "Consolidated Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report and Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Net Sales by Reportable Segment201920182017Orthopaedics$5,25235%$4,99137%$4,71338%MedSurg6,574446,045445,55745Neurotechnology and Spine3,058212,565192,17417Total$14,884100%$13,601100%$12,444100%

Orthopaedics

Orthopaedics products consist primarily of implants used in hip and knee joint replacements and trauma and extremities surgeries. We bring patients and physicians advanced implant designs and



specialized instrumentation that make orthopaedic surgery and recovery simpler, faster and more effective. We support surgeons with the technology and services they need as they develop new surgical techniques. The Mako Robotic-Arm Assisted Surgical System was designed to help surgeons provide patients with a personalized surgical experience based on their specific diagnosis and anatomy.  The Mako System currently offers three applications supporting Partial Knee, Total Hip and Total Knee procedures. Mako is the only robotic-arm assisted technology enabled by 3D CT-based pre-operative planning, and with AccuStop™ haptic technology, Mako provides surgeons intra-operative haptic guidance for bone preparation and implant placement.

Stryker is one of four leading global competitors for joint replacement and trauma and extremities products; the other three being Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc. (Zimmer), DePuy Synthes (a Johnson & Johnson company) and Smith & Nephew plc (Smith & Nephew).

Composition of Orthopaedics Net Sales201920182017Knees$1,81535%$1,70134%$1,59534%Hips1,383261,336271,30328Trauma and Extremities1,639311,580321,47831Other415837473377Total$5,252100%$4,991100%$4,713100%

MedSurg

MedSurg products include surgical equipment and navigation systems (Instruments), endoscopic and communications systems (Endoscopy), patient handling, emergency medical equipment and intensive care disposable products (Medical), reprocessed and remanufactured medical devices (Sustainability) and other medical device products used in a variety of medical specialties.

Stryker is one of five leading global competitors in Instruments; the other four being Zimmer, Medtronic plc., Johnson & Johnson and ConMed Linvatec, Inc. (a subsidiary of CONMED Corporation). In Endoscopy we compete with Smith & Nephew, ConMed Linvatec, Arthrex, Inc., Karl Storz GmbH & Co., Olympus Optical Co. Ltd. and STERIS plc. In Medical our primary competitors are Hill-Rom Holdings, Inc., Zoll Medical Corporation, Medline Industries and Ferno-Washington, Inc.

Composition of MedSurg Net Sales201920182017Instruments$2,04131%$1,82230%$1,67830%Endoscopy1,983301,846311,65230Medical2,264342,118351,96935Sustainability286525942585Total$6,574100%$6,045100%$5,557100%

In 2019 Instruments acquired SafeAir AG, a Swiss medical device company dedicated to the design, development and manufacture of innovative surgical smoke evacuation solutions. The company's smoke evacuation products help reduce staff and patient exposure to hazards associated with surgical smoke. Instruments also acquired TSO3, a Quebec City developer of sterilization processes, related consumable supplies and accessories utilized in sterile hospital environments that offer an advantageous replacement solution to other low temperature sterilization processes.

In 2019 Endoscopy launched the 1688 Advanced Imaging Modalities platform, the next generation of its flagship visualization technology with 4K image quality and ICG fluorescence overlay.  The 1688, coupled with the SPY-PHI portable handheld imager, delivers a standardized system for a multitude of minimally invasive and open surgical procedures.



Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.1



STRYKER CORPORATION                                                                                                                         2019 FORM 10-K



Neurotechnology and Spine

Neurotechnology and Spine products include neurosurgical, neurovascular, and spinal implant devices. Our neurotechnology offering includes products used for minimally invasive endovascular techniques; a comprehensive line of products for traditional brain and open skull based surgical procedures; orthobiologic and biosurgery products, including synthetic bone grafts and vertebral augmentation products; and minimally invasive products for the treatment of acute ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke. Our spinal implant offering includes cervical, thoracolumbar and interbody systems used in spinal injury, deformity and degenerative therapies.

Stryker is one of five leading global competitors in Neurotechnology; the other four being Medtronic, Johnson & Johnson, Terumo Corporation and Penumbra, Inc. Stryker is one of five leading global competitors in Spine; the other four being Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic), DePuy Synthes, Nuvasive, Inc. and Globus Medical, Inc.

Composition of Neurotechnology and Spine Net Sales201920182017Neurotechnology$1,97365%$1,73768%$1,42365%Spine1,085358283275135Total$3,058100%$2,565100%$2,174100%

In 2019 Stryker received Food and Drug Administration (FDA) pre-market approval (PMA) of its Neuroform Atlas™ Stent System for the treatment of wide-neck intracranial aneurysms in conjunction with embolic detachable coils in the anterior circulation of the neurovasculature. The Neuroform Atlas™ device was previously approved under a humanitarian device exemption, which restricted use to specific hospitals with institutional review board approval. PMA was granted based on robust clinical trial evidence proving the efficacy of the device.

In 2018 Stryker received FDA PMA for the Surpass Streamline™ Flow Diverter to treat unruptured large and giant wide neck intracranial aneurysms. The device was the second flow diverting stent to gain FDA approval in the United States, expanding our commercial footprint into the flow diversion market and reinforcing our commitment to complete stroke care for patients suffering from cerebrovascular disease. Stryker’s next generation flow diverting stent, Surpass Evolve™, received CE mark approval in 2019.

Raw Materials and Inventory

Raw materials essential to our business are generally readily available from multiple sources; however, certain of our raw materials are currently sourced from single suppliers. Substantially all products we manufacture are stocked in inventory, while certain MedSurg products are assembled to order.

Patents and Trademarks

Patents and trademarks are significant to our business to the extent that a product or an attribute of a product represents a unique design or process. Patent protection of such products restricts competitors from duplicating these unique designs and features. We seek to obtain patent protection on our products whenever appropriate for protecting our competitive advantage. OnDecember 31, 2019we owned approximately3,392United States patents and approximately5,491international patents.

Seasonality

Our business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the number of orthopaedic implant surgeries is typically lower in the summer months, and sales of capital equipment are generally higher in the fourth quarter.



Competition

In each of our product lines we compete with local and global companies. The development of new and innovative products is important to our success in all areas of our business. Competition in research involving the development and improvement of new and existing products and processes is particularly significant. The competitive environment requires substantial investments in continuing research and maintaining sales forces.

We believe our commitment to innovation, quality and service and our reputation differentiates us in the highly competitive product categories in which we operate and enables us to compete effectively. We believe that our competitive position in the future will depend to a large degree on our ability to develop new products and make improvements to existing products.

Regulation

Our businesses are subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which we operate, and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation.

In the United States the Medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and its subsequent amendments and the regulations issued and proposed thereunder provide for regulation by the FDA of the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, including most of our products. Many of our new products fall into FDA classifications that require notification submitted as a 510(k) and review by the FDA before we begin marketing them. Certain of our products require extensive clinical testing, consisting of safety and efficacy studies, followed by pre-market approval (PMA) applications for specific surgical indications. Certain of our products also fall under the FDA's drug classification, as well as other FDA classifications.

The FDA's Quality System regulations set forth standards for our product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of our facilities by the FDA. There are also certain requirements of state, local and foreign governments that must be complied with in the manufacture and marketing of our products.

The member states of the European Union (EU) adopted the European Medical Device Directives, which form a single set of medical device regulations for all EU member countries. These regulations require companies that manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member countries to meet certain quality system requirements and obtain CE marking for their products. We have authorization to apply the CE marking to substantially all of our products. In addition, the EU enacted the EU Medical Device Regulation (EU MDR) in May 2017 with an effective date of May 2020, which imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices, including in the areas of clinical evaluation requirements, quality systems, labeling and post-market surveillance. Finally, we are required to comply with the unique regulatory requirements of each of the countries in Europe and other countries, including China, in which we market our products.

Initiatives to limit the growth of general healthcare expenses and hospital costs are ongoing in the markets in which we do business. These initiatives are sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector and include price regulation and competitive pricing. It is not possible to predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost containment measures on our future business. In addition, business practices in the healthcare industry are scrutinized, particularly in the United States, by federal and state government agencies. The resulting investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties.



Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.2



STRYKER CORPORATION                                                                                                                         2019 FORM 10-K



Environment

We are subject to various rules and regulation in the United States and internationally related to the protection of human health and the environment. Our operations involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily in manufacturing and sterilization processes. We believe our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to comply, in all material respects, with applicable environmental laws and regulations. We do not expect compliance with these requirements to have a material effect on purchases of property, plant and equipment, cash flows, net earnings or competitive position.

Employees

OnDecember 31, 2019we had approximately40,000employees globally.

Information about our Executive Officers

As of January 31, 2020NameAgeTitleFirst Became an Executive OfficerKevin A. Lobo54Chairman and Chief Executive Officer2011Yin C. Becker56Vice President, Communications, Public Affairs and Corporate Marketing2016William E. Berry Jr.54Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer2014Glenn S. Boehnlein58Vice President, Chief Financial Officer2016M. Kathryn Fink50Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer2016Robert S. Fletcher49Vice President, Chief Legal Officer2019Viju S. Menon52Group President, Global Quality and Operations2018Katherine A. Owen49Vice President, Strategy and Investor Relations2007Timothy J. Scannell55President and Chief Operating Officer2008

Each of our executive officers was elected by our Board of Directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of shareholders in2020or until a successor is chosen and qualified or until his or her resignation or removal. Each of our executive officers held the position above or served Stryker in various executive or administrative capacities for at least five years, except for Mr. Fletcher and Mr. Menon.  Prior to joining Stryker in April 2019, Mr. Fletcher held various legal leadership roles with Johnson & Johnson for the previous 14 years, most recently as the Worldwide Vice President, Litigation. Prior to joining Stryker in April 2018, Mr. Menon held various senior supply chain leadership roles with Verizon Communications Inc. during the previous eight years, most recently as the Chief Supply Chain Officer.

Available Information

Our main corporate website address iswww.stryker.com.Copies of our filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are available free of charge on our website within the "Investors Relations" section as soon as reasonably practicable after having been electronically filed or furnished to the SEC. All SEC filings are also available at the SEC's website atwww.sec.gov.



