10-K


a2196671z10-k.htm

10-K

Use these links to rapidly review the document


Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

ý

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
from                to                .

Commission File Number: 001-32269

EXTRA SPACE STORAGE INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Maryland

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

20-1076777

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

2795 East Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 400

Salt Lake City, Utah 84121

(Address of principal executive offices and zip code)

Registrant's
telephone number, including area code:

(801) 562-5556

Securities
Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $0.01 par value

New York Stock Exchange, Inc.

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes

o

No

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files). Yes

o

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment of
this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

ý

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do not check if a

smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act). Yes

o

No

ý

.

The aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $656,132,638 based upon the closing price on the New York
Stock Exchange on June 30, 2009, the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter. This calculation does not reflect a determination that persons whose
shares are excluded from the computation are affiliates for any other purpose.

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock, $0.01 par value per share, as of February 12, 2010 was 86,723,391.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of the registrant's definitive proxy statement to be issued in connection with the registrant's annual stockholders' meeting to be held in 2010 are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


EXTRA SPACE STORAGE INC.


PART I


ITEM 1.

BUSINESS


ITEM 1A.

RISK FACTORS


ITEM 1B.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS


ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES


ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS


ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS


PART II


ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES


ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE


ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES


ITEM 9B.

OTHER INFORMATION


PART III


ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE


ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION


ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS


ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE


ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES


PART IV


ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


SIGNATURES




Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information

Certain information set forth in this report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the
federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include statements concerning our plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events, future revenues or performance, capital expenditures,
financing needs, plans or intentions relating to acquisitions and other information that is not historical information. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such
as "believes," "expects," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "anticipates," or "intends" or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy. We may also
make additional forward-looking statements from time to time. All such subsequent forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, by us or on our behalf, are also expressly qualified by these
cautionary statements.

All forward-looking statements, including without limitation, management's examination of historical operating trends and estimates of future earnings, are based
upon our current expectations and various assumptions. Our expectations, beliefs and projections are expressed in good faith and we believe there is a reasonable basis for them, but there can be no
assurance that management's expectations, beliefs and projections will result or be achieved. All forward-looking statements apply only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to publicly
update or revise forward-looking statements which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained in or
contemplated by this report. Any forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the risks referenced in "Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors" below. Such factors include, but are
not limited to:

•

changes in general economic conditions and in the markets in which we
operate;

•

the effect of competition from new and existing self-storage facilities or other
storage alternatives, which would cause rents and occupancy rates to decline;

•

potential liability for uninsured losses and environmental contamination

;

•

difficulties in our ability to evaluate, finance and integrate acquired and developed properties
into our existing operations and to lease up those properties, which could adversely affect our profitability;

•

the impact of the regulatory environment as well as national, state, and local laws and
regulations including, without limitation, those governing Real Estate Investment Trusts, which could increase our expenses and reduce our cash available for
distribution;

•

disruptions in credit and financial markets and resulting difficulties in raising capital or
obtaining credit at reasonable rates or at all, which could impede our ability to grow;

•

delays in the development and construction process, which could adversely affect our
profitability;

•

economic uncertainty due to the impact of war or terrorism, which could adversely affect our
business plan; and

•

our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and management
members.

The forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and expectations of our future performance, taking into account all information currently
available to us. These beliefs, assumptions and expectations are subject to risks and uncertainties and can change as a result of many possible events or factors, not all of which are known to us. If
a change occurs, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations may vary materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider these
risks before you make an investment decision with respect to our securities.

We disclaim any duty or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect
new information, future events or otherwise.



PART I

Item 1.    Business

General

Extra Space Storage Inc. ("we," "our," "us" or the "Company") is a self-administered and self-managed
real estate investment trust ("REIT") formed as a Maryland corporation on April 30, 2004 to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop professionally managed self-storage
facilities. We closed our initial public offering ("IPO") on August 17, 2004. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "EXR."

We
were formed to continue the business of Extra Space Storage LLC and its subsidiaries (the "Predecessor"), which had engaged in the self-storage business since 1977.
These companies were reorganized after the consummation of our IPO and various formation transactions. As of December 31, 2009, we held ownership interests in 642 operating properties. Of these
642 operating properties, 290 are wholly-owned, and 352 are owned in joint-venture partnerships. An additional 124 operating properties are owned by franchisees or third parties and operated by us in
exchange for a management fee, bringing the total number of operating properties which we own and/or manage to 766. These operating properties are located in 33 states and Washington, D.C. and contain
approximately 55 million square feet of net rentable space in approximately 500,000 units and currently serve a customer base of over 350,000 tenants.

We
operate in three distinct segments: (1) property management, acquisition and development; (2) rental operations; and (3) tenant reinsurance. Our property
management, acquisition and development activities include managing, acquiring, developing and selling self-storage facilities. On June 2, 2009, we announced the
wind-down of our development activities. As of December 31, 2009, there were ten development projects remaining to be completed in our development pipeline. Our rental operations
activities include the direct and indirect ownership and operation of self-storage facilities. Tenant reinsurance activities include the reinsurance of risks relating to the loss of goods
stored by tenants in the Company's self storage facilities.

Substantially
all of our business is conducted through Extra Space Storage LP (the "Operating Partnership"). Our primary assets are general partner and limited partner interests
in the Operating Partnership. This structure is commonly referred to as an umbrella partnership REIT, or UPREIT. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Internal Revenue Code"). To the extent we continue to qualify as a REIT we will not be subject to tax, with certain exceptions, on our net taxable income that is distributed to our
stockholders.

We
file our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those
reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You may obtain copies of these documents by visiting the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C.
20549, by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or by accessing the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In addition, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials
are furnished to the
SEC, we make copies of these documents available to the public free of charge through our website at www.extraspace.com, or by contacting our Secretary at our principal offices, which are located at
2795 East Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 400, Salt Lake City, Utah 84121, telephone number (801) 562-5556.

Management

Members of our executive management team have significant experience in all aspects of the self-storage industry. The
senior management team has collectively acquired and/or developed more than 725 properties since 1996 for the Company, the Predecessor and other entities. Our executive management team and their years
of industry experience are as follows: Spencer F. Kirk, Chairman and



Chief
Executive Officer, 9 years; Kent W. Christensen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 12 years; Charles L. Allen, Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer,
12 years, and Karl Haas, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, 22 years.

On
February 2, 2009, we announced that Kenneth M. Woolley, former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, had accepted an invitation to serve a mission for The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. Mr. Woolley stepped down from his position as Chief Executive Officer beginning April 1, 2009. Our board of directors selected Mr. Kirk to
succeed him as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The composition of the board of directors remained the same with the exception of the Chairman position which was assumed by Mr. Kirk.

Members
of the executive management team have guided the Company through substantial growth, developing and acquiring over $4.0 billion in assets since 1996. This growth has been
funded through public equity offerings and more than $2.0 billion in private equity capital since 1998. This private equity capital has come primarily from sophisticated, high
net-worth individuals and institutional investors such as affiliates of Prudential Financial, Inc. and Fidelity Investments.

Our
executive management and board of directors have a significant ownership position in the Company with executive officers and directors owning approximately 7,035,533 shares or 8.1%
of our outstanding common stock as of February 12, 2010.

Industry & Competition

Self-storage facilities refers to properties that offer month-to-month storage space rental for
personal or business use. Self-storage offers a cost-effective and flexible storage alternative. Tenants rent fully enclosed spaces that can vary in size according to their
specific needs and to which they have unlimited, exclusive access. Tenants have responsibility for moving their items into and out of their units. Self-storage unit sizes typically range
from five feet by five feet to 20 feet by 20 feet, with an interior height of eight to 12 feet. Properties generally have on-site managers who supervise and run the
day-to-day operations, providing tenants with assistance as needed.

Self-storage
provides a convenient way for individuals and businesses to store their possessions due to life changes, or simply because of a need for storage space. The mix
of residential tenants using a self-storage property is determined by a property's local demographics and often includes people who are looking to downsize their living space or others who
are not yet settled into a permanent residence. Items that residential tenants place in self-storage properties range from cars, boats and recreational vehicles, to furniture, household
items and appliances. Commercial tenants tend to include small business owners who require easy and frequent access to their goods, records, inventory or storage for seasonal goods.

Our
research has shown that tenants choose a self-storage property based primarily on the convenience of the site to their home or business, making high-density,
high-traffic population centers ideal locations for self-storage properties. A property's perceived security and the general professionalism of the site managers and staff are
also contributing factors to a site's ability to successfully secure rentals. Although most self-storage properties are leased to tenants on a month-to-month basis,
tenants tend to continue their leases for extended periods of time.

There
are seasonal fluctuations in occupancy rates for self-storage properties. Based on our experience, generally, there is increased leasing activity at
self-storage properties during the summer months due to the higher number of people who relocate during this period. The highest level of occupancy is typically at the end of July, while
the lowest level of occupancy is seen in late February and early March.

Since
inception in the early 1970's, the self-storage industry has experienced significant growth. In the past ten years, there has been even greater growth. According to the
Self-Storage Almanac (the



"Almanac"),
in 1999 there were only 29,955 self-storage properties in the United States, with an average occupancy rate of 86.9% of net rentable square feet, compared to 48,721
self-storage properties in 2009 with an average occupancy rate of 76.7% of net rentable square feet. As population densities have increased in the United States, there has been an increase
in self-storage awareness and corresponding development, which we expect will continue in the future.

Increased
competition has affected our business and has led to both pricing and discount pressure. The increased competition has limited our ability to increase revenues in many markets
in which we operate. Many markets have been able to absorb the increase in self-storage development due to superior demographics and density. However, select markets have not been able to
absorb the new facilities and have not performed as well.

We
have encountered competition when we have sought to acquire properties, especially for brokered portfolios. Aggressive bidding practices have been commonplace between both public and
private entities, and this competition will likely continue to be a challenge for the Company's growth strategy.

The
industry is also characterized by fragmented ownership. According to the Almanac, the top ten self-storage companies in the United States owned approximately 10.8% of
total U.S. self-storage properties, and the top 50 self-storage companies owned approximately 14.9% of the total U.S. properties as of December 31, 2009. We believe this
fragmentation will contribute to continued consolidation at some level in the future. We also believe that we are well positioned to be able to compete for acquisitions given our historical reputation
for closing deals.

We
are the second largest self-storage operator in the United States. We are one of four public self-storage REITs along with Public Storage Inc., Sovran
Self-Storage, Inc., and U-Store-It Inc.

Long-Term Growth and Investment Strategies

Our primary business objectives are to maximize cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders and to achieve sustainable
long-term growth in cash flow per share in order to maximize long-term stockholder value. We continue to evaluate a range of growth initiatives and opportunities, including the
following:

•

Maximize the performance of properties through strategic, efficient and
proactive management.

We plan to pursue revenue generating and expense minimizing opportunities in our operations. Our revenue
management team will seek to maximize revenue by responding to changing market conditions through our technology system's ability to provide real-time, interactive rental rate and discount
management. Our size allows us greater ability than the majority of our competitors to implement national, regional and local marketing programs, which we believe will attract more customers to our
stores at a lower net cost.

•

Expand our management
business.

Our management business enables us to generate increased revenues through management fees and expand our geographic footprint.
This expanded footprint enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. In addition, we see our management business as a future acquisition pipeline. We pursue strategic
relationships with owners that strengthen our acquisition pipeline through agreements which give us first right of refusal to purchase the managed property in the event of a potential sale.

•

Acquire self-storage properties from strategic partners and
third parties.

Our acquisitions team will continue to selectively pursue the acquisition of single properties and multi-property
portfolios that we believe can provide stockholder value. We believe we have established a reputation as a reliable, ethical buyer, which enhances our ability to negotiate and close acquisitions. In
addition, our status as an UPREIT enables flexibility when structuring deals.



Financing of Our Long-Term Growth Strategies

•

Acquisition and Development Financing

We
currently have a $100.0 million revolving line of credit (the "Credit Line") that is collateralized by certain of our self-storage properties. As of December 31, 2009, the
Credit Line had asset collateralizing capacity of $100.0 million of which $100.0 million was drawn. On February 13, 2009, we entered into a $50.0 million revolving secured
line of credit (the "Secondary Credit Line" and together with the Credit Line, collectively the "Credit Lines") that is collateralized by certain of our self-storage properties. As of
December 31, 2009, the Secondary Credit Line had asset collateralizing capacity of approximately $50.0 million of which $0 was drawn. We expect to maintain a flexible approach in
financing new property acquisitions. We plan to finance future acquisitions and development through a combination of cash, borrowings under the Credit Lines, traditional secured mortgage financing,
joint ventures and additional equity offerings.

•

Joint Venture Financing

We
own 336 of our stabilized properties and 16 of our lease-up properties through joint ventures with third parties, including affiliates of Prudential Financial, Inc. In each joint
venture, we generally manage the day-to-day operations of the underlying properties and have the right to participate in major decisions relating to sales of properties or
financings by the applicable joint venture. Our joint venture partners typically provide most of the equity capital required for the operation of the respective business. Under the operating
agreements for the joint ventures, we typically maintain the right to receive between 17.0% and 50.0% of the available cash flow from operations after our joint venture partners and the Company have
received a predetermined return, and between 17.0% and 50.0% of the available cash flow from capital transactions after our joint venture partners and the Company have received a return of their
capital plus such predetermined return. Most joint venture agreements include buy-sell rights, as well as rights of first refusal in connection with the sale of properties by the joint
venture.

•

Disposition of Properties

We
will continue to review our portfolio for properties or groups of properties that are not strategically located and determine whether to dispose of these properties to fund other growth.

Regulation

Generally, self-storage properties are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating
to lien sale rights and procedures. Changes in any of these laws or regulations, as well as changes in laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response and Compensation Liability Act ("CERCLA"),
which increase the potential liability for environmental conditions or circumstances existing or created by tenants or others on properties, or laws affecting development, construction, operation,
upkeep, safety and taxation may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, loss of self-storage sites or other impairments to operations, which would adversely affect our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

Under
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the "ADA"), all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled
persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws also exist that may require modifications to the properties, or restrict further
renovations thereof, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could
result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, thereby requiring substantial capital expenditures. To the extent our properties are not in compliance, we are likely to incur
additional costs to comply with the ADA.



Insurance
activities are subject to state insurance laws and regulations as determined by the particular insurance commissioner for each state in accordance with the McCarran-Ferguson
Act, and are subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the privacy regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission pursuant thereto.

Property
management activities are often subject to state real estate brokerage laws and regulations as determined by the particular real estate commission for each state.

Changes
in any of the laws governing our conduct could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business or could materially affect our financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

Employees

As of February 12, 2010, we had 2,001 employees and believe our relationship with our employees to be good. Our employees are
not represented by a collective bargaining agreement.

Item 1A.    Risk Factors

An investment in our securities involves various risks. All investors should carefully consider the following risk factors in
conjunction with the other information contained in this Annual Report before trading in our securities. If any of the events set forth in the following risks actually occur, our business, operating
results, prospects and financial condition could be harmed.

Our
performance is subject to risks associated with real estate investments. We are a real estate company that derives our income from operation of our properties. There are a number of
factors that may adversely affect the income that our properties generate, including the following:

Risks Related to Our Properties and Operations

Adverse economic or other conditions in the markets in which we do business could negatively affect our occupancy levels and rental rates and therefore our operating
results.

Our operating results are dependent upon our ability to maximize occupancy levels and rental rates in our self-storage
properties. Adverse economic or other conditions in the markets in which we operate may lower our occupancy levels and limit our ability to increase rents or require us to offer rental discounts. If
our properties fail to generate revenues sufficient to meet our cash requirements, including operating and other expenses, debt service and capital expenditures, our net income, funds from operations
("FFO"), cash flow, financial condition, ability to make cash distributions to stockholders and the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected. The following factors, among others,
may adversely affect the operating performance of our properties:

•

the national economic climate and the local or regional economic climate in the markets in which we operate, which may be
adversely impacted by, among other factors, industry slowdowns, relocation of businesses and changing demographics;

•

periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates, or declining demand for self-storage or the
public perception that any of these events may occur could result in a general decline in rental rates or an increase in tenant defaults;

•

the continuation or worsening of the current economic environment;

•

local or regional real estate market conditions such as competing properties, the oversupply of self-storage
or a reduction in demand for self-storage in a particular area;

•

perceptions by prospective users of our self-storage properties of the safety, convenience and attractiveness
of our properties and the neighborhoods in which they are located;



•

increased operating costs, including the need for capital improvements, insurance premiums, real estate taxes and
utilities;

•

the impact of environmental protection laws;

•

earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters, terrorist acts, civil disturbances or acts of war which may result in
uninsured or underinsured losses; and

•

changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws.

Recent
U.S. and international market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging, with tighter credit conditions and slower growth through the third and fourth
quarters of 2008 and all of 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2009, continued concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost
of credit and other macro-economic factors have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy and increased market uncertainty and instability.
Continued turbulence in U.S. and international markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the financial condition of our customers. If these market conditions continue,
they may result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

If we are unable to promptly re-let our units or if the rates upon such re-letting are significantly lower than expected, then our business and
results of operations would be adversely affected.

Virtually all of our leases are on a month-to-month basis. Any delay in re-letting units as
vacancies arise would reduce our revenues and harm our operating results. In addition, lower than expected rental rates upon re-letting could adversely affect our revenues and impede our
growth.

We depend upon our on-site personnel to maximize tenant satisfaction at each of our properties, and any difficulties we encounter in hiring, training and
maintaining skilled field personnel may harm our operating performance.

We had 1,684 field personnel as of February 12, 2010 in the management and operation of our properties. The general
professionalism of our site managers and staff are contributing factors to a site's ability to successfully secure rentals and retain tenants. We also rely upon our field personnel to maintain clean
and secure self-storage properties. If we are unable to successfully recruit, train and retain qualified field personnel, the quality of service we strive to provide at our properties
could be adversely affected which could lead to decreased occupancy levels and reduced operating performance.

Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition and our cash flow.

We maintain comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, wind (as deemed necessary or as required by our lenders), extended
coverage and rental loss insurance with respect to our properties. Certain types of losses, however, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, such as losses due to earthquakes,
hurricanes, tornadoes, riots, acts of war or terrorism. Should an uninsured loss occur, we could lose both our investment in and anticipated profits and cash flow from a property. In addition, if any
such loss is insured, we may be required to pay significant amounts on any claim for recovery of such a loss prior to our insurer being obligated to reimburse us for the loss, or the amount of the
loss may exceed our coverage for the loss. As a result, our operating results may be adversely affected.

Increases in taxes and regulatory compliance costs may reduce our income.

Costs resulting from changes in real estate tax laws generally are not passed through to tenants directly and will affect us. Increases
in income, property or other taxes generally are not passed through



to
tenants under leases and may reduce our net income, FFO, cash flow, financial condition, ability to pay or refinance our debt obligations, ability to make cash distributions to stockholders, and
the trading price of our securities. Similarly, changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or increasing the restrictions on discharges or
other conditions may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, which could similarly adversely affect our business and results of operations.

Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with operating our properties may affect our results of operations.

Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, owners and operators of real estate may be liable for the
costs of investigating and remediating certain hazardous substances or other regulated materials on or in such property. Such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or
operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances or materials. The presence of such substances or materials, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may
adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to lease, sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous
substances or other regulated materials may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not such facility is owned or operated
by such person. Certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties
for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials.

Certain
environmental laws also impose liability, without regard to knowledge or fault, for removal or remediation of hazardous substances or other regulated materials upon owners and
operators of contaminated property even after they no longer own or operate the property. Moreover, the past or present owner or operator from which a release emanates could be liable for any personal
injuries or property damages that may result from such releases, as well as any damages to natural resources that may arise from such releases.

Certain
environmental laws impose compliance obligations on owners and operators of real property with respect to the management of hazardous materials and other regulated substances.
For example, environmental laws govern the management of asbestos-containing materials and lead-based paint. Failure to comply with these laws can result in penalties or other sanctions.

No
assurances can be given that existing environmental studies with respect to any of our properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner or operator of our
properties did not create any material environmental condition not known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of our properties. There also
exists the risk that material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future. Finally, future laws, ordinances
or regulations and future interpretations of existing laws, ordinances or regulations may impose additional material environmental liability.

Costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 may result in unanticipated expenses.

Under the ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by
disabled persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties, or restrict certain further
renovations of the properties, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and
also could result in an order to correct any non-complying feature,



which
could result in substantial capital expenditures. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of
compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA or other legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the
facility into compliance. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our
securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to make cash distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected.

Our investments in development and redevelopment projects may not yield anticipated returns, which would harm our operating results and reduce the amount of funds available
for distributions.

To the extent that we engage in development and redevelopment activities, we will be subject to the following risks normally associated
with these projects:

•

we may be unable to obtain financing for these projects on favorable terms or at all;

•

we may not complete development projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts;

•

we may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required
governmental permits and authorizations; and

•

occupancy rates and rents at newly developed or redeveloped properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors,
including market and economic conditions, and may result in our investment not being profitable.

In
deciding whether to develop or redevelop a particular property, we make certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. We may underestimate the costs
necessary to bring the property up to the standards established for its intended market position or may be unable to increase occupancy at a newly acquired property as quickly as expected or at all.
Any substantial unanticipated delays or expenses could adversely affect the investment returns from these development or redevelopment projects and harm our operating results, liquidity and financial
condition, which could result in a decline in the value of our securities.

We
may rely on the investments of our joint venture partners for funding certain of our development and redevelopment projects. If our reputation in the self-storage industry
changes or the number of investors considering us an attractive strategic partner is otherwise reduced, our ability to develop or redevelop properties could be affected, which would limit our growth.

We face competition for the acquisition of self-storage properties and other assets, which may impede our ability to make future acquisitions or may increase the
cost of these acquisitions.

We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities for acquisitions of self-storage
properties and other assets, including national, regional and local operators and developers of self-storage properties. These competitors may drive up the price we must pay for
self-storage properties or other assets we seek to acquire or may succeed in acquiring those properties or assets themselves. In addition, our potential acquisition targets may find our
competitors to be more attractive suitors because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In addition, the number of entities
and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase. This competition would result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them.
Because of an increased interest in single-property acquisitions among tax-motivated individual purchasers, we may pay higher prices if we purchase single properties in comparison with
portfolio acquisitions. If we pay higher prices for self-storage properties or other assets, our profitability will be reduced.



We may not be successful in identifying and consummating suitable acquisitions that meet our criteria, which may impede our growth.

Our ability to expand through acquisitions is integral to our business strategy and requires us to identify suitable acquisition
candidates or investment opportunities that meet our criteria and are compatible with our growth strategy. We may not be successful in identifying suitable properties or other assets that meet our
acquisition criteria or in consummating acquisitions or investments on satisfactory terms or at all. Failure to identify or consummate acquisitions will slow our growth, which could in turn adversely
affect our stock price.

Our
ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully integrate and operate them may be constrained by the following significant risks:

•

competition from local investors and other real estate investors with significant capital, including other publicly-traded
REITs and institutional investment funds;

•

competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price which could reduce our
profitability;

•

the inability to achieve satisfactory completion of due diligence investigations and other customary closing conditions;

•

failure to finance an acquisition on favorable terms or at all;

•

we may spend more than the time and amounts budgeted to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties;
and

•

we may acquire properties subject to liabilities without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to
unknown liabilities such as liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by persons dealing with the former owners of the properties and claims for
indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.

In
addition, strategic decisions by us, such as acquisitions, may adversely affect the price of our securities.

We may not be successful in integrating and operating acquired properties.

We expect to make future acquisitions of self-storage properties. If we acquire any self-storage properties, we
will be required to integrate them into our existing portfolio. The acquired properties may turn out to be less compatible with our growth strategy than originally anticipated, may cause disruptions
in our operations or may divert management's attention away from day-to-day operations, which could impair our results of operations as a whole.

We do not always obtain independent appraisals of our properties, and thus the consideration paid for these properties may exceed the value that may be indicated by
third-party appraisals.

We do not always obtain third-party appraisals in connection with our acquisition of properties and the consideration being paid by us
in exchange for those properties may exceed the value as determined by third-party appraisals. In such cases, the terms of any agreements and the valuation methods used to determine the value of the
properties were determined by our senior management team.



Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure

Our business could be harmed if key personnel with long-standing business relationships in the self-storage industry terminate their employment with
us.

Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued services of members of our executive management team. Our executive
management team has substantial experience in the self-storage industry. In addition, our ability to develop properties in the future depends on the significant relationships our executive
management team has developed with our institutional joint venture partners such as affiliates of Prudential Financial, Inc. There is no guarantee that any of them will remain employed by us.
We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our officers. The loss of services of one or more members of our executive management team could harm our business and our prospects.

We may change our investment and financing strategies and enter into new lines of business without stockholder consent, which may subject us to different risks.

We may change our investment and financing strategies and enter into new lines of business at any time without the consent of our
stockholders, which could result in our making investments and engaging in business activities that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and businesses described in this
document. A change in our investment strategy or our entry into new lines of business may increase our exposure to other risks or real estate market fluctuations.

If other self-storage companies convert to an UPREIT structure or if tax laws change, we may no longer have an advantage in competing for potential acquisitions.

Because we are structured as an UPREIT, we are a more attractive acquirer of properties to tax-motivated sellers than our
competitors that are not structured as UPREITs. However, if other self-storage companies restructure their holdings to become UPREITs, this competitive advantage will disappear. In
addition, new legislation may be enacted or new interpretations of existing legislation may be issued by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), or the U.S. Treasury Department that could affect the
attractiveness of our UPREIT structure so that it may no longer assist us in competing for acquisitions.

Tax indemnification obligations may require the Operating Partnership to maintain certain debt levels.

In connection with the formation transactions entered into prior to our IPO in 2004, we agreed to make available to each of Kenneth M.
Woolley, a director and our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Richard S. Tanner, our Senior Vice President, Development, and other third parties, the following tax protections: for nine
years, with a three-year extension if the applicable party continues to own at least 50% of the units in our Operating Partnership ("OP units") received by it in the formation transactions
at the expiration of the initial nine-year period, the opportunity to (1) guarantee debt or (2) enter into a special loss allocation and deficit restoration obligation, in an
aggregate amount, with respect to the foregoing contributors, of at least $60.0 million. Similar tax protections were provided to third party contributors in connection with property
contributions to the Operating Partnership subsequent to the IPO. We agreed to these provisions in order to assist these contributors in preserving their tax position after their contributions. These
obligations may require us to maintain certain indebtedness levels that we would not otherwise require for our business.

Our joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority.

As of December 31, 2009, we held interests in 352 operating properties through joint ventures. Some of these arrangements could
be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on co-venturers financial conditions and disputes between us and our co-venturers. We



expect
to continue our joint venture strategy by entering into more joint ventures for the purpose of developing new self-storage properties and acquiring existing properties. In such
event, we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. The decision-making authority regarding the
properties we currently hold through joint ventures is either vested exclusively with our joint venture partners, is subject to a majority vote of the joint venture partners or equally shared by us
and the joint venture partners. In addition, investments in partnerships, joint ventures or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved,
including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners or co-venturers may have
economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such
investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or
joint venture. Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from
focusing their time and efforts on our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint
venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers, which could harm our financial condition.

Spencer F. Kirk, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kent W. Christensen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Charles L. Allen, Executive Vice President
and Chief Legal Officer, and other members of our senior management team have outside business interests which could divert their time and attention away from us, which could harm our business.

Spencer F. Kirk, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as well as certain other members of our senior management team, have outside
business interests. These business interests include the ownership of a self-storage property located in Pico Rivera, California. Other than this property, the members of our senior
management are not currently engaged in any other self-storage activities outside the Company. These outside business interests could interfere with their ability to devote time to our
business and affairs as a result, our business could be harmed.

Conflicts of interest could arise as a result of our relationship with our Operating Partnership.

Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, and our Operating
Partnership or any partner thereof. Our directors and officers have duties to our Company under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of our Company. At the same time, we,
through our wholly-owned subsidiary, have fiduciary duties, as a general partner, to our Operating Partnership and to the limited partners under Delaware law in connection with the management of our
Operating Partnership. Our duties, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, as a general partner to our Operating Partnership and its partners may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and
officers to our Company. The partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership does not require us to resolve such conflicts in favor of either our Company or the limited partners in our Operating
Partnership. Unless otherwise provided for in the relevant partnership agreement, Delaware law generally requires a general partner of a Delaware limited partnership to adhere to fiduciary duty
standards under which it owes its limited partners the highest duties of good faith, fairness, and loyalty and which generally prohibit such general partner from taking any action or engaging in any
transaction as to which it has a conflict of interest.

Additionally,
the partnership agreement expressly limits our liability by providing that neither we, our direct wholly-owned Massachusetts business trust subsidiary, as the general
partner of the Operating Partnership, nor any of our or their trustees, directors or officers, will be liable or



accountable
in damages to our Operating Partnership, the limited partners or assignees for errors in judgment, mistakes of fact or law or for any act or omission if we, or such trustee, director or
officer, acted in good faith. In addition, our Operating Partnership is required to indemnify us, our affiliates and each of our respective trustees, officers, directors, employees and agents to the
fullest extent permitted by applicable law against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities (whether joint or several), expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and other legal
fees and expenses), judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts arising from any and all claims, demands, actions, suits or proceedings, civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, that
relate to the operations of the Operating Partnership, provided that our Operating Partnership will not indemnify for (1) willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the law, (2) any
transaction for which such person received an improper personal benefit in violation or breach of any provision of the partnership agreement, or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, the
person had reasonable cause to believe the act or omission was unlawful.

The
provisions of Delaware law that allow the common law fiduciary duties of a general partner to be modified by a partnership agreement have not been resolved in a court of law, and we
have not obtained an opinion of counsel covering the provisions set forth in the partnership agreement that purport to waive or restrict our fiduciary duties that would be in effect under common law
were it not for the partnership agreement.

We may pursue less vigorous enforcement of terms of contribution and other agreements because of conflicts of interest with certain of our officers.

Spencer F. Kirk, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kent W. Christensen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
Charles L. Allen, Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, and other members of our senior management team, and Kenneth M. Woolley, Director, had direct or indirect ownership interests in
certain properties that were contributed to our Operating Partnership in the formation transactions. Following the completion of the formation transactions, we, under the agreements relating to the
contribution of such interests, became entitled to indemnification and damages in the event of breaches of representations or warranties made by the contributors. None of these contribution and
non-competition agreements was negotiated at an arm's-length basis. We may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these contribution and
non-competition agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationships with the individuals party to these agreements.

Certain provisions of Maryland law and our organizational documents, including the stock ownership limit imposed by our charter, may inhibit market activity in our stock and
could prevent or delay a change in control transaction.

Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve
our qualification as a REIT and to limit any person to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 7.0% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding common
stock or 7.0% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding capital stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from
the ownership limit. However, our board of directors may not grant an exemption from the ownership limit to any proposed transferee whose ownership could jeopardize our qualification as a REIT. These
restrictions on ownership will not apply if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT. The ownership
limit may delay or impede a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our securities or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Different ownership
limits apply to the family of Kenneth M. Woolley, certain of his affiliates, family members and estates and trusts formed for the benefit of the foregoing and Spencer F. Kirk, certain of his



affiliates,
family members and estates and trusts formed for the benefit of the foregoing and certain designated investment entities (as defined in our charter).

Our board of directors has the power to issue additional shares of our stock in a manner that may not be in the best interest of our stockholders.

Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and
to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares or the number of shares of any class or series without stockholder approval. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any
unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Our board of directors could issue additional shares of our
common stock or establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price for
our securities or otherwise not be in the best interests of our stockholders.

Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited.

Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good
faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition,
our charter eliminates our directors' and officers' liability to us and our stockholders for money damages except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit in money, property
or services or active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and which is material to the cause of action. Our bylaws require us to indemnify our directors and officers for
liability resulting from actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our
directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers.

To the extent our distributions represent a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders could recognize an increased capital gain upon a
subsequent sale of common stock.

Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and not treated by us as a dividend will not be taxable to
a U.S. stockholder under current U.S. federal income tax law to the extent those distributions do not exceed the stockholder's adjusted tax basis in his, her, or its common stock, but instead will
constitute a return of capital and will reduce such adjusted basis. If distributions result in a reduction of a stockholder's adjusted basis in such holder's common stock, subsequent sales of such
holder's common stock will result in recognition of an increased capital gain or decreased capital loss due to the reduction in such adjusted basis.

Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry

Our primary business involves the ownership and operation of self-storage properties.

Our current strategy is to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop only self-storage properties. Consequently,
we are subject to risks inherent in investments in a single industry. Because investments in real estate are inherently illiquid, this strategy makes it difficult for us to diversify our investment
portfolio and to limit our risk when economic conditions change. Decreases in market rents, negative tax, real estate and zoning law changes and changes in environmental protection laws may also
increase our costs, lower the value of our investments and decrease our income, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.



Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties.

Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in
response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing,
interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us or
whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a
property.

We
may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those
defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a property, we may agree to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other
restrictions, such as a
limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These transfer restrictions would impede our ability to sell a property even if we deem it necessary or appropriate.

Any investments in unimproved real property may take significantly longer to yield income-producing returns, if at all, and may result in additional costs to us to comply
with re-zoning restrictions or environmental regulations.

We have invested in the past, and may invest in the future, in unimproved real property. Unimproved properties generally take longer to
yield income-producing returns based on the typical time required for development. Any development of unimproved property may also expose us to the risks and uncertainties associated with
re-zoning the land for a higher use or development and environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups. Any unsuccessful investments or delays in realizing an
income-producing return or increased costs to develop unimproved real estate could restrict our ability to earn our targeted rate of return on an investment or adversely affect our ability to pay
operating expenses which would harm our financial condition and operating results.

Any negative perceptions of the self-storage industry generally may result in a decline in our stock price.

To the extent that the investing public has a negative perception of the self-storage industry, the value of our securities
may be negatively impacted, which could result in our securities trading below the inherent value of our assets.

Risks Related to Our Debt Financings

Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms and have other adverse effects on us.

The United States credit markets are experiencing significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused the spreads on
prospective debt financings to widen. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have
resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance
existing debt maturities on favorable terms (or at all), which may negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions and fund development projects. A prolonged downturn in the credit markets may
cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for us
to sell properties or may adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as



prospective
buyers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. These events in the credit markets have also had an adverse effect on other financial
markets in the United States, which may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities. These disruptions in
the financial markets may have other adverse effects on us or the economy generally, which could cause our stock price to decline.

Required payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash to operate our properties or to pay the distributions currently contemplated or
necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations.

As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1.4 billion of outstanding indebtedness. We may incur additional debt in
connection with future acquisitions and development. We may borrow under our Credit Lines or borrow new funds to finance these future properties. Additionally, we do not anticipate that our internally
generated cash flow will be adequate to repay our existing indebtedness upon maturity and, therefore, we expect to repay our indebtedness through refinancings and equity and/or debt offerings.
Further, we may need to borrow funds in order to make cash distributions to maintain our qualification as a REIT or to make our expected distributions.

If
we are required to utilize our Credit Lines for purposes other than acquisition activity, this will reduce the amount available for acquisitions and could slow our growth. Therefore,
our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements could have significant adverse consequences, including the following:

•

our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments;

•

we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, including to make acquisitions or to continue
to make distributions required to maintain our qualification as a REIT;

•

we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms
of our original indebtedness;

•

because a portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates, an increase in interest rates could materially increase
our interest expense;

•

we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms;

•

after debt service, the amount available for cash distributions to our stockholders is reduced;

•

our debt level could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt;

•

we may experience increased vulnerability to economic and industry downturns, reducing our ability to respond to changing
business and economic conditions;

•

we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure their loans
and receive an assignment of rents and leases;

•

we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgages may enforce our guarantees;

•

we may violate restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt
obligations; and

•

our default under any one of our mortgage loans with cross-default or cross-collateralization provisions could result in a
default on other indebtedness or result in the foreclosures of other properties.



We could become highly leveraged in the future because our organizational documents contain no limitation on the amount of debt we may incur.

Our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of indebtedness that we or our Operating Partnership may incur. We
could alter the balance between our total outstanding indebtedness and the value of our portfolio at any time. If we become more highly leveraged, then the resulting increase in debt service could
adversely affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and to pay our anticipated cash distributions and/or to continue to make cash distributions to maintain our REIT
qualification, and could harm our financial condition.

Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and make cash distributions to
our stockholders.

As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1.4 billion of debt outstanding, of which approximately
$304.1 million or 21.6% was subject to variable interest rates. This variable rate debt had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 3.3% per annum. Increases in interest rates on this
variable rate debt would increase our interest expense, which could harm our cash flow and our ability to pay cash distributions. For example, if market rates of interest on this variable rate debt
increased by 100 basis points, the increase in interest expense would decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $3.0 million annually.

Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations.

In certain cases we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements. Hedging
involves risks, such as the risk that the counterparty may fail to honor its obligations under an arrangement. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our
financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders.

Risks Related to Qualification and Operation as a REIT

To maintain our qualification as a REIT, we may be forced to borrow funds on a short-term basis during unfavorable market conditions.

To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income each year, excluding net
capital gains, and we are subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, we are subject to a 4%
nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions made by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100%
of our undistributed income from prior years. While historically we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our shareholders, a REIT is permitted to satisfy
these requirements by making distributions of cash or
other property, including, in limited circumstances, its own stock. For distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2011, recent Internal Revenue Service
guidance allows us to satisfy up to 90% of the distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of our stock, if certain conditions are met. Assuming we continue to satisfy
these distributions requirements with cash, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis, or possibly long-term, to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the
then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These borrowing needs could result from a difference in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for
U.S. federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt amortization payments.



Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates.

The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for dividends paid by domestic corporations to individual U.S. stockholders is 15% (through
2010). Dividends paid by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause stockholders who are
individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the
value of the stock of REITs, including our securities.

In
addition, the relative attractiveness of real estate in general may be adversely affected by the favorable tax treatment given to corporate dividends, which could negatively affect
the value of our properties.

Possible legislative or other actions affecting REITs could adversely affect our stockholders.

The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by
the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. Changes to tax laws (which changes may have retroactive application) could adversely affect our stockholders. It cannot be predicted whether, when, in what
forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws applicable to us or our stockholders will be changed.

The power of our board of directors to revoke our REIT election without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders.

Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our
stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our
taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our net taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on the total return to our stockholders.

Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our stock.

We believe we operate in a manner that allows us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue
Code. If we fail to qualify as a REIT or lose our qualification as a REIT at any time, we will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution for
each of the years involved because:

•

we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject
to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates;

•

we also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and

•

unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four
taxable years following a year during which we were disqualified.

In
addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to stockholders will be subject to tax as regular
corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. This means that our U.S. individual stockholders would be taxed on our dividends at capital gains rates, and our
U.S. corporate stockholders would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject, in each case, to applicable limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. If
we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and are able to avail ourselves of one or more of the relief



provisions
under the Internal Revenue Code in order to maintain our REIT status, we may nevertheless be required to pay penalty taxes of $50,000 or more for each such failure. As a result of all these
factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and could adversely affect the value of our securities.

Qualification
as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative
interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable Treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like
us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to
qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the composition of our assets, the sources of our gross income and the owners of our stock. Our ability to
satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the fair market value of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent
appraisals. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding capital gains, and we will be subject to income tax at regular
corporate rates to the extent we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income including capital gains. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court
decisions may adversely affect our investors, our ability to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments.
Although we believe that we have been organized and have operated in a manner that is intended to allow us to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we can give no assurance that we have qualified or will
continue to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service regarding our qualification as a REIT.

We will pay some taxes.

Even though we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay some U.S. federal, state and local
taxes on our income and property. Extra Space Management, Inc. manages self-storage properties for our joint venture properties and properties owned by third parties. We, jointly
with Extra Space Management, Inc., elected to treat Extra Space Management, Inc. as a "taxable REIT subsidiary" of our Company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A taxable REIT
subsidiary is a fully taxable corporation, and may be limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us. In addition, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain amounts if the
economic arrangements among our tenants, our taxable REIT subsidiary and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties or if we receive payments for inventory or property held
for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Also, if we sell property as a dealer (i.e., to customers in the ordinary course of our trade or business), we will be subject to a
100% penalty tax on any gain arising from such sales. While we don't intend to sell properties as a dealer, the IRS could take a contrary position. To the extent that we are or our taxable REIT
subsidiary is required to pay U.S. federal, state or local taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to stockholders.

Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.

To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the
sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to
forego attractive business or investment opportunities. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate solely to maximize profits.



Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2.    Properties

As of December 31, 2009, we owned or had ownership interests in 642 operating self-storage properties. Of these
properties, 290 are wholly-owned and 352 are held in joint ventures. In addition, we managed an additional 124 properties for franchisees or third parties bringing the total number of properties which
we own and/or manage to 766. These properties are located in 33 states and Washington, D.C. We receive a management fee equal to approximately 6% of gross revenues to manage the joint venture, third
party and franchise sites. As of December 31, 2009, we own and/or manage approximately 55 million square feet of rentable space configured in approximately 500,000 separate storage
units. Approximately 70% of our properties are clustered around large population centers, such as Atlanta, Baltimore/Washington, D.C., Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Houston, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami,
New York City, Orlando, Philadelphia, Phoenix, St. Petersburg/Tampa and San Francisco/Oakland. These markets contain above-average population and income demographics for new
self-storage properties. The clustering of assets around these population centers enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. Our acquisitions have given us an
increased scale in many core markets as well as a foothold in many markets where we had no previous presence.

We
consider a property to be in the lease-up stage after it has been issued a certificate of occupancy, but before it has achieved stabilization. We consider a property to be
stabilized once it has achieved either an 80% occupancy rate for a full year measured as of January 1, or has been open for three years.

As
of December 31, 2009, over 350,000 tenants were leasing storage units at the 766 operating properties that we own and/or manage, primarily on a
month-to-month basis, providing the flexibility to increase rental rates over time as market conditions permit. Although leases are short-term in duration, the
typical tenant tends to remain at our properties for an extended period of time. For properties that were stabilized as of December 31, 2009, the median length of stay was approximately eleven
months. The average annual rent per square foot at these stabilized properties was $13.46 at December 31, 2009 compared to $14.21 at December 31, 2008.

Our
property portfolio is made up of different types of construction and building configurations depending on the site and the municipality where it is located. Most often sites are what
we consider "hybrid" facilities, a mix of both drive-up buildings and multi-floor buildings. We have a number of multi-floor buildings with elevator access only, and a number of facilities
featuring ground-floor access only.

The
following table sets forth additional information regarding the occupancy of our stabilized properties on a state-by-state basis as of December 31,
2009 and 2008.
The information as of December 31, 2008 is on a pro forma basis as though all the properties owned at December 31, 2009 were under our control as of December 31, 2008.



Stabilized Property Data Based on Location

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31, 2009(2)

Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31, 2008

Location

Number of

Properties

Number of Units

as of

December 31, 2009(1)

Number of Units

as of

December 31, 2008

Square Foot

Occupancy %

December 31, 2009

Square Foot

Occupancy %

December 31, 2008

Wholly-owned properties

Alabama




77,600

76,260

79.4

%

78.6

%

Arizona


2,818

2,844

346,998

347,238

83.6

%

80.4

%

California


36,877

37,001

3,647,805

3,630,797

81.9

%

82.2

%

Colorado


3,790

3,803

476,484

476,409

84.4

%

82.7

%

Connecticut


2,023

2,028

178,040

178,115

78.9

%

75.5

%

Florida


20,490

20,571

2,184,586

2,186,056

81.9

%

80.8

%

Georgia


6,425

6,433

836,922

837,292

82.1

%

82.5

%

Hawaii


2,858

2,862

145,816

151,445

80.4

%

78.8

%

Illinois


3,320

3,263

341,724

339,844

79.9

%

79.9

%

Indiana


3,477

3,525

412,759

415,156

82.3

%

84.4

%

Kansas




50,190

49,940

82.2

%

87.1

%

Kentucky


1,578

1,583

194,051

194,220

88.9

%

84.2

%

Louisiana


1,412

1,408

150,335

148,915

81.8

%

87.0

%

Maryland


7,936

7,948

847,577

846,979

86.0

%

81.1

%

Massachusetts


15,241

15,276

1,569,495

1,573,680

83.3

%

81.4

%

Michigan


1,026

1,021

135,026

132,410

85.7

%

86.3

%

Missouri


3,141

3,159

374,292

374,587

82.4

%

80.0

%

Nevada


1,239

1,250

132,015

132,215

83.0

%

87.0

%

New Hampshire


1,006

1,006

125,473

125,909

88.2

%

84.7

%

New Jersey


18,801

18,860

1,834,626

1,838,021

84.7

%

82.6

%

New Mexico




71,555

69,030

78.7

%

83.9

%

New York


8,423

8,690

608,510

610,707

81.3

%

79.4

%

Ohio


2,024

2,032

273,532

274,132

85.9

%

85.8

%

Oregon




103,150

103,530

84.7

%

79.4

%

Pennsylvania


6,573

6,570

689,768

685,255

86.6

%

81.5

%

Rhode Island




75,521

75,521

81.3

%

89.0

%

South Carolina


1,553

1,554

178,749

178,719

83.4

%

83.1

%

Tennessee


3,694

3,492

488,334

474,047

79.9

%

82.8

%

Texas


12,378

12,423

1,403,414

1,402,493

85.0

%

84.7

%

Utah


1,543

1,540

210,749

210,876

80.7

%

84.4

%

Virginia


3,561

3,581

346,862

346,907

82.5

%

84.5

%

Washington


2,548

2,548

308,015

307,025

90.6

%

84.4

%

Total Wholly-Owned Stabilized


178,879

179,396

18,819,973

18,793,730

83.2

%

82.2

%



Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31, 2009(2)

Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31, 2008

Location

Number of

Properties

Number of Units

as of

December 31, 2009(1)

Number of Units

as of

December 31, 2008

Square Foot

Occupancy %

December 31, 2009

Square Foot

Occupancy %

December 31, 2008

Joint-venture properties

Alabama


1,705

1,709

205,638

205,883

82.5

%

84.9

%

Arizona


6,829

6,861

751,889

751,364

82.6

%

84.2

%

California


55,187

55,140

5,634,040

5,636,931

84.2

%

85.0

%

Colorado


1,325

1,334

158,583

158,413

82.7

%

80.6

%

Connecticut


5,983

5,988

691,406

692,320

82.8

%

78.8

%

Delaware




71,680

71,655

92.2

%

82.9

%

Florida


19,079

19,238

1,937,868

1,938,511

81.4

%

80.2

%

Georgia


1,871

1,885

245,520

246,926

80.1

%

77.1

%

Illinois


4,661

4,670

503,416

503,316

83.3

%

84.1

%

Indiana


2,769

2,769

366,173

365,803

86.4

%

80.9

%

Kansas


1,211

1,214

160,060

161,240

79.1

%

79.7

%

Kentucky


2,268

2,285

268,886

268,434

83.1

%

83.7

%

Maryland


11,055

11,110

1,085,468

1,081,927

84.5

%

81.4

%

Massachusetts


9,252

9,243

1,049,070

1,046,534

81.6

%

80.0

%

Michigan


5,917

5,930

784,683

784,263

81.8

%

82.5

%

Missouri




118,045

117,795

80.2

%

82.9

%

Nevada


4,615

4,614

619,273

618,998

82.8

%

81.8

%

New Hampshire


1,316

1,317

137,434

137,754

84.2

%

84.1

%

New Jersey


15,656

15,680

1,647,200

1,648,331

83.0

%

80.4

%

New Mexico


4,673

4,691

542,799

538,144

82.9

%

81.9

%

New York


21,638

21,645

1,733,870

1,735,650

86.2

%

84.3

%

Ohio


5,008

5,019

754,447

754,187

79.3

%

78.0

%

Oregon


1,290

1,294

136,290

136,980

84.2

%

79.1

%

Pennsylvania


7,224

7,228

764,860

764,300

85.0

%

83.9

%

Rhode Island




73,880

73,880

71.5

%

73.3

%

Tennessee


11,753

11,784

1,547,896

1,547,846

82.8

%

81.7

%

Texas


11,697

11,738

1,548,180

1,549,071

83.5

%

80.4

%

Utah




59,000

59,050

81.7

%

83.7

%

Virginia


11,275

11,282

1,191,293

1,191,543

85.3

%

83.6

%

Washington




62,730

62,730

86.4

%

83.4

%

Washington, DC


1,536

1,536

102,003

102,003

91.7

%

88.5

%

Total Stabilized Joint-Ventures


230,006

230,425

24,953,580

24,951,782

83.4

%

82.4

%

Managed properties

Alabama




95,899

95,175

81.2

%

80.6

%

California


3,371

3,366

399,460

399,070

72.2

%

72.4

%

Colorado




31,629

31,639

87.9

%

82.1

%

Florida




52,066

51,966

85.2

%

84.4

%

Georgia


2,705

2,726

401,289

406,476

73.3

%

72.3

%

Illinois


2,319

2,328

261,219

263,120

72.4

%

69.8

%

Indiana




55,425

55,425

67.5

%

64.0

%

Kansas


1,518

1,534

226,120

225,460

71.3

%

68.8

%

Kentucky




66,000

65,900

76.6

%

72.6

%

Maryland


7,627

7,678

842,865

848,038

74.3

%

72.4

%

Massachusetts


1,168

1,198

108,830

108,880

64.4

%

58.2

%

Missouri


1,532

1,525

305,138

306,333

72.9

%

76.4

%

Nevada


1,576

1,576

170,775

171,555

81.8

%

80.3

%

New Jersey


4,322

4,341

418,450

419,775

81.9

%

75.9

%

New Mexico


1,101

1,106

131,857

131,767

85.0

%

81.2

%

New York




83,055

77,955

81.5

%

81.2

%

Ohio


1,087

1,095

161,760

162,200

59.3

%

57.5

%

Pennsylvania


8,380

8,379

1,017,521

1,022,897

63.6

%

60.8

%

Tennessee




131,140

130,385

84.2

%

83.6

%

Texas


2,231

2,244

300,015

301,519

82.7

%

85.1

%

Utah




46,805

46,905

96.7

%

98.1

%

Virginia


2,767

2,782

274,583

270,202

83.0

%

79.0

%

Washington, DC


1,263

1,255

112,459

111,759

87.2

%

82.8

%

Total Stabilized Managed Properties


47,732

47,944

5,694,360

5,704,401

74.2

%

72.3

%

Total Stabilized Properties


456,617

457,765

49,467,913

49,449,913

82.3

%

81.1

%

(1)

Represents unit count as of December 31, 2009, which may differ from December 31, 2008 unit count due to unit
conversions or expansions.

(2)

Represents net rentable square feet as of December 31, 2009, which may differ from December 31, 2008 net rentable
square feet due to unit conversions or expansions.



The following table sets forth additional information regarding the occupancy of our lease-up properties on a
state-by-state basis as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. The information as of December 31, 2008 is on a pro forma basis as though all the properties owned at
December 31, 2009 were under our control as of December 31, 2008.

Lease-up Property Data Based on Location

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31, 2009(2)

Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31, 2008

Location

Number of

Properties

Number of Units

as of

December 31, 2009(1)

Number of Units

as of

December 31, 2008

Square Foot

Occupancy %

December 31, 2009

Square Foot

Occupancy %

December 31, 2008

Wholly-owned properties

California


8,029

4,283

867,459

463,433

36.2

%

29.4

%

Florida


2,710


260,830

72,345

15.8

%

0.0

%

Illinois


2,689

2,745

276,265

276,315

50.2

%

23.9

%

Maryland


1,394

1,408

149,937

149,758

55.1

%

27.0

%

Massachusetts


2,125

2,067

211,652

215,532

65.2

%

58.4

%

New Jersey




57,190

57,140

64.3

%

27.5

%

Oregon



—

76,375

—

7.5

%

0.0

%

South Carolina




74,657

59,367

85.4

%

82.2

%

Total Wholly-Owned Lease up


19,578

13,007

2,050,976

1,360,554

42.0

%

33.8

%

Joint-venture properties

California


4,860

2,870

531,948

329,192

43.5

%

56.9

%

Florida




113,485

108,085

53.3

%

38.4

%

Illinois


2,796

2,835

298,605

298,569

70.0

%

68.0

%

Maryland




71,349

71,349

73.7

%

74.4

%

New Jersey


1,329


127,380

60,098

22.6

%

0.0

%

Rhode Island




55,985

55,805

74.0

%

56.1

%

Total Lease up Joint-Ventures


11,214

8,672

1,198,752

923,098

52.0

%

56.4

%

Managed properties

Alabama



—

77,452

—

10.6

%

0.0

%

California


1,737

1,594

236,174

189,080

50.9

%

49.4

%

Colorado




61,070

60,870

78.4

%

45.3

%

Florida


5,449

1,396

508,315

134,751

24.8

%

23.5

%

Georgia


5,388

5,099

764,217

667,413

45.4

%

32.6

%

Massachusetts


2,156

1,590

204,327

151,529

49.9

%

46.5

%

New Jersey




77,895

77,905

57.4

%

45.8

%

New York



—

46,197

—

21.9

%

0.0

%

Pennsylvania


1,990

1,994

173,019

174,211

39.8

%

27.3

%

Tennessee




69,550

68,960

62.1

%

45.4

%

Utah



—

75,451

—

61.2

%

0.0

%

Virginia




63,709

63,809

45.0

%

22.1

%

Total Lease up Managed Properties


25,711

16,485

2,770,935

1,802,539

40.2

%

37.6

%

Total Lease up Properties


56,503

38,164

6,020,663

4,086,191

43.2

%

40.6

%

(1)

Represents unit count as of December 31, 2009, which may differ from December 31, 2008 unit count due to unit
conversions or expansions.

(2)

Represents net rentable square feet as of December 31, 2009, which may differ from December 31, 2008 net rentable
square feet due to unit conversions or expansions.

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings

We are involved in various litigation and legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. We are not a party to any material
litigation or legal proceedings, or to the best of our knowledge, any threatened litigation or legal proceedings which, in the opinion of management, will have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition or results of operations either individually or in the aggregate.

Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

There were no matters submitted to a vote of our security holders during the quarter ended December 31, 2009.



PART II

Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Market Information

Our common stock has been traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "EXR" since our IPO on August 17,
2004. Prior to that time there was no public market for our common stock.

The
following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales price for our common stock as reported by the NYSE and the per share dividends declared:

Range

Dividends

Declared

Year

Quarter

High

Low


1st

17.41

12.33

0.2500

2nd

17.90

15.08

0.2500

3rd

17.74

13.67

0.2500

4th

15.53

5.98

0.2500


1st

10.49

4.93

0.2500

2nd

9.04

5.36

0.0000

3rd

11.58

7.38

0.0000

4th

12.23

9.13

0.1300

On
February 12, 2010, the closing price of our common stock as reported by the NYSE was $11.36. At February 12, 2010, we had 268 holders of record of our common stock.

Holders
of shares of common stock are entitled to receive distributions when declared by our board of directors out of any assets legally available for that purpose. As a REIT, we are
required to distribute at least 90% of our "REIT taxable income," which is generally equivalent to our net taxable ordinary income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid to our
stockholders annually in order to maintain our REIT qualification for U.S. federal income tax purposes.

Information
about our equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference in Item 12 of Part III of this annual Report on Form 10-K.

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities

None.



Item 6.    Selected Financial Data

The following table sets forth the selected financial data and should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and notes
thereto included in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this
Form 10-K. (Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data.)

For the Year Ended December 31,






(As Revised)

(As Revised)

Revenues:

Property rental

$

238,256

$

235,695

$

206,315

$

170,993

$

120,640

Fees, tenant reinsurance and other income

42,220

37,556

32,551

26,271

14,088

Total revenues

280,476

273,251

238,866

197,264

134,728

Expenses:

Property operations

88,935

84,522

73,070

62,243

45,963

Tenant reinsurance

5,461

5,066

4,710

2,328

1,023

Unrecovered development and acquisition costs and severance

21,236

1,727




General and administrative

40,554

39,908

36,722

35,600

24,081

Depreciation and amortization

52,403

49,566

39,801

37,172

31,005

Total expenses

208,589

180,789

155,068

137,612

102,374

Income from operations

71,887

92,462

83,798

59,652

32,354

Interest expense

(69,818

)

(68,671

)

(64,045

)

(50,953

)

(42,549

)

Interest income

6,432

8,249

10,417

2,469

1,625

Gain on repurchase of exchangeable senior notes

27,928

6,311

—

—

—

Loss on investments available for sale

—

(1,415

)

(1,233

)

—

—

Fair value adjustment of obligation associated with Preferred Operating Partnership units

—

—

1,054

—

—

Income (loss) before equity in earnings of real estate ventures and income tax expense

36,429

36,936

29,991

11,168

(8,570

)

Equity in earnings of real estate ventures

6,964

6,932

5,300

4,693

3,170

Income tax expense

(4,300

)

(519

)

—

—

—

Net income (loss)

39,093

43,349

35,291

15,861

(5,400

)

Noncontrolling interests in Operating Partnership and other

(7,116

)

(7,568

)

(3,562

)

(985

)


Fixed distribution paid to Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

—

—

(1,510

)

—

—

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

$

31,977

$

35,781

$

30,219

$

14,876

$

(4,966

)

Net income (loss) per common share

Basic

$

0.37

$

0.46

$

0.47

$

0.27

$

(0.14

)

Diluted

$

0.37

$

0.46

$

0.46

$

0.27

$

(0.14

)

Weighted average number of shares

Basic

86,343,029

76,996,754

64,900,713

55,117,021

35,481,538

Diluted

91,082,834

82,352,988

70,715,640

59,409,836

35,481,538

Cash dividends paid per common share

$

0.38

$

1.00

$

0.93

$

0.91

$

0.91

Balance Sheet Data

Total assets

$

2,407,556

$

2,291,008

$

2,054,075

$

1,669,825

$

1,420,192

Total notes payable, notes payable to trusts and lines of credit

$

1,402,977

$

1,286,820

$

1,299,997

$

948,174

$

866,783

Noncontrolling interests

$

62,040

$

68,023

$

66,217

$

35,158

$

36,235

Total stockholders' equity

$

884,179

$

878,770

$

638,461

$

643,555

$

480,128

Other Data

Net cash provided by operating activities

$

81,165

$

98,391

$

102,096

$

76,885

$

17,463

Net cash used in investing activities

$

(104,410

)

$

(224,481

)

$

(254,344

)

$

(239,778

)

$

(614,834

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

$

91,223

$

172,685

$

98,824

$

205,041

$

601,695



Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto
appearing elsewhere in this report. We make statements in this section that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. For a complete discussion of
forward-looking statements, see the section in this Form 10-K entitled "Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information." Certain risk factors may cause actual results, performance
or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the following discussion. For a discussion of such risk
factors, see the section in this Form 10-K entitled "Risk Factors." (Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data.)

Overview

We are a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, formed to
continue the business commenced in 1977 by our predecessor companies to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop professionally managed self-storage properties. Since 1996, our
fully integrated development and acquisition teams have completed the development or acquisition of more than 725 self-storage properties.

At
December 31, 2009, we owned, had ownership interests in, or managed 766 operating properties in 33 states and Washington, D.C. Of these 766 operating properties, 290 were
wholly-owned, we held joint venture interests in 352 properties, and our taxable REIT subsidiary, Extra Space Management, Inc., operated an additional 124 properties that are owned by
franchisees or third parties in exchange for a management fee. These operating properties contain approximately 55 million square feet of rentable space contained in approximately 500,000 units
and currently serve a customer base of over 350,000 tenants.

Our
properties are generally situated in convenient, highly visible locations clustered around large population centers such as Atlanta, Baltimore/Washington, D.C., Boston, Chicago,
Dallas, Houston, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, New York City, Orlando, Philadelphia, Phoenix, St. Petersburg/Tampa and San Francisco/Oakland. These areas all enjoy above average
population growth and income levels. The clustering of our assets around these population centers enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. We consider a property to be in
the lease-up stage after it has been issued a certificate of occupancy, but before it has achieved stabilization. A property is considered to be stabilized once it has achieved an 80%
occupancy rate for a full year measured as of January 1, or has been open for three years.

To
maximize the performance of our properties, we employ a state-of-the-art, web-based tracking and yield management technology called
STORE. Developed by our management team, STORE enables us to analyze, set and adjust rental rates in real time across our portfolio in order to respond to changing market conditions. In addition, we
also have an industry leading revenue management system called "RevMan." We believe that the combination of STORE's yield management capabilities and the systematic processes developed by our team
using RevMan allows us to more proactively manage revenues.

We
derive substantially all of our revenues from rents received from tenants under existing leases at each of our self-storage properties, from management fees on the
properties we manage for joint-venture partners, franchisees and unaffiliated third parties and from our tenant reinsurance program. Our management fee is equal to approximately 6% of total revenues
generated by the managed properties.

We
operate in competitive markets, often where consumers have multiple self-storage properties from which to choose. Competition has impacted, and will continue to impact our
property results. We experience seasonal fluctuations in occupancy levels, with occupancy levels generally higher in the summer months due to increased moving activity. Our operating results depend
materially on our



ability
to lease available self-storage units, to actively manage unit rental rates, and on the ability of our tenants to make required rental payments. We believe that we are able to
respond quickly and effectively to changes in local, regional and national economic conditions by adjusting rental rates through the use of STORE, and through the use of RevMan.

We
continue to evaluate and implement a range of new initiatives and opportunities in order to enable us to maximize stockholder value. Our strategies to maximize stockholder value
include the following:

•

Maximize the performance of properties through strategic, efficient and proactive
management.

We pursue revenue generating and expense minimizing opportunities in our operations. Our revenue management team seeks to maximize revenue by responding to changing
market conditions through our technology system's ability to provide real-time, interactive rental rate and discount management. Our size allows us greater ability than the majority of our
competitors to implement national, regional and local marketing programs, which we believe will attract more customers to our stores at a lower net cost.

•

Expand our management
business.

Our management business enables us to generate increased revenues through management fees and expand our geographic footprint.
This expanded footprint enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. In addition, we see our management business as a future acquisition pipeline. We pursue strategic
relationships with owners that strengthen our acquisition pipeline through agreements which give us first right of refusal to purchase the managed property in the event of a potential sale.

•

Acquire self-storage properties from strategic partners and
third parties.

Our acquisitions team continues to selectively pursue the acquisition of single properties and multi-property portfolios
that we believe can provide stockholder value. We believe we have established a reputation as a reliable, ethical buyer, which enhances our ability to negotiate and close acquisitions. In addition,
our status as an UPREIT enables flexibility when structuring deals.

During
2009, we acquired two wholly-owned properties and completed the development of 12 properties, all in our core markets. Of the completed development properties, eight are
wholly-owned and consolidated, and four are owned by us in joint ventures, three of which are consolidated. We have ten wholly-owned development properties remaining that are scheduled for completion
through 2010 and 2011.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these
financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues
and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions, including those that impact our most critical accounting policies. We base our estimates and
assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following are
our most critical accounting policies:

CONSOLIDATION:

Arrangements that are not controlled through voting or similar rights are accounted for as variable interest entities
("VIEs"). An
enterprise is required to consolidate a VIE if it is the primary beneficiary of the VIE.

A
VIE is created when (i) the equity investment at risk is not sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from
other parties, or (ii) the entity's equity holders as a group either: (a) lack direct or indirect ability to make decisions about the entity through voting or similar rights,
(b) are not obligated to absorb expected losses of the entity if



they
occur, or (c) do not have the right to receive expected residual returns of the entity if they occur. If an entity is deemed to be a VIE, the enterprise that is deemed to absorb a majority
of the expected
losses or receive a majority of expected residual returns of the VIE is considered the primary beneficiary and must consolidate the VIE.

We
have concluded that under certain circumstances when we (1) enter into option agreements for the purchase of land or facilities from an entity and pay a
non-refundable deposit, or (2) enter into arrangements for the formation of joint ventures, a VIE may be created under condition (i), (ii) (b) or (c) of
the previous paragraph. For each VIE created, we have considered expected losses and residual returns based on the probability of future cash flows. If we are determined to be the primary beneficiary
of the VIE, the assets, liabilities and operations of the VIE are consolidated with our financial statements. Additionally, our Operating Partnership has notes payable to three trusts that are VIEs
under condition (ii)(a) above. Since the Operating Partnership is not the primary beneficiary of the trusts, these VIEs are not consolidated.

REAL ESTATE ASSETS:

Real estate assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Direct and allowable internal costs associated
with the
development, construction, renovation, and improvement of real estate assets are capitalized. Interest, property taxes, and other costs associated with development incurred during the construction
period are capitalized.

Expenditures
for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Major replacements and betterments that improve or extend the life of the asset are capitalized and
depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the buildings and improvements, which are
generally between five and 39 years.

In
connection with our acquisition of properties, the purchase price is allocated to the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired based on their fair values, which are
estimated using significant unobservable inputs. The value of the tangible assets, consisting of land and buildings, are determined as if vacant, that is, at replacement cost. Intangible assets, which
represent the value of existing tenant relationships, are recorded at their fair values. We measure the value of tenant relationships based on the amount of time required to replace existing customers
which is based on our historical experience with turnover in our facilities. Debt assumed as part of an acquisition is recorded at fair value based on current interest rates compared to contractual
rates. Acquisition-related transaction costs are expensed as incurred.

Intangible
lease rights include: (1) purchase price amounts allocated to leases on two properties that cannot be classified as ground or building leases; these rights are
amortized to expense over the term of the leases and (2) intangibles related to ground leases on four properties where the ground leases were assumed by the Company at rates that were different
than the current market rates for similar leases. The value associated with these assumed leases were recorded as intangibles, which will be amortized over the lease terms.

EVALUATION OF ASSET IMPAIRMENT:

We evaluate long lived assets held for use when events or circumstances indicate that there may be
impairment. We
review each property at least annually to determine if any such events or circumstances have occurred or exist. We focus on properties where occupancy and/or rental income have decreased by a
significant amount. For these properties, we determine whether the decrease is temporary or permanent and whether the property will likely recover the lost occupancy and/or revenue in the short term.
In addition, we carefully review properties in the lease-up stage and compare actual operating results to original projections.

When
we determine that an event that may indicate impairment has occurred, we compare the carrying value of the related long-lived assets to the undiscounted future net
operating cash flows attributable to the assets. An impairment loss is recorded if the net carrying value of the assets exceeds



the
undiscounted future net operating cash flows attributable to the assets. The impairment loss recognized equals the excess of net carrying value over the related fair value of the assets.

When
real estate assets are identified as held for sale, we discontinue depreciating the assets and estimate the fair value of the assets, net of selling costs, using significant
unobservable inputs. If the estimated fair values, net of selling costs, of the assets that have been identified for sale are less than the net carrying value of the assets, then a valuation allowance
is established. The operations of assets held for sale or sold during the period are generally presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:

The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, other financial instruments
included in other
assets, accounts payable and accrued expenses, variable rate notes payable, lines of credit and other liabilities reflected in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008
approximate fair value. The fair values of our notes receivable and our fixed rate notes payable are as follows:

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Fair

Value

Carrying

Value

Fair

Value

Carrying

Value

Note receivable from Preferred OP unit holder

$

112,740

$

100,000

$

124,024

$

100,000

Fixed rate notes payable and notes payable to trusts

$

1,067,653

$

1,015,063

$

1,062,949

$

937,756

Exchangeable senior notes

$

110,122

$

87,663

$

131,039

$

209,663

INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES:

Our investments in real estate joint ventures where we have significant influence but not control,
and joint
ventures which are VIEs in which we are not the primary beneficiary, are recorded under the equity method of accounting on the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Under
the equity method, our investment in real estate ventures is stated at cost and adjusted for our share of net earnings or losses and reduced by distributions. Equity in earnings of
real estate ventures is generally recognized based on our ownership interest in the earnings of each of the unconsolidated
real estate ventures. For the purposes of presentation in the statement of cash flows, we follow the "look through" approach for classification of distributions from joint ventures. Under this
approach, distributions are reported under operating cash flow unless the facts and circumstances of a specific distribution clearly indicate that it is a return of capital (e.g., a liquidating
dividend or distribution of the proceeds from the joint venture's sale of assets) in which case it is reported as an investing activity.

Our
management assesses whether there are any indicators that the value of our investments in unconsolidated real estate ventures may be impaired annually and when events or
circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. An investment is impaired if management's estimate of the fair value of the investment, using significant unobservable inputs, is less than its
carrying value. To the extent impairment has occurred and is considered to be other than temporary, the loss is measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the fair value of
the investment.

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES:

The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on the intended use
of the
derivative and the resulting designation. Derivatives used to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability or firm commitment attributable to a particular risk, are
considered fair value hedges. Derivatives used to hedge the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges.

For
derivatives designated as fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivative and the hedged item related to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings. For derivatives
designated as cash



flow
hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is initially reported in other comprehensive income, outside of earnings and subsequently reclassified to earnings
when the hedged transaction affects earnings.

CONVERSION OF OPERATING PARTNERSHIP UNITS:

Conversions of Operating Partnership units to common stock, when converted under the
original provisions
of the Operating Partnership agreement, are accounted for by reclassifying the underlying net book value of the units from noncontrolling interest to our equity. The difference between the fair value
of the consideration paid and the adjustment to the carrying amount of the noncontrolling interest is recognized as additional paid in capital of the Company.

REVENUE AND EXPENSE RECOGNITION:

Rental revenues are recognized as earned based upon amounts that are currently due from tenants.
Leases are
generally on month-to-month terms. Prepaid rents are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases. Promotional discounts are recognized as a
reduction to rental income over the promotional period. Late charges, administrative fees, merchandise sales and truck rentals are recognized in income when earned. Management and franchise fee
revenues are recognized monthly as services are performed and in accordance with the terms of the related management agreements. Tenant reinsurance premiums are recognized as revenues over the period
of insurance coverage. Equity in earnings of real estate entities is recognized based on our ownership interest in the earnings of each of the unconsolidated real estate entities. Interest income is
recognized as earned.

Property
expenses, including utilities, property taxes, repairs and maintenance and other costs to manage the facilities are recognized as incurred. We accrue for property tax expense
based upon invoice amounts, estimates and historical trends. If these estimates are incorrect, the timing of expense recognition could be affected.

REAL ESTATE SALES:

In general, sales of real estate and related profits/losses are recognized when all consideration has changed hands
and risks and
rewards of ownership have been transferred. Certain types of continuing involvement preclude sale treatment and related profit recognition; other forms of continuing involvement allow for sale
recognition but require deferral of profit recognition.

INCOME TAXES:

We have elected to be treated as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. In order to
maintain our
qualification as a REIT, among other things, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders and meet certain tests regarding the nature of our income and
assets. As a REIT, we are not subject to federal income tax with respect to that portion of our income which meets certain criteria and is distributed annually to our stockholders. We plan to continue
to operate so that we meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT. Many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. If we were to fail to meet these requirements, we would be
subject to federal income tax. We are subject to certain state and local taxes. Provision for such taxes has been included in property operating and general and administrative expenses in our
consolidated statements of operations.

We
have elected to treat one of our corporate subsidiaries, Extra Space Management, Inc., as a taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS"). In general, our TRS may perform additional services
for tenants and generally may engage in any real estate or non-real estate related business (except for the operation or management of health care facilities or lodging facilities or the
provision to any person, under a franchise, license or otherwise, of rights to any brand name under which any lodging facility or health care facility is operated). A TRS is subject to corporate
federal income tax. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases
of assets and liabilities. Interest and penalties relating to uncertain tax positions will be recognized in income tax expense when incurred.



STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION:

The measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards to employees and
directors are
based on estimated fair values. Awards are valued at fair value and recognized on a straight line basis over the service periods of each award.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 167,

"Amendments to FASB
Interpretation No. 46(R),"

("FAS 167"), (Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 810), which amends guidance for
determining whether an entity is a VIE, and requires the performance of a qualitative rather than a quantitative analysis to determine the primary beneficiary of a VIE. Under this guidance, an entity
would be required to consolidate a VIE if it has (i) the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance and (ii) the obligation to absorb
losses of the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could be significant to the VIE. This guidance is effective for the first annual reporting period that begins after
November 15, 2009, with early adoption prohibited. We are currently evaluating the effect of the adoption of this guidance on its financial statements. As a result of this guidance we may be
required to consolidate or deconsolidate certain of our joint ventures.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2009 to the Year Ended December 31, 2008

Overview

Results for the year ended December 31, 2009 included the operations of 642 properties (298 of which were consolidated and 344
of which were in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method) compared to the results for the year ended December 31, 2008, which included operations of 627 properties (283 of which
were consolidated and 344 of which were in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method). Results for both periods also included equity in earnings of real estate ventures, third-party
management and franchise fees, tenant reinsurance and other income.

Revenues

The following table sets forth information on revenues earned for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Revenues:

Property rental

$

238,256

$

235,695

$

2,561

1.1

%

Management and franchise fees

20,961

20,945


0.1

%

Tenant reinsurance

20,929

16,091

4,838

30.1

%

Other income



(190

)

(36.5

)%

Total revenues

$

280,476

$

273,251

$

7,225

2.6

%

Property Rental

—The increase in property rental revenues consists of $8,554 associated with acquisitions and consolidations completed in 2009 and 2008
and $2,462 associated with increases in occupancy and rental rates at lease-up properties. These increases were offset by a decrease of $8,455 in revenues at stabilized properties mainly
due to a decreased incoming rental rates and a decrease in average occupancy compared with the prior year.



Management and Franchise Fees

—Our taxable REIT subsidiary, Extra Space Management, Inc., manages properties owned by our joint ventures,
franchisees and third parties. Management fees generally represent 6% of cash collected from properties owned by third party, franchisees and unconsolidated joint ventures. Revenues from management
and franchise fees have remained fairly stable compared to the previous year. Decreased revenues at our joint venture, franchise, and third-party managed sites related to rental rate and average
occupancy decreases have been offset by additional management fees earned as a result of additional third party properties managed in 2009 compared to the prior year.

Tenant Reinsurance

—The increase in tenant reinsurance revenues is due to the fact that during the year ended December 31, 2009, we successfully
increased overall customer participation to approximately 54% at December 31, 2009 compared to approximately 47% at December 31, 2008.

Other Income

—The decrease in other income is primarily due to the expiration of a sublease agreement.

Expenses

The following table sets forth information on expenses for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Expenses:

Property operations

$

88,935

$

84,522

$

4,413

5.2

%

Tenant reinsurance

5,461

5,066


7.8

%

Unrecovered development and acquisition costs

19,011

1,727

17,284

1,000.8

%

Severance costs

2,225

—

2,225

100.0

%

General and administrative

40,554

39,908


1.6

%

Depreciation and amortization

52,403

49,566

2,837

5.7

%

Total expenses

$

208,589

$

180,789

$

27,800

15.4

%

Property Operations

—The increase in property operations expense in 2009 was primarily due to increases of $2,313 associated with acquisitions
completed in 2009 and 2008. Expenses also increased by $2,721 at existing properties related to increases in expenses at lease-up properties. These increases were partially offset by a
decrease in expenses at stabilized properties of $344.

Tenant Reinsurance

—Tenant reinsurance expense represents the costs that are incurred to provide tenant reinsurance. The increase in tenant reinsurance
expense is related to the increase in overall customer participation in the tenant reinsurance program to approximately 54% at December 31, 2009 compared to approximately 47% at
December 31, 2008.

Unrecovered Development and Acquisition Costs

—These costs relate to unsuccessful development and acquisition activities during the periods indicated.
On June 2, 2009, the Company announced that it had begun a wind-down of its development program. As a result of this decision, the Company recorded $18,883 of one-time
impairment charges in order to write down the carrying value of undeveloped land, development projects that will be completed and investments in development projects to their estimated fair values
less cost to sell. The unrecovered development and acquisition costs incurred during the year ended December 31, 2008 include $1,257 relating to due diligence costs that were part of an
unsuccessful attempt by the Company to purchase a large portfolio of properties during the second quarter of 2008. The remainder of these costs relate to entitlement and other due diligence work done
on development projects that the Company elected not to pursue.



Severance Costs

—On June 2, 2009, the Company announced that it had begun a wind-down of its development program. As a result of
this decision, the Company recorded severance costs of $1,400. In December 2009, the Company began the closure of its marketing office in Memphis, TN. As a result of this closure, the Company recorded
severance costs of $825.

General and Administrative

—General and administrative expenses increased nominally when compared to the prior year while the number of properties
under management increased by approximately 10%. The Company operated 766 properties as of December 31, 2009, compared to 694 at December 31, 2008.

Depreciation and Amortization

—The increase in depreciation and amortization expense is a result of additional properties that have been added through
acquisition and development throughout 2009 and 2008.

Other Revenue and Expenses

The following table sets forth information on other revenue and expenses for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Other revenue and expenses:

Interest expense

$

(67,579

)

$

(64,611

)

$

(2,968

)

4.6

%

Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of discount on exchangeable senior notes

(2,239

)

(4,060

)

1,821

(44.9

)%

Interest income

1,582

3,399

(1,817

)

(53.5

)%

Interest income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

4,850

4,850

—

—

Gain on repurchase of exchangeable senior notes

27,928

6,311

21,617

342.5

%

Loss on sale of investments available for sale

—

(1,415

)

1,415

(100.0

)%

Equity in earnings of real estate ventures

6,964

6,932


0.5

%

Income tax expense

(4,300

)

(519

)

(3,781

)

728.5

%

Total other revenue (expense)

$

(32,794

)

$

(49,113

)

$

16,319

(33.2

)%

Interest Expense

—The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 was due primarily to the increases in our total notes
payable and line of credit balances when compared to the prior year. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the interest paid related to our Exchangeable Notes due to the repurchase of
a total principal amount of $162,337 during 2008 and 2009.

Non-cash Interest Expense Related to Amortization of Discount on Exchangeable Senior Notes

—The decrease in non-cash interest
expense related to amortization of discount on exchangeable senior notes for the year ended December 31, 2009 when compared to the prior year was due to the repurchase of a total principal
amount of $162,337 of its notes during 2009 and 2008. The discount associated with the repurchase of the notes was written off as a result of these repurchases which decreased the ongoing amortization
of the discount in 2009 when compared to 2008.

Interest Income

—Interest income earned in 2008 was primarily due to interest on the net proceeds from the sales of common stock in May and October
2008. There were no such sales of common stock during the year ended December 31, 2009.



Interest Income on Note Receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership Unit Holder

—Represents interest on a $100,000 loan to the holder of the
Series A Participating Redeemable Preferred units of our Operating Partnership (the "Preferred OP units").

Gain on Repurchase of Exchangeable Senior Notes

—This amount represents the gain on the repurchase of $122,000 total principal amount of our
exchangeable senior notes during 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we repurchased $40,337 principal amount of exchangeable senior notes resulting in a smaller gain compared to the
year ended December 31, 2009.

Loss on Sale of Investments Available for Sale

—This amount represents the loss recorded on February 29, 2008 related to the liquidation of
auction rate securities held in investments available for sale. We had no investments available for sale during the year ended December 31, 2009.

Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Ventures

—The change in equity in earnings of real estate ventures for the year ended December 31, 2009
relates to an increase of $753 from our purchase of an additional 40% interest in the VRS Self Storage LLC joint venture on July 1, 2008. This increase was offset by decreases in income
at the properties owned by the real estate joint ventures.

Income Tax Expense

—The increase in income tax expense relates primarily to our net operating loss carryforward being used completely during 2008 and
to the increased profitability of our TRS in 2009.

Net Income Allocated to Noncontrolling Interests

The following table sets forth information on net income allocated to noncontrolling interests for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Net income allocated to noncontrolling interests:

Net income allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests

$

(6,186

)

$

(6,269

)

$


(1.3

)%

Net income allocated to Operating Partnership and other non-controlling interests

(930

)

(1,299

)


(28.4

)%

Total income allocated to noncontrolling interests:

$

(7,116

)

$

(7,568

)

$


(6.0

)%

Net Income Allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership Noncontrolling Interests

—Income allocated to the Preferred Operating Partnership equals the
fixed distribution paid to the Preferred OP unit holder plus approximately 1.1% of the remaining net income allocated after the adjustment for the fixed distribution paid for the years ended
December 31, 2009 and 2008. The amount allocated to noncontrolling interest was lower in 2009 than in 2008 as our net income was lower in 2009 than it was in 2008.

Net Income Allocated to Operating Partnership and Other Noncontrolling Interests

—Income allocated to the Operating Partnership represents
approximately 4.4% and 4.7% of net income after the allocation of the fixed distribution paid to the Preferred OP unit holder for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The
decrease in the amount allocated to the noncontrolling interests in the Operating Partnership was due to two factors: (1) a decrease in net income in 2009; and (2) a decrease in the
percentage of income allocated to the noncontrolling interests in the Operating Partnership as a result of the redemption of 637,600 OP units for cash and common stock during the year ended
December 31, 2009. Income allocated to other noncontrolling interests represents the losses allocated to partners in consolidated joint ventures on eight properties that were



in
lease-up during 2009. The loss allocated to the other noncontrolling interests was higher than the prior year as there were only four consolidated joint venture properties in
lease-up for the year ended December 31, 2008.

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2008 to the Year Ended December 31, 2007

Overview

Results for the year ended December 31, 2008 included the operations of 627 properties (283 of which were consolidated and 344
of which were in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method) compared to the results for the year ended December 31, 2007, which included operations of 606 properties (262 of which
were consolidated and 344 of which were in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method). Results for both periods also included equity in earnings of real estate ventures, third-party
management and franchise fees, tenant reinsurance, and other income.

Revenues

The following table sets forth information on revenues earned for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Revenues:

Property rental

$

235,695

$

206,315

$

29,380

14.2

%

Management and franchise fees

20,945

20,598


1.7

%

Tenant reinsurance

16,091

11,049

5,042

45.6

%

Other income



(384

)

(42.5

)%

Total revenues

$

273,251

$

238,866

$

34,385

14.4

%

Property Rental

—The increase in property rental revenues consists of $24,437 associated with acquisitions completed in 2008 and 2007, $2,782
associated with rental rate increases at stabilized properties and $2,161 from increases in occupancy and rental rates at lease-up properties.

Management and Franchise Fees

—Our taxable REIT subsidiary, Extra Space Management, Inc., manages properties owned by our joint ventures,
franchisees and third parties. Management fees generally represent 6.0% of cash collected from properties owned by third party, franchisees and unconsolidated joint ventures. Revenues from management
and franchise fees have remained fairly stable compared to the previous year. Increased revenues at our joint venture, franchise, and third-party managed sites related to rental rate and occupancy
increases have been partially offset by lost management fees due to the termination of certain management agreements mainly due to the acquisition of the managed properties.

Tenant Reinsurance

—The increase in tenant reinsurance revenues is due to the fact that during the year ended December 31, 2008, we promoted the
tenant reinsurance program and successfully increased overall customer participation to approximately 47% at December 31, 2008 compared to approximately 34% at December 31, 2007.

Other Income

—The decrease in other income is primarily due a decrease in development fee revenues earned because of a decrease in the volume of
development relating to joint ventures in 2008 compared to 2007.



Expenses

The following table sets forth information on expenses for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Expenses:

Property operations

$

84,522

$

73,070

$

11,452

15.7

%

Tenant reinsurance

5,066

4,710


7.6

%

Unrecovered development and acquisition costs

1,727



125.8

%

General and administrative

39,908

36,722

3,186

8.7

%

Depreciation and amortization

49,566

39,801

9,765

24.5

%

Total expenses

$

180,789

$

155,068

$

25,721

16.6

%

Property Operations

—The increase in property operations expense in 2008 was primarily due to increases of $9,146 associated with acquisitions
completed in 2008 and 2007. There were also increases in expenses of $2,306 at existing properties primarily due to increases in repairs and maintenance, utilities and property taxes.

Tenant Reinsurance

—The increase in tenant reinsurance expense is due to the increase in tenant reinsurance revenues during 2008. A large portion of
tenant reinsurance expense is variable and increases as tenant reinsurance revenues increase. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we continued to promote the tenant reinsurance program and
successfully increased overall customer participation to approximately 47% at December 31, 2008 compared to approximately 34% at December 31, 2007.

Unrecovered Development and Acquisition Costs

—The unrecovered development and acquisition costs incurred during the year ended December 31,
2008 include $1,257 relating to due diligence costs that were part of an unsuccessful attempt by us to purchase a large portfolio of properties during the second quarter of 2008. The remainder of
these costs in 2008 and the costs in 2007 relate to entitlement and other due diligence work done on development projects that we elected not to pursue.

General and Administrative

—The increase in general and administrative expenses was due to the increased costs associated with the management of the
additional properties that have been added through acquisitions and development in 2008 and 2007.

Depreciation and Amortization

—The increase in depreciation and amortization expense is a result of additional properties that have been added through
acquisition and development throughout 2008 and 2007.



Other Revenue and Expenses

The following table sets forth information on other revenue and expenses for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Other revenue and expenses:

Interest expense

$

(64,611

)

$

(61,015

)

$

(3,596

)

5.9

%

Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of discount on exchangeable senior notes

(4,060

)

(3,030

)

(1,030

)

34.0

%

Interest income

3,399

7,925

(4,526

)

(57.1

)%

Interest income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

4,850

2,492

2,358

94.6

%

Gain on repurchase of exchangeable senior notes

6,311

—

6,311

—

Loss on sale of investments available for sale

(1,415

)

—

(1,415

)

—

Impairment of investments available for sale

—

(1,233

)

1,233

(100.0

)%

Fair value adjustment of obligation associated with Preferred Operating Partnership units

—

1,054

(1,054

)

(100.0

)%

Equity in earnings of real estate ventures

6,932

5,300

1,632

30.8

%

Income tax expense

(519

)

—

(519

)

—

Total other revenue (expense)

$

(49,113

)

$

(48,507

)

$

(606

)

0.2

%

Interest Expense

—The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 was due primarily to $3,191 associated with mortgage
loans on acquisitions completed in 2007. The increase was partially offset by lower interest costs on existing property debt. Capitalized interest during the years ended December 31, 2008 and
2007 was $5,506 and $4,555, respectively.

Non-cash Interest Expense Related to Amortization of Discount on Exchangeable Senior Notes

—The increase in non-cash interest
expense related to amortization of discount on exchangeable senior notes for the year ended December 31, 2008 when compared to the prior year was due to a full year of discount amortization
being recorded in 2008 compared to only a partial year of discount amortization in 2007 as the exchangeable senior notes were issued on March 27, 2007.

Interest Income

—Interest income earned in 2008 was primarily due to interest on the net proceeds from the sales of common stock in May and October
2008. Interest income earned in 2007 was mainly the result of the interest earned on the net proceeds received from the $250,000 exchangeable senior notes issued in March 2007 and on the remaining net
proceeds from the sale of common stock in September 2006. Invested cash decreased steadily throughout 2007 as the funds were used for operations, acquisitions and development.

Interest Income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

—Represents interest on a $100,000 loan to the holder of the
Preferred OP units of our Operating Partnership (the "Preferred OP units"). The funds were loaned on June 25, 2007 and bear interest at an annual rate of 4.85%, payable quarterly.

Gain on Repurchase of Exchangeable Senior Notes

—Represents the gain on the repurchase of $40,337 principal amount of the Operating Partnership's
exchangeable senior notes. We paid cash of $31,721 to repurchase the notes, wrote off debt issuance costs of $646 and adjusted the discount on exchangeable senior notes to fair value by $1,659 for a
net gain of $6,311. There were no repurchases of exchangeable senior notes during the year ended December 31, 2007.



Loss on Sale of Investments Available for Sale

—Represents the amount of loss recorded on February 29, 2008 related to the liquidation of
auction rate securities held in investments for sale.

Impairment of Investments Available for Sale

—As of December 31, 2007, we had a $24,460 par value investment in ARS. Due to the uncertainty in
the credit markets, the auctions related to the ARS we held failed causing the liquidity and the fair value of these investments to be impaired. As a result, we recorded a $1,233
other-than-temporary impairment charge and a $1,415 temporary impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the ARS to an estimated fair value of $21,812.

Fair Value Adjustment of Obligation Associated with Preferred Operating Partnership Units

—This amount is a one-time adjustment that
represents the change in fair value of the embedded derivative associated with the Preferred OP units issued in connection with the AAAAA Rent-a-Space acquisition between the
original issuance of the Preferred OP units (June and August, 2007) and the completion of the amendment to the agreement that was signed on September 28, 2007.

Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Ventures

—The change in equity in earnings of real estate ventures for the year ended December 31, 2008
primarily relates to an increase of $1,098 from our purchase of an additional 40% interest in the VRS Self Storage LLC joint venture on July 1, 2008. The remainder of the change is a
result of an increase in income at the properties owned by the real estate ventures. The increases were partially offset by the losses on certain lease-up properties held in joint
ventures.

Income Tax Expense

—The increase in income tax expense relates primarily to our net operating loss carryforward being used completely during 2008.

Net Income Allocated to Noncontrolling Interests

The following table sets forth information on net income allocated to noncontrolling interests for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Net income allocated to noncontrolling interests:

Net income allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests

$

(6,269

)

$

(1,730

)

$

(4,539

)

262.4

%

Net income allocated to Operating Partnership and other non-controlling interests

(1,299

)

(1,832

)


(29.1

)%

Fixed distribution paid to Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

—

(1,510

)

1,510

(100.0

)%

Total income allocated to noncontrolling interests:

$

(7,568

)

$

(5,072

)

$

(2,496

)

49.2

%

Net Income Allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership Noncontrolling Interests

—Income allocated to the Preferred Operating Partnership equals the
fixed distribution paid to the Preferred OP unit holder plus approximately 1.1% of the remaining net income allocated
after the adjustment for the fixed distribution paid for the year ended December 31, 2008. The amount allocated to noncontrolling interest was higher in 2008 than in 2007 as the Preferred OP
units were issued in June and August 2007.

Net Income Allocated to Operating Partnership and Other Noncontrolling Interests

—Income allocated to the Operating Partnership represents
approximately 4.7% of net income after the allocation of the fixed distribution paid to the Preferred OP unit holder. The decrease in the amount allocated to the noncontrolling interests in the
Operating Partnership was due to a full year of fixed



distribution
being paid to the Preferred Operating Partnership in 2008. Income allocated to other noncontrolling interests represents the losses allocated to partners in consolidated joint ventures on
four properties that were in lease-up during 2008. The amount allocated to the other noncontrolling interests was higher than the prior year as there were only two consolidated joint
venture properties in lease-up for the year ended December 31, 2007.

Fixed Distribution Paid to Preferred Operating Partnership Unit Holder

—The amount for the year ended December 31, 2007 represents the fixed
distributions that were paid to the Preferred OP unit holder between the original issuance of the Preferred OP units and the completion of the amendment to the Operating Partnership Agreement that was
signed on September 28, 2007.

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS

FFO provides relevant and meaningful information about our operating performance that is necessary, along with net income and cash
flows, for an understanding of our operating results. We believe FFO is a meaningful disclosure as a supplement to net earnings. Net earnings assume that the values of real estate assets diminish
predictably over time as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. The values of real estate assets fluctuate due to market conditions and we believe FFO more accurately reflects the
value of our real estate assets. FFO is defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, Inc. ("NAREIT") as net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles ("GAAP"), excluding gains or losses on sales of operating properties, plus depreciation and amortization and after adjustments to record unconsolidated partnerships and joint
ventures on the same basis. We believe that to further understand our performance, FFO should be considered along with the reported net income and cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in
the consolidated financial statements.

The
computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other REITs or real estate companies that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that
interpret the current NAREIT definition differently. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative
to net income as an indication of our performance, as an alternative to net cash flow from operating activities as a measure of our liquidity, or as an indicator of our ability to make cash
distributions. The following table sets forth the calculation of FFO for the periods indicated (dollars are in thousands, except for share data):

For the Year Ended December 31,




Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

31,977

$

35,781

$

30,219

Adjustments:

Real estate depreciation

48,417

42,834

33,779

Amortization of intangibles

1,647

4,494

4,159

Joint venture real estate depreciation and amortization

5,805

5,072

4,039

Joint venture loss on sale of properties


—


Fair value adjustment of obligation associated with Preferred Operating Partnership units

—

—

(1,054

)

Distributions paid on Preferred Operating Partnership units

(5,750

)

(5,750

)

(1,438

)

Income allocated to Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests

8,012

8,444

3,843

Funds from operations

$

90,283

$

90,875

$

73,590



SAME-STORE STABILIZED PROPERTY RESULTS

We consider our same-store stabilized portfolio to consist of only those properties which were wholly-owned at the
beginning and at the end of the applicable periods presented and that have achieved stabilization as of the first day of such period. The following table sets forth operating data for our
same-store portfolio (revenues include tenant reinsurance income). We consider the following same-store presentation to be meaningful in regards to the properties shown below.
These results provide information relating to property-level operating changes without the effects of acquisitions and completed developments.

For the Three

Months ended

December 31,

For the Year Ended

December 31,

For the Year Ended

December 31,

Percent

Change

Percent

Change

Percent

Change







Same-store rental and tenant reinsurance revenues

$

56,497

$

58,863

(4.0

)%

$

226,899

$

233,682

(2.9

)%

$

188,150

$

183,869

2.3

%

Same-store operating and tenant reinsurance expenses

19,752

19,391

1.9

%

80,009

80,142

(0.2

)%

63,606

63,428

0.3

%

Same-store net operating income

36,745

39,472

(6.9

)%

146,890

153,540

(4.3

)%

124,544

120,441

3.4

%

Non same-store rental and tenant reinsurance revenues

8,948

6,294

42.2

%

32,286

18,104

78.3

%

63,636

33,495

90.0

%

Non same-store operating and tenant reinsurance expenses

3,192

3,368

(5.2

)%

14,387

9,446

52.3

%

25,982

14,352

81.0

%

Total rental and tenant reinsurance revenues

65,445

65,157

0.4

%

259,185

251,786

2.9

%

251,786

217,364

15.8

%

Total operating and tenant reinsurance expenses

22,944

22,759

0.8

%

94,396

89,588

5.4

%

89,588

77,780

15.2

%

Same-store square foot occupancy as of quarter and year end

83.2

%

82.2

%

83.2

%

82.2

%

84.1

%

85.1

%

Properties included in same-store







Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2009 to the Year Ended December 31, 2008

The decrease in same-store rental revenues was primarily due to lower rates to new customers and decreased average annual
occupancy. These decreases were partially offset by rental rate increases to existing tenants.

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2008 to the Year Ended December 31, 2007

The increase in same-store rental revenues was primarily due to increased rental rates to existing tenants which offset
lower rental rates to new tenants and a slight reduction in occupancy due to increased move-out activity.

CASH FLOWS

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2009 to the Year Ended December 31, 2008

Cash flows provided by operating activities were $81,165 and $98,391 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. This decrease was due mainly to a decrease in net income and an increase in the cash paid to affiliated joint ventures and related parties during 2009 compared



to
2008 to repay receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures. Additionally, more cash was spent to pay down accounts payable and accrued expenses in 2009 when compared
to 2008.

Cash
used in investing activities was $104,410 and $224,481 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in 2009 was primarily the result of $89,108
less cash being used to fund acquisition activities in 2009 compared to 2008 and a decrease of $46,815 in the amount of cash invested in real estate ventures in 2009 compared to 2008. These decreases
were partially offset by the collection of $21,812 of cash from the sale of our investments available for sale in 2008, compared to $0 in 2009.

Cash
provided by financing activities were $91,223 and $172,685 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in cash provided in 2009 when compared
to the prior year was primarily the result of proceeds from issuance of common stock of $276,601 in 2008 compared to $0 in 2009. Additionally, we paid $56,013 more cash in 2009 to repurchase a portion
of our exchangeable senior notes when compared to the prior year. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase of $206,609 in the net proceeds from notes payable and lines of credit in 2009
when compared to 2008, and $46,320 less cash paid for dividends in 2009.

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2008 to the Year Ended December 31, 2007

Cash flows provided by operating activities were $98,391 and $102,096 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. This decrease was due mainly to an increase in the cash paid on behalf of affiliated joint ventures and related parties during 2008 compared to 2007, which resulted in an increase in
receivables from related parties. Additionally, more cash was spent to acquire other assets in 2008 when compared to 2007. These decreases were partially offset by the increase in cash due to the
acquisition of new stabilized properties in 2008 and 2007.

Cash
used in investing activities was $224,481 and $254,344 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in 2008 was primarily the result of $56,397
less cash being used to fund acquisition activities and the collection of $21,812 of cash from the sale of our investments available for sale, compared to a payment of $24,460 to purchase investments
available for sale in 2007. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $19,670 in development activities and an increase of $39,223 invested in real estate ventures when compared to the
prior year.

Cash
provided by financing activities was $172,685 and $98,824 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in cash provided in 2008 was due
primarily to proceeds from issuance of common stock of $276,601 in 2008 compared to $0 in 2007, and no cash was loaned to the Preferred OP unit holder in 2008 when compared to the prior year. These
increases were offset primarily by the decrease of $250,000 of proceeds from exchangeable senior notes, as no new notes were issued in 2008.

2009 OPERATIONAL SUMMARY

Our 2009 property operations were challenging with decreases in same-store average annual occupancy, revenues and net
operating income. On a same-store basis (including tenant reinsurance revenues), revenue and net operating income decreased 2.9% and 4.3%, respectively. Same-store expense
control was
excellent, with a year-on-year decrease of a 0.2%. The decrease in same-store rental revenues was primarily due to decreased average annual occupancy and lower
rates to new customers. These decreases were partially offset by rental rate increases to existing tenants.

Properties
located in the markets of Chicago, Indianapolis, New York City/Northern New Jersey, San Francisco/San Jose, and Washington DC were the top performers when comparing year on
year



revenue.
Markets performing below the portfolio average in year-on-year revenue included Atlanta, Memphis, Miami, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Tampa, and West Palm Beach.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

As of December 31, 2009, we had $131,950 available in cash and cash equivalents. We intend to use this cash to repay debt
scheduled to mature in 2010 and 2011 and for general corporate purposes. We are required to distribute at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to our stockholders on an
annual basis to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Recently issued guidance from the IRS allowed for up to 90% of a REIT's dividends to be paid with its common stock through 2011 if certain
conditions were met. It is unlikely that we will have any substantial cash balances that could be used to meet our liquidity needs. Instead, these needs must be met from cash generated from operations
and external sources of capital.

Our
cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in our operating accounts. During 2009 we
experienced no loss or lack of access to our cash or cash equivalents; however, there can be no assurance that access to our cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the
financial markets.

On
February 13, 2009, we entered into a $50,000 Secondary Credit Line that is collateralized by mortgages on certain real estate assets and matures February 13, 2012. We
intend to use the proceeds from the Secondary Credit Line to repay debt and for general corporate purposes. The Secondary Credit Line has an interest rate of LIBOR plus 325 basis points (3.5% at
December 31, 2009). As of December 31, 2009, there were no amounts drawn on the Secondary Credit Line. We are subject to certain restrictive covenants relating to the Secondary Credit
Line. We were in compliance with all financial covenants as of December 31, 2009.

On
October 19, 2007, we entered into a $100,000 Credit Line. Outstanding balances on the Credit Line at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were $100,000 and $27,000, respectively.
We intend to use the proceeds of the Credit Line to repay debt and for general corporate purposes. The Credit Line has an interest rate of between 100 and 205 basis points over LIBOR, depending on
certain of our financial ratios (1.2% at December 31, 2009). The Credit Line is collateralized by mortgages on certain real estate assets. The Credit Line matures on October 31, 2010
with two one-year extensions available. We are not subject to any financial covenants relating to the Credit Line.

As
of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1,406,846 of debt, resulting in a debt to total capitalization ratio of 57.1%. As of December 31, 2009, the ratio of total
fixed rate debt and other instruments to total debt was 78.4% (including $107,145 on which we have interest rate swaps that have been included as fixed-rate debt). The weighted average
interest rate of the total of fixed and variable rate debt at December 31, 2009 was 5.1%. Certain of our real estate assets are pledged as collateral for our debt. We are subject to certain
restrictive covenants relating to our outstanding debt. We were in compliance with all financial covenants at December 31, 2009.

We
expect to fund our short-term liquidity requirements, including operating expenses, recurring capital expenditures, dividends to stockholders, distributions to holders of
OP units and interest on our outstanding indebtedness out of our operating cash flow, cash on hand and borrowings under our Credit Lines. In addition, we are actively pursuing additional term loans
secured by unencumbered properties.

Our
liquidity needs consist primarily of cash distributions to stockholders, facility development and improvements, property acquisitions, principal payments under our borrowings and
non-recurring capital expenditures. In addition, we evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of strategic acquisitions and other relationships, which may require us to raise additional
funds. We do not expect that our operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund our liquidity needs and instead expect to fund such needs



out
of additional borrowings of secured or unsecured indebtedness, joint ventures with third parties, and from the proceeds of public and private offerings of equity and debt. Additional capital may
not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. Any additional issuance of equity or equity-linked securities may result in dilution to our stockholders. In addition, any new securities we issue
could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to holders of our common stock. We may also use OP units as currency to fund acquisitions from self-storage owners who desire
tax-deferral in their exiting transactions.

The
U.S. credit markets are experiencing significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These
circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of
debt financing. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to make acquisitions and fund
current development projects. In addition, the financial condition of the lenders of our credit facilities may worsen to the point that they default on their obligations to make available to us the
funds under those facilities. A prolonged downturn in the credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business
plan accordingly. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for us to sell properties or may adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers may
experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. These events in the credit markets have also had an adverse affect on other financial markets in the United
States, which may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities. These disruptions in the financial market
may have other adverse effects on us or the economy generally, which could cause our stock price to decline.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

Except as disclosed in the notes to our financial statements, we do not currently have any relationships with unconsolidated entities
or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purposes entities, which typically are established for the purpose of facilitating
off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, except as disclosed in the notes to our financial statements, we have not guaranteed any
obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitments or intent to provide funding to any such entities. Accordingly, we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market
or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in these relationships.

Our
exchangeable senior notes provide for excess exchange value to be paid in shares of our common stock if our stock price exceeds a certain amount. See the notes to our financial
statements for a further description of our exchangeable senior notes.



CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

The following table sets forth information on payments due by period at December 31, 2009:

Payments due by Period:

Total

Less Than

1 Year

(2010)

1-3 Years

(2011-2012)

3-5 Years

(2013-2014)

After

5 Years

(after 2014)

Operating leases

$

63,232

$

5,942

$

10,579

$

8,704

$

38,007

Notes payable, notes payable to trusts, exchangeable senior notes and lines of credit

Interest

520,170

68,237

118,676

95,523

237,734

Principal

1,406,846

179,068

254,843

287,204

685,731

Total contractual obligations

$

1,990,248

$

253,247

$

384,098

$

391,431

$

961,472

As
of December 31, 2009, the weighted average interest rate for all fixed rate loans was 5.6%, and the weighted average interest rate on all variable rate loans was 3.3%.

FINANCING STRATEGY

We will continue to employ leverage in our capital structure in amounts reviewed from time to time by our board of directors. Although
our board of directors has not adopted a policy which limits the total amount of indebtedness that we may incur, we will consider a number of factors in evaluating our level of indebtedness from time
to time, as well as the amount of such indebtedness that will be either fixed or variable rate. In making financing decisions, we will consider factors including but not limited
to:

•

the interest rate of the proposed financing;

•

the extent to which the financing impacts flexibility in managing our properties;

•

prepayment penalties and restrictions on refinancing;

•

the purchase price of properties acquired with debt financing;

•

long-term objectives with respect to the financing;

•

target investment returns;

•

the ability of particular properties, and our Company as a whole, to generate cash flow sufficient to cover expected debt
service payments;

•

overall level of consolidated indebtedness;

•

timing of debt and lease maturities;

•

provisions that require recourse and cross-collateralization;

•

corporate credit ratios including debt service coverage, debt to total capitalization and debt to undepreciated assets;
and

•

the overall ratio of fixed and variable rate debt.

Our
indebtedness may be recourse, non-recourse or cross-collateralized. If the indebtedness is non-recourse, the collateral will be limited to the particular
properties to which the indebtedness relates. In addition, we may invest in properties subject to existing loans collateralized by mortgages or similar liens on our properties, or may refinance
properties acquired on a leveraged basis. We may use the proceeds from any borrowings to refinance existing indebtedness, to refinance investments,



including
the redevelopment of existing properties, for general working capital or to purchase additional interests in partnerships or joint ventures or for other purposes when we believe it is
advisable.

During
2008 and 2009, we repurchased $162,337 million in aggregate principal amount of our exchangeable senior notes on the open market for $119,455 in cash. We may from time to
time seek to retire, repurchase or redeem our additional outstanding debt including our exchangeable senior notes as well as shares of common stock or other securities in open market purchases,
privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or redemptions, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other
factors. The amounts involved may be material.

SEASONALITY

The self-storage business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. A greater portion of revenues and profits are realized from
May through September. Historically, our highest level of occupancy has been at the end of July, while our lowest level of occupancy has been in late February and early March. Results for any quarter
may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year.

Item 7a.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market Risk

Market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. Our future income, cash flows and fair
values of financial instruments are dependent upon prevailing market interest rates.

Interest Rate Risk

Interest rate risk is highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international
economic and political considerations and other factors beyond our control.

As
of December 31, 2009, we had $1.4 billion in total debt, of which $304.1 million was subject to variable interest rates (excluding debt with interest rate swaps).
If LIBOR were to increase or decrease by 100 basis points, the increase or decrease in interest expense on the variable rate debt would increase or decrease future earnings and cash flows by
approximately $3.0 million annually.

Interest
rate risk amounts were determined by considering the impact of hypothetical interest rates on our financial instruments. These analyses do not consider the effect of any change
in overall economic activity that could occur. Further, in the event of a change of that magnitude, we may take actions to further mitigate our exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty
of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, these analyses assume no changes in our financial structure.



Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

EXTRA SPACE STORAGE INC.

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AND SCHEDULES

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


SCHEDULE III


All
other schedules have been omitted since the required information is not present or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information
required is included in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Extra Space Storage Inc.

We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Extra Space Storage Inc. and subsidiaries ("the Company") as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule listed in the index at Item 8. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at December 31, 2009 and
2008 and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statement taken as a whole, presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.

As
discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, effective January 1, 2009, Extra Space Storage retroactively adopted the requirements of Statement of Position No.
APB 14-1, "

Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash
Settlement"

(ASC 470-20-65), Statement No. 160 "

Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
Statements—An Amendment of ARB No. 51

" (ASC 810-10-65), and FASB Staff Position EITF 03-6-1,
"

Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities

" (ASC 260-10) for all periods
presented.

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
report dated February 26, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/
Ernst & Young LLP

Salt
Lake City, Utah

February 26, 2010



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Balance Sheets

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

(As revised—Note 2)

Assets:

Real estate assets:

Net operating real estate assets

$

2,015,432

$

1,938,922

Real estate under development

34,427

58,734

Net real estate assets

2,049,859

1,997,656

Investments in real estate ventures

130,449

136,791

Cash and cash equivalents

131,950

63,972

Restricted cash

39,208

38,678

Receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures

5,114

11,335

Other assets, net

50,976

42,576

Total assets

$

2,407,556

$

2,291,008

Liabilities, Noncontrolling Interests and Equity:

Notes payable

$

1,099,593

$

943,598

Notes payable to trusts

119,590

119,590

Exchangeable senior notes

87,663

209,663

Discount on exchangeable senior notes

(3,869

)

(13,031

)

Lines of credit

100,000

27,000

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

33,386

35,128

Other liabilities

24,974

22,267

Total liabilities

1,461,337

1,344,215

Commitments and contingencies

Equity:

Extra Space Storage Inc. stockholders' equity:

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value, 50,000,000 shares authorized, no shares issued or outstanding

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value, 300,000,000 shares authorized, 86,721,841 and 85,790,331 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2009 and
December 31, 2008, respectively



Paid-in capital

1,138,243

1,130,964

Accumulated other comprehensive deficit

(1,056

)

—

Accumulated deficit

(253,875

)

(253,052

)

Total Extra Space Storage Inc. stockholders' equity

884,179

878,770

Noncontrolling interest represented by Preferred Operating Partnership units, net of $100,000 note receivable

29,886

29,837

Noncontrolling interests in Operating Partnership

31,381

36,628

Other noncontrolling interests


1,558

Total noncontrolling interests and equity

946,219

946,793

Total liabilities, noncontrolling interests and equity

$

2,407,556

$

2,291,008

See
accompanying notes.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Operations

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

For the Year Ended December 31,




(As revised—Note 2)

(As revised—Note 2)

Revenues:

Property rental

$

238,256

$

235,695

$

206,315

Management and franchise fees

20,961

20,945

20,598

Tenant reinsurance

20,929

16,091

11,049

Other income




Total revenues

280,476

273,251

238,866

Expenses:

Property operations

88,935

84,522

73,070

Tenant reinsurance

5,461

5,066

4,710

Unrecovered development and acquisition costs

19,011

1,727


Severance costs

2,225

—

—

General and administrative

40,554

39,908

36,722

Depreciation and amortization

52,403

49,566

39,801

Total expenses

208,589

180,789

155,068

Income from operations

71,887

92,462

83,798

Interest expense

(67,579

)

(64,611

)

(61,015

)

Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of discount on exchangeable senior notes

(2,239

)

(4,060

)

(3,030

)

Interest income

1,582

3,399

7,925

Interest income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

4,850

4,850

2,492

Gain on repurchase of exchangeable senior notes

27,928

6,311

—

Loss on sale of investments available for sale

—

(1,415

)

—

Impairment of investments available for sale

—

—

(1,233

)

Fair value adjustment of obligation associated with Preferred Operating Partnership units

—

—

1,054

Income before equity in earnings of real estate ventures and income tax expense

36,429

36,936

29,991

Equity in earnings of real estate ventures

6,964

6,932

5,300

Income tax expense

(4,300

)

(519

)

—

Net income

39,093

43,349

35,291

Net income allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests

(6,186

)

(6,269

)

(1,730

)

Net income allocated to Operating Partnership and other noncontrolling interests

(930

)

(1,299

)

(1,832

)

Fixed distribution paid to Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

—

—

(1,510

)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

31,977

$

35,781

$

30,219

Net income per common share

Basic

$

0.37

$

0.46

$

0.47

Diluted

$

0.37

$

0.46

$

0.46

Weighted average number of shares

Basic

86,343,029

76,996,754

64,900,713

Diluted

91,082,834

82,352,988

70,715,640

Cash dividends paid per common share

$

0.38

$

1.00

$

0.93

See accompanying notes.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

Noncontrolling Interests

Extra Space Storage Inc. Stockholders' Equity

Preferred OP

OP

Other

Shares

Par Value

Paid-in

Capital

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Deficit

Accumulated

Deficit

Total

Equity

Balances at December 31, 2006

$

—

$

34,841

$


64,167,098

$


$

822,181

$

—

$

(179,268

)

$

678,713

Issuance of common stock upon the exercise of options

—

—

—

126,801


1,720

—

—

1,721

Restricted stock grants issued

—

—

—

120,729


—

—

—


Restricted stock grants cancelled

—

—

—

(3,082

)

—

—

—

—

—

Compensation expense related to stock-based awards

—

—

—

—

—

2,125

—

—

2,125

Conversion of Contingent Conversion shares to common stock

—

—

—

1,372,728


—

—

—


Consolidation of noncontrolling interest—other

—

—

(230

)

—

—

—

—

—

(230

)

New Operating Partnership units issued

—

3,834

—

—

—

—

—

—

3,834

Conversion of Operating Partnership units for cash

—

(873

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(873

)

New Preferred Operating Partnership units issued

131,499

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

131,499

Loan to Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

(100,000

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(100,000

)

Fair value adjustment of Preferred Operating Partnership units

(1,054

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(1,054

)

Fixed distribution paid to Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(1,510

)

(1,510

)

Equity portion of exchangeable senior notes

—

—

—

—

—

22,804

—

—

22,804

Comprehensive income:

Net income (loss)

1,730

2,113

(281

)

—

—

—

—

31,729

35,291

Loss on sale of investments available for sale

(20

)

(81

)

—

—

—

—

(1,314

)

—

(1,415

)

Total comprehensive income

33,876

Distributions to Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interests

(1,868

)

(3,710

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(5,578

)

Dividends paid on common stock at $0.93 per share

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(60,664

)

(60,664

)

Balances at December 31, 2007 (As revised—Note 2)

$

30,287

$

36,124

$

(194

)

65,784,274

$


$

848,830

$

(1,314

)

$

(209,713

)

$

704,678

Issuance of common stock upon the exercise of options

—

—

—

146,795


1,903

—

—

1,904

Restricted stock grants issued

—

—

—

361,624


—

—

—


Restricted stock grants cancelled

—

—

—

(10,186

)

—

—

—

—

—

Compensation expense related to stock-based awards

—

—

—

—

—

3,500

—

—

3,500

Conversion of Contingent Conversion shares to common stock

—

—

—

1,428,325


—

—

—


Issuance of common stock, net of offering costs

—

—

—

17,950,000


276,421

—

—

276,601

New Operating Partnership units issued

—

3,621

—

—

—

—

—

—

3,621

Investments from noncontrolling interest—other

—

—

2,628

—

—

—

—

—

2,628

Repurchase of equity portion of exchangeable senior notes

—

—

—

—

—

(1,025

)

—

—

(1,025

)

Conversion of Operating Partnership units to common stock

—

(1,239

)

—

129,499


1,238

—

—

—

Comprehensive income:

Net income (loss)

6,269

2,175

(876

)

—

—

—

—

35,781

43,349

Loss on sale of investments available for sale



—

—

—

—

1,314

—

1,415

Total comprehensive income

44,764

Tax effect from exercise of common stock options

—

—

—

—

—


—

—


Distributions to Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interests

(6,739

)

(4,134

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(10,873

)

Dividends paid on common stock at $1.00 per share

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(79,120

)

(79,120

)

Balances at December 31, 2008 (As revised—Note 2)

$

29,837

$

36,628

$

1,558

85,790,331

$


$

1,130,964

$

—

$

(253,052

)

$

946,793

Restricted stock grants issued

—

—

—

547,265


—

—

—


Restricted stock grants cancelled

—

—

—

(21,256

)

—

—

—

—

—

Compensation expense related to stock-based awards

—

—

—

—

—

3,809

—

—

3,809

Noncontrolling interest consolidated as business acquisition

—

—


—

—

—

—

—


Investments from other noncontrolling interests

—

—

(615

)

—

—

—

—

—

(615

)

Repurchase of equity portion of exchangeable senior notes

—

—

—

—

—

(2,234

)

—

—

(2,234

)

Conversion of Operating Partnership units to common stock

—

(3,583

)

—

405,501


3,579

—

—

—

Conversion of Operating Partnership units for cash

—

(1,908

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(1,908

)

Comprehensive income:

Net income (loss)

6,186

1,826

(896

)

—

—

—

—

31,977

39,093

Change in fair value of interest rate swap

(11

)

(44

)

—

—

—

—

(1,056

)

—

(1,111

)

Total comprehensive income

37,982

Tax effect from vesting of restricted stock grants

—

—

—

—

—

(414

)

—

—

(414

)

Tax effect from wind down of development program

—

—

—

—

—

2,539

—

—

2,539

Distributions to Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interests

(6,126

)

(1,538

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(7,664

)

Dividends paid on common stock at $0.38 per share

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(32,800

)

(32,800

)

Balances at December 31, 2009

$

29,886

$

31,381

$


86,721,841

$


$

1,138,243

$

(1,056

)

$

(253,875

)

$

946,219

See accompanying notes.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

(Dollars in thousands)

For the Year Ended December 31,




(As revised—Note 2)

(As revised—Note 2)

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

39,093

$

43,349

$

35,291

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

52,403

49,566

39,801

Amortization of deferred financing costs

3,877

3,596

3,309

Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of discount on exchangeable senior notes

2,239

4,060

3,030

Gain on repurchase of exchangeable senior notes

(27,928

)

(6,311

)

—

Compensation expense related to stock-based awards

3,809

3,500

2,125

Loss on investments available for sale

—

1,415

1,233

Fair value adjustment of obligation associated with Preferred Operating Partnership units

—

—

(1,054

)

Unrecovered development and acquisition costs

19,011

1,727


Distributions from real estate ventures in excess of earnings

5,968

5,176

3,946

Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

Receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures

(12,347

)

(5,976

)

5,905

Other assets

(6,584

)

(9,164

)

4,588

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

(1,675

)

3,435

5,642

Other liabilities

3,299

4,018

(2,485

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

81,165

98,391

102,096

Cash flows from investing activities:

Acquisition of real estate assets

(38,185

)

(127,293

)

(183,690

)

Development and construction of real estate assets

(67,301

)

(66,071

)

(46,401

)

Proceeds from sale of real estate assets

4,652


1,999

Investments in real estate ventures

(3,246

)

(50,061

)

(10,838

)

Return of investment in real estate ventures

1,315

2,915


Net proceeds from sale of (purchase of) investments available for sale

—

21,812

(24,460

)

Change in restricted cash

(497

)

(3,781

)

9,833

Purchase of equipment and fixtures

(1,148

)

(2,342

)

(1,071

)

Net cash used in investing activities

(104,410

)

(224,481

)

(254,344

)



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

For the Year Ended December 31,




(As revised—Note 2)

(As revised—Note 2)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from issuance of exchangeable senior notes

—

—

250,000

Repurchase of exchangeable senior notes

(87,734

)

(31,721

)

—

Proceeds from notes payable and lines of credit

442,560

42,302

56,759

Principal payments on notes payable and lines of credit

(212,515

)

(26,575

)

(32,164

)

Deferred financing costs

(8,716

)

(1,007

)

(8,867

)

Loan to Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

—

—

(100,000

)

Investments from noncontrolling interests

—

1,174

—

Redemption of Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interest

(1,908

)

—

(873

)

Proceeds from issuance of common shares, net

—

276,601

—

Net proceeds from exercise of stock options

—

1,904

1,721

Dividends paid on common stock

(32,800

)

(79,120

)

(60,664

)

Distributions to noncontrolling interests in Operating Partnership

(7,664

)

(10,873

)

(7,088

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

91,223

172,685

98,824

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

67,978

46,595

(53,424

)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the period

63,972

17,377

70,801

Cash and cash equivalents, end of the period

$

131,950

$

63,972

$

17,377

Supplemental schedule of cash flow information

Interest paid, net of amounts capitalized

$

64,175

$

62,831

$

55,132

Supplemental schedule of noncash investing and financing activities:

Acquisitions:

Real estate assets

$

—

$

3,621

$

231,037

Notes payable acquired

—

—

(95,202

)

Preferred Operating Partnership units issued as consideration

—

—

(131,499

)

Investment in real estate ventures

—

—

(502

)

Operating Partnership units issued as consideration

—

(3,621

)

(3,834

)

Conversion of Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interests for common stock

$

3,583

$

1,239

$

—

Change in receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures due to consolidation of joint venture properties

$

18,568

$

—

$

—

Temporary impairment of short-term investments

$

—

$

—

$

(1,415

)

See accompanying notes.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share
data)

1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Business

Extra Space Storage Inc. (the "Company") is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment
trust ("REIT"), formed as a Maryland Corporation on April 30, 2004 to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop self-storage facilities located throughout the United
States. The Company continues the business of Extra Space Storage LLC and its subsidiaries (the "Predecessor"), which had engaged in the self-storage business since 1977. The
Company's interest in its properties is held through its operating partnership, Extra Space Storage LP (the "Operating
Partnership"), which was formed on May 5, 2004. The Company's primary assets are general partner and limited partner interests in the Operating Partnership. This structure is commonly referred
to as an umbrella partnership REIT, or UPREIT. The Company has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Internal Revenue Code"). To the extent the
Company continues to qualify as a REIT, it will not be subject to tax, with certain limited exceptions, on the taxable income that is distributed to its stockholders.

The
Company invests in self-storage facilities by acquiring or developing wholly-owned facilities or by acquiring an equity interest in real estate entities. At
December 31, 2009, the Company had direct and indirect equity interests in 642 storage facilities located in 33 states, and Washington, D.C. In addition, the Company managed 124 properties for
franchisees or third parties bringing the total number of properties which it owns and/or manages to 766.

The
Company operates in three distinct segments: (1) property management, acquisition and development; (2) rental operations; and (3) tenant reinsurance. The
Company's property management, acquisition and development activities include managing, acquiring, developing and selling self-storage facilities. On June 2, 2009, the Company
announced the wind-down of its development activities. As of December 31, 2009, there were ten development projects in process that the Company expects to complete in 2010 and 2011.
The rental operations activities include rental operations of self-storage facilities. No single tenant accounts for more than 5% of rental income. Tenant reinsurance activities include
the reinsurance of risks relating to the loss of goods stored by tenants in the Company's self storage facilities.

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Basis of Presentation

The consolidated financial statements are presented on the accrual basis of accounting in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles and include the accounts of the Company and its wholly or majority owned subsidiaries and consolidated variable interest entities. All intercompany balances and transactions have
been eliminated in consolidation.

The
Company accounts for arrangements that are not controlled through voting or similar rights as Variable Interest Entities ("VIE"). An enterprise is required to consolidate a VIE if it
is the primary beneficiary of the VIE. A VIE is created when (i) the equity investment at risk is not sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated
financial support from other parties, or (ii) the entity's equity holders as a group either: (a) lack direct or indirect ability to make



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

decisions
about the entity through voting or similar rights, (b) are not obligated to absorb expected losses of the entity if they occur, or (c) do not have the right to receive expected
residual returns of the entity if they occur. If an entity is deemed to be a VIE, the enterprise that is deemed to absorb a majority of the expected losses or receive a majority of expected residual
returns of the VIE is considered the primary beneficiary and must consolidate the VIE.

The
Company has concluded that under certain circumstances when the Company (1) enters into option agreements for the purchase of land or facilities from an entity and pays a
non-refundable deposit, or (2) enters into arrangements for the formation of joint ventures, a VIE may be created under condition (i), (ii) (b) or (c) of
the previous paragraph. For each VIE created, the Company has considered expected losses and residual returns based on the probability of future cash flows. If the Company is determined to be the
primary beneficiary of the VIE, the assets, liabilities and operations of the VIE are consolidated with the Company's financial statements. Additionally, the Company's Operating Partnership has notes
payable to three trusts that are VIEs under condition (ii) (a) above. Since the Operating Partnership is not the primary beneficiary of the trusts, these VIEs are not consolidated.

The
Company's investments in real estate joint ventures, where the Company has significant influence, but not control, and joint ventures which are VIEs in which the Company is not the
primary beneficiary, are recorded under the equity method of accounting on the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Revisions of Prior Period Numbers for Retroactive Adoption of Certain Accounting Standards

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted certain recently issued accounting standards that required the Company to
retroactively adopt the presentation and disclosure requirements and to revise prior period financial statements as noted in "Recently Issued Accounting Standards" below. The Company also revised the
amounts allocated to its noncontrolling interests in its Operating Partnership and calculated earnings per share accordingly.

Reclassifications

Certain amounts in the 2008 and 2007 financial statements and supporting note disclosures have been reclassified to conform to the
current year presentation. Such reclassifications did not impact previously reported net income or accumulated deficit.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

Fair Value Disclosures

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis

The following table provides information for each major category of assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a
recurring basis:

Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using

Description

December 31, 2009

Quoted Prices in

Active Markets for

Identical Assets

(Level 1)

Significant Other

Observable

Inputs

(Level 2)

Significant

Unobservable

Inputs

(Level 3)

Other liabilities—Swap Agreement 1

$

(340

)

$

—

$

(340

)

$

—

Other liabilities—Swap Agreement 2

(478

)

—

(478

)

—

Other liabilities—Swap Agreement 3

(244

)

—

(244

)

—

Other liabilities—Swap Agreement 4

(49

)

—

(49

)

—

Total

$

(1,111

)

$

—

$

(1,111

)

$

—

The
Company did not have any significant assets or liabilities that are re-measured on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs for the year ended
December 31, 2009. Following is a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances for the Company's investments available for sale, which were the Company's only material assets or
liabilities that were re-measured on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the year ended December 31, 2008:

Balance as of December 31, 2007

$

21,812

Total gains or losses (realized/unrealized)

Included in earnings

(1,415

)

Included in other comprehensive income

1,415

Settlements received in cash

(21,812

)

Balance as of December 31, 2008

$

—

Amount of total gains or losses for the period included in earnings attributable to the change in unrealized gains or losses relating to assets still held
at December 31, 2008

$

—

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis

Long lived assets held for use are evaluated by the Company for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that there may be
impairment. The Company reviews each self-storage facility at least annually to determine if any such events or circumstances have occurred or exist. The Company focuses on facilities
where occupancy and/or rental income have decreased by a significant amount. For these facilities, the Company determines whether the decrease is temporary or permanent and whether the facility will
likely recover the lost occupancy and/or revenue in the short term. In addition, the



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

Company
carefully reviews facilities in the lease-up stage and compares actual operating results to original projections.

When
the Company determines that an event that may indicate impairment has occurred, the Company compares the carrying value of the related long-lived assets to the
undiscounted future net operating cash flows attributable to the assets. An impairment loss is recorded if the net carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future net operating cash flows
attributable to the asset. The impairment loss recognized equals the excess of net carrying value over the related fair value of the asset.

When
real estate assets are identified by management as held for sale, the Company discontinues depreciating the assets and estimates the fair value of the assets, net of selling costs.
If the estimated fair value, net of selling costs, of the assets that have been identified for sale is less than the net carrying value of the assets, then a valuation allowance is established. The
operations of assets held for sale or sold during the period are generally presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented.

The
Company assesses whether there are any indicators that the value of the Company's investments in unconsolidated real estate ventures may be impaired annually and when events or
circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. An investment is impaired if management's estimate of the fair value of the investment is less than its carrying value. To the extent impairment
has occurred, and is considered to be other than temporary using significant unobservable inputs, the loss is measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the fair value of the
investment.

On
June 2, 2009, the Company announced the wind-down of its development activities. As a result of this change, the Company reviewed its properties under construction,
unimproved land and its investment in development joint ventures for potential impairments. This review included the preparation of updated models based on current market conditions, obtaining
appraisals and reviewing recent sales and list prices of undeveloped land and mature self storage facilities. Based on this review, the Company identified certain assets as being impaired. The
impairments relating to long-lived assets where the Company intends to complete the development and hold the asset are the result of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows being less
than the current carrying value of the assets. The Company compared the carrying value of certain undeveloped land and seven vacant condominiums that the Company intends to sell to the fair market
value of similar undeveloped land and condominiums. For the assets that the Company intends to sell, where the current estimated fair market value less costs to sell was below the carrying value, the
Company reduced the carrying value of the asset to the current fair market value less selling costs and recorded an impairment charge. These assets are classified as held for sale. The impairments
relating to investments in development joint ventures are the result of the Company comparing the estimated current fair market value to the carrying value of the investment. For those investments in
development joint ventures where the current estimated fair market value was below the carrying value, the Company reduced the investment to the current fair market value through an impairment charge.
Losses relating to changes in fair value have been included in unrecovered development and acquisition costs on the Company's Statements of Operations.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

The
following table provides information for each major category of assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis:

Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using

Description

December 31, 2009

Quoted Prices in

Active Markets for

Identical Assets

(Level 1)

Significant Other

Observable

Inputs

(Level 2)

Significant

Unobservable

Inputs

(Level 3)

Total Losses

Long-lived assets held and used

$

12,392

$

—

$

—

$

12,392

$

(6,862

)

Investments in real estate ventures

8,619

—

—

8,619

(2,936

)

Real estate assets held for sale included in net real estate assets

11,275

—

—

11,275

(9,085

)

$

32,286

$

—

$

—

$

32,286

$

(18,883

)

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, other financial instruments included in other assets, accounts payable
and accrued expenses, variable rate notes payable, line of credit and other liabilities reflected in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008 approximate fair value. The
fair values of the Company's notes receivable and fixed rate notes payable are as follows:

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Fair

Value

Carrying

Value

Fair

Value

Carrying

Value

Note receivable from Preferred OP unit holder

$

112,740

$

100,000

$

124,024

$

100,000

Fixed rate notes payable and notes payable to trusts

$

1,067,653

$

1,015,063

$

1,062,949

$

937,756

Exchangeable senior notes

$

110,122

$

87,663

$

131,039

$

209,663

Real Estate Assets

Real estate assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Direct and allowable internal costs associated with the
development, construction, renovation, and improvement of real estate assets are capitalized. Interest, property taxes, and other costs associated with development incurred during the construction
period are capitalized. Capitalized interest during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $4,148, $5,506 and $4,555, respectively.

Expenditures
for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Major replacements and betterments that improve or extend the life of the asset are capitalized and
depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the buildings and improvements, which are
generally between five and 39 years.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

In
connection with the Company's acquisition of self-storage facilities, the purchase price is allocated to the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired based
on their fair values, which are estimated using significant unobservable inputs. The value of the tangible assets, consisting of land and buildings, are determined as if vacant, that is, at
replacement cost. Intangible assets, which represent the value of existing tenant relationships, are recorded at their fair values based on the avoided cost to replace the current leases. The Company
measures the value of tenant relationships based on the amount of time required to replace existing customers which is based on the Company's historical experience with turnover in its facilities.
Debt assumed as part of an acquisition is recorded at fair value based on current interest rates compared to contractual rates. Acquisition-related transaction costs incurred after December 31,
2008 have been expensed as incurred.

Intangible
lease rights represent: (1) purchase price amounts allocated to leases on two properties that cannot be classified as ground or building leases; these rights are
amortized to expense over the life of the leases and (2) intangibles related to ground leases on four properties where the leases were assumed by the Company at rates that were lower than the
current market rates for similar leases. The value associated with these assumed leases were recorded as intangibles, which will be amortized over the lease terms.

Investments in Real Estate Ventures

The Company's investments in real estate joint ventures, where the Company has significant influence, but not control and joint
ventures which are VIEs in which the Company is not the primary beneficiary, are recorded under the equity method of accounting in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Under
the equity method, the Company's investment in real estate ventures is stated at cost and adjusted for the Company's share of net earnings or losses and reduced by distributions.
Equity in earnings of real estate ventures is generally recognized based on the Company's ownership interest in the earnings of each of the unconsolidated real estate ventures. For the purposes of
presentation in the
statement of cash flows, the Company follows the "look through" approach for classification of distributions from joint ventures. Under this approach, distributions are reported under operating cash
flow unless the facts and circumstances of a specific distribution clearly indicate that it is a return of capital (e.g., a liquidating dividend or distribution of the proceeds from the joint
venture's sale of assets), in which case it is reported as an investing activity.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

The Company's cash is deposited with financial institutions located throughout the United States of America and at times may exceed
federally insured limits. The Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments with a maturity date of three months or less to be cash equivalents.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

Restricted Cash

Restricted cash is comprised of escrowed funds deposited with financial institutions located in various states relating to earnest
money deposits on potential acquisitions, real estate taxes, insurance, capital expenditures and lease liabilities.

Other Assets

Other assets consist primarily of equipment and fixtures, deferred financing costs, customer accounts receivable, investments in
trusts, other intangible assets, deferred tax assets and prepaid expenses. Depreciation of equipment and fixtures is computed on a straight-line basis over three to five years. Deferred
financing costs are amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the terms of the respective debt agreements.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting
designation. Derivatives used to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability or firm commitment attributable to a particular risk are considered fair value hedges.
Derivatives used to hedge the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows or other types of forecasted transactions are considered cash flow hedges.

For
derivatives designated as fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivative and the hedged item related to the hedged risk are recognized in the statements of
operations. For derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is initially reported in other comprehensive income, outside of
earnings, and subsequently reclassified to earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings.

Risk Management and Use of Financial Instruments

In the normal course of its on-going business operations, the Company encounters economic risk. There are three main
components of economic risk: interest rate risk, credit risk and market risk. The Company is subject to interest rate risk on its interest-bearing liabilities. Credit risk is the risk of inability or
unwillingness of tenants to make contractually required payments. Market risk is the risk of declines in the value of properties due to changes in rental rates, interest rates or other market factors
affecting the value of properties held by the Company. The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to manage a portion of its interest rate risk.

Conversion of Operating Partnership Units

Conversions of Operating Partnership units to common stock, when converted under the original provisions of the Operating Partnership
agreement, are accounted for by reclassifying the underlying net book value of the units from noncontrolling interest to the Company's equity. The difference between the fair value of the
consideration paid and the adjustment to the carrying amount of the noncontrolling interest is recognized as additional paid in capital for the Company.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

Revenue and Expense Recognition

Rental revenues are recognized as earned based upon amounts that are currently due from tenants. Leases are generally on
month-to-month terms. Prepaid rents are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases. Promotional discounts are recognized as a reduction to
rental income over the promotional period. Late charges, administrative fees, merchandise sales and truck rentals are recognized as income when earned. Management and franchise fee revenues are
recognized monthly as services are performed and in accordance with the terms of the related management agreements. Tenant reinsurance premiums are recognized as revenue over the period of insurance
coverage. Equity in earnings of real estate entities is recognized based on our ownership interest in the earnings of each of the unconsolidated real estate entities. Interest income is recognized as
earned.

Property
expenses, including utilities, property taxes, repairs and maintenance and other costs to manage the facilities are recognized as incurred. The Company accrues for property tax
expense based upon invoice amounts, estimates and historical trends. If these estimates are incorrect, the timing of expense recognition could be affected.

Real Estate Sales

In general, sales of real estate and related profits/losses are recognized when all consideration has changed hands and risks and
rewards of ownership have been transferred. Certain types of continuing involvement preclude sale treatment and related profit recognition; other forms of continuing involvement allow for sale
recognition but require deferral of profit recognition.

Advertising Costs

The Company incurs advertising costs primarily attributable to directory, direct mail, internet and other advertising. Direct response
advertising costs are deferred and amortized over the expected benefit period determined to be 12 months. All other advertising costs are expensed as incurred. The Company recognized $5,892,
$5,935 and $5,003 in advertising expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Income Taxes

The Company has elected to be treated as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. In order to
maintain its qualification as a REIT, among other things, the Company is required to distribute at least 90% of its REIT taxable income to its stockholders and meet certain tests regarding the nature
of its income and assets. As a REIT, the Company is not subject to federal income tax with respect to that portion of its income which meets certain criteria and is distributed annually to
stockholders. The Company plans to continue to operate so that it meets the requirements for taxation as a REIT. Many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. If the Company
were to fail to meet these requirements, it would be subject to federal income tax. The Company is subject to certain state and local taxes. Provision for such taxes has been included in income tax
expense on the Company's consolidated statements of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2009, 0% (unaudited) of all distributions to stockholders qualifies as a return of capital.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

The
Company has elected to treat one of its corporate subsidiaries, Extra Space Management, Inc., as a taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS"). In general, the Company's TRS may perform
additional services for tenants and generally may engage in any real estate or non-real estate related business (except for the operation or management of health care facilities or any
lodging facilities or the provision to any person, under a franchise, license or otherwise, of rights to any brand name under which lodging facility or health care facility is operated). A TRS is
subject to corporate federal income tax.

Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, there
were no material unrecognized
tax benefits. Interest and penalties relating to uncertain tax positions will be recognized in income tax expense when incurred. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had no interest or
penalties related to uncertain tax provisions.

Stock-Based Compensation

The measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards to employees and directors are based on
estimated fair values. Awards granted are valued at fair value and any compensation element is recognized on a straight line basis over the service periods of each award.

Net Income Per Share

Basic earnings per common share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average common shares outstanding including unvested
share based payment awards that contain a non-forfeitable right to dividends or dividend equivalents. Diluted earnings per common share measures the performance of the Company over the
reporting period while giving effect to all potential common shares that were dilutive and outstanding during the period. The denominator includes the weighted average number of basic shares and the
number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potential common shares that were dilutive had been issued and is calculated using either the treasury stock or
if-converted method. Potential common shares are securities (such as options, warrants, convertible debt, Contingent Conversion Shares ("CCSs"), Contingent Conversion Units ("CCUs"),
exchangeable Series A Participating Redeemable Preferred Operating Partnership units ("Preferred OP units") and exchangeable Operating Partnership units ("OP units")) that do not have a current
right to participate in earnings but could do so in the future by virtue of their option or conversion right. In computing the dilutive effect of convertible securities, net income is adjusted to add
back any changes in earnings in the period associated with the convertible security. The numerator also is adjusted for the effects of any other non-discretionary changes in income or loss
that would result from the assumed conversion of those potential common shares. In computing diluted earnings per share, only potential common shares that are dilutive, those that reduce earnings per
share, are included.

The
Company's Operating Partnership has $87,663 of exchangeable senior notes issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2009 that also can potentially have a dilutive effect on its
earnings per share calculations. The exchangeable senior notes are exchangeable by holders into shares of the



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

Company's
common stock under certain circumstances per the terms of the indenture governing the exchangeable senior notes. The exchangeable senior notes are not exchangeable unless the price of the
Company's common stock is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable exchange price for a specified period during a quarter, or unless certain other events occur. The exchange price was $23.45
per share at December 31, 2009, and could change over time as described in the indenture. The price of the Company's common stock did not exceed 130% of the exchange price for the specified
period of time during the fourth quarter of 2009; therefore holders of the exchangeable senior notes may not elect to convert them during the first quarter of 2010.

The
Company has irrevocably agreed to pay only cash for the accreted principal amount of the exchangeable senior notes relative to its exchange obligations, but has retained the right to
satisfy the exchange obligations in excess of the accreted principal amount in cash and/or common stock. Though the Company has retained that right, Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 260,
formerly Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement No. 128, "

Earnings Per Share ("FAS 128"),"

requires an assumption that
shares will be used to pay the exchange obligations in excess of the accreted principal amount, and requires that those shares be included in the Company's calculation of weighted average common
shares outstanding for the diluted earnings per share computation. No shares were included in the computation at December 31, 2009, 2008 or 2007 because there was no excess over the accreted
principal for the period.

For
the purposes of computing the diluted impact on earnings per share of the potential conversion of Preferred OP units into common shares, where the Company has the option to redeem in
cash or shares and where the Company has stated the positive intent and ability to settle at least $115,000 of the instrument in cash (or net settle a portion of the Preferred OP units against the
related outstanding note receivable), only the amount of the instrument in excess of $115,000 is considered in the calculation of shares contingently issuable for the purposes of computing diluted
earnings per share as allowed by paragraph 29 of FAS 128 (ASC 260-10-45-46).

For
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, options to purchase approximately 4,925,153 shares, 1,870,423 shares and 287,240 shares of common stock, respectively, were
excluded from the computation of earnings per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. All restricted stock grants have been included in basic and diluted shares outstanding
because such shares earn a non-forfeitable dividend and carry voting rights.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

The
computation of net income per share is as follows:

For the Year Ended December 31,




Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

31,977

$

35,781

$

30,219

Add: Income allocated to noncontrolling interest—Preferred Operating Partnership and Operating Partnership

8,012

8,444

3,843

Subtract: Fixed component of income allocated to noncontrolling interest—Preferred Operating Partnership

(5,750

)

(5,751

)

(1,438

)

Net income for diluted computations

$

34,239

$

38,474

$

32,624

Weighted average common shares outstanding:

Average number of common shares outstanding—basic

86,343,029

76,996,754

64,900,713

Operating Partnership units

3,627,368

4,264,968

4,050,588

Preferred Operating Partnership units

989,980

989,980

989,980

Dilutive and cancelled stock options and CCS/CCU conversions

122,457

101,286

774,359

Average number of common shares outstanding—diluted

91,082,834

82,352,988

70,715,640

Net income per common share

Basic

$

0.37

$

0.46

$

0.47

Diluted

$

0.37

$

0.46

$

0.46

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 157,

"Fair Value Measurements"

(ASC 820), which defines fair value, establishes guidelines for measuring fair value and expands disclosures regarding fair value measurement. This guidance applies under other accounting
pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements, and does not require any new fair value measurements. The Company adopted this guidance for financial assets and liabilities effective
January 1, 2008 and for non-financial assets and liabilities effective January 1, 2009. In April 2009, the FASB issued the following updates that provide additional
application guidance and enhance disclosures regarding fair value measurements and impairments of securities:

•

FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157-4, "

Determining Fair Value When the Volume and
Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly

" (ASC 820-10-65). This
update provides guidance for estimating fair value when the



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

volume
and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly decreased and identifying circumstances that may indicate that a transaction is not orderly. It reaffirms the need to
exercise judgment to ascertain if a formerly active market has become inactive and in determining fair values when markets have become inactive.

•

FASB Staff Position No. FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1, "

Interim
Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments"

(ASC 320-10-65). This update requires disclosures about the fair value of financial instruments
for interim reporting periods of publicly traded companies as well as in annual financial statements. In addition, it requires the disclosures in summarized financial information at interim reporting
periods. Companies will also be required to disclose the method and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value of financial instruments and describe any changes in the methods or
methodology occurring during the period.

The
Company adopted these updates effective June 30, 2009 and has applied the guidance to all periods presented.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued revised Statement No. 141, "

Business Combinations"

("FAS 141(R)") (ASC 805). This
guidance establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer in a business combination recognizes and measures in its financial statements the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Generally, assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a transaction are recorded at the acquisition-date fair value with limited exceptions. The guidance also changed the accounting
treatment and disclosure for certain specific items in a business combination. The Company adopted this guidance for all acquisitions subsequent to January 1, 2009.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 160, "

Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements—An Amendment of ARB
No. 51"

(ASC 810-10-65) ("FAS 160"). This guidance establishes new accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a
subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. It also requires a company to clearly identify and present ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the company in the
consolidated financial statements within the equity section but separate from the company's equity. In addition, the guidance also requires the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the
parent and to the noncontrolling interest to be clearly identified and presented on the face of the consolidated statement of operations and requires changes
in ownership interest to be accounted for similarly as equity transactions. If noncontrolling interests are determined to be redeemable, they are to be carried at the higher of (a) their
carrying value or (b) their redeemable value as of the balance sheet date and reported as temporary equity. The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2009, and has applied
it to all periods presented.

In
March 2008, the FASB issued Statement No. 161,

"Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,"

an amendment
of FASB Statement No. 133,

"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities"

(ASC 815). This guidance changes the disclosure
requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities. Entities are required to provide enhanced disclosures stating how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative
instruments and related hedged items are accounted for; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity's financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The Company
adopted this guidance effective



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

January 1,
2009 and expanded the disclosures relating to derivative instruments included in its consolidated financial statements.

In
May 2008, the FASB issued Statement of Position No. APB 14-1, "

Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon
Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)"

("FSP APB 14-1") (ASC 470-20-65). Under this guidance, entities with convertible debt
instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion should separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer's
economic interest cost. The effect of the adoption on the Company's exchangeable senior notes is that the equity component is included in the paid-in-capital section of
stockholders' equity on the consolidated balance sheet and the value of the equity component is treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component. The original issue
discount is amortized over the period of the debt as additional interest expense. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and for interim periods within
those fiscal years, with retrospective application required. The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2009 and has applied it to all periods presented.

In
April 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position No. 142-3,

"Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets"

(ASC
350-30). This guidance amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used in determining the useful life of a recognized intangible asset.
This new guidance applies prospectively to intangible assets that are acquired individually or with a group of other assets in business combinations and asset acquisitions. This guidance is effective
for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2008 and has been adopted by the Company for all acquisitions subsequent to January 1, 2009.

In
June 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position EITF 03-6-1,

"Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment
Transactions Are Participating Securities,"

(ASC 260-10). This guidance provides that unvested share-based payment awards that contain
non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and shall be included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to
the two-class method as described in FASB Statement No. 128,

"Earnings per Share"

(ASC 260). This guidance is effective for financial
statements issued for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and the Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2009 and has applied it to all periods presented.

In
May 2009, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 165, "

Subsequent Events"

(ASC 855). This guidance is
intended to establish general standards of accounting for and disclosures of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are issued or are available to be
issued. This guidance requires disclosure of the date through which an entity has evaluated subsequent events and the basis for selecting this date, that is, whether this date represents the date the
financial statements were issued or were available to be issued. The Company adopted this guidance effective April 1, 2009.

On
June 30, 2009, the FASB issued Statement No. 168,

"The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles—a replacement of FASB Statement No. 162" (

ASC 105-10-05

).

The standard
establishes the FASB Codification (the



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

"Codification")
as the source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with
GAAP. The Codification is effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The Company adopted the Codification effective
September 30, 2009 and has included the references to the Codification, as appropriate, in these consolidated financial statements.

3. REAL ESTATE ASSETS

The components of real estate assets are summarized as follows:

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Land—operating

$

501,674

$

461,883

Land—development

32,635

64,392

Buildings and improvements

1,675,340

1,555,598

Intangible assets—tenant relationships

33,463

33,234

Intangible lease rights

6,150

6,150

2,249,262

2,121,257

Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization

(233,830

)

(182,335

)

Net operating real estate assets

2,015,432

1,938,922

Real estate under development

34,427

58,734

Net real estate assets

$

2,049,859

$

1,997,656

Real estate assets held for sale included in net real estate assets

$

11,275

$

—

The
Company amortizes to expense intangible assets—tenant relationships on a straight-line basis over the average period that a tenant is expected to utilize the
facility (currently estimated at 18 months). The Company amortizes to expense the intangible lease rights over the terms of the related leases. Amortization related to the tenant relationships
and lease rights was $1,905, $4,760 and $4,213 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The remaining balance of the unamortized lease rights will be amortized over
the next 8 to 52 years.

On
April 10, 2009, the Company sold vacant land in Los Angeles, California for cash of $4,652. A loss of $343 was recorded as a result of this sale, and is included in unrecovered
development and acquisition costs in the consolidated statement of operations.

On
June 19, 2008, the Company sold an undeveloped parcel of vacant land in Antelope, California for its book value of $340. There was no gain or loss recognized on the sale.

On
August 3, 2007, the Company sold an undeveloped parcel of vacant land in Kendall, Florida for its book value of $1,999. There was no gain or loss recognized on the sale.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

4. PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS

The following table shows the Company's acquisition of operating properties for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 and does not include purchases of raw land or
improvements made to existing assets:

Consideration Paid

Acquisition Date Fair Value

Property Location

Number of

Properties

Date of

Acquisition

Total

Paid

Cash

Paid

Net

Liabilities/

(Assets)

Assumed

Value of

OP Units

Issued

Number of

OP Units

Issued

Land

Building

Intangible

Closing

costs—

expensed

Source of Acquisition

Georgia


11/12/2009

$

5,731

$

5,749

$

(18

)

$

—

—

$

1,958

$

3,625

$


$


Unrelated third party

Virginia


1/23/2009

7,425

7,438

(13

)

—

—

2,076

5,175



Unrelated franchisee

Colorado


11/25/2008

5,916

5,851


—

—

1,525

4,299


—

Unrelated third party

Indiana


10/31/2008

5,269

4,357



81,050

1,898

3,282


—

Unrelated third party

Indiana


10/10/2008

18,366

15,086


2,761

189,356

3,076

15,063


—

Unrelated third party

New York


10/2/2008

27,562

27,468


—

—

15,219

11,989


—

Unrelated third party

Maryland


9/17/2008

5,050

5,049


—

—

1,869

3,050


—

Unrelated third party

Florida


6/19/2008

10,394

10,317


—

—

3,638

6,590


—

Unrelated third party

California


5/2/2008

7,500

7,515

(15

)

—

—

2,994

4,506

—

—

Unrelated third party

5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES

Investments in real estate ventures at December 31, 2009 and 2008 consist of the following:

Investment balance at

Equity

Ownership %

Excess Profit

Participation %

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Extra Space West One LLC ("ESW")


%


%

$

1,175

$

1,492

Extra Space West Two LLC ("ESW II")


%


%

4,749

4,874

Extra Space Northern Properties Six LLC ("ESNPS")


%


%

1,388

1,482

Extra Space of Santa Monica LLC ("ESSM")


%


%

2,419

3,225

Clarendon Storage Associates Limited Partnership ("Clarendon")


%


%

3,245

3,318

PRISA Self Storage LLC ("PRISA")


%


%

11,907

12,460

PRISA II Self Storage LLC ("PRISA II")


%


%

10,239

10,431

PRISA III Self Storage LLC ("PRISA III")


%


%

3,793

4,118

VRS Self Storage LLC ("VRS")


%


%

45,579

47,488

WCOT Self Storage LLC ("WCOT")


%


%

4,983

5,229

Storage Portfolio I LLC ("SP I")


%


%

16,049

17,471

Storage Portfolio Bravo II ("SPB II")


%

25 - 45

%

15,104

14,168

U-Storage de Mexico S.A. and related entities ("U-Storage")

35 - 40

%

35 - 40

%

6,166

9,205

Other minority owned properties

10 - 50

%

10 - 50

%

3,653

1,830

$

130,449

$

136,791

In
these joint ventures, the Company and the joint venture partner generally receive a preferred return on their invested capital. To the extent that cash/profits in excess of these
preferred returns are



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES (Continued)

generated
through operations or capital transactions, the Company would receive a higher percentage of the excess cash/profits than its equity interest.

On
July 1, 2008, the Company purchased an additional 40.0% interest in VRS Self Storage LLC from Prudential Real Estate Investors for cash of $44,100, resulting in an
increase in the Company's total interest in the joint venture from 5.0% to 45.0%.

Equity
in earnings of real estate ventures for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 consists of the following:

For the Year Ended

December 31,




Equity in earnings of ESW

$

1,164

$

1,333

$

1,490

Equity in earnings (losses) of ESW II

(24

)

(57

)

—

Equity in earnings of ESNPS




Equity in earnings (losses) of ESSM

(113

)

—

—

Equity in earnings of Clarendon



—

Equity in earnings of PRISA




Equity in earnings of PRISA II




Equity in earnings of PRISA III




Equity in earnings of VRS

2,116

1,363


Equity in earnings of WCOT




Equity in earnings of SP I


1,211

1,099

Equity in earnings of SPB II




Equity in earnings (losses) of U-Storage


(64

)

(301

)

Equity in earnings (losses) of other minority owned properties



(149

)

$

6,964

$

6,932

$

5,300

Equity
in earnings (losses) of ESW II, SP I and SPB II includes the amortization of the Company's excess purchase price of $25,713 of these equity investments over its original basis.
The excess basis is amortized over 40 years.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES (Continued)

Information
(unaudited) related to the real estate ventures' debt at December 31, 2009 is set forth below:

Loan

Amount

Current

Interest Rate

Debt

Maturity

ESW—Fixed

$

16,650

4.59

%

July 2010

ESW II—Fixed

20,000

5.48

%

March 2012

ESNPS—Fixed

34,500

5.27

%

June 2015

ESSM—Variable

10,394

3.19

%

November 2011

Clarendon—Swapped to fixed

8,500

5.93

%

September 2018

PRISA

—

—

Unleveraged

PRISA II

—

—

Unleveraged

PRISA III—Fixed

145,000

4.97

%

August 2012

VRS—Fixed

52,100

4.76

%

August 2012

WCOT—Fixed

92,140

4.76

%

August 2012

SPB II—Fixed

60,085

8.00

%

August 2014

SP I—Fixed

115,000

4.62

%

April 2011

U-Storage

—

—

Unleveraged

Other minority owned properties

119,270

various

various

Combined,
condensed unaudited financial information of ESW, ESW II, ESNPS, PRISA, PRISA II, PRISA III, VRS, WCOT, SP I and SPB II as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 and for
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, follows:

December 31,

Balance Sheets:



Assets:

Net real estate assets

$

1,977,184

$

2,041,268

Other

33,120

34,775

$

2,010,304

$

2,076,043

Liabilities and members' equity:

Notes Payable

$

535,475

$

542,790

Other liabilities

27,547

33,264

Members' equity

1,447,282

1,499,989

$

2,010,304

$

2,076,043



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES (Continued)

For the Year Ended December 31,

Statements of Income:




Rents and other income

$

282,181

$

295,824

$

294,395

Expenses

195,330

197,926

195,776

Net income

$

86,851

$

97,898

$

98,619

Variable Interests in Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures:

The Company has an interest in one unconsolidated joint venture with an unrelated third party ("Eastern Avenue") which is a variable
interest entity. The Company holds a 10% equity interest in Eastern Avenue, but has 50% of the voting rights. Qualification as a VIE was based on the disproportionate voting and ownership percentages.
The Company performed a probability-based cash flow analysis for this joint venture to determine which party was the primary beneficiary of the VIE. This analysis was performed using the Company's
best estimates of the future cash flows based on its historical experience with numerous similar assets. As a result of this analysis, the Company determined that it was not the primary beneficiary of
Eastern Avenue as the Company does not receive a majority of the venture's expected residual returns or bear a majority of the expected losses. Accordingly, this interest is accounted for using the
equity method.

Eastern
Avenue owns a single pre-stabilized self-storage property. This joint venture is financed through a combination of (1) equity contributions from
the Company and its
joint venture partners, (2) mortgage notes payable and (3) payables to the Company for working capital. The payables to the Company are generally amounts owed for expenses paid on behalf
of the joint venture by the Company as manager. The Company performs management services for the Eastern Avenue joint venture in exchange for a management fee of approximately 6% of the gross rental
revenues generated by the property. The Company's joint venture partner can replace the Company as manager of the property upon written notice. The Company has not provided financial or other support
during the periods presented to Eastern Avenue that it was not previously contractually obligated to provide.

As
of December 31, 2009, there was no amount related to Eastern Avenue included in Investments in Real Estate on its consolidated balance sheet. No liability was recorded
associated with the Company's guarantee of the construction loan of Eastern Avenue. The Company's maximum exposure to loss for this venture as of December 31, 2009 is the total of the
guaranteed loan balance, the payable to the Company and the Company's investment balances in the joint venture. The Company believes that the risk of incurring a loss as a result of having to perform
on the guarantee is remote and therefore no liability has been recorded. Also, repossessing and/or selling the self-storage facility and land that collateralize the loan could provide
funds sufficient to reimburse the Company. Additionally, the Company believes the payables to the Company are collectible.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES (Continued)

The
following table compares the liability balances and the maximum exposure to loss related to Eastern Avenue as of December 31, 2009:

Liability

Balance

Investment

balance

Balance of

Guaranteed

loan

Payables to

Company

Maximum

exposure

to loss

Difference

Eastern Avenue

$

—

$

—

$

5,412

$

1,622

$

7,034

$

(7,034

)

Variable Interests in Consolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures

The Company has variable interests in five consolidated joint ventures with third parties (the "VIE JVs") which are VIEs. The VIE JVs
are financed through a combination of (1) equity contributions from the Company and its joint venture partners, (2) mortgage notes payable and (3) payables to the Company for
working capital. The payables to the Company are generally amounts owed for expenses paid on behalf of the joint ventures by the Company as manager. The Company owns 10% to 72% of the common equity
interests in the VIE JVs. The Company performed probability-based cash flow projections for each venture using the Company's best estimates of future revenues and expenses based on historical
experience with numerous similar assets. According to these
analyses, the joint ventures were determined to be VIEs based on an assessment that the equity financing was inadequate to support operations. The Company was also determined to be the primary
beneficiary of each of the VIE JVs, as it receives the majority of the benefits and bears the majority of the expected losses of each as a result of its majority ownership and the management
agreements. Therefore, each of the VIE JVs are consolidated with the assets and liabilities of each joint venture included in the Company's consolidated financial statements, with intercompany
balances and transactions eliminated.

In
July 2009, the Company purchased a lender's interest in a note payable to a joint venture that owns a single property located in Chicago, IL. The note was to Extra Space of Montrose,
a joint venture in which the Company owns a 10% interest, and was guaranteed by the Company. This joint venture was considered a nonconsolidated VIE as of December 31, 2008. The Company
considers the purchase of this loan to be a reconsideration event and has determined that the Company now bears the majority of the risk of loss for the joint venture. As a result of this loan
purchase by the Company, the joint venture is now a consolidated VIE JV. The assets and liabilities were recorded at fair value upon consolidation.

In
January 2009, the Company purchased a lender's interest in a construction loan to a joint venture that owns a single property located in Sacramento, CA. The construction loan was to
ESS of Sacramento One LLC, a joint venture in which the Company owns a 50% interest, and was guaranteed by the Company. This joint venture was not consolidated and was not considered a VIE JV
as of December 31, 2008. The Company considers the purchase of this loan to be a reconsideration event and has determined that the Company now bears a majority of the risk of loss for the joint
venture. As a result of this loan purchase by the Company, the joint venture is now a consolidated VIE JV. The assets and liabilities were recorded at fair value upon consolidation.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES (Continued)

The
Company performs development services for ESS of Plantation LLC in exchange for a development fee of 1% of budgeted costs. The Company performs management services for Extra
Space of Montrose Avenue, LLC, ESS of Sacramento One LLC, ES of Washington Avenue LLC and ES of Franklin Blvd LLC in exchange for a management fee of approximately 6% of
cash collected by the properties.

The
table below illustrates the financing of each of the VIE JVs as well as the carrying amounts of the related assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2009:

Joint Venture

Equity

Ownership %

Excess

Profit

Participation %

Total

Assets

Notes

Payable

Payables

to Company

(eliminated)

Payables and

Other

Liabilities

Company's

Equity

(eliminated)

JV Partners'

Equity (non-

controlling interest)

Extra Space of Montrose Avenue LLC


%


%

$

8,481

$

—

$

8,572

$


$

(46

)

$

(250

)

ESS of Sacramento One LLC


%


%

10,191

5,000

5,289


(614

)


ES of Washington Avenue LLC


%


%

10,020

5,900

2,789




ES of Franklin Blvd LLC


%


%

7,002

5,188

2,166

—

(176

)

(176

)

ESS of Plantation LLC


%


%

2,137

—



1,472


$

37,831

$

16,088

$

18,872

$


$

1,278

$

1,262

Except as disclosed above, the Company has not provided financial or other support during the periods presented to these VIEs that it was not
previously contractually obligated to provide. The Company has guaranteed the notes payable for these VIEs with the exception of ESS of Plantation LLC and Extra Space of Montrose
Avenue LLC, which have no note payable. If the joint ventures default on the loans, the Company may be forced to repay its portion of the balance owed. However, repossessing and/or selling the
self-storage facilities and land that collateralize the loans could provide funds sufficient to reimburse the Company, and the Company believes that the risk of having to perform on the
guarantees is remote.

6. INVESTMENTS AVAILABLE FOR SALE

The Company has accounted for securities classified as "available for sale" at fair value. Adjustments to the fair value of available for sale securities were recorded as a component of
other comprehensive income. A decline in the market value of investment securities below cost, that was deemed to be other than temporary, resulted in a reduction in the carrying amount to fair value.
The impairment was charged to earnings and a new cost basis for the security was established. The Company's investments available for sale have generally consisted of non mortgage-backed auction rate
securities ("ARS"). ARS are generally long-term debt instruments that provide liquidity through a Dutch auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at
pre-determined calendar intervals, generally every 28 days. This mechanism allows existing investors to rollover their holdings and continue to own their respective securities or
liquidate their holdings by selling their securities at par.

At
December 31, 2007, the Company had $24,460 invested in non mortgage- backed ARS. Uncertainties in the credit markets had prevented the Company and other investors from
liquidating the holdings of auction rate securities in auctions for these securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale exceeded the amount of purchase orders. As a result, during the
year ended



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

6. INVESTMENTS AVAILABLE FOR SALE (Continued)

December 31,
2007, the Company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $1,233 and a temporary impairment charge of $1,415, which reduced the carrying value
of the Company's investments in ARS to an estimated fair value of $21,812 as of December 31, 2007. On February 29, 2008, the Company liquidated its holdings of ARS for $21,812 in cash.
As a result of this settlement, the Company recognized $1,415 of the amount that was previously classified as a temporary impairment as a loss on sale of investments available for sale through
earnings. The Company has not had investments in ARS since March 1, 2008.

7. OTHER ASSETS

The components of other assets are summarized as follows:

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Equipment and fixtures

$

11,836

$

10,671

Less: accumulated depreciation

(9,046

)

(7,309

)

Other intangible assets

3,303

3,296

Deferred financing costs, net

15,458

12,330

Prepaid expenses and deposits

5,173

5,828

Accounts receivable, net

15,086

11,120

Fair value of interest rate swaps

—


Investments in Trusts

3,590

3,590

Deferred tax asset

5,576

2,403

$

50,976

$

42,576



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

8. NOTES PAYABLE

The components of notes payable are summarized as follows:

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Fixed Rate

Mortgage and construction loans with banks (including loans subject to interest rate swaps) bearing interest at fixed rates between 4.24% and 7.30%. The
loans are collateralized by mortgages on real estate assets and the assignment of rents. Principal and interest payments are made monthly with all outstanding principal and interest due between March 2010 and August 2019.

$

895,473

$

818,166

Variable Rate

Mortgage and construction loans with banks bearing floating interest rates (including loans subject to reverse interest rate swaps) based on LIBOR and
Prime. Interest rates based on LIBOR are between LIBOR plus 1.45% (1.68% and 1.89% at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 respectively) and LIBOR plus 4.0% (4.23% and 4.44% at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008,
respectively). Interest rates based on Prime are at Prime plus 1.50% (4.75% and 4.75% at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively). The loans are collateralized by mortgages on real estate assets and the assignment of rents.
Principal and interest payments are made monthly with all outstanding principal and interest due between August 2010 and December 2015.

204,120

125,432

$

1,099,593

$

943,598

The
following table summarizes the scheduled maturities of notes payable at December 31, 2009:


$

179,068


113,369


41,476


85,441


201,763

Thereafter

478,476

$

1,099,593

Certain
real estate assets are pledged as collateral for the notes payable. The Company is subject to certain restrictive covenants relating to the outstanding notes payable. The Company
was in compliance with all financial covenants at December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009 $410,930 of the Company's notes payable have been guaranteed by the Company.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

9. DERIVATIVES

GAAP requires the recognition of all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. The accounting for changes in fair value of a derivative
instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and further, on the type of hedging relationship. A company must designate each qualifying hedging
instrument, based upon the exposure being hedged, as a fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in foreign operation.

The
Company is exposed to certain risks relating to its ongoing business operations. The primary risk managed by using derivative instruments is interest rate risk. Interest rate swaps
are entered into to manage interest rate risk associated with Company's fixed and variable-rate borrowings. The Company designates certain interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges of
variable-rate borrowings and the remainder as fair value hedges of fixed-rate borrowings.

The
following table summarizes the terms of the Company's derivative financial instruments:

Hedge Product

Hedge Type

Notional Amount

Strike

Effective Date

Maturity

Reverse Swap Agreement

Fair Value

$

61,770

LIBOR plus 0.65%

10/31/2004

6/1/2009

Swap Agreement 1

Cash Flow

$

63,000

4.24%

2/1/2009

6/30/2013

Swap Agreement 2

Cash Flow

$

26,000

6.32%

7/1/2009

7/1/2014

Swap Agreement 3

Cash Flow

$

8,462

6.98%

7/27/2009

6/27/2016

Swap Agreement 4

Cash Flow

$

10,000

6.12%

11/2/2009

11/1/2014

Monthly
interest payments were recognized as an increase or decrease in interest expense as follows:

For the Year Ended

December 31,

Classification of

Income (Expense)

Type




Reverse Swap Agreement

Interest expense

$


$


$

(1,032

)

Swap Agreement 1

Interest expense

(923

)

—

—

Swap Agreement 2

Interest expense

(309

)

—

—

Swap Agreement 3

Interest expense

(126

)

—

—

Swap Agreement 4

Interest expense

(21

)

—

—

$

(463

)

$


$

(1,032

)



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

9. DERIVATIVES (Continued)

Information
relating to the losses recognized on the swap agreements is as follows:

Gain (loss)

recognized in

OCI

Gain (loss)

reclassified from

OCI

Location of

amounts

reclassified from

OCI into income

Type

For the Year Ended

December 31, 2009

For the Year Ended

December 31, 2009

Swap Agreement 1

$

(340

)

Interest expense

$

(923

)

Swap Agreement 2

(478

)

Interest expense

(309

)

Swap Agreement 3

(244

)

Interest expense

(126

)

Swap Agreement 4

(49

)

Interest expense

(21

)

$

(1,111

)

$

(1,379

)

The
Swap Agreements were highly effective for the year ended December 31, 2009. The gain (loss) reclassified from OCI in the preceding table represents the effective portion of
our cash flow hedges reclassified from OCI to interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2009.

The
balance sheet classification and carrying amounts of the interest rate swaps are as follows:

Asset (Liability) Derivatives

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Derivatives designated as

hedging instruments:

Balance Sheet

Location

Fair

Value

Balance Sheet

Location

Fair

Value

Reverse Swap Agreement (expired 6/1/2009)

n/a

$

—

Other assets

$


Swap Agreement 1

Other liabilities

(340

)

n/a

—

Swap Agreement 2

Other liabilities

(478

)

n/a

—

Swap Agreement 3

Other liabilities

(244

)

n/a

—

Swap Agreement 4

Other liabilities

(49

)

$

(1,111

)

$


10. NOTES PAYABLE TO TRUSTS

During July 2005, ESS Statutory Trust III (the "Trust III"), a newly formed Delaware statutory trust and a wholly-owned, unconsolidated subsidiary of the Operating Partnership, issued an
aggregate of $40,000 of preferred securities which mature on July 31, 2035. In addition, the Trust III issued 1,238 of Trust common securities to the Operating Partnership for a purchase price
of $1,238. On July 27, 2005, the proceeds from the sale of the preferred and common securities of $41,238 were loaned in the form of a note to the Operating Partnership ("Note 3").
Note 3 has a fixed rate of 6.91% through July 31, 2010, and then will be payable at a variable rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.40% per annum. The interest on Note 3,
payable quarterly, will be used by the Trust III to pay dividends on the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities may be redeemed by the Trust with no prepayment premium after
July 27, 2010.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

10. NOTES PAYABLE TO TRUSTS (Continued)

During
May 2005, ESS Statutory Trust II (the "Trust II"), a newly formed Delaware statutory trust and a wholly-owned, unconsolidated subsidiary of the Operating Partnership of the
Company, issued an aggregate of $41,000 of preferred securities which mature on June 30, 2035. In addition, the Trust II issued 1,269 of Trust common securities to the Operating Partnership for
a purchase price of $1,269. On May 24, 2005, the proceeds from the sale of the preferred and common securities of $42,269 were loaned in the form of a note to the Operating Partnership
("Note 2"). Note 2 has a fixed rate of 6.67% through June 30, 2010, and then will be payable at a variable rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus
2.40% per annum. The interest on Note 2, payable quarterly, will be used by the Trust II to pay dividends on the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities may be redeemed by
the Trust with no prepayment premium after June 30, 2010.

During
April 2005, ESS Statutory Trust I (the "Trust"), a newly formed Delaware statutory trust and a wholly-owned, unconsolidated subsidiary of the Operating Partnership of the Company
issued an aggregate of $35,000 of trust preferred securities which mature on June 30, 2035. In addition, the Trust issued 1,083 of Trust common securities to the Operating Partnership for a
purchase price of $1,083. On April 8, 2005, the proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred and common securities of $36,083 were loaned in the form of a note to the Operating Partnership
(the "Note"). The Note has a variable rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.25% per annum. The interest on the Note, payable quarterly, will be used by the Trust to pay dividends on the trust
preferred securities. The trust preferred securities may be redeemed by the Trust with no prepayment premium after June 30, 2010.

Trust,
Trust II and Trust III are VIEs because the holders of the equity investment at risk (the trust preferred securities) do not have adequate decision making ability over the trusts'
activities because of their lack of voting or similar rights. Because the Operating Partnership's investment in the trusts' common securities was financed directly by the trusts as a result of its
loan of the proceeds to the Operating Partnership, that investment is not considered to be an equity investment at risk. The Operating Partnership's investment in the trusts is not a variable interest
because equity interests are variable interests only to the extent that the investment is considered to be at risk, and therefore the Operating Partnership cannot be the primary beneficiary of the
trusts. Since the Company is not the primary beneficiary of the trusts, they have not been consolidated. A debt obligation has been recorded in the form of notes as discussed above for the proceeds,
which are owed to the Trust, Trust II, and Trust III by the Company. The Company has also recorded its investment in the trusts' common securities as other assets.

The
Company has not provided financing or other support during the periods presented to the trusts that it was not previously contractually obligated to provide. The Company's maximum
exposure to loss as a result of its involvement with the trusts is equal to the total amount of the notes discussed above less the amounts of the Company's investments in the trusts' common
securities. The net amount is the notes payable that the trusts owe to third parties for their investments in the trusts' preferred securities. Following is a tabular comparison of the carrying
amounts of the liabilities the Company has



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

10. NOTES PAYABLE TO TRUSTS (Continued)

recorded
as a result of its involvements with the trusts to the maximum exposure to loss the Company is subject to related to the trusts as of December 31, 2009:

Notes payable

to Trusts as of

December 31, 2009

Maximum

exposure to loss

Difference

Trust

$

36,083

$

35,000

$

1,083

Trust II

42,269

41,000

1,269

Trust III

41,238

40,000

1,238

$

119,590

$

116,000

$

3,590

As
noted above, these differences represent the amounts that the Trusts would repay the Company for its investment in the trusts' common securities.

11. EXCHANGEABLE SENIOR NOTES

On March 27, 2007, the Company's Operating Partnership issued $250,000 of its 3.625% Exchangeable Senior Notes due April 1, 2027 (the "Notes"). Costs incurred to issue the
Notes were approximately $5,700. These costs are being amortized as an adjustment to interest expense over five years, which represents the estimated term of the Notes, and are included in other
assets, net in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. The Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Operating Partnership and are fully guaranteed by the
Company. Interest is payable on April 1 and October 1 of each year until the maturity date of April 1, 2027. The Notes bear interest at 3.625% per annum and contain an exchange
settlement feature, which provides that the Notes may, under certain circumstances, be exchangeable for cash (up to the principal amount of the Notes) and, with respect to any excess exchange value,
for cash, shares of the Company's common stock or a combination of cash and shares of the Company's common stock at an initial exchange rate of approximately 42.6491 shares per $1,000 principal amount
of Notes at the option of the Operating Partnership.

The
Operating Partnership may redeem the Notes at any time to preserve the Company's status as a REIT. In addition, on or after April 5, 2012, the Operating Partnership may redeem
the Notes for cash, in whole or in part, at 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, upon at least 30 days but not more than 60 days prior written notice to holders
of the Notes.

The
holders of the Notes have the right to require the Operating Partnership to repurchase the Notes for cash, in whole or in part, on each of April 1, 2012, April 1, 2017
and April 1, 2022, and upon the occurrence of a designated event, in each case for a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest.
Certain events are considered "Events of Default," as defined in the indenture governing the Notes, which may result in the accelerated maturity of the Notes.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

11. EXCHANGEABLE SENIOR NOTES (Continued)

Adoption of FSP APB 14-1 (ASC 470-20)

In May 2008, the FASB issued FSP APB 14-1 (ASC 470-20). Under this guidance, entities with convertible
debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion should separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the
issuer's economic interest cost. The Company retroactively adopted FSP APB 14-1 (ASC 470-20) effective January 1, 2009. As a result, the liability and equity
components of the Notes are now accounted for separately. The equity component is included in paid-in-capital in stockholders' equity in the consolidated balance sheet, and the
value of the equity component is treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component. The discount is being amortized over the period of the debt as additional
interest expense.

Information
about the carrying amounts of the equity component, the principal amount of the liability component, its unamortized discount, and its net carrying amount are as follows:

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Carrying amount of equity component

$

19,545

$

21,779

Principal amount of liability component

$

87,663

$

209,663

Unamortized discount

(3,869

)

(13,031

)

Net carrying amount of liability component

$

83,794

$

196,632

The
remaining discount will be amortized over the remaining period of the debt through its first redemption date, April 1, 2012. The effective interest rate on the liability
component is 5.75%. The amount of interest cost recognized relating to the contractual interest rate and the amortization of the discount on the liability component is as follows:

For The Year Ended

December 31,




Contractual interest

$

4,524

$

8,729

$

6,797

Amortization of discount

2,239

4,060

3,030

Total interest expense recognized

$

6,763

$

12,789

$

9,827

Repurchase of Notes

FSP APB 14-1 (ASC 470-20) requires that the value of the consideration paid to repurchase the Notes be
allocated (1) to the extinguishment of the liability component and (2) to the reacquisition of the equity component. The amount allocated to the extinguishment of the liability component
is equal to the fair value of that component immediately prior to extinguishment. The difference between the consideration attributed to the extinguishment of the liability component and the sum of
(a) the net carrying amount of the repurchased liability component, and (b) the related unamortized debt issuance costs, is recognized as a gain on debt extinguishment. The remaining
settlement consideration is



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

11. EXCHANGEABLE SENIOR NOTES (Continued)

allocated
to the reacquisition of the equity component of the repurchased Notes and recognized as a reduction of stockholders' equity.

Information
about the repurchases and the related gains are as follows:

October 2009

May 2009

March 2009

October 2008

Principal amount repurchased

$

7,500

$

43,000

$

71,500

$

40,337

Amount allocated to:

Extinguishment of liability component

$

6,700

$

35,000

$

43,800

$

30,696

Reacquisition of equity component


1,340


1,025

Total cash paid for repurchase

$

6,881

$

36,340

$

44,513

$

31,721

Exchangeable senior notes repurchased

$

7,500

$

43,000

$

71,500

$

40,337

Extinguishment of liability component

(6,700

)

(35,000

)

(43,800

)

(30,696

)

Discount on exchangeable senior notes

(366

)

(2,349

)

(4,208

)

(2,683

)

Related debt issuance costs

(82

)

(558

)

(1,009

)

(647

)

Gain on repurchase

$


$

5,093

$

22,483

$

6,311

12. LINES OF CREDIT

On February 13, 2009, the Company entered into a $50,000 revolving secured line of credit (the
"Secondary Credit Line") that is collateralized by mortgages on certain real estate assets and matures February 13, 2012. The Company intends to use the proceeds of the Secondary Credit Line to
repay debt and for general corporate purposes. The Secondary Credit Line has an interest rate of LIBOR plus 325 basis points (3.5% at December 31, 2009). At December 31, 2009, there were
no amounts drawn on the Secondary Credit Line. The Company is subject to certain covenants relating to the Secondary Credit Line. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants as of
December 31, 2009.

On
October 19, 2007, the Company entered into a $100,000 revolving line of credit (the "Credit Line") that matures October 31, 2010 with two one-year extensions
available. $100,000 and $27,000 were drawn on the Credit Line at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company intends to use the proceeds of the Credit Line to repay debt and for
general corporate purposes. The Credit Line has an interest rate of between 100 and 205 basis points over LIBOR, depending on certain financial ratios of the Company (1.2% at December 31,
2009). The Credit Line is collateralized by mortgages on certain real estate assets. As of December 31, 2009, the Credit Line had $100,000 of capacity based on the assets collateralizing the
Credit Line. The Company is not subject to any financial covenants relating to the Credit Line.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

13. OTHER LIABILITIES

The components of other liabilities are summarized as follows:

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Deferred rental income

$

12,045

$

12,535

Lease obligation liability

6,260

3,029

Fair value of interest rate swaps

1,111

—

Income taxes payable

2,145

2,825

Other miscellaneous liabilities

3,413

3,878

$

24,974

$

22,267

14. RELATED PARTY AND AFFILIATED REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURE TRANSACTIONS

The Company provides management and development services for certain affiliated real estate joint ventures, franchise, third parties, and other related party properties. Management
agreements provide generally for management fees of 6% of gross rental revenues for the management of operations at the self-storage facilities.

Management
fee revenues for related party and affiliated real estate joint ventures are summarized as follows:

For the Year Ended December 31,

Entity

Type




ESW

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

$


$


$


ESW II

Affiliated real estate joint ventures




ESNPS

Affiliated real estate joint ventures




ESSM

Affiliated real estate joint ventures


—

—

PRISA

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

4,793

5,076

5,132

PRISA II

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

3,989

4,147

4,184

PRISA III

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

1,686

1,774

1,862

VRS

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

1,128

1,175

1,151

WCOT

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

1,454

1,536

1,539

SP I

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

1,243

1,296

1,264

SPB II

Affiliated real estate joint ventures


1,003

1,026

Extra Space Development ("ESD")

Related party

—

—


Various

Franchisees, third parties and other

4,548

3,730

2,585

$

20,961

$

20,945

$

20,598



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

14. RELATED PARTY AND AFFILIATED REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURE TRANSACTIONS (Continued)

Receivables
from third parties, related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures balances are summarized as follows:

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Development fees receivable

$


$

1,382

Other receivables from properties

4,864

9,953

$

5,114

$

11,335

Development
fees receivable consist of amounts due for development services from third parties and unconsolidated affiliated joint ventures. The Company earns development fees of
1% - 6% of budgeted costs on development projects. Other receivables from properties consist of amounts due for management fees and expenses paid on behalf of the properties that the
Company manages. The Company believes that all of these related party and affiliated real estate joint venture receivables are fully collectible. The Company does not have any payables to related
parties at December 31, 2009 and 2008.

Centershift,
a related party service provider, is partially owned by a certain director and certain members of management of the Company. Effective January 1, 2004, the Company
entered into a license agreement with Centershift which secures a perpetual right for continued use of STORE (the site management software used at all sites operated by the Company) in all aspects of
the Company's property acquisition, development, redevelopment and operational activities. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company paid Centershift $1,081, $989 and
$965, respectively, relating to the purchase of software and to license agreements.

The
Company has entered into an aircraft dry lease and service and management agreement with SpenAero, L.C. ("SpenAero") an affiliate of Spencer F. Kirk, the Company's Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company pays a defined hourly rate for use of the aircraft. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company paid
SpenAero $631, $440 and $395, respectively. The services that the Company receives from SpenAero are similar in nature and price to those that are provided to other outside third parties.

15. NONCONTROLLING INTEREST REPRESENTED BY PREFERRED OPERATING PARTNERSHIP UNITS

On June 15, 2007, the Operating Partnership entered into a Contribution Agreement with various limited partnerships affiliated with AAAAA Rent-A-Space to
acquire ten self-storage facilities (the "Properties") in exchange for the issuance of newly designated Preferred OP units of the Operating Partnership. The self-storage
facilities are located in California and Hawaii.

On
June 25 and 26, 2007, nine of the ten properties were contributed to the Operating Partnership in exchange for consideration totaling $137,800. Preferred OP units totaling
909,075, with a value of $121,700, were issued along with the assumption of approximately $14,200 of third-party debt, of which $11,400 was paid off at close. The final property was contributed on
August 1, 2007 in exchange for



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

15. NONCONTROLLING INTEREST REPRESENTED BY PREFERRED OPERATING PARTNERSHIP UNITS (Continued)

consideration
totaling $14,700. 80,905 Preferred OP units with a value of $9,800 were issued along with $4,900 of cash.

On
June 25, 2007, the Company loaned the holder of the Preferred OP units $100,000. The note receivable bears interest at 4.85%, and is due September 1, 2017. The loan is
secured by the borrower's Preferred OP units. The holder of the Preferred OP units can convert up to 114,500 Preferred OP units prior to the maturity date of the loan. If any redemption in excess of
114,500 Preferred OP units occurs prior to the maturity date, the holder of the Preferred OP units is required to repay the loan as of the date of that Preferred OP unit redemption. Preferred OP units
are shown on the balance sheet net of the $100,000 loan under the guidance in EITF No. 85-1, "

Classifying Notes Receivable for
Capital,"

(ASC 310-10-45) because the borrower under the loan receivable is also the holder of the Preferred OP units.

The
Operating Partnership entered into a Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership (the "Partnership Agreement") which provides for the designation and issuance of the
Preferred OP units. The Preferred OP units will have priority over all other partnership interests of the Operating Partnership with respect to distributions and liquidation.

Under
the Partnership Agreement, Preferred OP units in the amount of $115,000 bear a fixed priority return of 5% and have a fixed liquidation value of $115,000. The remaining balance
will participate in distributions with and have a liquidation value equal to that of the common Operating Partnership units. The Preferred OP units became redeemable at the option of the holder on
September 1, 2008, which redemption obligation may be satisfied, at the Company's option, in cash or shares of common stock.

From
inception through September 28, 2007 (the date of the amendment discussed below), the Preferred OP units were classified as a hybrid instrument such that the value of the
units associated with the fixed return were classified in mezzanine after total liabilities on the balance sheet and before stockholders' equity. The remaining balance that participates in
distributions equal to that of common OP units had been identified as an embedded derivative and had been classified as a liability on the balance sheet and recorded at fair value on a quarterly basis
with any adjustment being recorded through earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the fair value adjustment associated with the embedded derivative was $1,054.

On
September 28, 2007, the Operating Partnership entered into an amendment to the Contribution Agreement (the "Amendment"). Pursuant to the Amendment, the maximum number of shares
that can be issued upon redemption of the Preferred OP units was set at 116 million, after which the Company will have no further obligations with respect to the redeemed or any other remaining
Preferred OP units. As a result of the Amendment, the Preferred OP units are no longer considered a hybrid instrument and the previously identified embedded derivative no longer requires bifurcation
and is considered permanent equity of the Operating Partnership. The Preferred OP units are included on the consolidated balance sheet as the noncontrolling interest represented by Preferred OP units,
and no recurring fair value measurements are required subsequent to the date of the Amendment.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

15. NONCONTROLLING INTEREST REPRESENTED BY PREFERRED OPERATING PARTNERSHIP UNITS (Continued)

On
September 18, 2008, the Operating Partnership entered into a First Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership to clarify
tax-related provisions relating to the Preferred OP units.

The
Company adopted the revisions to FAS 160 (ASC 810) effective January 1, 2009. FAS 160 (ASC 810) requires a company to present ownership interests in subsidiaries
held by parties other than the
company in the consolidated financial statements within the equity section but separate from the company's equity. It also requires the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and
to the noncontrolling interest to be clearly identified and presented on the face of the consolidated statement of operations and requires changes in ownership interest to be accounted for similarly
as equity transactions. FAS 160 (ASC 810) was required to be adopted prospectively with the exception of the presentation and disclosure requirements, which were applied retrospectively for all
periods presented. As a result of the issuance of the revisions to FAS 160 (ASC 810), the guidance in EITF Topic D-98 (ASC 480-10-S99),

"Classification and Measurement of Redeemable Securities"

was
amended to include redeemable noncontrolling interests within its scope. If noncontrolling
interests are determined to be redeemable, they are to be carried at their redemption value as of the balance sheet date and reported as temporary equity.

The
Company has evaluated the terms of the Preferred OP units, and as a result of the adoption of FAS 160 (ASC 810), the Company reclassified the noncontrolling interest
represented by the Preferred OP units to stockholders' equity in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. In periods subsequent to the adoption of FAS 160 (ASC 810), the Company will
periodically evaluate individual noncontrolling interests for the ability to continue to recognize the noncontrolling amount as permanent equity in the consolidated balance sheets. Any noncontrolling
interests that fail to quality as permanent equity will be reclassified as temporary equity and adjusted to the greater of (1) the carrying amount, or (2) its redemption value as of the
end of the period in which the determination is made.

16. NONCONTROLLING INTEREST IN OPERATING PARTNERSHIP

The Company's interest in its properties is held through the Operating Partnership. ESS Holding Business Trust I, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is the sole general partner of
the Operating Partnership. ESS Business Trust II, also a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is a limited partner of the Operating Partnership. Between its general partner and limited partner
interests, the Company held a 94.94% majority ownership interest therein as of December 31, 2009. The remaining ownership interests in the Operating Partnership (including Preferred OP units)
of 5.06% are held by certain former owners of assets acquired by the Operating Partnership. As of December 31, 2009, the Operating Partnership had 3,627,368 common OP units outstanding.

The
noncontrolling interest in the Operating Partnership represents OP units that are not owned by the Company. In conjunction with the formation of the Company and as a result of
subsequent acquisitions, certain persons and entities contributing interests in properties to the Operating Partnership received limited partnership units in the form of either OP units or Contingent
Conversion units. Limited partners who received OP units in the formation transactions or in exchange for



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

16. NONCONTROLLING INTEREST IN OPERATING PARTNERSHIP (Continued)

contributions
for interests in properties have the right to require the Operating Partnership to redeem part or all of their OP units for cash based upon the fair market value of an equivalent number
of shares of the Company's common stock (10 day average) at the time of the redemption. Alternatively, the Company may, at its option, elect to acquire those OP units in exchange for shares of
its common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to anti-dilution adjustments provided in the Operating Partnership agreement. The ten day average closing stock
price at December 31, 2009, was $11.73 and there were 3,627,368 OP units outstanding. Assuming that all of the unit holders exercised their right to redeem all of their OP units on
December 31, 2009 and the Company elected to pay the non-controlling members cash, the Company would have paid $42,549 in cash consideration to redeem the units.

In
December 2009, a member of management redeemed 72,643 OP units in exchange for the Company's common stock. This member of management no longer held any OP units after this redemption.

In
November 2009, a director redeemed 217,930 OP units in exchange for the Company's common stock. The director no longer held any OP units after this redemption.

During
April 2009, 114,928 OP units were redeemed in exchange for the Company's common stock.

During
July 2009, 232,099 OP units were redeemed in exchange for $1,908 in cash.

During
October 2008, the Company issued 270,406 OP units valued at $3,621 in conjunction with the acquisition of four properties in Indianapolis, Indiana.

In
October 2008, 129,499 OP units were redeemed in exchange for the Company's common stock.

Unlike
the OP units, CCUs did not carry any voting rights. Upon the achievement of certain performance thresholds relating to 14 properties, all or a portion of the CCUs automatically
converted into OP units. Each CCU was convertible on a one-for-one basis into OP
units, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. Beginning with the quarter ended March 31, 2006, and ending with the quarter ending December 31, 2008, the Company
calculated the net operating income from the 14 wholly-owned properties over the 12-month period ending in such quarter. Within 35 days following the end of each quarter referred to
above, some or all of the CCUs were converted so that the total percentage (not to exceed 100%) of CCUs issued in connection with the formation transactions that had been converted to OP units was
equal to the percentage determined by dividing the net operating income for such period in excess of $5,100 by $4,600. The 55,957 CCUs remaining unconverted through the calculation made in respect of
the 12-month period ending December 31, 2008 were cancelled as of February 4, 2009.

The
Company adopted the revisions to FAS 160 (ASC 810) effective January 1, 2009. FAS 160 (ASC 810) requires a company to present ownership interests in subsidiaries
held by parties other than the company in the consolidated financial statements within the equity section but separate from the company's equity. It also requires the amount of consolidated net income
attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest to be clearly identified and presented on the face of the consolidated statement of operations and requires changes in ownership interest
to be accounted for similarly as



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

16. NONCONTROLLING INTEREST IN OPERATING PARTNERSHIP (Continued)

equity
transactions. FAS 160 (ASC 81) was required to be adopted prospectively with the exception of the presentation and disclosure requirements, which were applied retrospectively for
all periods presented. As a result of the issuance of FAS 160, the guidance in EITF Topic D-98 (ASC 480-10-S99),

"Classification and
Measurement of Redeemable Securities"

was amended to include redeemable noncontrolling interests within its scope. If noncontrolling interests are determined to be redeemable,
they are to be carried at their redemption value as of the balance sheet date and reported as temporary equity.

The
Company has evaluated the terms of the common OP units, and as a result of the adoption of FAS 160 (ASC 810), the Company reclassified the noncontrolling interest in the
Operating Partnership to stockholders' equity in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. In periods subsequent to the adoption of FAS 160 (ASC 810), the Company will
periodically evaluate individual noncontrolling interests for the ability to continue to recognize the noncontrolling amount as permanent equity in the consolidated balance sheets. Any noncontrolling
interests that fail to quality as permanent equity will be reclassified as temporary equity and adjusted to the greater of (1) the carrying amount, or (2) its redemption value as of the
end of the period in which the determination is made.

17. OTHER NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS

Other noncontrolling interests represent the ownership interests of various third parties in ten consolidated self-storage properties as of December 31, 2009. Two of
these consolidated properties were under development, and eight were in the lease-up stage as of December 31, 2009. The ownership interests of the third party owners range from 10%
to 90%. Other noncontrolling interests are included in the stockholders' equity section of the Company's consolidated balance sheet. The income or losses attributable to these third party owners based
on their ownership percentages are reflected in net income allocated to the Operating Partnership and other noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statement of operations.

In
April 2009, the Company requested a capital contribution from its partners in Westport Ewing LLC, a consolidated joint venture, in order to reduce the joint venture's loan with
its current lender. The partners were unable to provide their pro rata share of the funds required to satisfy the lender and deeded their interest in Westport Ewing LLC to the Company on
June 1, 2009. As a result, the property held by this joint venture became a wholly-owned property of the Company. The Company recorded a loss of $800 related to the reassessment of the fair
value of the property.

18. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

The Company's charter provides that it can issue up to 300,000,000 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value per share, 4,100,000 CCSs, $.01 par value per share, and 50,000,000 shares of
preferred stock, $0.01 par value per share. As of December 31, 2009, 86,721,841 shares of common stock were issued and outstanding, and no CCSs or shares of preferred stock were issued or
outstanding.

On
October 3, 2008, the Company issued 3,000,000 shares of its common stock at an offering price of $14.71 per share in a registered direct placement to certain clients of RREEF
America L.L.C. The



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

18. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (Continued)

Company
received aggregate gross proceeds of $44,130. Transaction costs were $247 for net proceeds of $43,883.

On
May 19, 2008, the Company closed a public common stock offering of 14,950,000 shares at an offering price of $16.35 per share, for aggregate gross proceeds of $244,433.
Transaction costs were $11,715 for net proceeds of $232,718.

All
holders of the Company's common stock are entitled to receive dividends and to one vote on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. The transfer agent and registrar for the
Company's common stock is American Stock Transfer & Trust Company.

Unlike
the Company's shares of common stock, CCSs did not carry any voting rights. Upon the achievement of certain performance thresholds relating to 14 properties, all or a portion of
the CCSs were automatically converted into shares of the Company's common stock. Each CCS was convertible on a one-for-one basis into shares of common stock, subject to
customary anti-dilution adjustments. Beginning with the quarter ended March 31, 2006, and ending
with the quarter ending December 31, 2008, the Company calculated the net operating income from the 14 wholly-owned properties over the 12-month period ending in such quarter.
Within 35 days following the end of each quarter referred to above, some or all of the CCSs were converted so that the total percentage (not to exceed 100%) of CCSs issued in connection with
the formation transactions that were converted to common stock was equal to the percentage determined by dividing the net operating income for such period in excess of $5,100 by $4,600. The 1,087,790
CCSs remaining unconverted through the calculation made in respect of the 12-month period ending December 31, 2008 were cancelled as of February 4, 2009 and restored to the
status of authorized but unissued shares of common stock.

19. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

The Company has the following plans under which shares were available for grant at December 31, 2009:

•

The 2004 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan as amended and restated, effective March 25, 2008, and

•

The 2004 Non-Employee Directors' Share Plan (together, the "Plans").

Option
grants are issued with an exercise price equal to the closing price of stock on the date of grant. Unless otherwise determined by the Compensation, Nominating and Governance
Committee at the time of grant, options shall vest ratably over a four-year period beginning on the date of grant. Each option will be exercisable once it has vested. Options are
exercisable at such times and subject to such terms as determined by the Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee,
but under no circumstances may be exercised if such exercise would cause a violation of the ownership limit in the Company's charter. Options expire after 10 years from the date of grant.

Also
as defined under the terms of the Plans, restricted stock grants may be awarded. The stock grants are subject to a performance or vesting period over which the restrictions are
released and the stock certificates are given to the grantee. During the performance or vesting period, the grantee is not



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

19. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION (Continued)

permitted
to sell, transfer, pledge, encumber or assign shares of restricted stock granted under the Plans, however, the grantee has the ability to vote the shares and receive nonforfeitable dividends
paid on shares. Unless otherwise determined by the Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee at the time of grant, the forfeiture and transfer restrictions on the shares lapse over a
four-year period beginning on the date of grant.

As
of December 31, 2009, 3,560,611 shares were available for issuance under the Plans.

Option Grants

A summary of stock option activity is as follows:

Options

Number of

Shares

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

Weighted Average

Remaining

Contractual Life

Aggregate Intrinsic

Value as of

December 31, 2009

Outstanding at December 31, 2006

2,564,563

$

13.92

Granted

418,000

18.51

Exercised

(126,801

)

13.68

Forfeited

(204,044

)

14.71

Outstanding at December 31, 2007

2,651,718

$

14.54

Granted

380,000

15.57

Exercised

(146,795

)

13.09

Forfeited

(43,000

)

14.26

Outstanding at December 31, 2008

2,841,923

$

14.76

Granted

723,000

6.22

Exercised

—

—

Forfeited

(107,875

)

13.36

Outstanding at December 31, 2009

3,457,048

$

13.02

6.54

$

3,854

Vested and Expected to Vest

3,229,780

$

13.33

6.38

$

2,922

Ending Exercisable

2,222,695

$

14.38

5.43

$

—

The
aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total value (the difference between the Company's closing stock price on the last trading day of 2009 and the exercise
price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options on
December 31, 2009. The amount of aggregate intrinsic value will change based on the fair market value of the Company's stock.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

19. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION (Continued)

The
weighted average fair value of stock options granted in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $1.31, $1.83 and $2.34, respectively. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of
grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:

For the Year Ended

December 31,




Expected volatility


%


%


%

Dividend yield

6.6

%

6.5

%

6.4

%

Risk-free interest rate

1.7

%

2.7

%

3.5

%

Average expected term (years)




The
Black-Scholes model incorporates assumptions to value stock-based awards. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of the grant
for the estimated life of the option. The Company uses actual historical data to calculate the expected price volatility, dividend yield and average expected term. The forfeiture rate, which is
estimated at a weighted-average of 16.68% of unvested options outstanding as of December 31, 2009, is adjusted periodically based on the extent to which actual forfeitures differ, or are
expected to differ, from the previous estimates.

A
summary of stock options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2009 is as follows:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Shares

Weighted Average

Remaining

Contractual Life

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

Shares

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

$6.22

723,000

9.13

$

6.22

—

$

—

$12.50

937,272

4.61

12.50

937,272

12.50

$12.85 - $15.53

966,400

6.36

14.87

734,650

14.90

$15.66 - $19.00

630,376

6.52

16.56

450,773

16.22

$19.91 - $19.91

200,000

7.14

19.91

100,000

19.91

$6.22 - $19.91

3,457,048

6.54

$

13.02

2,222,695

$

14.38

The
Company recorded compensation expense relating to outstanding options of $831, $970 and $865 in general and administrative expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively. Total cash received for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 related to option exercises was $0, $2,063 and $1,735, respectively. At December 31,
2009, there was $1,050 of total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested stock options under the Company's 2004 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan. That cost
is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.55 years. The valuation model applied in this calculation utilizes subjective assumptions that could potentially change over
time, including the expected forfeiture rate. Therefore, the amount of unrecognized compensation expense at December 31, 2009, noted above does not necessarily represent the expense that will
ultimately be realized by the Company in the Statement of Operations.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

19. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION (Continued)

Common Stock Grants

For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company granted 547,265, 361,624 and 120,729 shares, respectively of
common stock to certain employees and directors, without monetary consideration under the Plans. Restricted stock granted vests over a four year period and is paid non-forfeitable
dividends during the term of the grant. The Company recorded $2,978, $2,530 and $1,260 of expense in general and administrative expense in its statement of operations related to outstanding shares of
common stock granted to employees and
directors for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The forfeiture rate, which is estimated at a weighted-average of 7.0% of unvested awards outstanding as of
December 31, 2009, is adjusted periodically based on the extent to which actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ, from the previous estimates. At December 31, 2009, there
was $5,005 of total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock awards under the Company's 2004 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan. That cost is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.72 years.

The
fair value of common stock awards is determined based on the closing trading price of the Company's common stock on the grant date. The total fair value of the shares released for
the years ending December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 was $1,365, $1,688, and $982, respectively. A summary of the Company's employee and director share grant activity is as follows:

Restricted Stock Grants

Shares

Weighted-Average

Grant-Date Fair Value

Unreleased at December 31, 2006

156,300

$

15.94

Granted

120,729

18.17

Released

(61,975

)

15.90

Cancelled

(3,082

)

18.39

Unreleased at December 31, 2007

211,972

$

17.23

Granted

361,624

15.69

Released

(122,206

)

16.45

Cancelled

(10,186

)

17.21

Unreleased at December 31, 2008

441,204

$

16.21

Granted

547,265

6.19

Released

(198,284

)

13.51

Cancelled

(21,256

)

9.82

Unreleased at December 31, 2009

768,929

$

9.95



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

20. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN

The Company has a retirement savings plan under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code under which eligible employees can contribute up to 15% of their annual salary, subject
to a statutory prescribed annual limit. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company made matching contributions to the plan of $755, $779 and $999, respectively, based on
100% of the first 3% and up to 50% of the next 2% of an employee's compensation.

21. INCOME TAXES

As a REIT, the Company is generally not subject to federal income tax with respect to that portion of its income which is distributed annually to its stockholders. However, the Company
has elected to treat one of its corporate subsidiaries, Extra Space Management, Inc., as a taxable REIT subsidiary. In general, the Company's TRS may perform additional services for tenants and
generally may engage in any real estate or non-real estate related business (except for the operation or management of health care facilities or lodging facilities or the provision to any
person, under a franchise, license or otherwise, of rights to any brand name under which lodging facility or health care facility is operated). A TRS is subject to corporate federal income tax.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities.

The
income tax provision for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 is comprised of the following components:

For the Year Ended

December 31, 2009

Federal

State

Total

Current

$

4,177

$

1,171

$

5,348

Deferred benefit

(1,048

)

—

(1,048

)

Total tax expense

$

3,129

$

1,171

$

4,300

For the Year Ended

December 31, 2008

Federal

State

Total

Current

$

2,663

$


$

2,922

Deferred benefit

(2,190

)

(213

)

(2,403

)

Total tax expense

$


$


$




Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

21. INCOME TAXES (Continued)

A
reconciliation of the statutory income tax provision to the effective income tax provision for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, is as follows:

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Expected tax at statutory rate

$

15,188

35.0

%

$

16,118

34.0

%

Non-taxable REIT income

(12,580

)

(29.0

)%

(14,555

)

(30.7

)%

State and local tax expense (benefit)—net of federal benefit

1,167

2.7

%

(587

)

(1.2

)%

Change in valuation allowance


1.2

%

(690

)

(1.5

)%

Miscellaneous

(16

)

0.0

%


0.5

%

Total provision

$

4,300

9.9

%

$


1.1

%

The
Company had a release of its valuation allowance during 2008 from a prior year net operating loss related to the TRS of approximately $1,277. This reduction was offset by an
additional valuation allowance recorded that related to state income tax net operating losses that may not be utilized. The net change in the valuation allowance for the year ended December 31,
2009 was $1,548.

The
major sources of temporary differences stated at their deferred tax effect at December 31, 2009 and 2008 are as follows:

December 31,


December 31,


Captive insurance subsidiary

$


$


Fixed assets

3,122


Various liabilities

1,603

1,042

Stock compensation

1,865

1,218

State net operating losses



7,711

2,990

Valuation allowance

(2,135

)

(587

)

Net deferred tax asset

$

5,576

$

2,403

The
increase in the deferred tax asset related to fixed assets is a result of a portion of the impairment charge due to the wind-down of the Company's development program.
The state income tax net operating losses expire between 2012 and 2027 and have been fully reversed through the valuation allowance.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

22. SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Company operates in three distinct segments; (1) property management, acquisition and development; (2) rental operations; and (3) tenant reinsurance. Financial
information for the Company's business segments are set forth below:

December 31,


December 31,


Balance Sheet

Investment in real estate ventures

Rental operations

$

130,449

$

136,791

Total assets

Property management, acquisition and development

$

466,399

$

466,474

Rental operations

1,922,643

1,811,417

Tenant reinsurance

18,514

13,117

$

2,407,556

$

2,291,008



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

22. SEGMENT INFORMATION (Continued)

For the Year Ended December 31,




Statement of Operations

Total revenues

Property management, acquisition and development

$

21,291

$

21,465

$

21,502

Rental operations

238,256

235,695

206,315

Tenant reinsurance

20,929

16,091

11,049

$

280,476

$

273,251

$

238,866

Operating expenses, including depreciation and amortization

Property management, acquisition and development

$

64,576

$

43,097

$

38,740

Rental operations

138,552

132,626

111,618

Tenant reinsurance

5,461

5,066

4,710

$

208,589

$

180,789

$

155,068

Income (loss) from operations

Property management, acquisition and development

$

(43,285

)

$

(21,632

)

$

(17,238

)

Rental operations

99,704

103,069

94,697

Tenant reinsurance

15,468

11,025

6,339

$

71,887

$

92,462

$

83,798

Interest expense

Property management, acquisition and development

$

(3,463

)

$

(5,639

)

$

(4,329

)

Rental operations

(66,355

)

(63,032

)

(59,716

)

$

(69,818

)

$

(68,671

)

$

(64,045

)

Interest income

Property management, acquisition and development

$

1,563

$

3,227

$

7,680

Tenant reinsurance




$

1,582

$

3,399

$

7,925

Interest income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

Property management, acquisition and development

$

4,850

$

4,850

$

2,492

Gain on repurchase of exchangeable senior notes

Property management, acquisition and development

$

27,928

$

6,311

$

—

Loss on investments available for sale

Property management, acquisition and development

$

—

$

(1,415

)

$

(1,233

)

Fair value adjustment of obligation associated with Preferred Operating Partnership units

Property management, acquisition and development

$

—

$

—

$

1,054

Equity in earnings of real estate ventures

Rental operations

$

6,964

$

6,932

$

5,300

Income tax expense

Tenant reinsurance

$

(4,300

)

$

(519

)

$

—

Net income (loss)

Property management, acquisition and development

$

(12,407

)

$

(14,298

)

$

(11,574

)

Rental operations

40,313

46,969

40,281

Tenant reinsurance

11,187

10,678

6,584

$

39,093

$

43,349

$

35,291

Depreciation and amortization expense

Property management, acquisition and development

$

2,786

$

1,462

$

1,253

Rental operations

49,617

48,104

38,548

$

52,403

$

49,566

$

39,801

Statement of Cash Flows

Acquisition of real estate assets

Property management, acquisition and development

$

(38,185

)

$

(127,293

)

$

(183,690

)

Development and construction of real estate assets

Property management, acquisition and development

$

(67,301

)

$

(66,071

)

$

(46,401

)



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

23. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Company has operating leases on its corporate offices and owns 13 self-storage facilities that are subject to ground leases. At December 31, 2009, future minimum
rental payments under these non-cancelable operating leases are as follows:

Less than 1 year

$

5,942

Year 2

5,652

Year 3

4,927

Year 4

4,712

Year 5

3,992

Thereafter

38,007

$

63,232

The
monthly rental amount for one of the ground leases is the greater of a minimum amount or a percentage of gross monthly receipts. The Company recorded rent expense of $2,289, $2,262,
and $3,115 related to these leases in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

The
Company has guaranteed a construction loan for an unconsolidated partnership that owns a development property in Baltimore, Maryland. This property is owned by joint ventures in
which the Company has a 10% equity interest. This guarantee was entered into in November 2004. At December 31, 2009, the total amount of guaranteed mortgage debt relating to this joint venture
was $5,412 (unaudited). This mortgage loan matures March 12, 2010. If the joint venture defaults on the loan, the Company may be forced to repay the loan. Repossessing and/or selling the
self-storage facility and land that collateralize the loan could provide funds sufficient to reimburse the Company. The estimated fair market value of the encumbered assets at
December 31, 2009 is $6,910 (unaudited). The Company has recorded no liability in relation to this guarantee as of December 31, 2009, as the fair value of the guarantee is not material.
To date, the joint venture has not defaulted on its mortgage debt. The Company believes the risk of incurring a loss as a result of having to perform on the guarantee is remote.

The
Company has been involved in routine litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. As of December 31, 2009, the Company is not presently involved in any material
litigation nor, to its knowledge, is any material litigation threatened against its properties.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

24. SUPPLEMENTARY QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

Three months ended

March 31,


June 30,


September 30,


December 31,


Revenues

$

69,254

$

69,068

$

71,304

$

70,850

Cost of operations

47,331

66,694

48,087

46,477

Revenues less cost of operations

$

21,923

$

2,374

$

23,217

$

24,373

Net income (loss)

$

30,762

$

(6,681

)

$

7,574

$

7,438

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

$

27,619

$

(7,541

)

$

5,967

$

5,932

Net income (loss)—basic

$

0.32

$

(0.09

)

$

0.07

$

0.07

Net income (loss)—diluted

$

0.32

$

(0.09

)

$

0.07

$

0.07

Basic

85,940,389

86,397,618

86,437,877

86,588,048

Diluted

91,222,295

91,607,503

91,548,984

91,364,431

Three months ended

March 31,


June 30,


September 30,


December 31,


(As revised—Note 2)

(As revised—Note 2)

(As revised—Note 2)

(As revised—Note 2)

Revenues

$

65,707

$

67,336

$

69,848

$

70,360

Cost of operations

43,727

45,541

45,503

46,018

Revenues less cost of operations

$

21,980

$

21,795

$

24,345

$

24,342

Net income

$

6,042

$

8,342

$

11,887

$

17,078

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

4,335

$

6,497

$

9,916

$

15,033

Net income—basic

$

0.07

$

0.09

$

0.13

$

0.17

Net income—diluted

$

0.07

$

0.09

$

0.13

$

0.17

Basic

66,165,159

73,900,524

82,184,631

85,581,370

Diluted

71,699,461

79,572,767

87,710,663

90,837,769

25. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

On January 21, 2010 the Company closed a joint venture transaction with an affiliate of Harrison Street Real Estate Capital, LLC ("HSRE"). HSRE contributed approximately
$15.8 million in cash to the joint venture in return for a 50.0% ownership interest. The Company contributed 19 wholly owned properties and received approximately $15.8 million in cash
and a 50.0% ownership interest in the joint venture. The joint venture assumed approximately $101.0 million of existing debt which is secured by the properties. The properties are located in
California, Florida, Nevada, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Company will continue to operate the properties and will receive a 6.0%
management fee. The Company's 50% joint venture interest will be accounted for using the equity method of accounting.

The
Company has evaluated subsequent events through the time of filing these financial statements with the SEC on February 26, 2010.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2009

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Building costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation

Fort Myers

FL

$

4,400

$

1,985

$

4,983

$

—

$


$

—

$

—

$

1,985

$

5,291

7,276


Jul-05

Marina Del Rey

CA

18,400

4,248

23,549

—


—

—

4,248

24,002

28,250

2,770

Jul-05

Sandy

UT

4,000

1,349

4,372

—


—

—

1,349

4,551

5,900


Jul-05

Watsonville

CA

3,400

1,699

3,056

—


—

—

1,699

3,196

4,895


Jul-05

Naples

FL

5,400

2,570

5,102

—


—

—

2,570

5,360

7,930


Jul-05

Annapolis

MD

3,773

1,375

8,896

—


—

—

1,375

9,095

10,470


Aug-07

Hemet

CA

5,300

1,146

6,369

—


—

—

1,146

6,562

7,708


Jul-05

Memphis

TN

2,100


1,725

—


—

—


1,913

2,889


Jul-05

Tamiami

FL

6,100

2,979

5,351

—


—

—

2,979

5,599

8,578


Jul-05

Chatsworth

CA

11,200

3,594

11,166

—


—

—

3,594

11,664

15,258

1,404

Jul-05

West Valley City

UT

2,000


1,722

—


—

—


1,816

2,277


Jul-05

Memphis

TN

3,100


2,766

—


—

—


2,872

3,686


Jul-05

Aloha

OR

6,200

1,221

6,262

—


—

—

1,221

6,394

7,615


Jul-05

Grandville

MI

1,700


1,298

—


—

—


1,549

2,275


Jul-05

Sacramento

CA

4,200


4,720

—


—

—


5,002

5,854


Jul-05

Hackensack

NJ

9,500

2,283

11,234

—


—

—

2,283

11,761

14,044

1,462

Jul-05

Phoenix

AZ

7,400

1,441

7,982

—


—

—

1,441

8,426

9,867

1,029

Jul-05

Louisville

KY

3,000


3,244

—


—

—


3,424

4,010


Jul-05

Long Beach

CA

6,200

1,403

7,595

—


—

—

1,403

7,933

9,336


Jul-05

Kent

OH

1,500


1,206

—


—

—


1,340

1,560


Jul-05

Rockville

MD

12,680

4,596

11,328

—


—

—

4,596

11,513

16,109


Sep-06

New Paltz

NY

5,000

2,059

3,715

—


—

—

2,059

3,996

6,055


Jul-05

Stone Mountain

GA

1,944


3,505

—


—

—


3,665

4,590


Jul-05

Columbus

OH

2,900


2,654

—


—

—


3,064

3,547


Jul-05

Houston

TX

3,400


4,122

—


—

—


4,296

5,045


Jul-05

Austin

TX

2,400

1,105

2,313

—


—

—

1,105

2,463

3,568


Jul-05

Plano

TX

3,300

1,613

2,871

—


—

—

1,613

3,000

4,613


Jul-05

Dallas

TX

4,400

1,010

5,547

—


—

—

1,010

5,758

6,768


Jul-05

North Highlands

CA

2,200


2,806

—


—

—


3,273

3,969


Jul-05

Cordova

TN

2,700


2,720

—


—

—


2,859

3,711


Jul-05

Mount Vernon

NY

5,100

1,585

6,025

—


—

—

1,585

6,908

8,493


Jul-05

Cordova

TN

6,900

1,351

7,476

—


—

—

1,351

7,630

8,981


Jul-05



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III (Continued)

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2009

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Building costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation

Towson

MD

$

4,100

$


$

4,742

$

—

$


$

—

$

—

$


$

4,856

5,717


Jul-05

Dallas

TX

11,700

1,980

12,501

—


—

—

1,980

12,678

14,658

1,199

May-06

West Palm Beach

FL

2,600

1,449

2,586

—


—

—

1,449

2,851

4,300


Jul-05

Plainville

MA

5,400

2,223

4,430

—


—

—

2,223

4,731

6,954


Jul-05

South Houston

TX

2,566


4,069

—


—

—


4,382

4,860


Apr-06

Whitehall

OH

1,500


2,059

—


—

—


2,164

2,538


Jul-05

Columbus

OH

3,800


3,336

—


—

—


3,445

4,046


Jul-05

New York

NY

16,400

3,060

16,978

—


—

—

3,060

17,468

20,528

2,092

Jul-05

Philadelphia

PA

9,000

1,470

8,162

—


—

—

1,470

9,056

10,526

1,170

Jul-05

Tampa

FL

4,386

1,425

4,766

—


—

—

1,425

5,007

6,432


Mar-07

Albuquerque

NM

4,157

1,298

4,628

—


—

—

1,298

5,180

6,478


Aug-07

Bethesda

MD

12,800

—

18,331

—


—

—

—

18,563

18,563

2,271

Jul-05

Mount Clemens

MI

2,100


1,796

—


—

—


2,013

2,811


Jul-05

Dallas

TX

2,080


2,216

—


—

—


2,536

2,873


Apr-06

Nashville

TN

2,960


2,598

—


—

—


3,078

3,468


Apr-06

Houston

TX

4,699

2,596

8,735

—


—

—

2,596

8,935

11,531


Apr-06

Wichita

KS

2,154


1,897

—


—

—


2,166

2,532


Apr-06

Seattle

WA

7,400

2,727

7,241

—


—

—

2,727

7,404

10,131


Jul-05

Oceanside

CA

9,700

3,241

11,361

—


—

—

3,241

11,870

15,111

1,450

Jul-05

Louisville

KY

2,697

1,217

4,611

—


—

—

1,217

4,733

5,950


Jul-05

Indianapolis

IN

2,971


3,457

—


—

—


3,610

4,198


Aug-07

Hoover

AL

2,514

1,313

2,858

—


—

—

1,313

3,341

4,654


Aug-07

Toms River

NJ

8,300

1,790

9,935

—


—

—

1,790

10,173

11,963

1,271

Jul-05

St. Louis

MO

3,908

1,444

4,162

—


—

—

1,444

4,369

5,813


Aug-07

Phoenix

AZ

—


4,135

—


—

—


4,245

4,914


Jan-07

St. Louis

MO

2,780


3,551

—


—

—


3,751

4,427


Aug-07

Florissant

MO

3,485

1,241

4,648

—


—

—

1,241

4,887

6,128


Aug-07

Colorado Springs

CO

3,199


3,400

—


—

—


3,529

4,310


Aug-07

Louisville

KY

3,753


2,677

—


—

—


2,800

3,692


Dec-05

Everett

MA

3,750


2,129

—


—

—


2,665

3,357


Jul-05

Falls Church

VA

6,200

1,259

6,975

—


—

—

1,259

7,264

8,523


Jul-05

Denver

CO

2,250


1,574

—


—

—


1,678

2,046


Jul-05



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III (Continued)

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2009

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Building costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation

Venice

FL

$

7,096

$

1,969

$

5,903

$

—

$


$

—

$

—

$

1,969

$

6,089

8,058


Jan-06

Alpharetta

GA

2,805

1,893

3,161

—


—

—

1,893

3,274

5,167


Aug-06

Dacula

GA

3,879

1,993

3,001

—


—

—

1,993

3,078

5,071


Jan-06

Cordova

TN

1,819


2,680

—


—

—


2,770

3,664


Jan-07

Burke

VA

5,100

2,067

4,261

—


—

—

2,067

4,401

6,468


Jul-05

Chicago

IL

3,200


2,471

—


—

—


2,851

3,300


Jul-05

Chicago

IL

2,900


2,582

—


—

—


3,084

3,556


Jul-05

Chicago

IL

4,400


3,428

—


—

—


4,034

4,655


Jul-05

Nashua

NH

—

—


—


—

—

—




Jul-05

Linden

NJ

6,700

1,517

8,384

—


—

—

1,517

8,510

10,027

1,000

Jul-05

Johnston

RI

7,100

2,658

4,799

—


—

—

2,658

5,048

7,706


Jul-05

Colorado Springs

CO

3,528

1,525

4,310

—


—

—

1,525

4,428

5,953


Nov-08

Sugar Hill

GA

—

1,368

2,540

—


—

—

1,368

2,631

3,999


Jun-07

Stoneham

MA

5,400


5,241

—


—

—


5,347

6,291


Jul-05

Deland

FL

—

1,318

3,971

—


—

—

1,318

4,066

5,384


Jan-06

Duluth

GA

3,433

1,454

4,151

—


—

—

1,454

4,218

5,672


Jun-07

Sugar Hill

GA

—

1,371

2,547

—


—

—

1,371

2,648

4,019


Jun-07

Hollywood

FL

7,260

3,214

8,689

—


—

—

3,214

8,857

12,071


Nov-07

Stafford

VA


2,076

5,175

—


—

—

2,076

5,205

7,281


Jan-09

North Bergen

NJ

11,000

2,299

12,728

—


—

—

2,299

12,948

15,247

1,508

Jul-05

Parlin

NJ

6,700

2,517

4,516

—


—

—

2,517

4,831

7,348


Jul-05

Las Vegas

NV

3,900


4,131

—


—

—


4,557

5,305


Jul-05

Pasadena

MD

2,979

1,869

3,056

—


—

—

1,869

3,479

5,348


Sep-08

Arnold

MD

9,500

2,558

9,446

—


—

—

2,558

9,641

12,199

1,141

Jul-05

Columbia

MD

8,400

1,736

9,632

—


—

—

1,736

9,791

11,527

1,150

Jul-05

West Palm Beach

FL

4,000

1,752

4,909

—


—

—

1,752

5,172

6,924


Jul-05

Ft. Washington

MD

11,280

4,920

9,174

—


—

—

4,920

9,271

14,191


Jan-07

Grandview

MO

1,100


1,770

—


—

—


1,994

2,606


Jul-05

Foxboro

MA

3,540


4,158

—


—

—


4,553

5,312

1,383

May-04

Hudson

MA

2,694


3,122

—


—

—


3,356

4,162


May-04

Worcester

MA

1,716


4,377

—

2,290

—

—


6,667

7,563

1,338

May-04



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III (Continued)

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2009

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Building costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation

Claremont

CA

$

2,583

$

1,472

$

2,012

$

—

$


$

—

$

—

$

1,472

$

2,192

3,664


Jun-04

Kearns

UT

2,464


2,607

—


—

—


2,808

3,450


Jun-04

San Bernardino

CA

3,373

1,213

3,061

—


—

—

1,213

3,130

4,343


Jun-04

Torrance

CA

6,787

3,710

6,271

—



(d)

—

4,110

6,667

10,777


Jun-04

Auburn

MA

3,540


3,728

—


—

—


3,887

4,805


May-04

North Oxford

MA

—


1,762

—



(a)


(a)


2,105

2,633


Oct-99

Livermore

CA

4,851

1,134

4,615

—


—

—

1,134

4,719

5,853


Jun-04

Norwood

MA

—

2,160

2,336

—

1,375


(a)


(a)

2,221

3,806

6,027


Aug-99

Pico Rivera

CA

4,415

1,150

3,450

—


—

—

1,150

3,534

4,684


Aug-00

Northborough

MA

2,511


2,715

—


—

—


3,164

3,444


Feb-01

Raynham

MA

3,502


2,270

—



(a)


(a)


2,825

3,495


May-00

Brockton

MA

2,347


2,762

—


—

—


2,853

3,500


May-04

Ashland

MA

—


3,324

—


—


(c)


3,532

4,006


Jun-03

Richmond

CA

4,623


4,635

—


—

—


5,091

6,044


Jun-04

Hawthorne

CA

3,765

1,532

3,871

—


—

—

1,532

3,997

5,529


Jun-04

Glendale

CA

4,378

—

6,084

—


—

—

—

6,228

6,228


Jun-04

Parlin

NJ

4,079

—

5,273

—


—

—

—

5,520

5,520

1,449

May-04

Marshfield

MA

4,776

1,039

4,155

—


—

—

1,039

4,312

5,351


Mar-04

Doylestown

PA

3,679


3,442

—



(a)(d)


(a)


4,058

4,579


Nov-99

Glen Rock

NJ

3,925

1,109

2,401

—



(a)


(a)(c)

1,222

2,752

3,974


Mar-01

Hoboken

NJ

8,206

2,687

6,092

—


—


(c)

2,687

6,241

8,928

1,249

Jul-02

Lyndhurst

NJ

6,681

2,679

4,644

—



(a)


(a)(c)

2,929

5,271

8,200

1,043

Mar-01

Pittsburgh

PA

2,848


4,117

—


—

—


4,463

5,352

1,064

May-04

Kennedy Township

PA

2,447


3,173

—


—

—


3,318

4,054


May-04

Stoughton

MA

2,963

1,754

2,769

—


—

—

1,754

2,956

4,710


May-04

Plainview

NY

5,245

4,287

3,710

—


—

—

4,287

4,157

8,444

1,061

Dec-00

Oakland

CA

3,029

—

3,777

—


—


(a)

—

4,656

4,656

1,171

Apr-00

Metuchen

NJ

—

1,153

4,462

—


—

—

1,153

4,618

5,771


Dec-01

Nanuet

NY

3,792

2,072

4,644



—


(c)

2,738

5,506

8,244

1,080

Feb-02

Dedham

MA

2,618

2,127

3,041

—


—


(c)

2,127

3,480

5,607


Mar-02



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III (Continued)

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2009

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Building costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation

Los Angeles

CA

$

5,385

$

1,431

$

2,976

$

—

$


$


(a)

$


(a)

$

1,611

$

3,448

5,059


Mar-00

Las Vegas

NV

—



—



(a)


(a)


1,072

1,350


Feb-00

North Miami

FL

5,675

1,256

6,535

—


—

—

1,256

6,877

8,133

1,015

Jun-04

St. Louis

MO

—


2,159

—



(a)


(a)


2,612

3,302


Jun-00

St. Louis

MO

—


1,313

—



(a)


(a)


1,815

1,988


Jun-00

Pittsburgh

PA

—


1,990

—



(a)


(a)

1,082

2,576

3,658


Aug-00

North Lauderdale

FL

3,759


3,516

—



(a)


(a)


4,261

4,720

1,100

Aug-00

West Palm Beach

FL

1,675

1,164

2,511

—



(a)


(a)

1,246

2,938

4,184


Aug-00

Miami

FL

3,528

1,325

4,395

—



(a)


(a)

1,439

5,061

6,500

1,276

Aug-00

Miami

FL

9,488

5,315

4,305

—



(a)


(a)

5,859

4,925

10,784

1,206

Aug-00

Margate

FL

3,364


3,139

—



(a)


(a)


3,691

4,160


Aug-00

West Palm Beach

FL

1,929

1,312

2,511

—



(a)


(a)

1,416

3,027

4,443


Aug-00

Inglewood

CA

5,179

1,379

3,343

—



(a)


(a)

1,529

4,054

5,583

1,049

Aug-00

Burbank

CA

9,000

3,199

5,082

—



(a)


(a)

3,618

6,215

9,833

1,467

Aug-00

Arvada

CO

—


1,521

—


—

—


1,938

2,224


Sep-00

Denver

CO

—


2,052

—



(a)


(a)


3,005

3,750


Sep-00

Thornton

CO

—


2,044

—



(a)


(a)


2,880

3,128


Sep-00

Westminster

CO

—


1,586

—



(a)


(a)


2,445

2,744


Sep-00

Groton

CT

2,527

1,277

3,992

—


—


(c)

1,277

4,360

5,637


Jan-04

Whittier

CA

2,449

—

2,985

—


—


(c)

—

3,049

3,049


Jun-02

Kingston

MA

—


2,491

—


—


(c)


2,594

3,149


Oct-02

Mount Vernon

NY

3,512

1,926

7,622

—


—


(c)

1,926

8,153

10,079

1,502

Nov-02

North Bergen

MA

6,789

2,100

6,606

—


—


(c)

2,100

6,821

8,921

1,259

Jul-03

Saugus

MA

4,026

1,725

5,514

—


—


(c)

1,725

5,910

7,635

1,175

Jun-03

Stockton

CA

3,119


3,272

—


—

—


3,349

3,998


May-02

Wethersfield

CT

2,851


4,205

—


—


(c)


4,334

5,043


Aug-02

Jamaica Plain

MA

2,939

3,285

11,275

—


—

—

3,285

11,309

14,594


Dec-07

Milton

MA

—

2,838

3,979

—

3,370

—


(c)

2,838

7,369

10,207

1,058

Nov-02

South Holland

IL

2,833


2,879

—



(a)


(a)(c)


3,084

3,949


Oct-02

Somerville

MA

7,200

1,728

6,570

—



(a)


(a)

1,731

7,017

8,748

1,447

Jun-01



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III (Continued)

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2009

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Building costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation

Crest Hill

IL

$

—

$


$

2,946

$

—

$


$


(a)

$


(a)(c)

$


$

3,475

4,443


Jul-03

Palmdale

CA

—

1,225

5,379

—

2,130

—

—

1,225

7,509

8,734


Jan-05

Tracy

CA

2,913


2,638

—



(a)


(a)(c)


3,207

4,118


Jul-03

Edison

NJ

5,830

2,519

8,547

—


—

—

2,519

8,868

11,387

1,916

Dec-01

Egg Harbor Twp.

NJ

7,722

1,724

5,001

—


—

—

1,724

5,450

7,174

1,211

Dec-01

Hazlet

NJ

10,425

1,362

10,262

—


—

—

1,362

10,635

11,997

2,240

Dec-01

Howell

NJ

3,388

2,440

3,407

—


—

—

2,440

3,672

6,112


Dec-01

Old Bridge

NJ

5,257

2,758

6,450

—


—

—

2,758

6,948

9,706

1,525

Dec-01

Iselin

NJ

3,928


4,524

—


—

—


4,844

5,349

1,100

Dec-01

Fontana

CA

3,075

1,246

3,356

—



(a)


(a)(c)

1,300

3,667

4,967


Oct-03

North Hollywood

CA

—

3,125

9,257

—


—

—

3,125

9,323

12,448


May-06

Fontana

CA

3,310


3,846

—



(a)


(a)(c)

1,000

4,129

5,129


Sep-02

Los Angeles

CA

—

3,991

9,774

—


—

—

3,991

9,790

13,781


Dec-07

Elk Grove

CA

5,260


6,936

—


—

—


6,943

7,895


Dec-07

Gurnee

IL

—

1,374

8,296

—


—

—

1,374

8,334

9,708


Oct-07

Tracy

CA

—


1,937

—


—


(c)


2,039

2,985


Apr-04

Middletown

CT

2,140


2,810

—


—

—


2,871

3,803


Dec-07

San Bernardino

CA

—


5,135

—


—

—


5,159

5,909


Jun-06

Lanham

MD

—

3,346

10,079

—


(728

)

(b)


(c)

2,618

10,819

13,437

1,731

Feb-04

Lawrenceville

NJ

11,967

3,402

10,230

—


—


(c)

3,402

10,527

13,929

1,652

Feb-04

Morrisville

NJ

—

2,487

7,494

—

1,047

—


(c)

2,487

8,552

11,039

1,342

Feb-04

Philadelphia

PA

—

1,965

5,925

—


—


(c)

1,965

6,806

8,771

1,074

Feb-04

Quincy

MA

—

1,359

4,078

—


—


(c)

1,359

4,281

5,640


Feb-04

Dedham

MA

—

2,443

7,328

—


—


(c)

2,443

7,864

10,307

1,301

Feb-04

Waltham

MA

—

3,770

11,310

—


—


(c)

3,770

11,871

15,641

1,841

Feb-04

Woburn

MA

—

—

—

—


—


(c)

—




Feb-04

East Somerville

MA

—

—

—

—


—


(c)

—




Feb-04

Peoria

AZ

2,363


4,105

—


—

—


4,127

4,779


Apr-06

Bronx

NY

9,817

3,995

11,870

—


—


(c)

3,995

12,348

16,343

1,825

Aug-04

Worcester

MA

3,531

1,350

4,433

—


—

—

1,350

4,488

5,838


Dec-06

Belmont

CA

—

3,500

7,280

—


—

—

3,500

7,296

10,796


May-07



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III (Continued)

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2009

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Building costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation

Chicago

IL

$

—

$

1,925

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

1,925

$

—

1,925

—

Chicago

IL

—

2,020

6,997

—


—

—

2,020

7,009

9,029


Jul-09

Antelope

CA

6,020

1,525

8,345

—

(23

)

(340

)

(b)

—

1,185

8,322

9,507


Jul-08

Baltimore

MD

3,120


5,955

—


—

—


5,988

6,788


Nov-08

Los Angeles

CA

—

2,200

8,108

—


—

—

2,200

8,136

10,336


Sep-08

North Aurora

IL

4,915


5,833

—


—

—


5,883

6,483


May-08

Los Angeles

CA

—

3,075

—

—

—

(3,075

)

(b)

—

—

—

—

—

Sacramento

CA

5,000

2,410

8,244

—


—

—

2,410

8,247

10,657


Jan-09

Thousand Oaks

CA

—

4,500

—

—

—

(1,000

)

(e)

—

3,500

—

3,500

—

Pacoima

CA

5,760

3,050

7,597

—


—

—

3,050

7,601

10,651


Aug-09

Compton

CA

6,571

1,426

7,307

—


—

—

1,426

7,592

9,018


Sep-08

Carson

CA

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

San Leandro

CA

5,900

3,343

6,630

—


—

—

3,343

6,632

9,975


Jul-09

Ewing

NJ

—

1,552

4,720

—



(c)

(362

)

(e)

1,563

4,464

6,027


Mar-07

Naperville

IL

—

2,800

7,355

—


(850

)

(e)

—

1,950

7,416

9,366


Dec-08

Santa Clara

CA


4,750

8,218

—


—

—

4,750

8,225

12,975


Jul-09

Edgewood

MD

—

1,000

—

—

—

(575

)

(e)

—


—


—

Tinley Park

IL

—

1,823

4,794

—


(275

)

(e)

—

1,548

4,869

6,417


Aug-08

Hialeah

FL

5,053

2,800

7,588

—


—

—

2,800

7,619

10,419


Aug-08

Oakland

CA

—

3,024

—

—

—

—

—

3,024

—

3,024

—

Sacramento

CA

5,188

1,738

5,522

—


(65

)

(c)

1,738

5,459

7,197


Dec-07

Simi Valley

CA

—

5,535

—

—

—

(1,285

)

(e)

—

4,250

—

4,250

—

Lancaster

CA

—

1,425

5,855

—


—

—

1,425

5,859

7,284


Oct-09

Pasadena

MD

—

3,500

—

—

—

—

—

3,500

—

3,500

—

Laurel Heights

MD

4,920

3,000

5,930

—


—

—

3,000

5,946

8,946


Dec-07

King City

OR

—

2,520

6,845

—


—

—

2,520

6,850

9,370


Sep-09

Los Gatos

CA

—

2,550

—

—

—

—

—

2,550

—

2,550

—

Arlington

TX

1,658


2,525

—


—


(c)


2,756

3,290


Aug-04

Austin

TX

5,179


4,455

—


—


(c)


4,627

5,497


Aug-04

Charleston

SC

—

1,279

4,171

—


—


(c)

1,279

4,255

5,534


Aug-04

Atlanta

GA

—

3,737

8,333

—


—


(c)

3,737

8,606

12,343

1,220

Aug-04



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III (Continued)

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2009

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Building costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation

Columbia

SC

$

—

$


$

3,312

$

—

$


$

—

$


(c)

$


$

3,440

4,278


Aug-04

San Antonio

TX

—

1,269

1,816

—


—


(c)

1,269

2,116

3,385


Aug-04

Dallas

TX

7,845

4,432

6,181

—


—


(c)

4,432

6,393

10,825


Aug-04

Fort Myers

FL

—

1,691

4,711

—


—


(c)

1,691

4,872

6,563


Aug-04

Fort Worth

TX

—


5,794

—


—


(c)


5,934

6,565


Aug-04

Ft Lauderdale

FL

2,869

1,587

4,205

—


—


(c)

1,587

4,448

6,035


Aug-04

Goose Creek

SC

—

1,683

4,372

—


—


(c)

1,683

5,290

6,973


Aug-04

Grand Prairie

TX

2,395


2,330

—


—


(c)


2,434

2,985


Aug-04

Alpharetta

GL

—

1,973

1,587

—


—


(c)

1,973

1,724

3,697


Aug-04

Madeira Beach

FL

—

1,686

5,163

—


—


(c)

1,686

5,284

6,970


Aug-04

Metairie

LA

—

2,056

4,216

—


—


(c)

2,056

4,330

6,386


Aug-04

New Orleans

LA

—

4,058

4,325

—


—


(c)

4,058

4,798

8,856


Aug-04

Orlando

FL

3,245

1,216

5,008

—


—


(c)

1,216

5,198

6,414


Aug-04

Port Charlotte

FL

—

1,389

4,632

—


—


(c)

1,389

4,731

6,120


Aug-04

Riverview

FL

—


2,953

—


—


(c)


3,076

3,730


Aug-04

Atlanta

GA

—

1,665

2,028

—


—


(c)

1,665

2,146

3,811


Aug-04

Snellville

GA

—

2,691

4,026

—


—


(c)

2,691

4,175

6,866


Aug-04

Stone Mountain

GA

—

1,817

4,382

—


—


(c)

1,817

4,523

6,340


Aug-04

Summerville

SC

—


4,454

—


—


(c)


4,559

5,009


Aug-04

Valrico

FL

3,195

1,197

4,411

—


—


(c)

1,197

4,535

5,732


Aug-04

Richmond

VA

—

2,305

5,467

—


—


(c)

2,305

5,551

7,856


Aug-04

San Antonio

TX

—


1,496

—


—


(c)


1,608

1,861


Aug-04

Lumberton

NJ

4,925


4,060

—


—


(c)


4,177

5,008


Dec-04

Avenel

NJ

8,080

1,518

8,037

—


—


(c)

1,518

8,196

9,714

1,082

Jan-05

Bayville

NJ

5,300

1,193

5,312

—


—


(c)

1,193

5,523

6,716


Dec-04

Union

NJ

—

1,754

6,237

—


—


(c)

1,754

6,450

8,204


Dec-04

Bensalem

PA

3,244

1,131

4,525

—


—


(c)

1,131

4,735

5,866


Dec-04

Orlando

FL

8,200

2,233

9,223

—


—


(c)

2,233

9,454

11,687

1,203

Mar-05

Orlando

FL

6,400

1,474

6,101

—


—


(c)

1,474

6,217

7,691


Mar-05

Ocoee

FL

3,750


3,642

—


—


(c)


3,754

4,626


Mar-05

Orlando

FL

4,600

1,166

4,816

—

1,106

—


(c)

1,166

5,937

7,103


Mar-05



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III (Continued)

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2009

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Building costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation

Greenacres

FL

$

—

$

1,463

$

3,244

$

—

$


$

—

$


(c)

$

1,463

$

3,299

4,762


Mar-05

Atlanta

GA

9,600

3,319

8,325

—


—


(c)

3,319

8,544

11,863

1,135

Feb-05

Lakewood

WA

4,600

1,917

5,256

—


—

—

1,917

5,393

7,310


Feb-06

Lakewood

WA

4,597

1,389

4,780

—


—

—

1,389

4,935

6,324


Feb-06

Tacoma

WA

3,491

1,031

3,103

—


—

—

1,031

3,207

4,238


Feb-06

Bensalem

PA

—


3,015

—


—

—


3,124

3,874


Mar-06

Phoenix

AZ

3,440


3,530

—


—

—


3,654

4,206


Jun-06

Rowlett

TX

2,129

1,002

2,601

—


—

—

1,002

2,741

3,743


Aug-06

Lancaster

CA

5,840

1,347

5,827

—


—

—

1,347

6,011

7,358


Jul-06

Parker

CO

2,772


4,549

—


—

—


4,962

5,762


Sep-06

Neptune

NJ

5,866

4,204

8,906

—


—

—

4,204

9,045

13,249


Nov-06

Allen

TX

4,487


5,553

—


—

—


5,670

6,571


Nov-06

Plano

TX

4,795

1,010

6,203

—


—

—

1,010

6,348

7,358


Nov-06

Plano

TX

—


3,775

—


—

—


3,924

4,538


Nov-06

Tampa

FL

3,585


3,533

—


—

—


3,644

4,527


Nov-06

San Francisco

CA

13,526

8,457

9,928

—

1,099

—

—

8,457

11,027

19,484


Jun-07

Alameda

CA

—

2,919

12,984

—

1,356

—

—

2,919

14,340

17,259

1,053

Jun-07

Berkeley

CA

16,217

1,716

19,602

—

1,154

—

—

1,716

20,756

22,472

1,342

Jun-07

Castro Valley

CA

—

—

6,346

—


—

—

—

6,554

6,554


Jun-07

Colma

CA

16,523

3,947

22,002

—

1,651

—

—

3,947

23,653

27,600

1,603

Jun-07

Hayward

CA

—

3,149

8,006

—

1,742

—

—

3,149

9,748

12,897


Jun-07

Kahului

HI

—

3,984

15,044

—


—

—

3,984

15,513

19,497

1,042

Jun-07

Kapolei

HI

15,381

—

24,701

—


—

—

—

25,021

25,021

1,639

Jun-07

San Leandro

CA

10,159

4,601

9,777

—

1,711

—

—

4,601

11,488

16,089


Aug-07

El Sobrante

CA

—

1,209

4,018

—


—

—

1,209

4,836

6,045


Jun-07

Vallejo

CA

2,118

1,177

2,157

—


—

—

1,177

2,937

4,114


Jun-07

Alexandria

VA

6,448

1,620

13,103

—


—

—

1,620

13,511

15,131


Jun-07

Annapolis

MD

7,049

5,248

7,247

—


—

—

5,248

7,350

12,598


Apr-07

Pleasanton

CA

3,043

1,208

4,283

—


—

—

1,208

4,617

5,825


May-07

Modesto

CA

1,544


3,043

—


—

—


3,221

4,130


Jun-07

Santa Fe Springs

CA

7,012

3,617

7,022

—


—

—

3,617

7,248

10,865


Oct-07



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III (Continued)

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2009

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Building costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation

Miami

FL

$

5,609

$

1,238

$

7,597

$

—

$


$

—

$

—

$

1,238

$

7,763

9,001


May-07

San Antonio

TX

—

2,471

3,556

—


—

(408

)

(f)

2,471

3,323

5,794


Dec-07

Bohemia

NY

1,678

1,456

1,398

—


—

—

1,456

1,713

3,169


Dec-07

Coral Springs

FL

4,056

3,638

6,590

—


—

—

3,638

6,742

10,380


Jun-08

Carmel

IN

—

1,169

4,393

—


—

—

1,169

4,542

5,711


Oct-08

Fort Wayne

IN

—

1,899

3,292

—


—

—

1,899

3,517

5,416


Oct-08

Indianapolis

IN

—


2,903

—


—

—


3,092

3,518


Oct-08

Indianapolis

IN

—


4,545

—


—

—


4,726

5,576


Oct-08

Mishawaka

IN

2,188


3,349

—


—

—


3,516

4,146


Oct-08

Centereach

NY

2,188

2,226

1,657

—


—

—

2,226

1,728

3,954


Oct-08

Brooklyn

NY

14,592

12,993

10,405

—


—

—

12,993

10,468

23,461


Oct-08

Estero

FL

—

2,198

8,215

—

—

—

—

2,198

8,215

10,413


Jul-09

Hialeah

FL

—

1,678

—

—

—

—

—

1,678

—

1,678

—

El Cajon

CA

—

1,100

6,412

—

—

—

—

1,100

6,412

7,512


Sep-09

Bellmawr

NJ

6,600

3,600

4,540

—



(c)

—

3,675

4,573

8,248


Sep-08

Hialeah

FL

1,126

1,750

—

—

—

—

—

1,750

—

1,750

—

Kendall

FL

—

2,374

—

—

—

—

—

2,374

—

2,374

—

Sylmar

CA

4,385

3,058

4,671

—


—

—

3,058

4,883

7,941


May-08

Ft Lauderdale

FL

—

2,750

—

—

—

—

—

2,750

—

2,750

—

Monmouth Junction

NJ

5,115

1,700

5,260

—

—

—

—

1,700

5,260

6,960

—

Dec-09

Miami

FL

3,940

4,798

9,475

—

—

—

—

4,798

9,475

14,273


Nov-09

Peoria

AZ

—

1,060

—

—

—

—

—

1,060

—

1,060

—

Plantation

FL

—

3,850

—

—

—

(1,900

)

(e)

—

1,950

—

1,950

—

Sacramento

CA

—

2,400

7,425

—


—

—

2,400

7,433

9,833


Sep-09

Baltimore

MD

—

1,900

—

—

—

—

—

1,900

—

1,900

—

Weymouth

MA

4,467

2,806

3,129

—


—

—

2,806

3,236

6,042


Sep-00

Lynn

MA

2,388

1,703

3,237

—


—

—

1,703

3,424

5,127


Jun-01

Sherman Oaks

CA

17,204

4,051

12,152

—


—

—

4,051

12,380

16,431

1,703

Aug-04

Venice

CA

6,723

2,803

8,410

—


—

—

2,803

8,495

11,298

1,172

Aug-04

Riverside

CA

2,489

1,075

4,042

—


—

—

1,075

4,396

5,471


Aug-04

Merrimack

NH

3,610


3,299

—



(a)


(a)


3,713

4,530


Apr-99



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III (Continued)

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2009

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Building costs

subsequent to

acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation

Manteca

CA

$

3,777

$


$

2,543

$

—

$


$

—

$

—

$


$

2,618

3,466


Jan-04

Mesa

AZ

1,400


2,547

—


—

—


2,612

3,461


Aug-04

Lithonia

GA

—

1,958

3,645

—

—

—

—

1,958

3,645

5,603


Nov-09

San Jose

CA

8,280

5,340

6,821

—


—

—

5,340

6,825

12,165


Sep-09

Miscellaneous other

—


2,202

—

2,708

(849

)

(d)

—

—

4,910

4,910

2,205

Construction in progress

—

—

—

—

34,427

—

—

—

34,427

34,427

—

Intangible tenant relationships and lease rights

—

—

28,836

—

10,547

—


—

39,613

39,613

34,488

$

1,099,593

$

540,698

$

1,610,370

$


$

129,283

$

(7,055

)

$

9,727

$

534,309

$

1,749,380

$

2,283,689

$

233,830

(a)

Adjustments
relate to the acquistion of joint venture partners interests

(b)

Adjustment
relates to partial disposition of land

(c)

Adjustment
relates to asset transfers between land, building and/or equipment

(d)

Adjustment
relates to asset transfers between entities

(e)

Adjustment
relates to impairment charge

(f)

Adjustment
relates to a purchase price adjustment



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III (Continued)

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

(Dollars in thousands)

Activity in real estate facilities during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is as follows:




Operating facilities

Balance at beginning of year

$

2,121,257

$

1,923,182

$

1,475,674

Acquisitions

21,764

110,258

400,902

Improvements

31,652

32,487

17,679

Transfers from construction in progress

78,148

55,824

30,926

Dispositions and other

(3,559

)

(494

)

(1,999

)

Balance at end of year

$

2,249,262

$

2,121,257

$

1,923,182

Accumulated depreciation:

Balance at beginning of year

$

182,335

$

131,805

$

93,619

Depreciation expense

50,530

49,031

38,186

Dispositions and other


1,499

—

Balance at end of year

$

233,830

$

182,335

$

131,805

Construction in progress

Balance at beginning of year

$

58,734

$

49,945

$

35,336

Current developent

67,301

64,344

45,764

Transfers to operating facilities

(78,148

)

(55,824

)

(30,926

)

Dispositions and other

(13,460

)


(229

)

Balance at end of year

$

34,427

$

58,734

$

49,945

Net real estate assets

$

2,049,859

$

1,997,656

$

1,841,322

The
aggregate cost of real estate for U.S. federal income tax purposes is $2,038,831



Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures

(i)    Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We maintain disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC, and that such information is accumulated
and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure based on the definition
of "disclosure controls and procedures" in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that any
controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and in reaching a reasonable level of assurance,
management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.

We
have a disclosure committee that is responsible for considering the materiality of information and determining the disclosure obligations of the Company on a timely basis. The
disclosure committee meets quarterly and reports directly to our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.

We
carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of
the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level as of the end of the period covered by this report.

(ii)   Internal Control over Financial Reporting

(a)   Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f)
of the Exchange Act. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. Based on our
evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Our
independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued the following attestation report over our internal control over financial reporting.



(b)   Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Extra Space Storage Inc.

We have audited Extra Space Storage Inc. (the "Company")'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Extra Space
Storage Inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting included in the accompanying Management's
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In
our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the COSO criteria.

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2009,
and 2008 and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the period ended December 31, 2009 of Extra Space
Storage Inc. and our report dated February 26, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/
Ernst & Young LLP

Salt
Lake City, Utah

February 26, 2010



(c)   Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f)) that occurred during our most
recent quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.    Other Information

None.



PART III

Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions "Election of Directors,"
"Executive Officers," "Information About the Board of Directors and its Committees," "Corporate Governance", "meetings and Committees of the Board" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance" in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31, 2009.

We
have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics in compliance with rules of the SEC that applies to all of our personnel, including our board of directors, Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer and principal accounting officer. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available free of charge on the "Investor Info—Corporate Governance" section of our web
site at www.extraspace.com. We intend to satisfy any disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of this Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics by posting such information on our web site at the address and location specified above.

The
board of directors has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for our Audit Committee and Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee, each of which is posted on
our website at the address and location specified above. Investors may obtain a free copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, the Corporate Governance Guidelines and the committee charters by
contacting the Investor Relations Department at 2795 East Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 400, Salt Lake City, Utah 84121, Attn: Clint Halverson or by telephoning (801) 562-5556.

Item 11.    Executive Compensation

Information with respect to executive compensation is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption
"Executive Compensation" in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31,
2009.

Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Information with respect to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters is
incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions "Executive Compensation—Equity Compensation Plan Information," "Voting—Principal Stockholders" and
"Security Ownership of Directors and Officers" in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after
December 31, 2009.

Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Information with respect to certain relationships and related transactions is incorporated by reference to the information set forth
under the captions "Information about the Board of Directors and its Committees" and "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" in our Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31, 2009.

Item 14.    Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Information with respect to principal accountant fees and services is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the
caption "Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" in our Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A
within 120 days after December 31, 2009.



PART IV

Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)

Documents
filed as part of this report:

(1)
and (2).  All Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules filed as part of this Annual Report on 10-K are included in
Item 8—"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on 10-K and reference is made thereto.

(3)   The
following documents are filed or incorporated by references as exhibits to this report:

Exhibit

Number

Description

2.1

Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated May 5, 2005 by and among Security Capital Self Storage Incorporated, as seller and Extra Space Storage LLC, PRISA Self Storage LLC, PRISA II Self Storage LLC, PRISA
III Self Storage LLC, VRS Self Storage LLC, WCOT Self Storage LLC and Extra Space Storage LP, as purchaser parties and The Prudential Insurance Company of America (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 2.1 of Form 8-K
filed on May 11, 2005).

3.1

Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Extra Space Storage Inc.(1)

3.2

Articles of Amendment dated September 28, 2007 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 of Form 8-K filed on October 3, 2007).

3.3

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Extra Space Storage Inc.(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 of Form 8-K filed on May 26, 2009)

3.4

Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Extra Space Storage LP (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on June 26, 2007).

3.5

Declaration of Trust of ESS Holdings Business Trust I.(1)

3.6

Declaration of Trust of ESS Holdings Business Trust II.(1)

4.1

Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of July 27, 2005, between Extra Space Storage LP and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 of
Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2005).

4.2

Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of July 27, 2005, among Extra Space Storage LP, as depositor and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as property trustee, Chase Bank USA, National
Association, as Delaware trustee, the Administrative Trustees named therein and the holders of undivided beneficial interest in the assets of ESS Statutory Trust III (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 of Form 8-K filed on
August 2, 2005).

4.3

Junior Subordinated Note(2)

4.4

Trust Preferred Security Certificates(2)

4.5

Indenture, dated March 27, 2007 among Extra Space Storage LP, Extra Space Storage Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee, including the form of 3.625% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2027 and form of
guarantee (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 of Form 8-K filed on March 28, 2007).

10.1

Registration Rights Agreement, by and among Extra Space Storage Inc. and the parties listed on Schedule I thereto.(1)

10.2

License between Centershift Inc. and Extra Space Storage LP.(1)



Exhibit

Number

Description

10.6

2004 Long-Term Compensation Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective March 25, 2008 (incorporated by reference from the Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on April 14, 2008)

10.7

Extra Space Storage Performance Bonus Plan.(1)

10.8

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated August 28, 2008, by and between Extra Space Storage Inc. and Kenneth M. Woolley (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on
September 4, 2008).

10.9

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated August 28, 2008, by and between Extra Space Storage Inc. and Kent W. Christensen (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 of Form 8-K filed on
September 4, 2008).

10.10

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated August 28, 2008, by and between Extra Space Storage Inc. and Charles L. Allen (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 of Form 8-K filed on
September 4, 2008).

10.11

Form of 2004 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan Option Award Agreement for Employees with employment agreements.(2)

10.12

Form of 2004 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan Option Award Agreement for employees without employment agreements.(2)

10.13

Form of 2004 Non-Employee Directors Share Plan Option Award Agreement for Directors.(2)

10.14

Joint Venture Agreement, dated June 1, 2004, by and between Extra Space Storage LLC and Prudential Financial, Inc.(1)

10.15

Extra Space Storage Non-Employee Directors' Share Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.22 of Form 10-K/A filed on March 22, 2007).

10.16

Purchase Agreement, dated June 20, 2005, among Extra Space Storage Inc. and the investors named therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on June 24,
2005).

10.17

Registration Rights Agreement, dated June 20, 2005, among Extra Space Storage Inc. and the investors named therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on June 24,
2005).

10.18

Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 27, 2005, among Extra Space Storage LP, ESS Statutory Trust III and the Purchaser named therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed
on August 2, 2005).

10.19

Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 27, 2005, among Extra Space Storage LP, ESS Statutory Trust III and the Purchaser named therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed
on August 2, 2005).

10.21

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated August 28, 2008, by and between Extra Space Storage Inc. and Karl Haas (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 of Form 8-K filed on
September 4, 2008).

10.22

Registration Rights Agreement, dated March 27, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP, Extra Space Storage Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on March 28, 2007).



Exhibit

Number

Description

10.23

Contribution Agreement, dated June 15, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP and various limited partnerships affiliated with AAAAA Rent-A-Space.(2)

10.24

Promissory Note, dated June 25, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP, H. James Knuppe and Barbara Knuppe (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Form 8-K filed on June 26,
2007).

10.25

Pledge Agreement, dated June 25, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP, H. James Knuppe and Barbara Knuppe (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of Form 8-K filed on June 26,
2007).

10.26

Registration Rights Agreement among Extra Space Storage LP, H. James Knuppe and Barbara Knuppe.(2)

10.27

First Amendment to Contribution Agreement and to Agreement Regarding Transfer of Series A units among Extra Space Storage LP, various limited partnerships affiliated with AAAAA Rent-A-Space, H. James Knuppe
and Barbara Knuppe, dated September 28, 2007. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on October 3, 2007).

10.28

2004 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 of Form 10-Q filed on November 7, 2007).

10.29

First Amendment to Extra Space Storage Inc. 2004 Non-Employee Directors' Share Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 of Form 10-Q filed on November 7, 2007).

10.30

Loan Agreement between ESP Seven Subsidiary LLC as Borrower and General Electric Capital Corporation as Lender, dated October 16, 2007.(2)

10.31

Subscription Agreement, dated December 31, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LLC and Extra Space Development, LLC.(2)

10.32

First Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Extra Space Storage LP, dated September 18, 2008.(2)

10.33

Revolving Promissory Note between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as Lender, dated February 13, 2009(2)

10.34

Revolving Line of Credit between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as Lender, dated February 13, 2009(2)

14.0

Code of Business Conduct and Ethics adopted May 23, 2007 (incorporated by reference from the Definitive Proxy Statement on Form 14A filed on April 14, 2008.)

21.1

Subsidiaries of the Company(2)

23.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP(2)

31.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.(2)

31.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.(2)


Certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.(2)

(1)

Incorporated
by reference from our Registration Statement on Form S-11 (File No. 333-115436 dated August 11,
2004).

(2)

Filed
herewith



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: February 26, 2010

EXTRA SPACE STORAGE INC.

By:

/s/ SPENCER F. KIRK

Spencer F. Kirk

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.

Date: February 26, 2010

By:

/s/ SPENCER F. KIRK

Spencer F. Kirk

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

(Principal Executive Officer)

Date: February 26, 2010

By:

/s/ KENT W. CHRISTENSEN

Kent W. Christensen

Executive Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial Officer)

Date: February 26, 2010

By:

/s/ P. SCOTT STUBBS

P. Scott Stubbs

Senior Vice President Finance and Accounting

(Principal Accounting Officer)

Date: February 26, 2010

By:

/s/ JOSEPH D. MARGOLIS

Joseph D. Margolis

Director

Date: February 26, 2010

By:

/s/ ROGER B. PORTER

Roger B. Porter

Director

Date: February 26, 2010

By:

/s/ K. FRED SKOUSEN

K. Fred Skousen

Director

118