10-K


d851024d10k.htm

FORM 10-K

Form 10-K


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM

10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014

OR

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from                  to
                .

Commission File Number:

001-32269

EXTRA SPACE
STORAGE INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Maryland

20-1076777

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

2795 East Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 400

Salt Lake City, Utah 84121

(Address of principal executive offices and zip code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(801) 365-4600

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $0.01 par value

New York Stock Exchange, Inc.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a

well-known

seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes

¨

No

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data
File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of

Regulation S-T

(§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of

Regulation S-K

is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this

Form 10-K

or any amendment of this

Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a

non-accelerated

filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” and “smaller reporting company” in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

x

Accelerated filer

¨

Non-accelerated filer

¨

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange
Act).    Yes

¨

No

x

.

The aggregate market value of the common stock held by

non-affiliates

of the registrant was
$5,891,902,482 based upon the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on June 30, 2014, the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter. This calculation does not reflect a determination that
persons whose shares are excluded from the computation are affiliates for any other purpose.

The number of shares outstanding of the
registrant’s common stock, $0.01 par value per share, as of February 18, 2015 was 116,393,006.

Documents Incorporated by
Reference

Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement to be issued in connection with the registrant’s annual
stockholders’ meeting to be held in 2015 are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.


EXTRA SPACE STORAGE INC.


PART I


Item 1.

Business


Item 1A.

Risk Factors


Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments


Item 2.

Properties


Item 3.

Legal Proceedings


Item 4.

Mine Safety Disclosures


PART II


Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities


Item 6.

Selected Financial Data


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures


Item 9B.

Other Information


PART III


Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance


Item 11.

Executive Compensation


Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters


Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence


Item 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services


PART IV


Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules


SIGNATURES




Statements Regarding

Forward-Looking

Information

Certain information set forth in this report contains

“forward-looking

statements” within
the meaning of the federal securities laws.

Forward-looking

statements include statements concerning our plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events, future revenues or performance, capital
expenditures, financing needs, plans or intentions relating to acquisitions and other information that is not historical information. In some cases,

forward-looking

statements can be identified by terminology
such as “believes,” “expects,” “estimates,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “anticipates,” or “intends” or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology, or by
discussions of strategy. We may also make additional

forward-looking

statements from time to time. All such subsequent

forward-looking

statements, whether written or
oral, by us or on our behalf, are also expressly qualified by these cautionary statements.

All

forward-looking

statements, including without limitation, management’s examination of historical operating trends and estimates of future earnings, are based upon our current expectations and various
assumptions. Our expectations, beliefs and projections are expressed in good faith and we believe there is a reasonable basis for them, but there can be no assurance that management’s expectations, beliefs and projections will result or be
achieved. All

forward-looking

statements apply only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise

forward-looking

statements which may be
made to reflect events or circumstances after the date made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

There are a
number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the

forward-looking

statements contained in or contemplated by this report. Any

forward-looking

statements should be considered in light of the risks referenced in “Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors” below. Such factors include, but are not limited to:

•

adverse changes in general economic conditions, the real estate industry and in the markets in which we operate;

•

failure to close pending acquisitions on expected terms, or at all;

•

the effect of competition from new and existing stores or other storage alternatives, which could cause rents and occupancy rates to decline;

•

difficulties in our ability to evaluate, finance, complete and integrate acquisitions and developments successfully and to lease up those stores, which could adversely affect our profitability;

•

potential liability for uninsured losses and environmental contamination;

•

the impact of the regulatory environment as well as national, state, and local laws and regulations including, without limitation, those governing Real Estate Investment Trusts (“REITs”), tenant reinsurance
and other aspects of our business, which could adversely affect our results;

•

disruptions in credit and financial markets and resulting difficulties in raising capital or obtaining credit at reasonable rates or at all, which could impede our ability to grow;

•

increased interest rates and operating costs;

•

reductions in asset valuations and related impairment charges;

•

the failure of our joint venture partners to fulfill their obligations to us or their pursuit of actions that are inconsistent with our objectives;

•

the failure to maintain our REIT status for federal income tax purposes;

•

economic uncertainty due to the impact of war or terrorism, which could adversely affect our business plan; and

•

difficulties in our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and management members.



The

forward-looking

statements are based on our
beliefs, assumptions and expectations of our future performance, taking into account all information currently available to us. These beliefs, assumptions and expectations are subject to risks and uncertainties and can change as a result of many
possible events or factors, not all of which are known to us. If a change occurs, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations may vary materially from those expressed in our

forward-looking

statements. You should carefully consider these risks before you make an investment decision with respect to our securities.

We disclaim any duty or obligation to update or revise any

forward-looking

statements set forth in
this Annual Report on

Form 10-K

to reflect new information, future events or otherwise.

PART I

Item 1.

Business

General

Extra Space Storage Inc. (“we,” “our,” “us” or the “Company”) is a fully integrated,

self-administered

and

self-managed

real estate investment trust (“REIT”) formed as a Maryland corporation on April 30, 2004, to own, operate, manage, acquire,
develop and redevelop professionally managed self-storage properties (“stores”). We closed our initial public offering (“IPO”) on August 17, 2004. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
“EXR.”

We were formed to continue the business of Extra Space Storage LLC and its subsidiaries, which had engaged in the

self-storage

business since 1977. These companies were reorganized after the consummation of our IPO and various formation transactions. As of December 31, 2014, we held ownership interests in 828 operating
stores. Of these operating stores, 557 are

wholly-owned

and 271 are owned in joint venture partnerships. An additional 260 operating stores are owned by third parties and operated by us in exchange for a
management fee, bringing the total number of operating stores which we own and/or manage to 1,088. These operating stores are located in 35 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico and contain approximately 80.4 million square feet of net
rentable space in approximately 725,000 units and currently serve a customer base of approximately 650,000 tenants.

We operate in three
distinct segments: (1) rental operations; (2) tenant reinsurance; and (3) property management, acquisition and development. Our rental operations activities include rental operations of stores in which we have an ownership interest.
Tenant reinsurance activities include the reinsurance of risks relating to the loss of goods stored by tenants in the Company’s stores. Our property management, acquisition and development activities include managing, acquiring, developing and
selling stores.

Substantially all of our business is conducted through Extra Space Storage LP (the “Operating
Partnership”). Our primary assets are general partner and limited partner interests in the Operating Partnership. This structure is commonly referred to as an umbrella partnership REIT, or UPREIT. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”). To the extent we continue to qualify as a REIT we will not be subject to tax, with certain exceptions, on our net taxable income that is distributed to our
stockholders.

We file our annual report on

Form 10-K,

quarterly reports on

Form 10-Q,

current reports on

Form 8-K,

and all amendments to those reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may obtain copies
of these documents by visiting the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, by calling the SEC at

1-800-SEC-0330

or by accessing the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. In addition, as soon as reasonably practicable after such
materials are furnished to the SEC, we make copies of these documents available to the public free of charge through our website at www.extraspace.com, or by contacting our Secretary at our principal offices, which are located at 2795 East
Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 400, Salt Lake City, Utah 84121, telephone number (801) 365-4600.



Management

Members of our executive management team have significant experience in all aspects of the

self-storage

industry, having acquired and/or developed a significant number of stores since before our IPO. Our executive management team and their years of industry experience are as follows: Spencer F. Kirk, Chief Executive Officer, 17 years; Scott
Stubbs, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 14 years; Samrat Sondhi, Executive Vice President of Operations, 11 years; Gwyn McNeal, Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, 9 years; James Overturf, Executive Vice
President and Chief Marketing Officer, 16 years; Charles L. Allen, Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer, 17 years; and Kenneth M. Woolley, Executive Chairman, 34 years.

Our executive management team and board of directors have a significant ownership position in the Company with executive officers and
directors owning approximately 5,297,354 shares or 4.6% of our outstanding common stock as of February 18, 2015.

Industry & Competition

Self-storage stores offer

month-to-month

storage space
rental for personal or business use and are a

cost-effective

and flexible storage alternative. Tenants rent fully enclosed spaces that can vary in size according to their specific needs and to which they have
unlimited, exclusive access. Tenants have responsibility for moving their items into and out of their units.

Self-storage

unit sizes typically range from 5 feet by 5 feet to 20 feet by 20 feet, with an
interior height of 8 feet to 12 feet. Stores generally have

on-site

managers who supervise and run the

day-to-day

operations,
providing tenants with assistance as needed.

Self-storage

provides a convenient way for
individuals and businesses to store their possessions due to life changes, or simply because of a need for storage space. The mix of residential tenants using a store is determined by a store’s local demographics and often includes people who
are looking to downsize their living space or others who are not yet settled into a permanent residence. Items that residential tenants place in

self-storage

range from cars, boats and recreational vehicles,
to furniture, household items and appliances. Commercial tenants tend to include small business owners who require easy and frequent access to their goods, records, inventory or storage for seasonal goods.

Our research has shown that tenants choose a store based primarily on the convenience of the site to their home or business, making

high-density,

high-traffic

population centers ideal locations for stores. A self-storage store’s perceived security and the general professionalism of the site managers
and staff are also contributing factors to a site’s ability to successfully secure rentals. Although most stores are leased to tenants on a

month-to-month

basis,
tenants tend to continue their leases for extended periods of time.

The

self-storage

business is
subject to seasonal fluctuations. A greater portion of revenues and profits are realized from May through September. Historically, our highest level of occupancy has been at the end of July, while our lowest level of occupancy has been in late
February and early March.

Since inception in the early 1970’s, the

self-storage

industry has
experienced significant growth. According to the

Self-Storage

Almanac (the “Almanac”), in 2008 there were only 41,100 stores in the United States, with an average physical occupancy rate of 83.0% of
net rentable square feet, compared to 51,475 stores in 2014 with an average physical occupancy rate of 89.1% of net rentable square feet.

We have encountered competition when we have sought to acquire stores, especially for brokered portfolios. Aggressive bidding practices have
been commonplace between both public and private entities, and this competition will likely continue.

The industry is also characterized
by fragmented ownership. According to the Almanac, the top ten

self-storage

companies in the United States owned approximately 13.1% of the total U.S. self-storage stores, and the top 50

self-storage

companies owned approximately 17.1% of the total U.S. self-storage stores as of



December 31, 2014. We believe this fragmentation will contribute to continued consolidation at some level in the future. We also believe that we are well positioned to compete for
acquisitions given our historical reputation for closing deals.

We are the second largest

self-storage

operator in the United States. We are one of four public

self-storage

REITs along with Public Storage Inc., CubeSmart and Sovran

Self-Storage, Inc.

Long-Term

Growth and Investment Strategies

Our primary business objectives are to maximize cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders and to achieve sustainable

long-term

growth in cash flow per share in order to maximize

long-term

stockholder value. We continue to evaluate a range of growth initiatives and opportunities, including
the following:

•

Maximize the performance of our stores through strategic, efficient and proactive management.

We pursue

revenue-generating

and

expense-minimizing

opportunities in our operations. Our revenue management team seeks to maximize revenue by responding to changing market conditions through our technology system’s ability to provide

real-time,

interactive rental rate and discount management. Our size allows us greater ability than the majority of our competitors to implement more effective online marketing programs, which we believe will
attract more customers to our stores at a lower net cost.

•

Acquire self-storage stores.

Our acquisitions team continues to pursue the acquisition of

multi-store

portfolios and single stores that we believe can provide
stockholder value. We have established a reputation as a reliable, ethical buyer, which we believe enhances our ability to negotiate and close acquisitions. In addition, we believe our status as an UPREIT enables flexibility when structuring deals.
We continue to bid on available acquisitions and are seeing increasing prices. However, we remain a disciplined buyer and look for acquisitions that will strengthen our portfolio and increase stockholder value.

•

Expand our management business.

Our management business enables us to generate increased revenues through management fees and expand our geographic footprint. We believe this expanded footprint enables us
to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. In addition, we see our management business as a future acquisition pipeline. We pursue strategic relationships with owners whose stores would enhance our portfolio in the event an
opportunity arises to acquire such stores.

Financing of Our

Long-Term

Growth Strategies

Acquisition and Development Financing

The following table presents information on our lines of credit (the “Credit Lines”) for the periods indicated. All of our Credit
Lines are guaranteed by us and secured by mortgages on certain real estate assets.

As of December 31, 2014

Line of Credit

Amount

Drawn (1)

Capacity (1)

Interest

Rate

Origination

Date

Maturity

Basis Rate (2)

Notes

Credit Line 1

$

7,000

$

85,000

2.1

%

6/4/2010

6/3/2016

LIBOR plus 1.9

%

(3)

Credit Line 2

41,000

50,000

1.9

%

11/16/2010

2/13/2017

LIBOR plus 1.8

%

(4)

Credit Line 3

50,000

80,000

1.9

%

4/29/2011

11/18/2016

LIBOR plus 1.7

%

(4)

Credit Line 4

40,000

50,000

1.8

%

9/29/2014

9/29/2017

LIBOR plus 1.7

%

(4)

$

138,000

$

265,000

(1)

Amounts in thousands

(2)

30-day USD LIBOR

(3)

One two-year extension available

(4)

Two one-year extensions available



We expect to maintain a flexible approach in financing new self-storage store acquisitions. We plan to finance
future acquisitions through a combination of cash, borrowings under the Credit Lines, traditional secured mortgage financing, joint ventures and additional equity offerings.

Joint Venture Financing

We own
271 of our stores through joint ventures with third parties, including affiliates of Prudential Financial, Inc. In each joint venture, we generally manage the

day-to-day

operations of the underlying stores and have the right to participate in major decisions relating to sales of stores or financings by the applicable joint
venture. Our joint venture partners typically provide most of the equity capital required for the operation of the respective business. Under the operating agreements for the joint ventures, we maintain the right to receive between 2.0% and 99.0% of
the available cash flow from operations after our joint venture partners and the Company have received a predetermined return, and between 17.0% and 99.0% of the available cash flow from capital transactions after our joint venture partners and the
Company have received a return of their capital plus such predetermined return. Most joint venture agreements include

buy-sell

rights, as well as rights of first refusal in connection with the sale of stores
by the joint venture.

Disposition of Self-Storage Stores

We will continue to review our portfolio for stores or groups of stores that are underperforming or are not strategically located, and
determine whether to dispose of these stores to fund other growth.

Regulation

Generally, stores are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to lien sale rights and procedures.
Changes in any of these laws or regulations, as well as changes in laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response and Compensation Liability Act, which increase the potential liability for environmental conditions or circumstances existing
or created by tenants or others on stores, or laws affecting development, construction, operation, upkeep, safety and taxation may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, loss of

self-storage

stores
or other impairments to operations, which would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Under the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the “ADA”), places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of
additional U.S. federal, state and local laws also exist that may require modifications to the stores, or restrict further renovations thereof, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the
imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could result in an order to correct any

non-complying

feature, thereby requiring substantial capital expenditures. To the extent our
stores are not in compliance, we are likely to incur additional costs to comply with the ADA.

Insurance activities are subject to state
insurance laws and regulations as determined by the particular insurance commissioner for each state in accordance with the

McCarran-Ferguson

Act, and are subject to the

Gramm-Leach-Bliley

Act and the privacy regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission pursuant thereto.

Store management activities are often subject to state real estate brokerage laws and regulations as determined by the particular real estate
commission for each state.

Changes in any of the laws governing our conduct could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct our
business or could materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.



Employees

As of February 18, 2015, we had 2,643 employees and believe our relationship with our employees is good. Our employees are not represented
by a collective bargaining agreement.

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

An investment in our securities involves various risks. All investors
should carefully consider the following risk factors in conjunction with the other information contained in this Annual Report before trading in our securities. If any of the events set forth in the following risks actually occur, our business,
operating results, prospects and financial condition could be harmed.

Our performance is subject to risks associated with real estate
investments. We are a real estate company that derives our income from operation of our stores. There are a number of factors that may adversely affect the income that our stores generate, including the following:

Risks Related to Our Stores and Operations

Adverse
economic or other conditions in the markets in which we do business could negatively affect our occupancy levels and rental rates and therefore our operating results.

Our operating results are dependent upon our ability to maximize occupancy levels and rental rates in our stores. Adverse economic or other
conditions in the markets in which we operate may lower our occupancy levels and limit our ability to increase rents or require us to offer rental discounts. If our stores fail to generate revenues sufficient to meet our cash requirements, including
operating and other expenses, debt service and capital expenditures, our net income, funds from operations (“FFO”), cash flow, financial condition, ability to make cash distributions to stockholders and the trading price of our securities
could be adversely affected. The following factors, among others, may adversely affect the operating performance of our stores:

•

the national economic climate and the local or regional economic climate in the markets in which we operate, which may be adversely impacted by, among other factors, industry slowdowns, relocation of businesses and
changing demographics;

•

periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates, or declining demand for

self-storage

or the public perception that any of these events may occur could result in
a general decline in rental rates or an increase in tenant defaults;

•

a decline of the current economic environment;

•

local or regional real estate market conditions, such as competing stores, the oversupply of

self-storage

or a reduction in demand for

self-storage

in a particular area;

•

perceptions by prospective users of our stores of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our stores and the neighborhoods in which they are located;

•

increased operating costs, including the need for capital improvements, insurance premiums, real estate taxes and utilities;

•

the impact of environmental protection laws;

•

changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws; and

•

earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters, terrorist acts, civil disturbances or acts of war which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses.



If we are unable to promptly

re-let

our units or if the rates upon
such

re-letting

are significantly lower than expected, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.

Virtually all of our leases are on a

month-to-month

basis. Any
delay in

re-letting

units as vacancies arise would reduce our revenues and harm our operating results. In addition, lower than expected rental rates upon

re-letting

could adversely affect our revenues and impede our growth.

We depend upon our

on-site

personnel to maximize
tenant satisfaction at each of our stores, and any difficulties we encounter in hiring, training and maintaining skilled field personnel may harm our operating performance.

We had 2,228 field personnel as of February 18, 2015 in the management and operation of our stores. The general professionalism of our
site managers and staff are contributing factors to a site’s ability to successfully secure rentals and retain tenants. We also rely upon our field personnel to maintain clean and secure stores. If we are unable to successfully recruit, train
and retain qualified field personnel, the quality of service we strive to provide at our stores could be adversely affected which could lead to decreased occupancy levels and reduced operating performance.

Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition and our cash flow.

We maintain comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, wind (as deemed necessary or as required by our lenders), extended coverage and
rental loss insurance with respect to our stores. Certain types of losses, however, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, such as losses due to earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, riots, acts of war or terrorism. Should an
uninsured loss occur, we could lose both our investment in and anticipated profits and cash flow from a store. In addition, if any such loss is insured, we may be required to pay significant amounts on any claim for recovery of such a loss prior to
our insurer being obligated to reimburse us for the loss, or the amount of the loss may exceed our coverage for the loss. As a result, our operating results may be adversely affected.

Increases in taxes and regulatory compliance costs may reduce our income.

Costs resulting from changes in real estate tax laws generally are not passed through to tenants directly and will affect us. Increases in
income, property or other taxes generally are not passed through to tenants under leases and may reduce our net income, FFO, cash flow, financial condition, ability to pay or refinance our debt obligations, ability to make cash distributions to
stockholders, and the trading price of our securities. Similarly, changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on stores or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions may result in
significant unanticipated expenditures, which could similarly adversely affect our business and results of operations.

Environmental compliance
costs and liabilities associated with operating our stores may affect our results of operations.

Under various U.S. federal, state
and local laws, ordinances and regulations, owners and operators of real estate may be liable for the costs of investigating and remediating certain hazardous substances or other regulated materials on or in such property. Such laws often impose
such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances or materials. The presence of such substances or materials, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may
adversely affect the owner’s or operator’s ability to lease, sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances or other regulated materials
may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not such facility is owned or operated by such person. Certain environmental laws impose liability for release of
asbestos-containing materials into the air and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real stores for personal injury associated with

asbestos-containing

materials.



Certain environmental laws also impose liability, without regard to knowledge or fault, for
removal or remediation of hazardous substances or other regulated materials upon owners and operators of contaminated property even after they no longer own or operate the property. Moreover, the past or present owner or operator from which a
release emanates could be liable for any personal injuries or property damages that may result from such releases, as well as any damages to natural resources that may arise from such releases.

Certain environmental laws impose compliance obligations on owners and operators of real property with respect to the management of hazardous
materials and other regulated substances. For example, environmental laws govern the management of

asbestos-containing

materials and

lead-based

paint. Failure to comply
with these laws can result in penalties or other sanctions.

No assurances can be given that existing environmental studies with respect
to any of our stores reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner or operator of our stores did not create any material environmental condition not known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to
any one or more of our stores. There also exists the risk that material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future. Finally, future laws, ordinances or
regulations and future interpretations of existing laws, ordinances or regulations may impose additional material environmental liability.

Costs
associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 may result in unanticipated expenses.

Under the ADA,
places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may also require
modifications to our stores, or restrict certain further renovations of the stores, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants
and also could result in an order to correct any

non-complying

feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our stores to determine
our compliance and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If one or more of our stores is not in compliance with the ADA or other legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring
the facility into compliance. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service
obligations and to make cash distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected.

Our tenant reinsurance business is subject to
significant governmental regulation, which may adversely affect our results.

Our tenant reinsurance business is subject to
significant governmental regulation. The regulatory authorities generally have broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, to promulgate, interpret and implement regulations, and to evaluate compliance with regulations
through periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance providers. As a result of regulatory or private action in any jurisdiction, we may be temporarily or permanently suspended from continuing some or all of our
reinsurance activities, or otherwise fined or penalized or suffer an adverse judgment, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.

We face competition for the acquisition of stores and other assets, which may impede our ability to make future acquisitions or may increase the cost of
these acquisitions.

We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities for acquisitions of stores
and other assets, including national, regional and local operators and developers of stores. These competitors may drive up the price we pay for stores or other assets we seek to acquire or may succeed in acquiring those stores or



assets themselves. In addition, our potential acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive suitors because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more or may
have a more compatible operating philosophy. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment in stores may increase. This competition would result in increased demand for these assets and therefore
increased prices paid for them. Because of an increased interest in

single-store

acquisitions among

tax-motivated

individual purchasers, we may pay higher prices if we
purchase single stores in comparison with portfolio acquisitions. If we pay higher prices for stores or other assets, our profitability will be reduced.

We may not be successful in identifying and consummating suitable acquisitions that meet our criteria, which may impede our growth.

Our ability to expand through acquisitions is integral to our business strategy and requires us to identify suitable acquisition candidates or
investment opportunities that meet our criteria and are compatible with our growth strategy. We may not be successful in identifying suitable stores or other assets that meet our acquisition criteria or in consummating acquisitions or investments on
satisfactory terms or at all. Failure to identify or consummate acquisitions will slow our growth, which could in turn adversely affect our stock price.

Our ability to acquire stores on favorable terms and successfully integrate and operate them may be constrained by the following significant
risks:

•

competition from local investors and other real estate investors with significant capital, including other

publicly-traded

REITs and institutional investment funds;

•

competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price which could reduce our profitability;

•

the inability to achieve satisfactory completion of due diligence investigations and other customary closing conditions;

•

failure to finance an acquisition on favorable terms or at all;

•

we may spend more than the time and amounts budgeted to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired stores; and

•

we may acquire stores subject to liabilities without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities such as liabilities for

clean-up

of
undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by persons dealing with the former owners of the stores and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the stores.

In addition, strategic decisions by us, such as acquisitions, may adversely affect the price of our securities.

We may not be successful in integrating and operating acquired self-storage stores.

We expect to make future acquisitions of self-storage stores. If we acquire any stores, we will be required to integrate them into our existing
portfolio. The acquired stores may turn out to be less compatible with our growth strategy than originally anticipated, may cause disruptions in our operations or may divert management’s attention away from

day-to-day

operations, which could impair our operating results as a whole.

We do not always obtain
independent appraisals of our stores, and thus the consideration paid for these stores may exceed the value that may be indicated by

third-party

appraisals.

We do not always obtain

third-party

appraisals in connection with our acquisition of stores and the
consideration being paid by us in exchange for those stores may exceed the value determined by

third-party

appraisals. In such cases, the value of the stores was determined by our senior management team.



Our investments in development and redevelopment projects may not yield anticipated returns, which would
harm our operating results and reduce the amount of funds available for distributions.

To the extent that we engage in development
and redevelopment activities, we will be subject to the following risks normally associated with these projects:

•

we may be unable to obtain financing for these projects on favorable terms or at all;

•

we may not complete development or redevelopment projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts;

•

we may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; and

•

occupancy rates and rents at newly developed or redeveloped stores may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, and may result in our investment not being profitable.

In deciding whether to develop or redevelop a particular property, we make certain assumptions regarding the expected
future performance of the store. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring the property up to the standards established for its intended market position or may be unable to increase occupancy at a newly developed store as quickly as expected
or at all. Any substantial unanticipated delays or expenses could adversely affect the investment returns from these development or redevelopment projects and harm our operating results, liquidity and financial condition, which could result in a
decline in the value of our securities.

We may rely on the investments of our joint venture partners for funding certain of our
development and redevelopment projects. If our reputation in the

self-storage

industry changes or the number of investors considering us an attractive strategic partner is otherwise reduced, our ability to
develop or redevelop stores could be affected, which would limit our growth.

We rely on information technology in our operations,
and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business.

We rely on
information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, personally
identifiable information, and tenant and lease data. We purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for
processing, transmission and storage of confidential tenant and other sensitive information. Although we have taken commercially reasonable efforts to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is
possible that our safety and security measures will not be able to prevent the systems’ improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks. Security
breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. While, to date, we have not experienced
a security breach, this risk has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of such breaches and attempted breaches from around the world have increased. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our
information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, divert significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and have a material adverse
effect on our business and results of operations.

Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure

Our business could be harmed if key personnel with

long-standing

business relationships in the

self-storage

industry terminate their employment with us.

Our success depends on the continued
services of members of our executive management team, who have substantial experience in the

self-storage

industry. In addition, our ability to acquire or develop stores in the



future depends on the significant relationships our executive management team has developed with our institutional joint venture partners, such as affiliates of Prudential Financial, Inc.
There is no guarantee that any of them will remain employed by us. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our officers. The loss of services of one or more members of our executive management team could harm our business and our
prospects.

We may change our investment and financing strategies and enter into new lines of business without stockholder consent, which may
subject us to different risks.

We may change our investment and financing strategies and enter into new lines of business at any
time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments and engaging in business activities that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and businesses described in this document. A change in
our investment strategy or our entry into new lines of business may increase our exposure to other risks or real estate market fluctuations.

If
other

self-storage

companies convert to an UPREIT structure or if tax laws change, we may no longer have an advantage in competing for potential acquisitions.

Because we are structured as an UPREIT, we are a more attractive acquirer of stores to

tax-motivated

sellers than our competitors that are not structured as UPREITs. However, if other

self-storage

companies restructure their holdings to become UPREITs, this competitive advantage will disappear. In addition,
new legislation may be enacted or new interpretations of existing legislation may be issued by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), or the U.S. Treasury Department that could affect the attractiveness of our UPREIT structure so that it
may no longer assist us in competing for acquisitions.

Tax indemnification obligations may require the Operating Partnership to maintain certain
debt levels.

We have provided certain tax protections to various third parties in connection with their property contributions to
the Operating Partnership upon acquisition by the Company, including making available the opportunity to (1) guarantee debt or (2) enter into a special loss allocation and deficit restoration obligation. We have agreed to these provisions
in order to assist these contributors in preserving their tax position after their contributions. These obligations may require us to maintain certain indebtedness levels that we would not otherwise require for our business.

Our joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole

decision-making

authority.

As of December 31, 2014, we held interests in 271 operating self-storage stores through joint ventures. Some of these
arrangements could be adversely affected by our lack of sole

decision-making

authority, our reliance on

co-venturers

financial conditions and disputes between us and our

co-venturers.

We expect to continue our joint venture strategy by entering into more joint ventures for the purpose of developing new stores and acquiring existing stores. In such event, we would not be in a
position to exercise sole

decision-making

authority regarding the property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. The

decision-making

authority regarding the
stores we currently hold through joint ventures is either vested exclusively with our joint venture partners, is subject to a majority vote of the joint venture partners or equally shared by us and the joint venture partners. In addition,
investments in partnerships, joint ventures or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or

co-venturers

might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners or

co-venturers

may have economic or other business interests
or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale,
because neither we nor the partner or

co-venturer

would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and partners or

co-venturers

may
result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our



officers and/or directors from focusing their time and efforts on our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with partners or

co-venturers

might
result in subjecting stores owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our

third-party

partners or

co-venturers,

which could harm our financial condition.

Conflicts of interest could arise as a result of our
relationship with our Operating Partnership.

Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of the relationships
between us and our affiliates, and our Operating Partnership or any partner thereof. Our directors and officers have duties to our Company under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of our Company. At the same time, we,
through our

wholly-owned

subsidiary, have fiduciary duties, as a general partner, to our Operating Partnership and to the limited partners under Delaware law in connection with the management of our Operating
Partnership. Our duties, through our

wholly-owned

subsidiary, as a general partner to our Operating Partnership and its partners may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and officers to our
Company. The partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership does not require us to resolve such conflicts in favor of either our Company or the limited partners in our Operating Partnership. Unless otherwise provided for in the relevant
partnership agreement, Delaware law generally requires a general partner of a Delaware limited partnership to adhere to fiduciary duty standards under which it owes its limited partners the highest duties of good faith, fairness, and loyalty and
which generally prohibit such general partner from taking any action or engaging in any transaction as to which it has a conflict of interest.

Additionally, the partnership agreement expressly limits our liability by providing that neither we, our direct

wholly-owned

Massachusetts business trust subsidiary, as the general partner of the Operating Partnership, nor any of our or their trustees, directors or officers, will be liable or accountable in damages to
our Operating Partnership, the limited partners or assignees for errors in judgment, mistakes of fact or law or for any act or omission if we, or such trustee, director or officer, acted in good faith. In addition, our Operating Partnership is
required to indemnify us, our affiliates and each of our respective trustees, officers, directors, employees and agents to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities (whether joint or
several), expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys’ fees and other legal fees and expenses), judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts arising from any and all claims, demands, actions, suits or proceedings, civil, criminal,
administrative or investigative, that relate to the operations of the Operating Partnership, provided that our Operating Partnership will not indemnify for (1) willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the law, (2) any transaction for
which such person received an improper personal benefit in violation or breach of any provision of the partnership agreement, or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, the person had reasonable cause to believe the act or omission was
unlawful.

The provisions of Delaware law that allow the common law fiduciary duties of a general partner to be modified by a partnership
agreement have not been resolved in a court of law, and we have not obtained an opinion of counsel covering the provisions set forth in the partnership agreement that purport to waive or restrict our fiduciary duties that would be in effect under
common law were it not for the partnership agreement.

Certain provisions of Maryland law and our organizational documents, including the stock
ownership limit imposed by our charter, may inhibit market activity in our stock and could prevent or delay a change in control transaction.

Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our
qualification as a REIT and to limit any person to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 7.0% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding common stock or 7.0% (by value or by number of shares,
whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding capital stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from the ownership limit. However, our board of directors may not grant an exemption from the ownership
limit to any proposed transferee whose ownership could jeopardize our qualification as a REIT. These restrictions on ownership will not apply if



our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT. The ownership limit may delay or impede a transaction or
a change of control that might involve a premium price for our securities or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Different ownership limits apply to the family of Kenneth M. Woolley, certain of his affiliates, family members and
estates and trusts formed for the benefit of the foregoing; to Spencer F. Kirk, certain of his affiliates, family members and estates and trusts formed for the benefit of the foregoing; and to certain designated investment entities as defined in our
charter.

Our board of directors has the power to issue additional shares of our stock in a manner that may not be in the best interest of our
stockholders.

Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common stock or
preferred stock and to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares or the number of shares of any class or series without stockholder approval. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock
or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Our board of directors could issue additional shares of our common stock or establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect
of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price for our securities or otherwise not be in the best interests of our stockholders.

Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited.

Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a
manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our charter eliminates our directors’ and officers’
liability to us and our stockholders for money damages except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit in money, property or services or active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and which is material
to the cause of action. Our bylaws require us to indemnify our directors and officers for liability resulting from actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our stockholders may
have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers.

To the extent our distributions represent a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders could recognize an increased
capital gain upon a subsequent sale of common stock.

Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits
and not treated by us as a dividend will not be taxable to a U.S. stockholder under current U.S. federal income tax law to the extent those distributions do not exceed the stockholder’s adjusted tax basis in his, her, or its common stock, but
instead will constitute a return of capital and will reduce such adjusted basis. If distributions result in a reduction of a stockholder’s adjusted basis in such holder’s common stock, subsequent sales of such holder’s common stock
will result in recognition of an increased capital gain or decreased capital loss due to the reduction in such adjusted basis.

Risks Related to the
Real Estate Industry

Our primary business involves the ownership and operation of

self-storage

stores.

Our current strategy is to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop only self-storage stores. Consequently, we are
subject to risks inherent in investments in a single industry. Because investments in real estate are inherently illiquid, this strategy makes it difficult for us to diversify our investment portfolio and to limit our risk when economic conditions
change. Decreases in market rents, negative tax, real estate and zoning



law changes and changes in environmental protection laws may also increase our costs, lower the value of our investments and decrease our income, which would adversely affect our business,
financial condition and operating results.

Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse
changes in the performance of our stores.

Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell
one or more stores in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates
and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any store for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser
would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a store.

We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a store can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will
have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a store, we may agree to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling that store for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a
limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that store. These transfer restrictions would impede our ability to sell a store even if we deem it necessary or appropriate.

Any investments in unimproved real property may take significantly longer to yield

income-producing

returns, if
at all, and may result in additional costs to us to comply with

re-zoning

restrictions or environmental regulations.

We have invested in the past, and may invest in the future, in unimproved real property. Unimproved properties generally take longer to yield

income-producing

returns based on the typical time required for development. Any development of unimproved property may also expose us to the risks and uncertainties associated with

re-zoning

the land for a higher use or development and environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups. Any unsuccessful investments or delays in realizing an

income-producing

return or increased costs to develop unimproved real estate could restrict our ability to earn our targeted rate of return on an investment or adversely affect our ability to pay operating expenses
which would harm our financial condition and operating results.

Any negative perceptions of the

self-storage

industry generally may result in a decline in our stock price.

To the extent
that the investing public has a negative perception of the

self-storage

industry, the value of our securities may be negatively impacted, which could result in our securities trading below the inherent value
of our assets.

Risks Related to Our Debt Financings

Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms and have other adverse effects on us.

Uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing
debt maturities on favorable terms (or at all), which may negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions and fund development projects. A downturn in the credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive
financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for us to sell stores or may adversely affect the price we receive for stores that we do sell, as prospective buyers may
experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing.



Required payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash to operate
our stores or to pay the distributions currently contemplated or necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations.

As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $2.4 billion of outstanding indebtedness. We may incur additional debt in connection
with future acquisitions and development. We may borrow under our Credit Lines or borrow new funds to finance these future stores. Additionally, we do not anticipate that our internally generated cash flow will be adequate to repay our existing
indebtedness upon maturity and, therefore, we expect to repay our indebtedness through refinancings and equity and/or debt offerings. Further, we may need to borrow funds in order to make cash distributions to maintain our qualification as a REIT or
to make our expected distributions.

If we are required to utilize our Credit Lines for purposes other than acquisition activity, this
will reduce the amount available for acquisitions and could slow our growth. Therefore, our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements could have significant adverse consequences, including the following:

•

our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments;

•

we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, including to make acquisitions or to continue to make distributions required to maintain our qualification as a REIT;

•

we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness;

•

because a portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates, an increase in interest rates could materially increase our interest expense;

•

we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our stores, possibly on disadvantageous terms;

•

after debt service, the amount available for cash distributions to our stockholders is reduced;

•

our debt level could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt;

•

we may experience increased vulnerability to economic and industry downturns, reducing our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions;

•

we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our stores that secure their loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases;

•

we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgages may enforce our guarantees;

•

we may violate restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; and

•

our default under any one of our mortgage loans with

cross-default

or

cross-collateralization

provisions could result in a default on other
indebtedness or result in the foreclosures of other stores.

Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and
adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and make cash distributions to our stockholders.

As of
December 31, 2014, we had approximately $2.4 billion of debt outstanding, of which approximately $846 million or 35.5% was subject to variable interest rates (excluding debt with interest rate swaps). This variable rate debt had a weighted
average interest rate of approximately 2.0% per annum. Increases in interest rates on this variable rate debt would increase our interest expense, which could harm our cash flow and our ability to pay cash distributions. For example, if market
rates of interest on this variable rate debt increased by 100 basis points (excluding variable rate debt with interest rate floors), the increase in interest expense would decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $8.1 million
annually.



Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations.

In certain cases we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements.
Hedging involves risks, such as the risk that the counterparty may fail to honor its obligations under an arrangement. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and
ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders.

Risks Related to Qualification and Operation as a REIT

To maintain our qualification as a REIT, we may be forced to borrow funds on a

short-term

basis during
unfavorable market conditions.

To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net
taxable income each year, excluding net capital gains, and we are subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise
tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions made by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. While historically we
have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, a REIT is permitted to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, its own stock.
Assuming we continue to satisfy these distributions requirements with cash, we may need to borrow funds on a

short-term

basis, or possibly

long-term,

to meet the REIT
distribution requirements even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These borrowing needs could result from a difference in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for U.S.
federal income tax purposes, or the effect of

non-deductible

capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt amortization payments.

Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates.

The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for dividends paid by domestic corporations to individual U.S. stockholders is 20%. Dividends paid by
REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause stockholders who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than
investments in the stocks of

non-REIT

corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our securities.

In addition, the relative attractiveness of real estate in general may be adversely affected by the favorable tax treatment given to corporate
dividends, which could negatively affect the value of our stores.

Possible legislative or other actions affecting REITs could adversely affect our
stockholders.

The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the
legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. Changes to tax laws (which changes may have retroactive application) could adversely affect our stockholders. It cannot be predicted whether, when, in what forms, or with what
effective dates, the tax laws applicable to us or our stockholders will be changed.

The power of our board of directors to revoke our REIT election
without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders.

Our charter provides that our board of directors
may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to
U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our net taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on the total return to our stockholders.



Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our
stock.

We believe we operate in a manner that allows us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the
Internal Revenue Code. If we fail to qualify as a REIT or lose our qualification as a REIT at any time, we will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution for each of the years involved
because:

•

we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates;

•

we also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and

•

unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following a year during which we were disqualified.

In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to
stockholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. This means that our U.S. individual stockholders would be taxed on our dividends at capital gains rates, and our
U.S. corporate stockholders would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject, in each case, to applicable limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income
tax purposes and are able to avail ourselves of one or more of the relief provisions under the Internal Revenue Code in order to maintain our REIT status, we may nevertheless be required to pay penalty taxes of $50,000 or more for each such failure.
As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and could adversely affect the value of our securities.

Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only
limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable Treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its
assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements,
including requirements regarding the composition of our assets, the sources of our gross income and the owners of our stock. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the fair market value of our assets, some of which are
not susceptible to precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding capital gains, and we will be
subject to income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income including capital gains. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely
affect our investors, our ability to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. Although we believe that we have been organized and have operated in a manner
that is intended to allow us to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we can give no assurance that we have qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the Internal
Revenue Service regarding our qualification as a REIT.

We will pay some taxes.

Even though we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay some U.S. federal, state and local taxes on
our income and property. Extra Space Management, Inc. manages stores for our joint ventures and stores owned by third parties. We, jointly with Extra Space Management, Inc., elected to treat Extra Space Management, Inc. as a taxable
REIT subsidiary (“TRS”) of our Company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A taxable REIT subsidiary is a fully taxable corporation, and may be limited in its ability to



deduct interest payments made to us. ESM Reinsurance Limited, a

wholly-owned

subsidiary of Extra Space Management, Inc., generates income from
insurance premiums that are subject to federal income tax and state insurance premiums tax. In addition, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain amounts if the economic arrangements among our tenants, our taxable REIT subsidiary and us
are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties or if we receive payments for inventory or property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Also, if we sell property as a dealer (i.e., to customers in
the ordinary course of our trade or business), we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on any gain arising from such sales. While we don’t intend to sell stores as a dealer, the IRS could take a contrary position. To the extent that we are, or
our taxable REIT subsidiary is, required to pay U.S. federal, state or local taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to stockholders.

Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.

To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our
income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego attractive business or investment opportunities. Thus,
compliance with the REIT requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate solely to maximize profits.

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2.

Properties

As of December 31, 2014, we owned or had ownership interests in 828
operating self-storage stores. Of these stores, 557 are

wholly-owned

and 271 are held in joint ventures. In addition, we managed an additional 260 stores for third parties bringing the total number of stores
which we own and/or manage to 1,088. These stores are located in 35 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico. We receive a management fee generally equal to approximately 6.0% of cash collected from total revenues to manage the joint venture and
third party sites. As of December 31, 2014, we owned and/or managed approximately 80.4 million square feet of rentable space configured in approximately 725,000 separate storage units. Approximately 70% of our stores are clustered around
large population centers, such as Atlanta, Baltimore/Washington, D.C., Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Houston, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, New York City, Orlando, Philadelphia, Phoenix, St. Petersburg/Tampa and San Francisco/Oakland. These markets
contain

above-average

population and income demographics for stores. The clustering of assets around these population centers enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. Our
acquisitions have given us an increased scale in many core markets as well as a foothold in many markets where we had no previous presence.

We consider a store to be in the

lease-up

stage after it has been issued a certificate of occupancy,
but before it has achieved stabilization. We consider a store to be stabilized once it has achieved either an 80% occupancy rate for a full year measured as of January 1, or has been open for three years.

As of December 31, 2014, approximately 650,000 tenants were leasing storage units at the 1,088 operating stores that we own and/or
manage, primarily on a

month-to-month

basis, providing the flexibility to increase rental rates over time as market conditions permit. Existing tenants generally receive
rate increases at least annually, for which no direct correlation has been drawn to our vacancy trends. Although leases are

short-term

in duration, the typical tenant tends to remain at our stores for an
extended period of time. For stores that were stabilized as of December 31, 2014, the average length of stay was approximately 12.9 months.

The average annual rent per square foot for our existing customers at stabilized stores, net of discounts and bad debt, was $14.41 for the
year ended December 31, 2014, compared to $13.81 for the year ended



December 31, 2013. Average annual rent per square foot for new leases was $14.53 for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to $14.18 for the year ended December 31, 2013. The
average discounts, as a percentage of rental revenues, during these periods were 3.8% and 4.4%, respectively.

Our store portfolio is made
up of different types of construction and building configurations depending on the site and the municipality where it is located. Most often sites are what we consider “hybrid” facilities, a mix of both

drive-up

buildings and

multi-floor

buildings. We have a number of

multi-floor

buildings with elevator access only, and a number
of facilities featuring

ground-floor

access only.

The following table presents additional
information regarding the occupancy of our stabilized stores by state as of December 31, 2014 and 2013. The information as of December 31, 2013, is on a pro forma basis as though all the stores owned at December 31, 2014, were under
our control as of December 31, 2013.

Stabilized Store Data Based on Location

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Location

Number of

Stores

Number of

Units as of

December 31,

2014 (1)

Number of

Units as of

December 31,


Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31,

2014 (2)

Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31,


Square Foot

Occupancy %

December 31,


Square Foot

Occupancy %

December 31,


Wholly-Owned Stores

Alabama


2,903

2,888

342,971

342,796

84.2

%

83.6

%

Arizona


6,954

6,949

814,433

814,933

91.3

%

87.8

%

California


90,462

89,920

9,368,905

9,373,563

92.7

%

88.1

%

Colorado


5,913

5,827

739,274

737,345

87.6

%

86.7

%

Connecticut


3,132

3,130

299,734

301,174

90.7

%

89.3

%

Florida


39,142

39,286

4,198,104

4,232,112

92.1

%

88.6

%

Georgia


12,963

13,048

1,633,500

1,633,869

89.8

%

87.1

%

Hawaii


5,626

5,708

336,872

338,210

93.1

%

83.2

%

Illinois


12,293

12,166

1,270,379

1,267,164

89.9

%

90.3

%

Indiana


4,754

4,711

555,335

553,158

89.6

%

86.4

%

Kansas




50,361

50,360

89.6

%

91.7

%

Kentucky


2,180

2,156

253,741

254,141

90.7

%

89.4

%

Louisiana


1,408

1,414

149,990

150,065

92.4

%

91.5

%

Maryland


17,301

17,234

1,817,090

1,817,305

90.4

%

89.9

%

Massachusetts


21,472

21,327

2,175,301

2,173,269

91.4

%

91.7

%

Michigan


1,799

1,792

254,239

252,784

91.7

%

89.2

%

Missouri


3,224

3,208

386,151

376,256

90.4

%

88.0

%

Nevada


3,194

3,219

548,910

546,574

92.3

%

88.4

%

New Hampshire


1,013

1,002

125,748

125,773

94.2

%

91.8

%

New Jersey


37,937

37,785

3,683,524

3,678,943

92.1

%

91.3

%

New Mexico


1,575

1,573

217,074

216,154

85.9

%

85.0

%

New York


16,812

16,534

1,360,668

1,351,830

90.6

%

90.0

%

North Carolina


4,814

4,764

507,954

502,474

89.4

%

82.4

%

Ohio


10,426

10,254

1,365,074

1,353,710

89.9

%

88.7

%

Oregon


2,152

2,144

250,450

250,410

93.4

%

92.5

%

Pennsylvania


5,758

5,724

651,136

648,885

89.8

%

88.9

%

Rhode Island


1,198

1,183

131,291

131,321

94.7

%

91.6

%

South Carolina


3,340

3,326

418,445

418,430

90.5

%

90.5

%

Tennessee


5,590

5,487

755,023

753,427

92.3

%

88.9

%

Texas


20,863

20,919

2,438,266

2,456,062

90.2

%

86.0

%

Utah


4,242

4,024

523,056

502,931

88.9

%

90.1

%



Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Location

Number of

Stores

Number of

Units as of

December 31,

2014 (1)

Number of

Units as of

December 31,


Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31,

2014 (2)

Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31,


Square Foot

Occupancy %

December 31,


Square Foot

Occupancy %

December 31,


Virginia


22,150

22,367

2,385,358

2,383,499

85.9

%

84.9

%

Washington


3,576

3,535

427,783

427,573

88.8

%

84.7

%

Total Wholly-Owned Stabilized


376,673

375,108

40,436,140

40,416,500

91.0

%

88.4

%

Joint-Venture Stores

Alabama


1,153

1,148

145,146

145,153

88.2

%

90.3

%

Arizona


4,253

4,224

492,578

492,831

92.4

%

90.4

%

California


51,213

50,909

5,259,033

5,253,108

93.6

%

91.4

%

Colorado


1,318

1,323

159,220

158,863

94.1

%

89.9

%

Connecticut


5,307

5,296

611,625

611,790

92.2

%

92.7

%

Delaware




71,705

71,705

93.2

%

92.4

%

Florida


15,265

15,189

1,533,406

1,526,503

91.9

%

89.4

%

Georgia


1,069

1,056

152,794

151,524

91.6

%

86.6

%

Illinois


3,471

3,442

365,183

364,933

92.0

%

90.4

%

Indiana


2,206

2,166

288,028

284,826

90.3

%

90.5

%

Kansas




109,375

109,605

92.0

%

83.4

%

Kentucky


2,274

2,228

257,439

254,769

87.0

%

87.6

%

Maryland


9,776

9,731

955,190

954,975

90.6

%

90.2

%

Massachusetts


6,946

6,904

784,024

782,515

90.6

%

90.9

%

Michigan


4,816

4,781

613,403

611,243

92.1

%

89.8

%

Missouri




61,075

61,225

91.3

%

83.8

%

Nevada


3,037

3,046

327,993

327,113

88.2

%

87.7

%

New Hampshire




84,391

83,615

90.4

%

91.4

%

New Jersey


12,976

12,947

1,356,864

1,357,003

89.9

%

90.3

%

New Mexico


3,602

3,605

397,494

398,245

89.5

%

85.4

%

New York


14,171

14,177

1,106,187

1,107,419

92.2

%

91.0

%

Ohio


3,984

3,963

531,197

531,522

88.1

%

88.6

%

Oregon




64,970

64,970

91.8

%

90.4

%

Pennsylvania


7,980

7,961

805,238

802,240

90.4

%

89.6

%

Tennessee


9,454

9,354

1,241,742

1,240,082

92.2

%

89.7

%

Texas


10,619

10,563

1,388,575

1,387,706

93.9

%

92.2

%

Virginia


9,378

9,359

994,659

994,449

91.0

%

89.7

%

Washington, DC


1,530

1,530

102,017

102,017

92.8

%

91.3

%

Total Joint-Venture Stabilized


189,212

188,299

20,260,551

20,231,949

91.9

%

90.4

%

Managed Stores

Alabama


2,339

2,339

355,310

355,310

84.8

%

84.8

%

Arizona


1,216

1,225

228,131

228,847

91.6

%

86.4

%

California


40,380

40,464

5,361,785

5,351,908

87.4

%

79.1

%

Colorado


7,899

7,867

1,013,722

1,009,232

90.9

%

90.5

%

Connecticut




61,865

61,600

91.6

%

88.3

%

Florida


19,838

19,767

2,369,188

2,365,253

89.0

%

84.6

%

Georgia


5,269

5,275

837,151

836,748

88.7

%

85.5

%

Hawaii


5,043

5,056

350,155

345,174

87.0

%

82.3

%

Illinois


3,778

3,760

390,381

384,091

88.7

%

89.6

%

Indiana


5,042

5,035

618,727

618,777

90.0

%

86.5

%



Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Location

Number of

Stores

Number of

Units as of

December 31,

2014 (1)

Number of

Units as of

December 31,


Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31,

2014 (2)

Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31,


Square Foot

Occupancy %

December 31,


Square Foot

Occupancy %

December 31,


Kentucky




67,268

67,268

91.6

%

85.7

%

Louisiana



1,006

133,490

135,035

85.2

%

77.0

%

Maryland


6,579

6,562

652,981

653,501

89.6

%

86.1

%

Mississippi


1,886

1,893

281,558

281,823

86.5

%

79.2

%

Missouri


1,119

1,209

127,821

152,021

88.4

%

85.5

%

Nevada


3,028

3,058

317,215

316,940

77.9

%

76.5

%

New Jersey


1,635

1,621

181,588

181,138

90.2

%

91.5

%

New Mexico


1,121

1,119

131,112

131,112

89.9

%

87.0

%

North Carolina


1,600

1,571

205,218

205,981

90.7

%

83.9

%

Ohio


2,956

2,947

429,161

428,739

87.0

%

83.3

%

Pennsylvania


6,945

6,948

861,472

859,332

88.0

%

85.1

%

South Carolina


1,187

1,222

157,535

157,535

83.4

%

83.5

%

Tennessee


1,990

1,968

280,686

280,621

86.0

%

85.1

%

Texas


11,601

11,314

1,570,516

1,535,062

84.4

%

83.4

%

Utah


1,596

1,607

257,090

256,860

84.9

%

82.3

%

Virginia


1,764

1,763

177,969

177,969

87.4

%

87.3

%

Washington, DC


1,267

1,262

112,334

112,409

92.8

%

91.8

%

Puerto Rico


2,666

2,701

287,133

288,190

87.5

%

84.2

%

Total Managed Stabilized


141,759

141,583

17,818,562

17,778,476

87.7

%

83.3

%

Total Stabilized Stores

1,060

707,644

704,990

78,515,253

78,426,925

90.5

%

87.8

%

(1)

Represents unit count as of December 31, 2014, which may differ from unit count as of December 31, 2013, due to unit conversions or expansions.

(2)

Represents net rentable square feet as of December 31, 2014, which may differ from net rentable square feet as of December 31, 2013, due to unit conversions or expansions.



The following table presents additional information regarding the occupancy of our

lease-up

stores by state as of December 31, 2014 and 2013. The information as of December 31, 2013, is on a pro forma basis as though all the stores owned at December 31, 2014, were under our control
as of December 31, 2013.

Lease-up

Store Data Based on Location

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Location

Number of

Stores

Number of

Units as of

December 31,

2014 (1)

Number of

Units as of

December 31,


Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31,

2014 (2)

Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31,


Square Foot

Occupancy %

December 31,


Square Foot

Occupancy %

December 31,


Wholly-Owned Stores

Arizona




71,115

71,355

89.9

%

73.0

%

California


—


—

57,893

0.0

%

95.0

%

Connecticut


1,121

—

90,565

—

51.8

%

0.0

%

Florida




75,591

—

79.0

%

0.0

%

Georgia




52,365

51,590

91.0

%

43.9

%

Maryland




103,171

102,777

74.5

%

37.3

%

Massachusetts




72,880

72,465

81.3

%

72.5

%

New York




100,480

100,480

91.8

%

78.9

%

Texas




93,565

93,220

57.1

%

9.1

%

Total Wholly-Owned in Lease-up


6,205

5,684

659,732

549,780

75.8

%

56.1

%

Managed Stores

Colorado




54,985

54,992

83.2

%

78.5

%

Florida




68,015

68,015

89.1

%

80.1

%

Georgia




76,197

75,927

88.6

%

74.1

%

Illinois




46,417

46,599

55.1

%

10.8

%

Maryland


2,248

2,256

214,860

215,035

86.3

%

76.2

%

New York



—

33,764

—

32.9

%

0.0

%

South Carolina


2,248

—

229,652

—

32.2

%

0.0

%

Texas


2,129

2,237

264,227

273,368

84.3

%

56.9

%

Utah



—

124,217

57,180

75.6

%

40.7

%

Virginia


1,058


106,126

54,640

60.3

%

51.3

%

Washington



—

54,935

—

4.9

%

0.0

%

Total Managed in Lease-up


11,971

7,479

1,273,395

845,756

67.0

%

62.6

%

Total Lease-up Stores


18,176

13,163

1,933,127

1,395,536

70.0

%

60.0

%

(1)

Represents unit count as of December 31, 2014, which may differ from unit count as of December 31, 2013, due to unit conversions or expansions.

(2)

Represents net rentable square feet as of December 31, 2014, which may differ from net rentable square feet as of December 31, 2013, due to unit conversions or expansions.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

We are involved in various litigation and legal proceedings in the
ordinary course of business. We are not a party to any material litigation or legal proceedings, or to the best of our knowledge, any threatened litigation or legal proceedings which, in the opinion of management, will have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition or results of operations either individually or in the aggregate.

Item 4.

Mine Safety Disclosures

Not Applicable.



PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Market Information

Our common stock has
been traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “EXR” since our IPO on August 17, 2004. Prior to that time there was no public market for our common stock.

The following table presents, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales price for our common stock as reported by the NYSE and the per
share dividends declared:

Range

Dividends

Declared

Year

Quarter

High

Low


1st

$

40.97

$

36.50

$

0.25

2nd

45.29

38.87

0.40

3rd

47.11

39.98

0.40

4th

49.29

40.32

0.40


1st

50.10

41.48

0.40

2nd

54.44

47.57

0.47

3rd

54.87

50.11

0.47

4th

60.56

51.10

0.47

On February 18, 2015, the closing price of our common stock as reported by the NYSE was $65.45. At
February 18, 2015, we had 280 holders of record of our common stock. Certain shares of the Company are held in “street” name and accordingly, the number of beneficial owners of such shares is not known or included in the foregoing
number.

Holders of shares of common stock are entitled to receive distributions when declared by our board of directors out of any assets
legally available for that purpose. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our “REIT taxable income,” which is generally equivalent to our net taxable ordinary income, determined without regard to the deduction for
dividends paid to our stockholders annually in order to maintain our REIT qualification for U.S. federal income tax purposes.

Information
about our equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference in Item 12 of Part III of this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities

On December 23, 2014 our Operating Partnership acquired four stores located in Florida as part of a portfolio acquisition. These stores
were acquired in exchange for approximately $19.1 million of cash and the issuance of 548,390 Series D Redeemable Preferred Units (“Series D Units”) valued at $13.7 million. The Series D Units have a liquidation value of $25.00 per unit.
The Series D Units will be redeemable at the option of the holder after the first anniversary of the date of issuance, which redemption obligation may be satisfied, at our option, in cash or shares of our common stock.

On December 9, 2014, our Operating Partnership issued 50,620 common Operating Partnership units (“OP Units”) in connection with
the acquisition of a single store in California. The store was acquired in exchange for the common OP Units, valued at $3.0 million, and approximately $6.3 million of cash.

The OP Units and Series D Units were issued in private placements in reliance on Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.



Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

The following table presents selected financial data and should
be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” in this

Form 10-K

(amounts in thousands, except share and per share data).

For the Year Ended December 31,






Revenues:

Property rental

$

559,868

$

446,682

$

346,874

$

268,725

$

232,447

Tenant reinsurance and management fees

87,287

73,931

62,522

61,105

49,050

Total revenues

647,155

520,613

409,396

329,830

281,497

Expenses:

Property operations

172,416

140,012

114,028

95,481

86,165

Tenant reinsurance

10,427

9,022

7,869

6,143

6,505

Acquisition related costs, loss on sublease and severance

9,826

8,618

5,351

5,033

3,235

General and administrative

60,942

54,246

50,454

49,683

44,428

Depreciation and amortization

115,076

95,232

74,453

58,014

50,349

Total expenses

368,687

307,130

252,155

214,354

190,682

Income from operations

278,468

213,483

157,241

115,476

90,815

Interest expense

(84,013

)

(73,034

)

(72,294

)

(69,062

)

(65,780

)

Interest income

6,457

5,599

6,666

5,877

5,748

Loss on extinguishment of debt related to portfolio acquisition, gain (loss) on sale of real estate, earnout from prior acquisitions
and property casualty loss, net

(12,009

)

(8,193

)

—

—

—

Income before equity in earnings of real estate ventures and income tax expense

188,903

137,855

91,613

52,291

30,783

Equity in earnings of real estate ventures

10,541

11,653

10,859

7,287

6,753

Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate ventures—gain on sale of real estate assets and purchase of joint venture
partners’ interests

4,022

46,032

30,630

—

—

Income tax expense

(7,570

)

(9,984

)

(5,413

)

(1,155

)

(4,162

)

Net income

195,896

185,556

127,689

58,423

33,374

Noncontrolling interests in Operating Partnership and other noncontrolling interests

(17,541

)

(13,480

)

(10,380

)

(7,974

)

(7,043

)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

178,355

$

172,076

$

117,309

$

50,449

$

26,331

Earnings per common share

Basic

$

1.54

$

1.54

$

1.15

$

0.55

$

0.30

Diluted

$

1.53

$

1.53

$

1.14

$

0.54

$

0.30

Weighted average number of shares

Basic

115,713,807

111,349,361

101,766,385

92,097,008

87,324,104

Diluted

121,435,267

113,105,094

103,767,365

96,683,508

92,050,453

Cash dividends paid per common share

$

1.81

$

1.45

$

0.85

$

0.56

$

0.40



As of December 31,






Balance Sheet Data

Total assets

$

4,402,107

$

3,977,140

$

3,223,477

$

2,517,524

$

2,249,820

Total notes payable, notes payable to trusts, exchangeable senior notes and lines of credit

$

2,369,884

$

1,946,647

$

1,577,599

$

1,363,656

$

1,246,918

Noncontrolling interests

$

174,558

$

173,425

$

53,524

$

54,814

$

57,670

Total stockholders’ equity

$

1,737,425

$

1,758,470

$

1,491,807

$

1,018,947

$

881,401

Other Data

Net cash provided by operating activities

$

337,581

$

271,259

$

215,879

$

144,164

$

104,815

Net cash used in investing activities

$

(564,948

)

$

(366,976

)

$

(606,938

)

$

(251,919

)

$

(83,706

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

$

148,307

$

191,655

$

395,360

$

87,489

$

(106,309

)



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report.
We make statements in this section that are

forward-looking

statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. For a complete discussion of

forward-looking

statements, see the section in this

Form 10-K

entitled “Statements Regarding

Forward-Looking

Information.” Certain risk factors may cause actual results,
performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the following discussion. For a discussion of such risk factors, see the section in this

Form 10-K

entitled “Risk
Factors.” Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data.

Overview

We are a fully integrated,

self-administered

and

self-managed

real estate investment trust, or REIT, formed to continue the business commenced in 1977 by Extra Space Storage LLC and its subsidiaries to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop professionally managed self-storage stores.

At December 31, 2014, we owned, had ownership interests in, or managed 1,088 operating stores in 35 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto
Rico. Of these 1,088 operating stores, we owned 557, we held joint venture interests in 271 stores, and our taxable REIT subsidiary, Extra Space Management, Inc., operated an additional 260 stores that are owned by third parties. These
operating stores contain approximately 80.4 million square feet of rentable space in approximately 725,000 units and currently serve a customer base of approximately 650,000 tenants.

Our stores are generally situated in convenient, highly visible locations clustered around large population centers such as Atlanta,
Baltimore/Washington, D.C., Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Houston, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, New York City, Orlando, Philadelphia, Phoenix, St. Petersburg/Tampa and San Francisco/Oakland. These areas all enjoy above average population growth
and income levels. The clustering of our assets around these population centers enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. We consider a store to be in the

lease-up

stage after it has
been issued a certificate of occupancy, but before it has achieved stabilization. A store is considered to be stabilized once it has achieved an 80% occupancy rate for a full year measured as of January 1, or has been open for three years.

To maximize the performance of our stores, we employ

industry-leading

revenue management systems.
Developed by our management team, these systems enable us to analyze, set and adjust rental rates in real time across our portfolio in order to respond to changing market conditions. We believe our systems and processes allow us to more proactively
manage revenues.

We derive substantially all of our revenues from rents received from tenants under leases at each of our

wholly-owned

stores, from management fees on the stores we manage for

joint-venture

partners and unaffiliated third parties, and from our tenant reinsurance program. Our
management fee is generally equal to approximately 6.0% of cash collected from total revenues generated by the managed stores. We also receive an asset management fee of 0.5% of the total asset value from one of our joint ventures.

We operate in competitive markets, often where consumers have multiple stores from which to choose. Competition has impacted, and will
continue to impact, our store results. We experience seasonal fluctuations in occupancy levels, with occupancy levels generally higher in the summer months due to increased moving activity. Our operating results depend materially on our ability to
lease available

self-storage

units, to actively manage unit rental rates, and on the ability of our tenants to make required rental payments. We believe that we are able to respond quickly and effectively to
changes in local, regional and national economic conditions by adjusting rental rates through the combination of our revenue management team and our

industry-leading

technology systems.



We continue to evaluate a range of new initiatives and opportunities in order to enable us to
maximize stockholder value. Our strategies to maximize stockholder value include the following:

•

Maximize the performance of our stores through strategic, efficient and proactive management.

We pursue

revenue-generating

and

expense-minimizing

opportunities in our operations. Our revenue management team seeks to maximize revenue by responding to changing market conditions through our technology system’s ability to provide

real-time,

interactive rental rate and discount management. Our size allows us greater ability than the majority of our competitors to implement more effective online marketing programs, which we believe will
attract more customers to our stores at a lower net cost.

•

Acquire self-storage stores.

Our acquisitions team continues to pursue the acquisition of

multi-store

portfolios and single stores that we believe can provide
stockholder value. We have established a reputation as a reliable, ethical buyer, which we believe enhances our ability to negotiate and close acquisitions. In addition, we believe our status as an UPREIT enables flexibility when structuring deals.
We continue to see available acquisitions on which to bid and are seeing increasing prices. However, we remain a disciplined buyer and look for acquisitions that will strengthen our portfolio and increase stockholder value.

•

Expand our management business.

Our management business enables us to generate increased revenues through management fees and expand our geographic footprint. We believe this expanded footprint enables us
to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. In addition, we see our management business as a future acquisition pipeline. We pursue strategic relationships with owners whose stores would enhance our portfolio in the event an
opportunity arises to acquire such stores.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these
financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an
ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions, including those that impact our most critical accounting policies. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable
under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following are our most critical accounting policies:

CONSOLIDATION:

Arrangements that are not controlled through voting or similar rights are accounted for as variable interest entities
(“VIEs”). An enterprise is required to consolidate a VIE if it is the primary beneficiary of the VIE.

A VIE is created when
(i) the equity investment at risk is not sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties, or (ii) the entity’s equity holders as a group either:
(a) lack the power, through voting or similar rights, to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance, (b) are not obligated to absorb expected losses of the entity if they
occur, or (c) do not have the right to receive expected residual returns of the entity if they occur. If an entity is deemed to be a VIE, the enterprise that is deemed to have a variable interest, or combination of variable interests, that
provides the enterprise with a controlling financial interest in the VIE is considered the primary beneficiary and must consolidate the VIE.

We have concluded that under certain circumstances when we (1) enter into option agreements for the purchase of land or facilities from
an entity and pay a

non-refundable

deposit, or (2) enter into arrangements for the formation of joint ventures, a VIE may be created under condition (i), (ii) (b) or (c) of the
previous paragraph. For each VIE created, we have performed a qualitative analysis, including considering which party, if any, has the power to direct the activities most significant to the economic performance of each VIE and whether that



party has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could be significant to the VIE. If we are determined to be the primary beneficiary of the
VIE, the assets, liabilities and operations of the VIE are consolidated with our financial statements. As of December 31, 2014, we had no consolidated VIEs. Additionally, our Operating Partnership has notes payable to three trusts that are VIEs
under condition (ii)(a) above. Since the Operating Partnership is not the primary beneficiary of the trusts, these VIEs are not consolidated.

REAL ESTATE ASSETS:

Real estate assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Direct and allowable internal costs
associated with the development, construction, renovation, and improvement of real estate assets are capitalized. Interest, property taxes, and other costs associated with development incurred during the construction period are capitalized.

Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Major replacements and betterments that improve or extend the
life of the asset are capitalized and depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Depreciation is computed using the

straight-line

method over the estimated useful lives of the buildings and improvements,
which are generally between 5 and 39 years.

In connection with our acquisition of stores, the purchase price is allocated to the
tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired based on their fair values, which are estimated using significant unobservable inputs. The value of the tangible assets, consisting of land and buildings, is determined as if vacant. Intangible
assets, which represent the value of existing tenant relationships, are recorded at their fair values based on the avoided cost to replace the current leases. We measure the value of tenant relationships based on the rent lost due to the amount of
time required to replace existing customers, which is based on our historical experience with turnover in our facilities. Debt assumed as part of an acquisition is recorded at fair value based on current interest rates compared to contractual rates.

Acquisition-related

transaction costs are expensed as incurred.

Intangible lease rights include:
(1) purchase price amounts allocated to leases on three stores that cannot be classified as ground or building leases; these rights are amortized to expense over the term of the leases; and (2) intangibles related to ground leases on five
stores where the ground leases were assumed by the Company at rates that were different than the current market rates for similar leases. The value associated with these assumed leases were recorded as intangibles, which will be amortized over the
lease terms.

EVALUATION OF ASSET IMPAIRMENT:

Long lived assets held for use are evaluated for impairment when events or
circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. We review each store at least annually to determine if any such events or circumstances have occurred or exist. We focus on stores where occupancy and/or rental income have decreased by a
significant amount. For these stores, we determine whether the decrease is temporary or permanent and whether the store will likely recover the lost occupancy and/or revenue in the short term. In addition, we review stores in the

lease-up

stage and compare actual operating results to original projections.

When we determine that an
event that may indicate impairment has occurred, we compare the carrying value of the related

long-lived

assets to the undiscounted future net operating cash flows attributable to the assets. An impairment
loss is recorded if the net carrying value of the assets exceeds the undiscounted future net operating cash flows attributable to the assets. The impairment loss recognized equals the excess of net carrying value over the related fair value of the
assets.

When real estate assets are identified as held for sale, we discontinue depreciating the assets and estimate the fair value of
the assets, net of selling costs. If the estimated fair values, net of selling costs, of the assets that have been identified for sale are less than the net carrying value of the assets, then a valuation allowance is established. The operations of
assets held for sale or sold during the period are generally presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented.



INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES:

Our investments in real estate joint ventures where
we have significant influence but not control, and joint ventures which are VIEs in which we are not the primary beneficiary, are recorded under the equity method of accounting on the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Under the equity method, our investment in real estate ventures is stated at cost and adjusted for our share of net earnings or losses and
reduced by distributions. Equity in earnings of real estate ventures is generally recognized based on our ownership interest in the earnings of each of the unconsolidated real estate ventures. For the purposes of presentation in the statement of
cash flows, we follow the “look through” approach for classification of distributions from joint ventures. Under this approach, distributions are reported under operating cash flow unless the facts and circumstances of a specific
distribution clearly indicate that it is a return of capital (e.g., a liquidating dividend or distribution of the proceeds from the joint venture’s sale of assets) in which case it is reported as an investing activity.

Our management assesses annually whether there are any indicators that the value of our investments in unconsolidated real estate ventures may
be impaired and when events or circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. An investment is impaired if management’s estimate of the fair value of the investment, using significant unobservable inputs, is less than its carrying value.
To the extent impairment has occurred and is considered to be other than temporary, the loss is measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the fair value of the investment.

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES:

The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on the intended use
of the derivative and the resulting designation. Derivatives used to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability or firm commitment attributable to a particular risk, are considered fair value hedges. Derivatives used to
hedge the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges.

For derivatives designated as fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivative and the hedged item related to the hedged risk
are recognized in earnings. For derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is initially reported in other comprehensive income, outside of earnings and subsequently reclassified
to earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings.

REVENUE AND EXPENSE RECOGNITION:

Rental revenues are recognized as
earned based upon amounts that are currently due from tenants. Leases are generally on

month-to-month

terms. Prepaid rents are recognized on a

straight-line

basis over the term of the leases. Promotional discounts are recognized as a reduction to rental income over the promotional period. Late charges, administrative fees, merchandise sales and truck
rentals are recognized in income when earned. Management fee revenues are recognized monthly as services are performed and in accordance with the terms of the related management agreements. Equity in earnings of real estate entities is recognized
based on our ownership interest in the earnings of each of the unconsolidated real estate entities. Interest income is recognized as earned.

Property expenses, including utilities, property taxes, repairs and maintenance and other costs to manage the facilities are recognized as
incurred. We accrue for property tax expense based upon invoice amounts, estimates and historical trends. If these estimates are incorrect, the timing of expense recognition could be affected.

Tenant reinsurance premiums are recognized as revenue over the period of insurance coverage. We record an unpaid claims liability at the end
of each period based on existing unpaid claims and historical claims payment history. The unpaid claims liability represents an estimate of the ultimate cost to settle all unpaid claims as of each period end, including both reported but unpaid
claims and claims that may have been incurred but have not been reported. We use a third party claims administrator to adjust all tenant reinsurance claims received. The administrator evaluates each claim to determine the ultimate claim loss and
includes an estimate for claims that may have been incurred but not reported. Annually, a third party actuary evaluates the adequacy of the unpaid



claims liability. Prior year claim reserves are adjusted as experience develops or new information becomes known. The impact of such adjustments is included in the current period operations. The
unpaid claims liability is not discounted to its present value. Each tenant chooses the amount of insurance coverage they want through the tenant reinsurance program. Tenants can purchase policies in amounts of two thousand dollars to ten thousand
dollars of insurance coverage in exchange for a monthly fee. Our exposure per claim is limited by the maximum amount of coverage chosen by each tenant. We purchase reinsurance for losses exceeding a set amount on any one event. We do not currently
have any amounts recoverable under the reinsurance arrangements.

INCOME TAXES:

We have elected to be treated as a REIT under
Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, among other things, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders and meet certain tests
regarding the nature of our income and assets. As a REIT, we are not subject to federal income tax with respect to that portion of our income which meets certain criteria and is distributed annually to our stockholders. We plan to continue to
operate so that we meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT. Many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. If we were to fail to meet these requirements, we would be subject to federal income tax. We are subject to
certain state and local taxes. Provision for such taxes has been included in income tax expense in our consolidated statements of operations.

We have elected to treat one of our corporate subsidiaries, Extra Space Management, Inc., as a taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”).
In general, our TRS may perform additional services for tenants and generally may engage in any real estate or

non-real

estate related business. A TRS is subject to corporate federal income tax. Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Interest and penalties relating to uncertain tax positions will be recognized in income tax expense when incurred.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In May
2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, “

Revenue from Contracts with Customers

” (“ASU 2014-09”). ASU 2014-09 amends the guidance for revenue recognition
to replace numerous, industry-specific requirements and converges areas under this topic with those of the International Financial Reporting Standards. ASU 2014-09 outlines a five-step process for customer contract revenue recognition that focuses
on transfer of control, as opposed to transfer of risk and rewards. The amendment also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows from contracts with customers. ASU 2014-09 is
effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and early adoption is prohibited. Entities can transition to the standard either retrospectively or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. Management is
currently assessing the impact of the adoption of ASU 2014-09 on our consolidated financial statements.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2014 to the Year Ended December 31, 2013

Overview

Results for the year ended
December 31, 2014, included the operations of 828 stores (576 of which were consolidated and 252 of which were in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method) compared to the results for the year ended December 31, 2013, which
included the operations of 779 stores (525 of which were consolidated and 254 of which were in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method).



Revenues

The following table presents information on revenues earned for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Revenues:

Property rental

$

559,868

$

446,682

$

113,186

25.3

%

Tenant reinsurance

59,072

47,317

11,755

24.8

%

Management fees

28,215

26,614

1,601

6.0

%

Total revenues

$

647,155

$

520,613

$

126,542

24.3

%

Property Rental

—The change in property rental revenues consists primarily of an increase of
$83,651 associated with acquisitions completed in 2014 and 2013. We acquired 51 operating stores during 2014 and 78 operating stores during 2013. In addition, revenues increased by $29,531 as a result of increases in occupancy and rental rates to
existing customers at our stabilized stores. We have seen no significant increase in overall customer renewal rates and our average length of stay is approximately 12.9 months. For existing customers we generally seek to increase rental rates
approximately 7% to 10% at least annually. Occupancy at our stabilized stores increased to 91.0% at December 31, 2014, as compared to 88.4% at December 31, 2013. Rental rates to new tenants increased by approximately 3.9% over the same
period in the prior year.

Tenant Reinsurance

—The increase in tenant reinsurance revenues was partially due to the increase in
overall customer participation to approximately 70.7% at December 31, 2014, compared to approximately 68.7% at December 31, 2013. In addition, we operated 1,088 stores at December 31, 2014, compared to 1,029 stores at
December 31, 2013.

Management Fees

—Our taxable REIT subsidiary, Extra Space Management, Inc., manages stores owned
by our joint ventures and third parties. Management fees generally represent 6.0% of cash collected from stores owned by third parties and unconsolidated joint ventures. The Company also earns an asset management fee from the Storage Portfolio I
(“SPI”) joint venture, equal to 0.50% multiplied by the total asset value, provided certain conditions are met. The increase in management fees is due to increased revenues at the managed stores.

Expenses

The following table presents
information on expenses for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Expenses:

Property operations

$

172,416

$

140,012

$

32,404

23.1

%

Tenant reinsurance

10,427

9,022

1,405

15.6

%

Acquisition related costs

9,826

8,618

1,208

14.0

%

General and administrative

60,942

54,246

6,696

12.3

%

Depreciation and amortization

115,076

95,232

19,844

20.8

%

Total expenses

$

368,687

$

307,130

$

61,557

20.0

%

Property Operations

—The increase in property operations expense consists primarily of an increase
of $30,036 related to acquisitions completed in 2014 and 2013. We acquired 51 operating stores during the year ended December 31, 2014 and 78 operating stores during the year ended December 31, 2013.



Tenant Reinsurance

—Tenant reinsurance expense represents the costs that are incurred
to provide tenant reinsurance. The change is due primarily to the increase in the number of stores we owned and/or managed. At December 31, 2014, we owned and/or managed 1,088 stores compared to 1,029 stores at December 31, 2013. In
addition, there was an increase in overall customer participation to approximately 70.7% at December 31, 2014 from approximately 68.7% at December 31, 2013.

Acquisition Related Costs

—These costs relate to acquisition activities during the periods indicated. The increase for the year
ended December 31, 2014 when compared to the prior year was related primarily to the expense of $3,550 of defeasance costs paid in an acquisition in December 2014. This increase was offset by a decrease in the number of stores acquired. We
acquired 51 operating stores during 2014, compared to 78 operating stores acquired during 2013.

General and
Administrative

—General and administrative expenses primarily include all expenses not related to our stores, including corporate payroll, travel and professional fees. The expenses are recognized as incurred. General and administrative
expense increased over the prior year primarily as a result of the costs related to the management of additional stores. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we acquired 52 stores, 30 of which we did not previously manage. During the year
ended December 31, 2013, we acquired 78 stores, 47 of which we did not previously manage. We did not observe any material trends specific to payroll, travel or other expense that contributed significantly to the increase in general and
administrative expenses apart from the increase due to the management of additional stores.

Depreciation and
Amortization

—Depreciation and amortization expense increased as a result of the acquisition of new stores. We acquired 51 operating stores during the year ended December 31, 2014, and 78 operating stores during the year ended
December 31, 2013.

Other Income and Expenses

The following table presents information on other revenues and expenses for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Other income and expenses:

Gain (loss) on sale of real estate and earnout from prior acquisitions

$

(10,285

)

$


$

(11,245

)

(1,171.4

%)

Property casualty loss, net

(1,724

)

—

(1,724

)

100.0

%

Loss on extinguishment of debt related to portfolio acquisition

—

(9,153

)

9,153

(100.0

%)

Interest expense

(81,330

)

(71,630

)

(9,700

)

13.5

%

Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of discount on equity component of exchangeable senior notes

(2,683

)

(1,404

)

(1,279

)

91.1

%

Interest income

1,607



114.6

%

Interest income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

4,850

4,850

—

—

Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate ventures

10,541

11,653

(1,112

)

(9.5

%)

Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate ventures—gain on sale of real estate assets and purchase of joint venture
partners’ interests

4,022

46,032

(42,010

)

(91.3

%)

Income tax expense

(7,570

)

(9,984

)

2,414

(24.2

%)

Total other expense, net

$

(82,572

)

$

(27,927

)

$

(54,645

)

195.7

%



Gain (Loss) on Sale of Real Estate and Earnout from Prior Acquisitions

—During 2012,
we acquired a portfolio of ten stores located in New Jersey and New York. As part of this acquisition, we agreed to make an additional cash payment to the sellers if the acquired stores exceeded a specified amount of net rental income two years
after the acquisition date. At the acquisition date, we believed that it was unlikely that any significant payment would be made as a result of this earnout provision. The rental growth of the stores was significantly higher than expected, resulting
in a payment to the sellers of $7,785. This amount is included in gain (loss) on sale of real estate and earnout from prior acquisitions on our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014.

During 2011, we acquired a store located in Florida. As part of this acquisition, we agreed to make an additional cash payment to the sellers
if the acquired store exceeded a specified amount of net rental income for any twelve-month period prior to June 30, 2015. At the acquisition date, $133 was recorded as the estimated amount that would be due, and we believed that it was unlikely
that any significant additional payment would be made as a result of this earnout provision. Because the rental growth of the stores is trending significantly higher than expected, we estimated that an additional earnout payment of $2,500 will be
due to the seller. This amount is included in gain (loss) on sale of real estate and earnout from prior acquisitions on our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014.

The gain on sale of real estate assets recorded for the year ended December 31, 2013 was related to two transactions: (1) we
recorded a gain of $800 as a result of the condemnation of a portion of land in California that resulted from eminent domain, and (2) we recorded a gain of $160 as a result of the sale of one store in Florida for $3,250 in cash.

Property Casualty Loss, Net

—In October 2014, a store located in Venice, California, was damaged by a fire. As a result, we
recorded a loss, net of insurance recoveries, of $1,724.

Loss on Extinguishment of Debt Related to Portfolio Acquisition

—The
loss on extinguishment of debt occurred as part of a loan assumption and immediate defeasance upon closing of a portfolio acquisition during the year ended December 31, 2013.

Interest Expense

—Interest expense increased due to the increase in total amount of debt outstanding. This increase was partially
offset by a decrease in the average interest rate. At December 31, 2014, our total face value of debt was $2,379,657 compared to total face value of debt of $1,958,586 at December 31, 2013. The average interest rate was 3.4% as of
December 31, 2014, compared to 3.8% as of December 31, 2013.

Non-cash

Interest
Expense Related to Amortization of Discount on Equity Component of Exchangeable Senior Notes

—Represents the amortization of the discount related to the equity component of the exchangeable senior notes issued by our Operating Partnership,
which reflects the 4.0% effective interest rate relative to the carrying amount of the liability. In June 2013, our Operating Partnership issued $250,000 of its 2.375% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2033 (the “Notes due 2033”).

Interest Income

—Interest income represents amounts earned on cash and cash equivalents deposited with financial institutions and
interest earned on notes receivable. The increase relates primarily to the increase in the average balance of notes receivable when compared to the prior year.

Interest Income on Note Receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership Unit Holder

—Represents interest on a $100,000 loan to the
holder of the Operating Partnership’s Series A Participating Redeemable Preferred Units (the “Series A Units”).

Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Real Estate Ventures

—Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate ventures represents the
income earned through our ownership interests in unconsolidated joint ventures. The decrease was due to the acquisition of our joint venture partners’ interests in several joint ventures during 2013. There were 252 operating stores owned by
unconsolidated real estate ventures as of December 31, 2014, compared to 254 stores as of December 31, 2013, and 280 as of December 31, 2012.



Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Real Estate Ventures—Gain on Sale of Real Estate
Assets and Purchase of Joint Venture Partners’ Interests

—Between December 2013 and May 2014, as part of a larger acquisition, we acquired our joint venture partners’ 60% to 65% equity interests in six stores located in California.
We previously held the remaining 35% to 40% interests in these stores through six separate joint ventures with affiliates of Grupe Properties Co. Inc. (“Grupe”). Prior to the acquisition, we accounted for our interests in these joint
ventures as equity-method investments. We recognized a non-cash gain of $3,438 during the year ended December 31, 2014, as a result of re-measuring the fair value of our equity interest in one of these joint ventures held before the
acquisition. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded an additional gain of $584 as a result of the final cash distributions received from the other five joint ventures associated with the acquisitions that were completed during
2013. We recognized non-cash gains of $9,339 during the year ended December 31, 2013, which represented the increase in the fair values of our prior interests in the Grupe joint ventures from their formations to the acquisition dates.

On November 1, 2013, we acquired an additional 49% equity interest from our joint venture partners, which retained a 1% interest in the

HSRE-ESP

IA, LLC joint venture (“HSRE”) that owns 19 stores. This transaction resulted in a

non-cash

gain of $34,136, which represents the increase in the fair
value of our 50% interest in HSRE from the formation of the joint venture to the acquisition date.

In February 2013, we acquired our
partners’ equity interests in two joint ventures that each held one store. As a result of the acquisitions, we recognized

non-cash

gains of $2,556, which represents the increase in the fair values of our
prior interests in the joint ventures from their formations to the acquisition dates.

Income Tax Expense

—The decrease in
income tax expense relates primarily to a royalty charged to the insurance captive by the Operating Partnership for access to and use of customer lists and intellectual property. The effect of this change lowered the taxable income of the TRS.

Net Income Allocated to Noncontrolling Interests

The following table presents information on net income allocated to noncontrolling interests for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Net income allocated to noncontrolling interests:

Net income allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests

$

(10,991

)

$

(8,006

)

$

(2,985

)

37.3

%

Net income allocated to Operating Partnership and other noncontrolling interests

(6,550

)

(5,474

)

(1,076

)

19.7

%

Total income allocated to noncontrolling interests:

$

(17,541

)

$

(13,480

)

$

(4,061

)

30.1

%

Net Income Allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership Noncontrolling Interests

—In December 2014,
as part of the acquisition of a single store, our Operating Partnership issued 548,390 Series D Units. The Series D Units have a liquidation value of $25.00 per unit, and receive distributions at an annual rate of 5.0%.

Between In December 2013 and May 2014, as part of a portfolio acquisition, our Operating Partnership issued 704,016 Series C Convertible
Redeemable Preferred Units (“Series C Units”). The Series C Units have a liquidation value of $42.10 per unit. From issuance until the fifth anniversary of issuance, the Series C Units receive distributions at an annual rate
of $0.18 plus the

then-payable

quarterly distribution per common OP Unit.



In April 2014, as part of a single store acquisition, our Operating Partnership issued 333,360
Series B Redeemable Preferred Units (“Series B Units”). During August and September 2013, as part of a portfolio acquisition, our Operating Partnership issued 1,342,727 Series B Units. The Series B Units have a liquidation value
of $25.00 per unit and receive distributions at an annual rate of 6.0%.

Income allocated to the Preferred Operating Partnership
noncontrolling interests for the year ended December 31, 2014 represents the fixed distributions paid to the holders of the Series A Units, Series B Units, Series C Units and Series D Units, plus approximately 0.7% of the
remaining net income allocated to the holders of the Series A Units.

Net Income Allocated to Operating Partnership and Other
Noncontrolling Interests

—Income allocated to the Operating Partnership represents approximately 3.5% and 3.6% of net income after the allocation of the fixed distribution paid to the Preferred Operating Partnership unit holders for the
years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2013 to the Year Ended December 31,

Overview

Results for
the year ended December 31, 2013, included the operations of 779 stores (525 of which were consolidated and 254 of which were in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method) compared to the results for the year ended December 31,
2012, which included the operations of 729 stores (449 of which were consolidated and 280 of which were in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method).

Revenues

The following table presents
information on revenues earned for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Revenues:

Property rental

$

446,682

$

346,874

$

99,808

28.8

%

Tenant reinsurance

47,317

36,816

10,501

28.5

%

Management fees

26,614

25,706


3.5

%

Total revenues

$

520,613

$

409,396

$

111,217

27.2

%

Property Rental

—The change in property rental revenues consists primarily of an increase of
$75,401 associated with acquisitions completed in 2013 and 2012. We acquired 78 stores during 2013 and 91 stores during 2012. In addition, revenues increased by $21,551 as a result of increases in occupancy and rental rates to existing customers at
our stabilized stores. We have seen no significant increase in overall customer renewal rates; our average length of stay is approximately twelve months. For existing customers we generally seek to increase rental rates approximately 7% to 10%
at least annually. Occupancy at our stabilized stores increased to 88.0% at December 31, 2013, as compared to 86.3% at December 31, 2012. Rental rates to new tenants increased by approximately 2.7% over the same period in the prior year.

Tenant Reinsurance

—The increase in tenant reinsurance revenues was partially due to the increase in overall customer
participation to approximately 68.7% at December 31, 2013, compared to approximately 67.0% at December 31, 2012. In addition, we operated 1,029 stores at December 31, 2013, compared to 910 stores at December 31, 2012.

Management Fees

—Our taxable REIT subsidiary, Extra Space Management, Inc., manages stores owned by our joint ventures and
third parties. Management fees generally represent 6.0% of cash collected from stores owned by third parties and unconsolidated joint ventures. We also earn an asset management fee from the SPI joint venture, equal to 0.50% multiplied by the total
asset value, provided certain conditions are met.



Expenses

The following table presents information on expenses for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Expenses:

Property operations

$

140,012

$

114,028

$

25,984

22.8

%

Tenant reinsurance

9,022

7,869

1,153

14.7

%

Acquisition related costs

8,618

5,351

3,267

61.1

%

General and administrative

54,246

50,454

3,792

7.5

%

Depreciation and amortization

95,232

74,453

20,779

27.9

%

Total expenses

$

307,130

$

252,155

$

54,975

21.8

%

Property Operations

—The increase in property operations expense consists primarily of an increase
of $24,335 related to acquisitions completed in 2013 and 2012. We acquired 78 stores during the year ended December 31, 2013 and 91 stores during the year ended December 31, 2012.

Tenant Reinsurance

—Tenant reinsurance expense represents the costs that are incurred to provide tenant reinsurance. The change is
due primarily to the increase in the number of stores we owned and/or managed. At December 31, 2013, we owned and/or managed 1,029 stores compared to 910 stores at December 31, 2012. In addition, there was an increase in overall customer
participation to approximately 68.7% at December 31, 2013 from approximately 67.0% at December 31, 2012.

Acquisition Related
Costs

—These costs relate to acquisition activities during the periods indicated. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2013 when compared to the prior year was related primarily to the expense of $2,441 of defeasance
reimbursement costs paid to the seller in a store acquisition in December 2013.

General and Administrative

—General and
administrative expenses primarily include all expenses not related to our stores, including corporate payroll, travel and professional fees. The expenses are recognized as incurred. General and administrative expenses increased over the prior year
primarily as a result of the costs related to the management of additional stores. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we acquired 78 stores, 47 of which we did not previously manage. We did not observe any material trends specific to
payroll, travel or other expenses that contributed significantly to the increase in general and administrative expenses apart from the increase due to the management of additional stores.

Depreciation and Amortization

—Depreciation and amortization expense increased as a result of the acquisition of new stores. We
acquired 78 stores during the year ended December 31, 2013, and 91 stores during the year ended December 31, 2012.



Other Income and Expenses

The following table presents information on other revenues and expenses for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Other income and expenses:

Gain (loss) on sale of real estate and earnout from prior acquisitions

$


$

—

$


100.0%

Loss on extinguishment of debt related to portfolio acquisition

(9,153)

—

(9,153)

100.0%

Interest expense

(71,630)

(71,850)


(0.3%)

Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of discount on equity component of exchangeable senior notes

(1,404)

(444)

(960)

216.2%

Interest income


1,816

(1,067)

(58.8%)

Interest income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

4,850

4,850

—

—

Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate ventures

11,653

10,859


7.3%

Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate ventures—gain on sale of real estate assets and purchase of joint venture
partners' interests

46,032

30,630

15,402

50.3%

Income tax expense

(9,984)

(5,413)

(4,571)

84.4%

Total other expense, net

$

(27,927)

$

(29,552)

$

1,625

(5.5%)

Gain (Loss) on Sale of Real Estate Assets and earnout from prior acquisitions

—The gain on sale of
real estate assets recorded for the year ended December 31, 2013 was related to two transactions: (1) we recorded a gain of $800 as a result of the condemnation of a portion of land in California that resulted from eminent domain, and
(2) we recorded a gain of $160 as a result of the sale of one store in Florida for $3,250 in cash.

Loss on Extinguishment of Debt
Related to Portfolio Acquisition

—The loss on extinguishment of debt occurred as part of a loan assumption and immediate defeasance upon closing of a portfolio acquisition during the year ended December 31, 2013.

Interest Expense

—Interest expense remained fairly constant as the increase in the total amount of debt outstanding was offset by a
decrease in the average interest rate. At December 31, 2013, our total face value of debt was $1,958,586, compared to total face value of debt of $1,574,280 at December 31, 2012. The average interest rate was 3.8% as of December 31,
2013, compared to 4.2% as of December 31, 2012.

Non-cash

Interest Expense Related to
Amortization of Discount on Equity Component of Exchangeable Senior Notes

—Our Operating Partnership had $87,663 of its 3.625% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2027 (the “Notes due 2027”) outstanding prior to April 2012, when all of
the Notes due 2027 were surrendered for exchange. In June 2013, our Operating Partnership issued $250,000 of its Notes due 2033.

Interest Income

—Interest income represents amounts earned on cash and cash equivalents deposited with financial institutions and
interest earned on notes receivable. The decrease relates primarily to the payoff of two note receivables in December 2012 when the related stores were purchased by us.

Interest Income on Note Receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership Unit Holder

—Represents interest on a $100,000 loan to the
holder of the Series A Units.



Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Real Estate Ventures

—The increase in equity in
earnings of unconsolidated real estate ventures was due primarily to an increase in revenues at joint ventures, which resulted from higher occupancy and rental rates to new and existing customers. This increase was partially offset by a slight
decrease in equity in earnings due to the acquisition of our joint venture partners’ interests in several joint ventures during 2012 and 2013.

Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Real Estate Ventures—Gain on Sale of Real Estate Assets and Purchase of Joint Venture
Partners’ Interests

—In December 2013, we acquired our partners’ equity interest in five joint ventures that each held one store. Each of these joint venture partners was associated with Grupe. As a result of these transactions, we
recorded

non-cash

gains of $9,339, which represents the increase in the fair values of our prior interests in the Grupe joint ventures from their formations to the acquisition dates.

On November 1, 2013, we acquired an additional 49% equity interest from our joint venture partners, which retained a 1% interest in HSRE.
This transaction resulted in a

non-cash

gain of $34,136, which represents the increase in the fair value of our 50% interest in HSRE from the formation of the joint venture to the acquisition date.

In February 2013, we acquired our partners’ equity interests in two joint ventures that each held one store. As a result of the
acquisitions, we recognized

non-cash

gains of $2,556, which represents the increase in the fair values of our prior interests in the joint ventures from their formations to the acquisition dates.

In December 2012, two joint ventures in which we held a 20% equity interest, each sold its only store. As a result of the sales, the joint
ventures were dissolved, and we received cash proceeds which resulted in a gain of $1,409.

On November 30, 2012, we acquired our
joint venture partner’s 80% interest in the Storage Portfolio Bravo II LLC joint venture (“SPB II”). This transaction resulted in a

non-cash

gain of $10,171, which represents the increase
in fair value of our 20% interest in SPB II from the formation of the joint venture to the acquisition date.

On July 2, 2012, we
acquired Prudential Real Estate Investors’ (“PREI

®

”) 94.9% interest in the ESS PRISA III LLC joint venture (“PRISA III”). This transaction resulted in a

non-cash

gain of $13,499, which represents the increase in fair value of our 5.1% interest in PRISA III from the formation of the joint venture to the acquisition date.

In February 2012, a joint venture in which we held a 40% equity interest sold its only store. As a result of the sale, the joint venture was
dissolved, and we received cash proceeds which resulted in a gain of $5,550.

Income Tax Expense

—The increase in income tax
expense relates primarily to increased tenant reinsurance income earned by our taxable REIT subsidiary and lower solar tax credits when compared to the prior year.



Net Income Allocated to Noncontrolling Interests

The following table presents information on net income allocated to noncontrolling interests for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Net income allocated to noncontrolling interests:

Net income allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests

$

(8,006

)

$

(6,876

)

$

(1,130

)

16.4

%

Net income allocated to Operating Partnership and other noncontrolling interests

(5,474

)

(3,504

)

(1,970

)

56.2

%

Total income allocated to noncontrolling interests:

$

(13,480

)

$

(10,380

)

$

(3,100

)

29.9

%

Net Income Allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership Noncontrolling Interests

—In December 2013,
as part of a portfolio acquisition, our Operating Partnership issued 407,996 Series C Units. The Series C Units have a liquidation value of $42.10 per unit. From issuance until the fifth anniversary of issuance, the Series C Units
receive distributions at an annual rate of $0.18 plus the

then-payable

quarterly distribution per common OP Unit.

During August and September 2013, as part of a portfolio acquisition, our Operating Partnership issued 1,342,727 Series B Units. The
Series B Units have a liquidation value of $25.00 per unit and receive distributions at an annual rate of 6.0%.

Income allocated to
the Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests for the year ended December 31, 2013 represents the fixed distributions paid to the holders of the Series A Units, Series B Units, and Series C Units plus approximately
0.9% of the remaining net income allocated after adjustment for the fixed distribution paid.

For the year ended December 31, 2012,
income allocated to the Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interest equals the fixed distribution paid to the Series A Unit holder, plus approximately 0.9% of the remaining net income allocated after the adjustment for the fixed
distribution paid. The increase in the percentage was primarily a result of the issuance of the Series B Units and Series C Units as noted above.

Net Income Allocated to Operating Partnership and Other Noncontrolling Interests

—Income allocated to the Operating Partnership
represents approximately 3.6% and 2.9% of net income after the allocation of the fixed distribution paid to the Preferred Operating Partnership unit holders for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS

FFO provides
relevant and meaningful information about our operating performance that is necessary, along with net income and cash flows, for an understanding of our operating results. We believe FFO is a meaningful disclosure as a supplement to net earnings.
Net earnings assume that the values of real estate assets diminish predictably over time as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. The values of real estate assets fluctuate due to market conditions and we believe FFO more
accurately reflects the value of our real estate assets. FFO is defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, Inc. (“NAREIT”) as net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles (“GAAP”), excluding gains or losses on sales of operating stores and impairment

write-downs

of depreciable real estate assets, plus depreciation and amortization and after adjustments to
record unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures on the same basis. We believe that to further understand our performance, FFO should be considered along with the reported net income and cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in the
consolidated financial statements.



The computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other REITs or real estate
companies that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP,
and should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance, as an alternative to net cash flow from operating activities as a measure of our liquidity, or as an indicator of our ability to make cash
distributions.

The following table presents the calculation of FFO for the periods indicated:

For the Year Ended December 31,




Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

178,355

$

172,076

$

117,309

Adjustments:

Real estate depreciation

96,819

78,943

64,301

Amortization of intangibles

12,394

11,463

6,763

(Gain) loss on sale of real estate and earnout from prior acquisitions

10,285

(960

)

—

Unconsolidated joint venture real estate depreciation and amortization

4,395

5,676

7,014

Unconsolidated joint venture gain on purchase of partners’ interests

(4,022

)

(46,032

)

(30,630

)

Distributions paid on Series A Preferred Operating Partnership units

(5,750

)

(5,750

)

(5,750

)

Income allocated to Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests

17,530

13,431

10,349

Funds from operations

$

310,006

$

228,847

$

169,356

SAME-STORE

RESULTS

We consider our

same-store

portfolio to consist of only those stores which were

wholly-owned

at the beginning and at the end of the applicable periods presented that had achieved stabilization as of the first day of such period. The following tables present operating data for our

same-store

portfolio. We consider the following

same-store

presentation to be meaningful in regards to the stores shown below because these results provide information
relating to store level operating changes without the effects of acquisitions or completed developments.

Comparison of the Year Ended
December 31, 2014 to the Year Ended December 31, 2013

For the Three Months

Ended December 31,

Percent

Change

For the Year Ended

December 31,

Percent

Change





Same-store rental and tenant reinsurance revenues

$

121,819

$

113,546

7.3

%

$

477,884

$

444,353

7.5

%

Same-store operating and tenant reinsurance expenses

34,669

33,942

2.1

%

139,835

135,547

3.2

%

Same-store net operating income

$

87,150

$

79,604

9.5

%

$

338,049

$

308,806

9.5

%

Non same-store rental and tenant reinsurance revenues

$

38,317

$

21,684

76.7

%

$

141,056

$

49,646

184.1

%

Non same-store operating and tenant reinsurance expenses

$

10,971

$

5,832

88.1

%

$

43,008

$

13,487

218.9

%

Total rental and tenant reinsurance revenues

$

160,136

$

135,230

18.4

%

$

618,940

$

493,999

25.3

%

Total operating and tenant reinsurance expenses

$

45,640

$

39,774

14.7

%

$

182,843

$

149,034

22.7

%

Same-store square foot occupancy as of quarter end

91.4

%

89.5

%

91.4

%

89.5

%

Properties included in same-store







The increases in

same-store

rental and tenant reinsurance
revenues for the three months and year ended December 31, 2014, as compared to the same periods ended December 31, 2013, were due primarily to an increase in occupancy, a decrease in discounts to new customers, and an average increase of
4.0% to 5.0% in incoming rates to new tenants. Expenses were higher for the year ended December 31, 2014 due to increases in office expense, property taxes and repairs and maintenance. These expenses were partially offset by a decrease in
property insurance in the three months and year ended December 31, 2014.

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2013 to the Year Ended
December 31, 2012

For the Three Months

Ended December 31,

Percent

Change

For the Year Ended

December 31,

Percent

Change





Same-store

rental and tenant reinsurance revenues

$

88,056

$

82,603

6.6

%

$

345,825

$

321,962

7.4

%

Same-store

operating and tenant reinsurance expenses

26,071

25,704

1.4

%

104,377

102,379

2.0

%

Same-store

net operating income

$

61,985

$

56,899

8.9

%

$

241,448

$

219,583

10.0

%

Non

same-store

rental and tenant reinsurance revenues

$

47,174

$

24,834

90.0

%

$

148,174

$

61,728

140.0

%

Non

same-store

operating and tenant reinsurance expenses

$

13,703

$

8,819

55.4

%

$

44,657

$

19,518

128.8

%

Total rental and tenant reinsurance revenues

$

135,230

$

107,437

25.9

%

$

493,999

$

383,690

28.7

%

Total operating and tenant reinsurance expenses

$

39,774

$

34,523

15.2

%

$

149,034

$

121,897

22.3

%

Same-store

square foot occupancy as of quarter end

89.2

%

87.9

%

89.2

%

87.9

%

The increases in

same-store

rental and tenant reinsurance revenues for
the three months and year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to the same periods ended December 31, 2012, were due primarily to an increase in average occupancy, a decrease in discounts to new customers, and an average increase of 2.0%
to 3.0% in incoming rates to new tenants. The increases in

same-store

operating and tenant reinsurance expenses for the three months and year ended December 31, 2013 were primarily due to increases in
payroll, property taxes and repairs and maintenance expenses.

CASH FLOWS

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2014 to the Year Ended December 31, 2013

Cash provided by operating activities was $337,581 and $271,259 for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The change
when compared to the prior year was primarily due to a decrease of $42,594 in non-cash gains related to purchases of joint venture partners’ interests. There was also a $10,340 increase in net income and an increase in depreciation and
amortization of $19,844. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the loss on extinguishment of debt related to portfolio acquisition of $9,153.

Cash used in investing activities was $564,948 and $366,976 for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The change was
primarily the result of an increase of $153,579 in the amount of cash used to acquire new stores in 2014 when compared to 2013. There was also an increase of $24,258 in cash used to purchase/issue notes receivable, and an increase of $17,062 in cash
used in the development and redevelopment of real estate assets.

Cash provided by financing activities was $148,307 and $191,655 for the
years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The net decrease was due to a number of factors, including a decrease of $205,988 in the cash proceeds received from the sale of common stock, a decrease of $246,250 in the proceeds from
issuance of



exchangeable senior notes, and an increase of $47,077 in cash paid as dividends on common stock. These decreases were offset by an increase of $335,479 in the proceeds from notes payable and
lines of credit, and a decrease of $131,244 in principal payments on notes payable and lines of credit.

Comparison of the Year Ended
December 31, 2013 to the Year Ended December 31, 2012

Cash provided by operating activities was $271,259 and $215,879
for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The change when compared to the prior year was primarily due to a $57,867 increase in net income. There was also an increase in depreciation and amortization of $20,779 and an
increase of $9,153 in loss on extinguishment of debt related to portfolio acquisition. These increases were partially offset by an increase in the

non-cash

gain on the purchase of joint venture partners’
interests of $22,362.

Cash used in investing activities was $366,976 and $606,938 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012,
respectively. The change was primarily the result of a decrease of $249,061 in the amount of cash used to acquire new stores in 2013 when compared to 2012.

Cash provided by financing activities was $191,655 and $395,360 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The net
decrease was due to a number of factors, including a decrease of $223,600 in the cash proceeds received from the sale of common stock, a decrease of $492,078 in the proceeds from notes payable and lines of credit, and an increase in cash paid for
dividends of $74,727. These decreases in cash were partially offset by an increase of $246,250 in proceeds received from the issuance of the Notes due 2033, a decrease of $257,459 in cash used for principal payments on notes payable and lines of
credit, including defeasance, and an increase of $87,663 in cash paid to repurchase the Notes due 2027.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

As of December 31, 2014, we had $47,663 available in cash and cash equivalents. We intend to use this cash for acquisitions, to repay debt
scheduled to mature in 2015 and for general corporate purposes. We are required to distribute at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to our stockholders on an annual basis to maintain our qualification as a REIT.

Our cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in our
operating accounts. During 2014, we experienced no loss or lack of access to our cash or cash equivalents; however, there can be no assurance that access to our cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial
markets.

The following table presents information on our lines of credit for the period presented. All of our lines of credit are
guaranteed by us and secured by mortgages on certain real estate assets.

As of December 31, 2014

Line of Credit

Amount

Drawn (1)

Capacity (1)

Interest

Rate

Origination

Date

Maturity

Basis Rate (2)

Notes

Credit Line 1

$

7,000

$

85,000

2.1

%

6/4/2010

6/3/2016

LIBOR plus 1.9%

(3)

Credit Line 2

41,000

50,000

1.9

%

11/16/2010

2/13/2017

LIBOR plus 1.8%

(4)

Credit Line 3

50,000

80,000

1.9

%

4/29/2011

11/18/2016

LIBOR plus 1.7%

(4)

Credit Line 4

40,000

50,000

1.8

%

9/29/2014

9/29/2017

LIBOR plus 1.7%

(4)

$

138,000

$

265,000

(1)

Amounts in thousands

(2)

30-day USD LIBOR

(3)

One two-year extension available

(4)

Two one-year extensions available



As of December 31, 2014, we had $2,379,657 face value of debt, resulting in a debt to total
capitalization ratio of 24.8%. As of December 31, 2014, the ratio of total fixed rate debt and other instruments to total debt was 64.5% (including $771,533 on which we have interest rate swaps that have been included as

fixed-rate

debt). The weighted average interest rate of the total of fixed and variable rate debt at December 31, 2014 was 3.4%. Certain of our real estate assets are pledged as collateral for our debt. We are
subject to certain restrictive covenants relating to our outstanding debt. We were in compliance with all financial covenants at December 31, 2014.

We expect to fund our

short-term

liquidity requirements, including operating expenses, recurring
capital expenditures, dividends to stockholders, distributions to holders of OP Units and interest on our outstanding indebtedness out of our operating cash flow, cash on hand and borrowings under our Credit Lines. In addition, we are pursuing
additional term loans secured by unencumbered stores.

Our liquidity needs consist primarily of cash distributions to stockholders, store
acquisitions, principal payments under our borrowings and

non-recurring

capital expenditures. We may from time to time seek to repurchase our outstanding debt, shares of common stock or other securities in
open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. In addition, we evaluate, on an
ongoing basis, the merits of strategic acquisitions and other relationships, which may require us to raise additional funds. We do not expect that our operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund our liquidity needs and instead expect to fund such
needs out of additional borrowings of secured or unsecured indebtedness, joint ventures with third parties, and from the proceeds of public and private offerings of equity and debt. Additional capital may not be available on terms favorable to us or
at all. Any additional issuance of equity or

equity-linked

securities may result in dilution to our stockholders. In addition, any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior
to holders of our common stock. We may also use OP Units as currency to fund acquisitions from

self-storage

owners who desire

tax-deferral

in their exiting transactions.

OFF-BALANCE

SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

Except as disclosed in the notes to our financial statements, we do not currently have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or
financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purposes entities, which typically are established for the purpose of facilitating

off-balance

sheet arrangements or
other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, except as disclosed in the notes to our financial statements, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities nor do we have any commitments or intent to provide funding to
any such entities. Accordingly, we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in these relationships.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

The following
table presents information on future payments due by period as of December 31, 2014:

Payments due by Period:

Total

Less Than

1 Year

1-3 Years

3-5 Years

After

5 Years

Operating leases

$

65,386

$

6,125

$

8,782

$

5,186

$

45,293

Notes payable, notes payable to trusts and lines of credit

Interest

349,846

74,769

108,613

60,603

105,861

Principal

2,379,657

251,466

799,641

824,089

504,461

Total contractual obligations

$

2,794,889

$

332,360

$

917,036

$

889,878

$

655,615

The operating leases above include minimum future lease payments on leases for 17 of our operating stores as
well as leases of our corporate offices. Two ground leases include additional contingent rental payments based on the level of revenue achieved at the store.



As of December 31, 2014, the weighted average interest rate for all fixed rate loans was
4.1%, and the weighted average interest rate on all variable rate loans was 2.0%.

FINANCING STRATEGY

We will continue to employ leverage in our capital structure in amounts reviewed from time to time by our board of directors. Although our
board of directors has not adopted a policy which limits the total amount of indebtedness that we may incur, we will consider a number of factors in evaluating our level of indebtedness from time to time, as well as the amount of such indebtedness
that will be either fixed or variable rate. In making financing decisions, we will consider factors including but not limited to:

•

the interest rate of the proposed financing;

•

the extent to which the financing impacts flexibility in managing our stores;

•

prepayment penalties and restrictions on refinancing;

•

the purchase price of stores acquired with debt financing;

•

long-term

objectives with respect to the financing;

•

target investment returns;

•

the ability of particular stores, and our Company as a whole, to generate cash flow sufficient to cover expected debt service payments;

•

overall level of consolidated indebtedness;

•

timing of debt and lease maturities;

•

provisions that require recourse and

cross-collateralization;

•

corporate credit ratios including debt service coverage, debt to total capitalization and debt to undepreciated assets; and

•

the overall ratio of fixed and variable rate debt.

Our indebtedness may be recourse,

non-recourse

or

cross-collateralized.

If the indebtedness is

non-recourse,

the collateral will be limited to the particular stores to
which the indebtedness relates. In addition, we may invest in stores subject to existing loans collateralized by mortgages or similar liens on our stores, or may refinance stores acquired on a leveraged basis. We may use the proceeds from any
borrowings to refinance existing indebtedness, to refinance investments, including the redevelopment of existing stores, for general working capital or to purchase additional interests in partnerships or joint ventures or for other purposes when we
believe it is advisable.

We may from time to time seek to retire or repurchase our outstanding debt, as well as shares of common stock or
other securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts
involved may be material.

SEASONALITY

The

self-storage

business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. A greater portion of revenues and
profits are realized from May through September. Historically, our highest level of occupancy has been at the end of July, while our lowest level of occupancy has been in late February and early March. Results for any quarter may not be indicative
of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year.



Item 7a.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market Risk

Market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. Our future income, cash flows and fair values
of financial instruments are dependent upon prevailing market interest rates.

Interest Rate Risk

Interest rate risk is highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic
and political considerations and other factors beyond our control.

As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $2,379,657 in total
face value debt, of which approximately $845,764 was subject to variable interest rates (excluding debt with interest rate swaps). If LIBOR were to increase or decrease by 100 basis points, the increase or decrease in interest expense on the
variable rate debt (excluding variable rate debt with interest rate floors) would increase or decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $8,081 annually.

Interest rate risk amounts were determined by considering the impact of hypothetical interest rates on our financial instruments. These
analyses do not consider the effect of any change in overall economic activity that could occur. Further, in the event of a change of that magnitude, we may take actions to further mitigate our exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty
of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, these analyses assume no changes in our financial structure.



Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

EXTRA SPACE
STORAGE INC.

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AND SCHEDULES

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


SCHEDULE III


All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is not present or not present in amounts
sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Extra Space Storage Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Extra Space Storage Inc. (“the Company”) as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and
the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule
listed in the index at Item 8. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
the Company at December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (1992 framework”) and our report dated
March 2, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Salt Lake City, Utah

March 2, 2015



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Balance Sheets

(dollars in thousands, except share data)

December 31, 2014

December 31, 2013

Assets:

Real estate assets, net

$

4,135,696

$

3,636,544

Investments in unconsolidated real estate ventures

85,711

88,125

Cash and cash equivalents

47,663

126,723

Restricted cash

25,245

21,451

Receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures

11,778

7,542

Other assets, net

96,014

96,755

Total assets

$

4,402,107

$

3,977,140

Liabilities, Noncontrolling Interests and Equity:

Notes payable

$

1,872,067

$

1,588,596

Premium on notes payable

3,281

4,948

Exchangeable senior notes

250,000

250,000

Discount on exchangeable senior notes

(13,054

)

(16,487

)

Notes payable to trusts

119,590

119,590

Lines of credit

138,000

—

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

65,521

60,601

Other liabilities

54,719

37,997

Total liabilities

2,490,124

2,045,245

Commitments and contingencies

Noncontrolling Interests and Equity:

Extra Space Storage Inc. stockholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value, 50,000,000 shares authorized, no shares issued or outstanding

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value, 500,000,000 shares authorized, 116,360,239 and 115,755,527 shares issued and outstanding at
December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively

1,163

1,157

Paid-in capital

1,995,484

1,973,159

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

(1,484

)

10,156

Accumulated deficit

(257,738

)

(226,002

)

Total Extra Space Storage Inc. stockholders’ equity

1,737,425

1,758,470

Noncontrolling interest represented by Preferred Operating Partnership units, net of $120,230 notes receivable

81,152

80,947

Noncontrolling interests in Operating Partnership

92,422

91,453

Other noncontrolling interests


1,025

Total noncontrolling interests and equity

1,911,983

1,931,895

Total liabilities, noncontrolling interests and equity

$

4,402,107

$

3,977,140

See accompanying notes.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Operations

(dollars in thousands, except share data)

For the Year Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Property rental

$

559,868

$

446,682

$

346,874

Tenant reinsurance

59,072

47,317

36,816

Management fees

28,215

26,614

25,706

Total revenues

647,155

520,613

409,396

Expenses:

Property operations

172,416

140,012

114,028

Tenant reinsurance

10,427

9,022

7,869

Acquisition related costs

9,826

8,618

5,351

General and administrative

60,942

54,246

50,454

Depreciation and amortization

115,076

95,232

74,453

Total expenses

368,687

307,130

252,155

Income from operations

278,468

213,483

157,241

Gain (loss) on sale of real estate and earnout from prior acquisitions

(10,285

)


—

Property casualty loss, net

(1,724

)

—

—

Loss on extinguishment of debt related to portfolio acquisition

—

(9,153

)

—

Interest expense

(81,330

)

(71,630

)

(71,850

)

Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of discount on equity component of exchangeable senior notes

(2,683

)

(1,404

)

(444

)

Interest income

1,607


1,816

Interest income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

4,850

4,850

4,850

Income before equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate ventures and income tax expense

188,903

137,855

91,613

Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate ventures

10,541

11,653

10,859

Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate ventures—gain on sale of real estate assets and purchase of joint venture
partners’ interests

4,022

46,032

30,630

Income tax expense

(7,570

)

(9,984

)

(5,413

)

Net income

195,896

185,556

127,689

Net income allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests

(10,991

)

(8,006

)

(6,876

)

Net income allocated to Operating Partnership and other noncontrolling interests

(6,550

)

(5,474

)

(3,504

)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

178,355

$

172,076

$

117,309

Earnings per common share

Basic

$

1.54

$

1.54

$

1.15

Diluted

$

1.53

$

1.53

$

1.14

Weighted average number of shares

Basic

115,713,807

111,349,361

101,766,385

Diluted

121,435,267

113,105,094

103,767,365

See accompanying notes.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income

(dollars in thousands)

For the Year Ended December 31,




Net income

$

195,896

$

185,556

$

127,689

Other comprehensive income (loss):

Change in fair value of interest rate swaps

(12,061

)

25,335

(6,587

)

Total comprehensive income

183,835

210,891

121,102

Less: comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests

17,120

14,386

10,130

Comprehensive income attributable to common stockholders

$

166,715

$

196,505

$

110,972

See accompanying notes



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity

(dollars in thousands, except share data)

Noncontrolling Interests

Extra Space Storage Inc. Stockholders’ Equity

Preferred Operating Partnership

Operating

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Accumulated

Total

Noncontrolling

Interests and

Series A

Series B

Series C

Series D

Partnership

Other

Shares

Par Value

Paid-in Capital

Income

Deficit

Equity

Balances at December 31, 2011

$

29,695

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

24,018

$

1,101

94,783,590

$


$

1,290,021

$

(7,936

)

$

(264,086

)

$

1,073,761

Issuance of common stock upon the exercise of options

—

—

—

—

—

—

768,853


10,260

—

—

10,267

Restricted stock grants issued

—

—

—

—

—

—

182,052


—

—

—


Restricted stock grants cancelled

—

—

—

—

—

—

(16,792

)

—

—

—

—

—

Issuance of common stock, net of offering costs

—

—

—

—

—

—

14,030,000


429,448

—

—

429,588

Issuance of common stock related to settlement of exchangeable senior notes

—

—

—

—

—

—

684,685


—

—

—


Compensation expense related to stock-based awards

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

4,356

—

—

4,356

New issuance of Operating Partnership units

—

—

—

—


—

—

—

—

—

—


Redemption of Operating Partnership units for common stock

—

—

—

—

(2,479

)

—

304,817


2,476

—

—

—

Redemption of Operating Partnership units for cash

—

—

—

—

(155

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(155

)

Net income

6,876

—

—

—

3,473


—

—

—

—

117,309

127,689

Other comprehensive loss

(61

)

—

—

—

(189

)

—

—

—

—

(6,337

)

—

(6,587

)

Tax effect from vesting of restricted stock grants and stock option exercises

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

3,476

—

—

3,476

Distributions to Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interests

(6,592

)

—

—

—

(2,605

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(9,197

)

Distributions to other noncontrolling interests

—

—

—

—

—

(18

)

—

—

—

—

—

(18

)

Dividends paid on common stock at $0.85 per share

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(88,287

)

(88,287

)

Balances at December 31, 2012

$

29,918

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

22,492

$

1,114

110,737,205

$

1,107

$

1,740,037

$

(14,273

)

$

(235,064

)

$

1,545,331



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity

(dollars in thousands, except share data)

Noncontrolling Interests

Extra Space Storage Inc. Stockholders’ Equity

Preferred Operating Partnership

Operating

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Accumulated

Total

Noncontrolling

Interests and

Series A

Series B

Series C

Series D

Partnership

Other

Shares

Par Value

Paid-in Capital

Income

Deficit

Equity

Issuance of common stock upon the exercise of options

—

—

—

—

—

—

391,543


5,892

—

—

5,896

Restricted stock grants issued

—

—

—

—

—

—

137,602


—

—

—


Restricted stock grants cancelled

—

—

—

—

—

—

(23,323

)

—

—

—

—

—

Issuance of common stock, net of offering costs

—

—

—

—

—

—

4,500,000


205,943

—

—

205,988

Compensation expense related to stock-based awards

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

4,819

—

—

4,819

Purchase of additional equity interests in existing consolidated joint ventures

—

—

—

—

—

(1,008

)

—

—

(1,481

)

—

—

(2,489

)

Noncontrolling interest related to consolidated joint venture

—

—

—

—

—


—

—

—

—

—


Issuance of exchangeable senior notes—equity component

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

14,496

—

—

14,496

Issuance of Operating Partnership units in conjunction with store acquisitions

—

33,568

17,177

—

68,471

—

—

—

—

—

—

119,216

Redemption of Operating Partnership units for common stock

—

—

—

—

(260

)

—

12,500

—


—

—

—

Redemption of Operating Partnership units for cash

—

—

—

—

(41

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(41

)

Net income

7,255



—

5,425


—

—

—

—

172,076

185,556

Other comprehensive income


—

—

—


—

—

—

—

24,429

—

25,335

Tax effect from vesting of restricted stock grants and stock option exercises

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

3,193

—

—

3,193

Distributions to Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interests

(7,185

)

(673

)

(78

)

—

(5,326

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(13,262

)

Distributions to other noncontrolling interests

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Dividends paid on common stock at $1.45 per share

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(163,014

)

(163,014

)

Balances at December 31, 2013

$

30,202

$

33,568

$

17,177

$

—

$

91,453

$

1,025

115,755,527

$

1,157

$

1,973,159

$

10,156

$

(226,002

)

$

1,931,895



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity

(dollars in thousands, except share data)

Noncontrolling Interests

Extra Space Storage Inc. Stockholders’ Equity

Preferred Operating Partnership

Operating

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Accumulated

Total

Noncontrolling

Interests and

Series A

Series B

Series C

Series D

Partnership

Other

Shares

Par Value

Paid-in Capital

Income

Deficit

Equity

Issuance of common stock upon the exercise of options

—

—

—

—

—

—

211,747


3,093

—

—

3,095

Restricted stock grants issued

—

—

—

—

—

—

117,370


—

—

—


Restricted stock grants cancelled

—

—

—

—

—

—

(23,595

)

—

—

—

—

—

Compensation expense related to stock-based awards

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

4,984

—

—

4,984

Issuance of Operating Partnership units in conjunction with store acquisitions

—

8,334

13,783

13,710

2,982

—

—

—

—

—

—

38,809

Redemption of Operating Partnership units for common stock

(10,240

)

—

—

—

(398

)

—

299,190


10,635

—

—

—

Redemption of Operating Partnership units for cash

(4,794

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(4,794

)

Issuance of note receivable to Series C unit holders

—

—

(20,230

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(20,230

)

Net income

7,036

2,387

1,551


6,538


—

—

—

—

178,355

195,896

Other comprehensive income

(74

)

—

—

—

(347

)

—

—

—

—

(11,640

)

—

(12,061

)

Tax effect from vesting of restricted stock grants and stock option exercises

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

3,613

—

—

3,613

Distributions to Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interests

(7,321

)

(2,386

)

(1,551

)

(17

)

(7,806

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(19,081

)

Distributions to other noncontrolling interests

—

—

—

—

—

(53

)

—

—

—

—

—

(53

)

Dividends paid on common stock at $1.81 per share

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(210,091

)

(210,091

)

Balances at December 31, 2014

$

14,809

$

41,903

$

10,730

$

13,710

$

92,422

$


116,360,239

$

1,163

$

1,995,484

$

(1,484

)

$

(257,738

)

$

1,911,983

See accompanying notes.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

(dollars in thousands)

For the Year Ended December 31,




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

195,896

$

185,556

$

127,689

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

115,076

95,232

74,453

Amortization of deferred financing costs

6,592

5,997

5,889

Loss on earnout related to prior acquisition

2,500

—

—

Property casualty loss

1,724

—

—

Loss on extinguishment of debt related to portfolio acquisition

—

9,153

—

Gain on sale of real estate assets

—

(960

)

—

Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of discount on equity component of exchangeable senior notes

2,683

1,404


Non-cash interest benefit related to amortization of premium on notes payable

(3,079

)

(1,194

)

(1,270

)

Compensation expense related to stock-based awards

4,984

4,819

4,356

Gain on purchase of joint venture partners’ interests

(3,438

)

(46,032

)

(23,670

)

Distributions from unconsolidated real estate ventures in excess of earnings

4,510

4,838

2,581

Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

Receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures


1,277

7,439

Other assets

(1,498

)

8,725

8,746

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

4,920

8,302

7,220

Other liabilities

6,640

(5,858

)

2,002

Net cash provided by operating activities

337,581

271,259

215,879

Cash flows from investing activities:

Acquisition of real estate assets

(503,538

)

(349,959

)

(601,727

)

Development and redevelopment of real estate assets

(23,528

)

(6,466

)

(3,759

)

Proceeds from sale of real estate assets

—

6,964

—

Investments in unconsolidated real estate ventures

—

(1,516

)

(1,423

)

Return of investment in unconsolidated real estate ventures

—

—

2,421

Change in restricted cash

(3,794

)

(4,475

)

8,792

Issuance of notes receivable

(29,258

)

(5,000

)

(7,875

)

Purchase of equipment and fixtures

(4,830

)

(6,524

)

(3,367

)

Net cash used in investing activities

(564,948

)

(366,976

)

(606,938

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from the sale of common stock, net of offering costs

—

205,988

429,588

Net proceeds from the issuance of exchangeable senior notes

—

246,250

—

Proceeds from notes payable and lines of credit

917,664

582,185

1,074,263

Principal payments on notes payable and lines of credit

(533,128

)

(664,372

)

(921,831

)

Deferred financing costs

(5,305

)

(7,975

)

(11,607

)

Repurchase of exchangeable senior notes

—

—

(87,663

)

Redemption of Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interest

(4,794

)

(41

)

(155

)

Net proceeds from exercise of stock options

3,095

5,896

10,267

Dividends paid on common stock

(210,091

)

(163,014

)

(88,287

)

Distributions to noncontrolling interests

(19,134

)

(13,262

)

(9,215

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

148,307

191,655

395,360

Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents

(79,060

)

95,938

4,301

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the period

126,723

30,785

26,484

Cash and cash equivalents, end of the period

$

47,663

$

126,723

$

30,785

Supplemental schedule of cash flow information

Interest paid

$

75,218

$

66,705

$

65,687

Income taxes paid

3,418

1,916


Supplemental schedule of noncash investing and financing activities:

Redemption of Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interests for common stock

Noncontrolling interests in Operating Partnership

$

10,638

$


$

2,479

Common stock and paid-in capital

(10,638

)

(260

)

(2,479

)

Tax effect from vesting of restricted stock grants and option exercises

Other assets

$

3,613

$

3,193

$

3,476

Paid-in capital

(3,613

)

(3,193

)

(3,476

)

Acquisitions of real estate assets

Real estate assets, net

$

77,156

$

331,230

$

159,297

Notes payable assumed

(38,347

)

(110,803

)

(150,284

)

Notes payable assumed and immediately defeased

—

(98,960

)

—

Notes payable issued to seller

—

—

(8,584

)

Value of Operating Partnership units issued

(38,809

)

(119,216

)

(429

)

Receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures

—

(2,251

)

—

See accompanying notes.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2014

(amounts in thousands, except store and share data)

1.

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Extra Space Storage Inc. (the “Company”) is a fully integrated,

self-administered

and

self-managed

real estate investment trust (“REIT”), formed as a Maryland Corporation on April 30, 2004, to own, operate, manage,
acquire, develop and redevelop professionally managed self-storage properties located throughout the United States. The Company continues the business of Extra Space Storage LLC and its subsidiaries, which had engaged in the

self-storage

business since 1977. The Company’s interest in its stores is held through its operating partnership, Extra Space Storage LP (the “Operating Partnership”), which was formed on
May 5, 2004. The Company’s primary assets are general partner and limited partner interests in the Operating Partnership. This structure is commonly referred to as an umbrella partnership REIT, or UPREIT. The Company has elected to be
taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”). To the extent the Company continues to qualify as a REIT, it will not be subject to tax, with certain limited exceptions, on the taxable
income that is distributed to its stockholders.

The Company invests in stores by acquiring

wholly-owned

stores or by acquiring an equity interest in real estate entities. At December 31, 2014, the Company had direct and indirect equity interests in 828 storage facilities. In addition, the
Company managed 260 stores for third parties bringing the total number of stores which it owns and/or manages to 1,088. These stores are located in 35 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico.

The Company operates in three distinct segments: (1) rental operations; (2) tenant reinsurance; and (3) property management,
acquisition and development. The rental operations activities include rental operations of stores in which we have an ownership interest. No single tenant accounts for more than 5.0% of rental income. Tenant reinsurance activities include the
reinsurance of risks relating to the loss of goods stored by tenants in the Company’s stores. The Company’s property management, acquisition and development activities include managing, acquiring, developing and selling stores.

2.

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Basis of Presentation

The consolidated financial statements are presented on the accrual basis of accounting in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles (“GAAP”) and include the accounts of the Company and its

wholly-

or

majority-owned

subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have
been eliminated in consolidation.

Variable Interest Entities

The Company accounts for arrangements that are not controlled through voting or similar rights as variable interest entities
(“VIEs”). An enterprise is required to consolidate a VIE if it is the primary beneficiary of the VIE. A VIE is created when (i) the equity investment at risk is not sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without
additional subordinated financial support from other parties, or (ii) the entity’s equity holders as a group either: (a) lack the power, through voting or similar rights, to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly
impact the entity’s economic performance, (b) are not obligated to absorb expected losses of the entity if they occur, or (c) do not have the right to receive expected residual returns of the entity if they occur. If an entity is
deemed to be a VIE, the enterprise that is deemed to have a variable interest, or combination of variable interests, that provides the enterprise with a controlling financial interest in the VIE, is considered the primary beneficiary and must
consolidate the VIE.



The Company has concluded that under certain circumstances when the Company (1) enters into
option agreements for the purchase of land or facilities from an entity and pays a

non-refundable

deposit, or (2) enters into arrangements for the formation of joint ventures, a VIE may be created under
condition (i), (ii) (b) or (c) of the previous paragraph. For each VIE created, the Company has performed a qualitative analysis, including considering which party, if any, has the power to direct the activities most significant
to the economic performance of each VIE and whether that party has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could be significant to the VIE. If the Company is determined to be the primary
beneficiary of the VIE, the assets, liabilities and operations of the VIE are consolidated with the Company’s financial statements. Additionally, the Operating Partnership has notes payable to three trusts that are VIEs under
condition (ii)(a) above. Since the Operating Partnership is not the primary beneficiary of the trusts, these VIEs are not consolidated.

The Company’s investments in real estate joint ventures, where the Company has significant influence, but not control, and joint ventures
which are VIEs in which the Company is not the primary beneficiary, are recorded under the equity method of accounting on the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications

Certain amounts in the financial statements and supporting note disclosures have been reclassified to conform to the current year
presentation. Such reclassifications did not impact previously reported net income or accumulated deficit.

Fair Value Disclosures

Derivative financial instruments

Currently, the Company uses interest rate swaps to manage its interest rate risk. The valuation of these instruments is determined using widely
accepted valuation techniques including discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash flows of each derivative. This analysis reflects the contractual terms of the derivatives, including the period to maturity, and uses observable

market-based

inputs, including interest rate curves. The fair values of interest rate swaps are determined using the market standard methodology of netting the discounted future fixed cash payments and the
discounted expected variable cash receipts. The variable cash receipts are based on an expectation of future interest rates (forward curves) derived from observable market interest rate forward curves.

The Company incorporates credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect both its own nonperformance risk and the respective
counterparty’s nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. In adjusting the fair value of its derivative contracts for the effect of nonperformance risk, the Company has considered the impact of netting and any applicable credit
enhancements, such as collateral postings, thresholds, mutual puts, and guarantees. In conjunction with the Financial Accounting Standard Board’s fair value measurement guidance, the Company made an accounting policy election to measure the
credit risk of its derivative financial instruments that are subject to master netting agreements on a net basis by counterparty portfolio.

Although the Company has determined that the majority of the inputs used to value its derivatives fall within Level 2 of the fair value
hierarchy, the credit valuation adjustments associated with its derivatives utilize



Level 3 inputs, such as estimates of current credit spreads to evaluate the likelihood of default by itself and its counterparties. However, as of December 31, 2014, the Company has
assessed the significance of the impact of the credit valuation adjustments on the overall valuation of its derivative positions and has determined that the credit valuation adjustments are not significant to the overall valuation of its
derivatives. As a result, the Company has determined that its derivative valuations in their entirety are classified in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

The table below presents the Company’s assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2014,
aggregated by the level in the fair value hierarchy within which those measurements fall.

Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using

Description

December 31, 2014

Quoted Prices in Active

Markets for Identical

Assets (Level 1)

Significant Other

Observable Inputs

(Level 2)

Significant

Unobservable Inputs

(Level 3)

Other assets—Cash Flow Hedge Swap Agreements

$

3,583

$

—

$

3,583

$

—

Other liabilities—Cash Flow Hedge Swap Agreements

$

(3,533

)

$

—

$

(3,533

)

$

—

There were no transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year ended
December 31, 2014. The Company did not have any significant assets or liabilities that are

re-measured

on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs as of December 31, 2014 or 2013.

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis

Long-lived

assets held for use are evaluated by the Company for impairment when events or circumstances
indicate that there may be impairment. The Company reviews each store at least annually to determine if any such events or circumstances have occurred or exist. The Company focuses on stores where occupancy and/or rental income have decreased by a
significant amount. For these stores, the Company determines whether the decrease is temporary or permanent and whether the store will likely recover the lost occupancy and/or revenue in the short term. In addition, the Company reviews stores in the

lease-up

stage and compares actual operating results to original projections.

When the Company
determines that an event that may indicate impairment has occurred, the Company compares the carrying value of the related

long-lived

assets to the undiscounted future net operating cash flows attributable to
the assets. An impairment loss is recorded if the net carrying value of the assets exceeds the undiscounted future net operating cash flows attributable to the assets. The impairment loss recognized equals the excess of net carrying value over the
related fair value of the assets.

When real estate assets are identified by management as held for sale, the Company discontinues
depreciating the assets and estimates the fair value of the assets, net of selling costs. If the estimated fair value, net of selling costs, of the assets that have been identified for sale is less than the net carrying value of the assets, then a
valuation allowance is established. The operations of assets held for sale or sold during the period are generally presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented.

The Company assesses whether there are any indicators that the value of the Company’s investments in unconsolidated real estate ventures
may be impaired annually and when events or circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. An investment is impaired if management’s estimate of the fair value of the investment is less than its carrying value. To the extent impairment
has occurred, and is considered to be other than temporary, the loss is measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the fair value of the investment.

As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, the Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.



Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, receivables, other financial instruments included in other assets, accounts
payable and accrued expenses,

variable-rate

notes payable, lines of credit and other liabilities reflected in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2014 and 2013, approximate fair value.

The fair values of the Company’s notes receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holders was based on the discounted estimated
future cash flow of the notes (categorized within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy); the discount rate used approximated the current market rate for loans with similar maturities and credit quality. The fair values of the Company’s
fixed rate notes payable and notes payable to trusts were estimated using the discounted estimated future cash payments to be made on such debt (categorized within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy); the discount rates used approximated
current market rates for loans, or groups of loans, with similar maturities and credit quality. The fair value of the Company’s exchangeable senior notes was estimated using an average market price for similar securities obtained from a third
party.

The fair values of the Company’s

fixed-rate

assets and liabilities were as follows
for the periods indicated:

December 31, 2014

December 31, 2013

Fair

Value

Carrying

Value

Fair

Value

Carrying

Value

Notes receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holders

$

126,380

$

120,230

$

103,491

$

100,000

Fixed rate notes payable and notes payable to trusts

$

1,320,370

$

1,283,893

$

1,365,290

$

1,368,885

Exchangeable senior notes

$

276,095

$

250,000

$

251,103

$

250,000

Real Estate Assets

Real estate assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Direct and allowable internal costs associated with the development,
construction, renovation, and improvement of real estate assets are capitalized. Interest, property taxes, and other costs associated with development incurred during the construction period are capitalized. The construction period begins when
expenditures for the real estate assets have been made and activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use are in progress. The construction period ends when the asset is substantially complete and ready for its intended use.

Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Major replacements and betterments that improve or extend
the life of the asset are capitalized and depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Depreciation is computed using the

straight-line

method over the estimated useful lives of the buildings and
improvements, which are generally between five and 39 years.

In connection with the Company’s acquisition of stores, the
purchase price is allocated to the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired based on their fair values, which are estimated using significant unobservable inputs. The value of the tangible assets, consisting of land and buildings, are
determined as if vacant. Intangible assets, which represent the value of existing tenant relationships, are recorded at their fair values based on the avoided cost to replace the current leases. The Company measures the value of tenant relationships
based on the rent lost due to the amount of time required to replace existing customers which is based on the Company’s historical experience with turnover in its facilities. Debt assumed as part of an acquisition is recorded at fair value
based on current interest rates compared to contractual rates.

Acquisition-related

transaction costs are expensed as incurred.

Intangible lease rights represent: (1) purchase price amounts allocated to leases on three stores that cannot be classified as ground or
building leases; these rights are amortized to expense over the life of the leases and (2) intangibles related to ground leases on five stores where the leases were assumed by the Company at rates



that were lower than the current market rates for similar leases. The values associated with these assumed leases were recorded as intangibles, which will be amortized over the lease terms.

Investments in Real Estate Ventures

The
Company’s investments in real estate joint ventures, where the Company has significant influence, but not control and joint ventures which are VIEs in which the Company is not the primary beneficiary, are recorded under the equity method of
accounting in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Under the equity method, the Company’s investment in real estate
ventures is stated at cost and adjusted for the Company’s share of net earnings or losses and reduced by distributions. Equity in earnings of real estate ventures is generally recognized based on the Company’s ownership interest in the
earnings of each of the unconsolidated real estate ventures. For the purposes of presentation in the statement of cash flows, the Company follows the “look through” approach for classification of distributions from joint ventures. Under
this approach, distributions are reported under operating cash flow unless the facts and circumstances of a specific distribution clearly indicate that it is a return of capital (e.g., a liquidating dividend or distribution of the proceeds from
the joint venture’s sale of assets), in which case it is reported as an investing activity.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

The Company’s cash is deposited with financial institutions located throughout the United States and at times may exceed federally insured
limits. The Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments with a maturity date of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Restricted Cash

Restricted cash is comprised of letters of credit and escrowed funds deposited with financial institutions located throughout the
United States relating to earnest money deposits on potential acquisitions, real estate taxes, insurance and capital expenditures.

Other Assets

Other assets consist primarily of equipment and fixtures, deferred financing costs, customer accounts receivable, investments in
trusts, notes receivable, other intangible assets, income taxes receivable, deferred tax assets, prepaid expenses and the fair value of interest rate swaps. Depreciation of equipment and fixtures is computed on a

straight-line

basis over three to five years. Deferred financing costs are amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the terms of the respective debt agreements.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

The Company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on
the intended use of the derivative, whether the Company has elected to designate a derivative in a hedging relationship and apply hedge accounting and whether the hedging relationship has satisfied the criteria necessary to apply hedge accounting.
Derivatives designated and qualifying as a hedge of the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability or firm commitment attributable to a particular risk, such as interest rate risk, are considered fair value hedges. Derivatives
designated and qualifying as a hedge of the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. Hedge accounting generally provides for the matching of the timing of gain
or loss recognition on the hedging instrument with the recognition of the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk in a fair value hedge or the earnings effect of the hedged forecasted
transactions in a cash flow hedge. The Company may enter into derivative contracts that are intended to economically hedge certain of its risk, even though hedge accounting does not apply or the Company elects not to apply hedge accounting.



The Company made an accounting policy election to measure the credit risk of its derivative
financial instruments that are subject to master netting agreements on a net basis by counterparty portfolio.

Risk Management and Use of Financial
Instruments

In the normal course of its ongoing business operations, the Company encounters economic risk. There are three main
components of economic risk: interest rate risk, credit risk and market risk. The Company is subject to interest rate risk on its

interest-bearing

liabilities. Credit risk is the risk of inability or
unwillingness of tenants to make contractually required payments. Market risk is the risk of declines in the value of stores due to changes in rental rates, interest rates or other market factors affecting the value of stores held by the Company.
The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to manage a portion of its interest rate risk.

Exchange of Common Operating Partnership
Units

Redemption of common Operating Partnership units for shares of common stock, when redeemed under the original provisions of the
Operating Partnership agreement, are accounted for by reclassifying the underlying net book value of the units from noncontrolling interest to the Company’s equity. The difference between the fair value of the consideration paid and the
adjustment to the carrying amount of the noncontrolling interest is recognized as additional paid in capital for the Company.

Revenue and Expense
Recognition

Rental revenues are recognized as earned based upon amounts that are currently due from tenants. Leases are generally on

month-to-month

terms. Prepaid rents are recognized on a

straight-line

basis over the term of the leases. Promotional discounts are
recognized as a reduction to rental income over the promotional period. Late charges, administrative fees, merchandise sales and truck rentals are recognized as income when earned. Management fee revenues are recognized monthly as services are
performed and in accordance with the terms of the related management agreements. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate entities is recognized based on our ownership interest in the earnings of each of the unconsolidated real estate
entities. Interest income is recognized as earned.

Property expenses, including utilities, property taxes, repairs and maintenance and
other costs to manage the facilities are recognized as incurred. The Company accrues for property tax expense based upon invoice amounts, estimates and historical trends. If these estimates are incorrect, the timing of expense recognition could be
affected.

Tenant reinsurance premiums are recognized as revenue over the period of insurance coverage. The Company records an unpaid
claims liability at the end of each period based on existing unpaid claims and historical claims payment history. The unpaid claims liability represents an estimate of the ultimate cost to settle all unpaid claims as of each period end, including
both reported but unpaid claims and claims that may have been incurred but have not been reported. The Company uses a third party claims administrator to adjust all tenant reinsurance claims received. The administrator evaluates each claim to
determine the ultimate claim loss and includes an estimate for claims that may have been incurred but not reported. Annually, a third party actuary evaluates the adequacy of the unpaid claims liability. Prior year claim reserves are adjusted as
experience develops or new information becomes known. The impact of such adjustments is included in the current period operations. The unpaid claims liability is not discounted to its present value. Each tenant chooses the amount of insurance
coverage they want through the tenant reinsurance program. Tenants can purchase policies in amounts of two thousand dollars to ten thousand dollars of insurance coverage in exchange for a monthly fee. As of December 31, 2014, the average
insurance coverage for tenants was approximately $2,540. The Company’s exposure per claim is limited by the maximum amount of coverage chosen by each tenant. The Company purchases reinsurance for losses exceeding a set amount for any one event.
The Company does not currently have any amounts recoverable under the reinsurance arrangements.



Real Estate Sales

In general, sales of real estate and related profits/losses are recognized when all consideration has changed hands and risks and rewards of
ownership have been transferred. Certain types of continuing involvement preclude sale treatment and related profit recognition; other forms of continuing involvement allow for sale recognition but require deferral of profit recognition.

Advertising Costs

The Company incurs
advertising costs primarily attributable to internet, directory and other advertising. These costs are expensed as incurred. The Company recognized $8,370, $6,482, and $6,026 in advertising expense for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013
and 2012, respectively.

Income Taxes

The Company has elected to be treated as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. In order to maintain its
qualification as a REIT, among other things, the Company is required to distribute at least 90% of its REIT taxable income to its stockholders and meet certain tests regarding the nature of its income and assets. As a REIT, the Company is not
subject to federal income tax with respect to that portion of its income which meets certain criteria and is distributed annually to stockholders. The Company plans to continue to operate so that it meets the requirements for taxation as a REIT.
Many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. If the Company were to fail to meet these requirements, it would be subject to federal income tax. The Company is subject to certain state and local taxes. Provision for such
taxes has been included in income tax expense on the Company’s consolidated statements of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2014, 0.0% (unaudited) of all distributions to stockholders qualified as a return of capital.

The Company has elected to treat its corporate subsidiary, Extra Space Management, Inc. (“ESMI”), as a taxable REIT subsidiary
(“TRS”). In general, the Company’s TRS may perform additional services for tenants and may engage in any real estate or

non-real

estate related business. A TRS is subject to corporate federal
income tax. ESM Reinsurance Limited, a

wholly-owned

subsidiary of ESMI, generates income from insurance premiums that are subject to corporate federal income tax and state insurance premiums tax.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities.
At December 31, 2014 and 2013, there were no material unrecognized tax benefits. Interest and penalties relating to uncertain tax positions will be recognized in income tax expense when incurred. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, the
Company had no interest or penalties related to uncertain tax provisions.

Stock-Based

Compensation

The measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all

share-based

payment awards to employees
and directors are based on estimated fair values. Awards granted are valued at fair value and any compensation element is recognized on a straight line basis over the service periods of each award.

Earnings Per Common Share

Basic earnings
per common share is computed using the two-class method by dividing net income attributable to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. All outstanding unvested restricted stock awards
contain rights to non-forfeitable dividends and participate in undistributed earnings with common stockholders; accordingly, they are considered participating securities that are included in the two-class method. Diluted earnings per common share
measures the performance of the Company over the reporting period while giving effect to all potential common shares that were dilutive and outstanding during the period. The denominator includes the weighted average number of basic shares and the
number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potential common



shares that were dilutive had been issued, and is calculated using either the two-class, treasury stock or as if-converted method, whichever is most dilutive. Potential common shares are
securities (such as options, convertible debt, Series A Participating Redeemable Preferred Units (“Series A Units”), Series B Redeemable Preferred Units (“Series B Units”), Series C Convertible Redeemable Preferred Units
(“Series C Units”), Series D Redeemable Preferred Units (“Series D Units”) and common Operating Partnership units (“OP Units”)) that do not have a current right to participate in earnings of the Company but could do so
in the future by virtue of their option, redemption or conversion right.

In computing the dilutive effect of convertible securities, net
income is adjusted to add back any changes in earnings in the period associated with the convertible security. The numerator also is adjusted for the effects of any other non-discretionary changes in income or loss that would result from the assumed
conversion of those potential common shares. In computing diluted earnings per common share, only potential common shares that are dilutive (those that reduce earnings per common share) are included. For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013
and 2012, options to purchase approximately 27,374 shares, 44,958 shares and 57,335 shares of common stock, respectively, were excluded from the computation of earnings per share as their effect would have been

anti-dilutive.

As of December 31, 2014, 764,385 Series B Units, 489,366 Series C Units and 6,492 Series D Units were excluded from the computation of earnings per share as their effect would
have been

anti-dilutive.

As of December 31, 2013, 3,334,956 OP Units, 257,266 Series B Units and 33,302 Series C Units were excluded from the computation of earnings per share as their effect would have
been anti-dilutive. As of December 31, 2012, 2,755,650 OP Units were excluded from the computation of earnings per share as their effect would have been

anti-dilutive.

The Company’s Operating Partnership had $250,000 of its 2.375% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2033 (the “Notes due 2033”) issued
and outstanding as of December 31, 2014. The Notes due 2033 could potentially have a dilutive impact on the Company’s earnings per share calculations. The Notes due 2033 are exchangeable by holders into shares of the Company’s common
stock under certain circumstances per the terms of the indenture governing the Notes due 2033. The exchange price of the Notes due 2033 was $55.62 per share as of December 31, 2014, and could change over time as described in the indenture. The
Company has irrevocably agreed to pay only cash for the accreted principal amount of the Notes due 2033 relative to its exchange obligations, but retained the right to satisfy the exchange obligation in excess of the accreted principal amount in
cash and/or common stock. Though the Company has retained that right, Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 260,

“Earnings per Share,”

requires an assumption that shares would be used to pay the exchange obligation in
excess of the accreted principal amount, and requires that those shares be included in the Company’s calculation of weighted average common shares outstanding for the diluted earnings per share computation. For the year ended December 31,
2014, 130,883 shares related to the Notes due 2033 were included in the computation for diluted earnings per share. For the year ended December 31, 2013, no shares related to the Notes due 2033 were included in the computation for diluted
earnings per share as the exchange price exceeded the per share price of the Company’s common stock during this period.

For the
purposes of computing the diluted impact on earnings per share of the potential exchange of Series A Units for common shares upon redemption, where the Company has the option to redeem in cash or shares and where the Company has stated the
positive intent and ability to settle at least $115,000 of the instrument in cash (or net settle a portion of the Series A Units against the related outstanding note receivable), only the amount of the instrument in excess of $115,000 is
considered in the calculation of shares contingently issuable for the purposes of computing diluted earnings per share as allowed by ASC

260-10-45-46.

For
the purposes of computing the diluted impact on earnings per share of the potential exchange of Series B Units for common shares upon redemption, where the Company has the option to redeem in cash or shares and where the Company has stated the
intent and ability to settle the redemption in shares, the Company divided the total value of the Series B Units outstanding as of December 31, 2014 of $41,902 by the closing price of the Company’s common stock as of December 31,
2014 of $58.64 per share. Assuming full exchange for common shares as of December 31, 2014, 714,566 shares would have been issued to the holders of the Series B Units.



For the purposes of computing the diluted impact on earnings per share of the potential exchange
of Series C Units into common shares upon redemption, where the Company has the option to redeem in cash or shares and where the Company has stated the intent and ability to settle the redemption in shares, the Company divided the total value
of the Series C Units outstanding as of December 31, 2014 of $29,639 by the closing price of the Company’s common stock as of December 31, 2014 of $58.64 per share. Assuming full exchange for common shares as of December 31,
2014, 505,441 shares would have been issued to the holders of the Series C Units.

For the purposes of computing the diluted impact
on earnings per share of the potential exchange of Series D Units into common shares upon redemption, where the Company has the option to redeem in cash or shares and where the Company has stated the intent and ability to settle the redemption in
shares, the Company divided the total value of the Series D Units outstanding as of December 31, 2014 of $13,710 by the closing price of the Company’s common stock as of December 31, 2014 of $58.64 per share. Assuming full exchange
for common shares as of December 31, 2014, 233,795 shares would have been issued to the holders of Series D Units.

The computation
of earnings per share is as follows for the periods presented:

For the Year Ended December 31,




Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

178,355

$

172,076

$

117,309

Earnings and dividends allocated to participating securities

(490

)

(567

)

(279

)

Earnings for basic computations

177,865

171,509

117,030

Earnings and dividends allocated to participating securities

—



Income allocated to noncontrolling interest—Preferred Operating Partnership (Series A Units) and Operating Partnership

13,575

7,255

6,876

Fixed component of income allocated to noncontrolling interest—Preferred Operating Partnership (Series A Units)

(5,586

)

(5,750

)

(5,750

)

Net income for diluted computations

$

185,854

$

173,581

$

118,435

Weighted average common shares outstanding:

Average number of common shares outstanding—basic

115,713,807

111,349,361

101,766,385

Series A Units

961,747

989,980

989,980

OP Units

4,335,837

—

—

Unvested restricted stock awards included for treasury stock method

—

425,705

523,815

Shares related to exchangeable senior notes and dilutive stock options

423,876

340,048

487,185

Average number of common shares outstanding—diluted

121,435,267

113,105,094

103,767,365

Earnings per common share

Basic

$

1.54

$

1.54

$

1.15

Diluted

$

1.53

$

1.53

$

1.14

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update 2014-09,

“Revenues from Contracts with Customers”

(“ASU 2014-09”). ASU 2014-09 amends the guidance for revenue recognition to replace numerous, industry-specific requirements and converges areas under this topic with those of the International Financial Reporting Standards. ASU
2014-09 outlines a five-step process for customer contract revenue recognition that focuses on transfer of control, as opposed to transfer of risk and rewards. The amendment also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and
uncertainty of revenues



and cash flows from contracts with customers. ASU 2014-09 is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and early adoption is prohibited. Entities can transition to
the standard either retrospectively or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. Management is currently assessing the impact of the adoption of ASU 2014-09 on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

3.

REAL ESTATE ASSETS

The components of real estate assets are summarized as follows:

December 31, 2014

December 31, 2013

Land—operating

$

1,132,175

$

1,009,500

Land—development

21,062

10,421

Buildings and improvements

3,487,935

3,032,218

Intangible assets—tenant relationships

72,293

65,811

Intangible lease rights

8,697

8,698

4,722,162

4,126,648

Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization

(604,336

)

(496,754

)

Net operating real estate assets

4,117,826

3,629,894

Real estate under development/redevelopment

17,870

6,650

Net real estate assets

$

4,135,696

$

3,636,544

Real estate assets held for sale included in net real estate assets

$

—

$

5,625

The Company amortizes to expense intangible assets—tenant relationships on a

straight-line

basis over the average period that a tenant is expected to utilize the facility (currently estimated at 18 months). The Company amortizes to expense the intangible lease rights over the terms of
the related leases. Amortization related to the tenant relationships and lease rights was $12,996, $12,065 and $7,177, for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The remaining balance of the unamortized lease rights
will be amortized over the next 4 to 47 years.



4.

PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS

The following table shows the Company’s acquisition of operating stores for the years ended December 31, 2014 and
2013, and does not include purchases of raw land or improvements made to existing assets:

Consideration Paid

Acquisition Date Fair Value

Property Location

Number

of

Stores

Date of

Acquisition

Total

Cash

Paid

Loan

Assumed

Non-cash

gain

Notes

Issued

to/

from

Seller

Previous

equity

interest

Net

Liabilities/

(Assets)

Assumed

Value of

OP Units

Issued

Number

of OP

Units

Issued

Land

Building

Intangible

Closing

costs -

expensed (1)

Notes

Florida


12/23/2014

$

32,954

$

19,122

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$


$

13,710

548,390

$

12,502

$

19,640

$


$


New Jersey, Virginia


12/18/2014

47,747

42,167

—

—

—

—

5,580

—

—

4,259

42,440



(2

)

New York


12/11/2014

20,115

20,125

—

—

—

—

(10

)

—

—

12,085

7,665

—


(3

)

North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas


12/11/2014

60,279

60,086

—

—

—

—


—

—

19,661

36,339


3,403

(4

)

California


12/9/2014

9,298

6,300

—

—

—

—


2,983

50,620

4,508

4,599



Colorado


10/24/2014

6,253

6,202

—

—

—

—


—

—

2,077

4,087



Georgia


10/22/2014

11,030

11,010

—

—

—

—


—

—


10,295



Florida


9/3/2014

4,259

4,225

—

—

—

—


—

—


3,604



Texas


8/8/2014

11,246

6,134

5,157

—

—

—

(45

)

—

—

1,047

9,969



Georgia


8/6/2014

11,337

11,290

—

—

—

—


—

—

1,132

10,080



North Carolina


6/18/2014

7,310

7,307

—

—

—

—


—

—

2,940

4,265



California


5/28/2014

17,614


14,079

—

—

—

(92

)

3,333

69,735

4,707

12,604



Washington


4/30/2014

4,388

4,388

—

—

—

—

—

—

—


3,808



California


4/25/2014

35,275

2,726

19,111

3,438

—


(580

)

10,451

226,285

6,853

27,666



(5

)

Florida


4/15/2014

10,186

10,077

—

—

—

—


—

—

1,640

8,358



Georgia


4/3/2014

23,649

15,158

—

—

—

—


8,334

333,360

2,961

19,819



Alabama


3/20/2014

13,813

13,752

—

—

—

—


—

—

2,381

11,224



Connecticut


3/17/2014

15,138

15,169

—

—

—

—

(31

)

—

—

1,072

14,028

—


California


3/4/2014

7,000

6,974

—

—

—

—


—

—

2,150

4,734



(6

)

Texas


2/5/2014

14,191

14,152

—

—

—

—


—

—

1,767

12,368



Virginia


1/7/2014

200,588

200,525

—

—

—

—


—

—

53,878

142,840

2,973


2014 Totals


$

563,670

$

477,183

$

38,347

$

3,438

$

—

$


$

5,762

$

38,811

1,228,390

$

139,174

$

410,432

$

7,554

$

6,510

Texas


12/9/2013

$

4,616

$

4,610

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$


$

—

—

$

2,033

$

2,495

$


$


Hawaii


12/6/2013

8,029

7,987

—

—

—

—


—

—

—

7,776



California


12/3/2013

24,334

16,588

—

4,208

—

(1,263

)


4,734

112,446

6,061

15,402


2,479

(7

)

California


12/2/2013

48,514

26,114

4,342

5,131

—



12,443

295,550

8,859

38,347



(7

)

Florida


11/8/2013

27,547

27,572

—

—

—

—

(25

)

—

—

3,909

23,221



Florida


11/7/2013

10,500

10,460

—

—

—

—


—

—

2,108

8,028



Various states


11/4/2013

96,711

98,424

—

—

—

—

(1,713

)

—

—

24,248

70,160

1,874


Various states


11/1/2013

187,825

43,475

99,339

34,137

—

12,373

(1,499

)

—

—

85,123

99,500

3,203


(8

)

Georgia


10/15/2013

12,414

12,382

—

—

—

—


—

—

1,773

10,456



North Carolina


10/15/2013

5,535

5,519

—

—

—

—


—

—

3,614

1,788



California


9/26/2013

10,928

4,791

—

—

—

—


6,086

177,107

3,138

7,429



(9

)

California


8/29/2013

186,427

96,085

—

—

—

—


89,823

2,613,728

100,446

81,830

2,997

1,154

(9

)

Arizona


7/25/2013

9,313

9,183

—

—

—

—


—

—

2,001

7,110



Maryland


6/10/2013

13,688


7,122

—

—

—


6,130

143,860

2,160

11,340

—


Texas


5/8/2013

7,104

7,057

—

—

—

—


—

—

1,374

5,636



Hawaii


5/3/2013

27,560

27,491

—

—

—

—


—

—

5,991

20,976



Illinois


2/13/2013

11,083

7,592

—


2,251

1,173

(274

)

—

—

1,318

9,485



Maryland


2/13/2013

12,321

8,029

—

2,215

—

2,273

(196

)

—

—

1,266

10,789



2013 Totals


$

704,449

$

413,778

$

110,803

$

46,032

$

2,251

$

14,867

$

(2,498

)

$

119,216

3,342,691

$

255,422

$

431,768

$

11,800

$

5,461



(1)

This column represents costs paid at closing. The amounts shown exclude other acquisition costs paid before or after the closing date.

(2)

Included in Net Liabilities/(Assets) Assumed is a $5,400 liability related to an earnout provision.

(3)

This represents the acquisition of a non-operating property that the Company plans to convert to a self-storage store.

(4)

Included in closing costs is approximately $3,271 of defeasance costs.

(5)

The Company previously held no equity interest in two of the three properties acquired. The Company acquired its joint venture partner’s 60% interest in an existing joint venture which held one property in
California, resulting in full ownership by the Company. Prior to the acquisition date, the Company accounted for its 40% interest in this joint venture as an equity method investment. The total acquisition date fair value of the previous equity
interest was approximately $3,567 and is included as consideration transferred. The Company recognized a non-cash gain of $3,438 as a result of remeasuring its prior equity interest in this joint venture held before the acquisition. The three
properties were acquired in exchange for approximately $2,726 of cash and 226,285 Series C Units valued at $10,451.

(6)

This property was owned by Spencer F. Kirk, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, and Kenneth M. Woolley, the Company’s Executive Chairman. The Company acquired the building on March 4, 2014. In a
separate transaction on March 5, 2014, the Company acquired the land for $2,150 from a third party unrelated to the Company’s executives and terminated the existing ground lease.

(7)

This represents the acquisition of eight properties. The Company previously held no equity interest in three of the properties. For the remaining five, the Company acquired its joint venture partners’ 65% interests
in five joint ventures, each of which held one property in California, resulting in full ownership by the Company. Prior to the acquisition date the Company accounted for its 35% interests in these joint ventures as equity-method investments. The
total acquisition date fair value of the previous equity interests was approximately $8,400 and is included as consideration transferred. The Company recognized non-cash gains of $9,339 as a result of re-measuring its prior equity interests in these
joint ventures held before the acquisition. The eight were acquired in exchange for approximately $42,702 of cash and 407,996 Series C Units valued at $17,177.

(8)

This represents the acquisition of a joint venture partner’s 49% interest in HSRE-ESP IA, LLC (“HSRE”), an existing joint venture, for $43,475 in cash and the assumption of a $96,516 loan. The result of
this acquisition is that the Company owns a 99% interest in HSRE. The joint venture partner retained a 1% interest, which is included in other noncontrolling interests on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. HSRE owns 19 properties in
California, Florida, Nevada, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. prior to the acquisition date, the Company accounted for its 50% interest in the joint venture as an equity-method investment. The acquisition date fair value of the
previous equity interest was approximately $43,500 which was calculated based on the fair value of the assets in the joint venture, and is included as consideration transferred. The Company recognized a non-cash gain of $34,137 as a result of
re-measuring its prior equity interest in HSRE held before the acquisition.

The properties are now consolidated as the
Company owns the majority interest in the joint venture. A premium of $2,823 on the debt assumed was recorded in order to record the loan at fair value on the date of purchase. This premium is included in premiums on notes payable in the
consolidated balance sheets and will be amortized to interest expense over the remaining term of the loan.

(9)

On August 29, 2013, the Operating Partnership completed the purchase of 19 out of 20 self-storage facilities affiliated with All Aboard Mini Storage, all of which are located in California. On September 26,
2013, the Operating Partnership completed the purchase of the remaining facility. These properties were acquired in exchange for $100,876 in cash (including $98,960 of debt assumed and immediately defeased at closing), 1,342,727 Series B Units
valued at $33,568 and 1,448,108 common OP Units valued at $62,341. In accordance with ASC 805, “Business Combinations,” the assumed debt was recorded at its fair value as of the closing date. The difference between the price paid to
extinguish the debt, which included $9,153 of defeasance costs, and the carrying value of the debt was recorded as loss on extinguishment of debt related to portfolio acquisition on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations.

On December 11, 2013, the Company sold 50% of its ownership in a parcel of undeveloped land held for sale located in
California for $2,025. The buyer holds their 50% interest as a tenant in common. No gain or loss was recorded as a result of the sale. As the Company’s interest is now held as a tenant in common, the value of the land was reclassified from land
to investment in unconsolidated real estate ventures on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets.

On December 6, 2013, the
Company sold a store located in Florida for $3,250 in cash. As a result of this transaction, a gain of $160 was recorded.

In June 2013,
the Company recorded a gain of $800 due to the condemnation of a portion of land at one store in California that resulted from eminent domain.

On May 16, 2013, the Company sold a store located in New York for $950. No gain or loss was recorded as a result of the sale.

On July 31, 2012, the Company acquired the land it had previously been leasing associated with a store in Bethesda, Maryland for a cash
payment of $3,671.



As noted above, during the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company acquired 51 operating
stores. The following pro forma financial information includes 39 of the 51 operating stores acquired. Twelve stores were excluded as it was impractical to obtain the historical information from the previous owners and in total they represent an
immaterial amount of total revenues.

The pro forma information is based on the combined historical financial statements of the Company
and 39 of the stores acquired, and presents the Company’s results as if the acquisitions had occurred as of January 1, 2013:

For the Year Ended December 31,



Total revenues

$

659,804

$

550,687

Net income attributable to common stockholders

183,643

179,792

Earnings per common share

Basic

$

1.58

$

1.61

Diluted

$

1.57

$

1.60

The following table summarizes the revenues and earnings related to the acquisitions since the acquisition
dates, included in the consolidated income statement for the year ended December 31, 2014:

For the

Year Ended

December 31, 2014

Total revenues

$

25,783

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

6,671

Losses on Earnouts from Prior Acquisitions

During 2012, the Company acquired a portfolio of ten stores located in New Jersey and New York. As part of this acquisition, the Company agreed
to make an additional cash payment to the sellers if the acquired stores exceeded a specified amount of net rental income two years after the acquisition date. At the acquisition date, the Company believed that it was unlikely that any significant
payment would be made as a result of this earnout provision. The rental growth of the stores was significantly higher than expected, resulting in a payment to the sellers of $7,785. This amount is included in gain (loss) on sale of real estate and
earnout from prior acquisitions on the Company’s consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014.

During
2011, the Company acquired a store located in Florida. As part of this acquisition, the Company agreed to make an additional cash payment to the sellers if the acquired store exceeded a specified amount of net rental income for any twelve-month
period prior to June 30, 2015. At the acquisition date, $133 was recorded as the estimated amount that would be due, and the Company believed that it was unlikely that any significant additional payment would be made as a result of this earnout
provision. Because the rental growth of the stores is trending significantly higher than expected, the Company estimated that an additional earnout payment of $2,500 will be due to the seller. This amount is included in gain (loss) on sale of real
estate and earnout from prior acquisitions on the Company’s consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014.



5.

INVESTMENTS IN UNCONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE VENTURES

Investments in unconsolidated real estate ventures consist of the following:

Equity

Ownership %

Excess Profit

Participation %

Investment Balance at December 31,



Extra Space West One LLC (“ESW”)

5%

40%

$

(95

)

$


Extra Space West Two LLC (“ESW II”)

5%

40%

4,197

4,286

Extra Space Northern Properties Six LLC (“ESNPS”)

10%

35%

(87

)


Extra Space of Santa Monica LLC (“ESSM”)

48%

48%

1,153

2,541

Clarendon Storage Associates Limited Partnership (“Clarendon”)

50%

50%

3,148

3,155

PRISA Self Storage LLC (“PRISA”)

2%

17%

10,520

10,737

PRISA II Self Storage LLC (“PRISA II”)

2%

17%

9,008

9,143

VRS Self Storage LLC (“VRS”)

45%

54%

40,363

41,810

WCOT Self Storage LLC (“WCOT”)

5%

20%

3,972

4,145

Storage Portfolio I LLC (“SP I”)

25%

25-40%

12,042

12,343

Other minority owned properties

18-50%

19-50%

1,490

(436

)

$

85,711

$

88,125

In these joint ventures, the Company and the joint venture partner generally receive a preferred return on
their invested capital. To the extent that cash/profits in excess of these preferred returns are generated through operations or capital transactions, the Company would receive a higher percentage of the excess cash/profits than its equity interest.

In accordance with ASC 810, the Company reviews all of its joint venture relationships quarterly to ensure that there are no entities
that require consolidation. As of December 31, 2014, there were no previously unconsolidated entities that were required to be consolidated as a result of this review.

Between December 2013 and May 2014, the Company acquired twelve stores located in California from entities associated with Grupe Properties
Co. Inc. (“Grupe.”) As part of the Grupe acquisition, the Company acquired its joint venture partners’ 60% to 65% equity interests in six stores. The Company previously held the remaining 35% to 40% interests in these stores through
six separate joint ventures with Grupe. Prior to the acquisition, the Company accounted for its interests in these joint ventures as equity-method investments. The Company recognized a non-cash gain of $3,438 during the year ended December 31,
2014 as a result of re-measuring the fair value of its equity interest in one of these joint ventures held before the acquisition. During the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company recorded a gain of $584 as a result of the final cash
distributions received from the other five joint ventures associated with the acquisitions that were completed during 2013. The Company recognized non-cash gains of $9,339 during the year ended December 31, 2013 as a result of

re-measuring

its prior equity interests in five joint ventures held before the acquisition.

On
November 1, 2013, the Company acquired its joint venture partner’s 49% interest in

HSRE-ESP

IA, LLC (“HSRE”), an existing joint venture, for $43,475 in cash and the assumption of a
$96,516 loan. The result of this acquisition is that the Company owns a 99% interest in HSRE. The joint venture partner retained a 1% interest, valued at $870, which was recorded at fair value based on the fair value of the assets in the joint
venture and is included in other noncontrolling interests on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. HSRE owns 19 stores in various states. The stores are now consolidated as the Company owns the majority interest in the joint venture. Prior
to the acquisition date, the Company accounted for its 50% interest in the joint venture as an

equity-method

investment. The acquisition date fair value of the previous equity interest was approximately
$43,500, and is included as consideration transferred. The Company recognized a

non-cash

gain of $34,137 as a result of

re-measuring

its prior equity interest in HSRE
held before the acquisition.



On February 13, 2013, the Company acquired its joint venture partner’s 48% equity
interest in Extra Space of Eastern Avenue LLC (“Eastern Avenue”), which owned one store located in Maryland, for approximately $5,979. Prior to the acquisition, the remaining 52% interest was owned by the Company, which accounted for
its investment in Eastern Avenue using the equity method. The Company recorded a

non-cash

gain of $2,215 related to this transaction, which represents the increase in fair value of the Company’s interest
in Eastern Avenue from its formation to the acquisition date.

On February 13, 2013, the Company acquired its joint venture
partner’s 61% equity interest in Extra Space of Montrose Avenue LLC (“Montrose”), which owned one store located in Illinois, for approximately $6,878. Prior to the acquisition, the remaining 39% interest was owned by the Company,
which accounted for its investment in Montrose using the equity method. The Company recorded a

non-cash

gain of $341 related to this transaction, which represents the increase in fair value of the
Company’s interest in the joint venture from its formation to the acquisition date.

On December 20, 2012 two joint ventures in
which the Company held 20% interests each sold their only self-storage stores. Both stores were located in Illinois. As a result of the sale, the joint ventures were dissolved, and the Company received cash proceeds which resulted in a gain of
$1,409.

On November 30, 2012, the Company completed the acquisition of its joint venture partner’s 80% interest in SPB II,
which owned 21 stores located in eleven states. Prior to the acquisition, the remaining 20% interest was owned by the Company, which accounted for its investment in SPB II using the equity method. Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company had full
ownership. GAAP requires an entity that completes a business combination in stages to

re-measure

its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition date fair value and recognize the
resulting gain or loss, if any, in earnings. The Company recorded a gain of $10,171 related to this transaction, which represents the increase in fair value of the Company’s 20% interest in SPB II from the time the Company purchased its
interest in the joint venture to the acquisition date.

On July 2, 2012, the Company completed the acquisition of PREI

®

’s 94.9% interest in PRISA III, which was formed in 2005 and owned 36 stores located in 18 states. Prior to the acquisition, the remaining 5.1% interest was owned by the Company, which
accounted for its investment in PRISA III using the equity method. Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company had full ownership. GAAP requires an entity that completes a business combination in stages to

re-measure

its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition date fair value and recognize the resulting gain or loss, if any, in earnings. The Company recorded a gain of $13,499 related
to this transaction, which represents the increase in fair value of the Company’s 5.1% interest in PRISA III from the formation of the joint venture to the acquisition date.

On February 17, 2012, a joint venture in which the Company held a 40% equity interest sold its only store. The store was located in New
York. As a result of the sale, the joint venture was dissolved, and the Company received cash proceeds which resulted in a gain of $5,550.

On January 15, 2012, the Company sold its 40% equity interest in

U-Storage

de Mexico S.A.
and related entities to its joint venture partners for $4,841. The Company received cash of $1,492 and a note receivable of $3,349. No gain or loss was recorded on the sale. The note receivable was due December 15, 2014, and has been paid in
full.



Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate ventures consists of the following:

For the Year Ended December 31,




Equity in earnings of ESW

$

1,571

$

1,406

$

1,263

Equity in earnings of ESW II




Equity in earnings of ESNPS




Equity in earnings of ESSM




Equity in earnings of Clarendon




Equity in earnings of HSRE-ESP IA, LLC (“HSRE”)

—

1,428

1,298

Equity in earnings of PRISA




Equity in earnings of PRISA II




Equity in earnings of VRS

3,510

3,464

2,849

Equity in earnings of WCOT




Equity in earnings of SP I

1,541

1,243

1,103

Equity in earnings of other minority owned properties



1,319

$

10,541

$

11,653

$

10,859

Equity in earnings of ESW II, SP I and SPB II includes the amortization of the Company’s excess purchase
price of $25,713 of these equity investments over its original basis. The excess basis is amortized over 40 years.

Information (unaudited) related
to the real estate ventures’ debt at December 31, 2014, is presented below:

Loan Amount

Current

Interest Rate

Debt

Maturity

ESNPS—Fixed

$

34,500

5.27

%

June 2015

ESW—Fixed

16,700

5.00

%

September 2015

SP I—Fixed

91,543

4.66

%

April 2018

Clarendon—Swapped to fixed

7,888

5.93

%

September 2018

ESW II—Swapped to fixed

18,924

3.57

%

February 2019

VRS—Swapped to fixed

52,100

3.34

%

July 2019

WCOT—Swapped to fixed

87,500

3.34

%

August 2019

ESSM—Variable

13,878

4.19

%

May 2021

PRISA

—

—

Unleveraged

PRISA II

—

—

Unleveraged

Other minority owned properties

10,296

Various

Various

Combined, condensed unaudited financial information of ESW, ESW II, ESNPS, PRISA, PRISA II,
PRISA III, VRS, WCOT and SP I as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, follows:

December 31,



Balance Sheets:

Assets:

Net real estate assets

$

1,442,755

$

1,474,754

Other

34,636

33,642

$

1,477,391

$

1,508,396

Liabilities and members’ equity:

Notes payable

$

301,267

$

304,121

Other liabilities

23,490

22,488

Members’ equity

1,152,634

1,181,787

$

1,477,391

$

1,508,396



For the Year Ended December 31,



2012 (a)

Statements of Income:

Rents and other income

$

273,231

$

260,487

$

266,222

Expenses

153,973

149,595

164,285

Net income

$

119,258

$

110,892

$

101,937

(a)

The income statement information for the year ended December 31, 2012 includes results from PRISA III and SPB II, which were acquired by the Company during 2012. Balance sheet and income statement information as of
December 31, 2013 and 2014 does not include PRISA III or SPB II.

Variable Interests in Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures:

The Company has an interest in one unconsolidated joint venture with an unrelated third party which is a variable interest entity
(“VIE”). The Company holds an 18% equity interest and a 50% profit interest in the VIE joint venture (“VIE JV”), and has 50% of the voting rights in the VIE JV. Qualification as a VIE was based on the determination that the
equity investment at risk for the joint venture was not sufficient based on a qualitative and quantitative analysis performed by the Company. The Company performed a qualitative analysis for the joint venture to determine which party was the primary
beneficiary of each VIE. The Company determined that since the powers to direct the activities most significant to the economic performance of the entity is shared equally by the Company and its joint venture partner, there is no primary
beneficiary. Accordingly, the interest is recorded using the equity method.

The VIE JV owns a single store. This joint venture is
financed through a combination of (1) equity contributions from the Company and its joint venture partner and (2) amounts payable to the Company. The amounts payable to the Company consist of amounts owed for expenses paid on behalf of the
joint venture by the Company as manager and mortgage notes payable to the Company. The Company performs management services for the VIE JV in exchange for a management fee of approximately 6.0% of cash collected by the store. The Company completed
the purchase of the VIE JV’s mortgage loan on April 3, 2014. The mortgage notes payable were in default as of December 31, 2014. Except as disclosed, the Company has not provided financial or other support during the periods presented
to the VIE JV that it was not previously contractually obligated to provide.

The Company’s maximum exposure to loss for this joint
venture as of December 31, 2014, is the total of the amounts payable to the Company and the Company’s investment balances in the joint venture. The Company believes that the risk of incurring a material loss as a result of having to
perform on the loan guarantee is unlikely and, therefore, no liability has been recorded related to this guarantee. Also, repossessing and/or selling the store and land that collateralize the amounts payable to the Company could provide funds
sufficient to reimburse the Company.

The following table compares the liability balance and the maximum exposure to loss related to the
Company’s VIE JV as of December 31, 2014:

Liability

Balance

Investment

Balance

Amounts

Payable to the

Company

Maximum

Exposure

to Loss

Difference

Extra Space of Sacramento One LLC

$

—

$

(1,264

)

$

10,590

$

9,326

$

(9,326

)

The Company had no consolidated VIEs for the year ended December 31, 2014.



6.

OTHER ASSETS

The components of other assets are summarized as follows:

December 31, 2014

December 31, 2013

Equipment and fixtures

$

24,913

$

21,774

Less: accumulated depreciation

(15,183

)

(12,805

)

Other intangible assets

7,130

6,460

Deferred financing costs, net

21,483

21,881

Prepaid expenses and deposits

8,891

8,355

Receivables, net

31,946

26,278

Notes receivable

9,661

5,747

Investments in Trusts

3,590

3,590

Income taxes receivable

—

1,845

Fair value of interest rate swaps

3,583

13,630

$

96,014

$

96,755

In September 2014, the Company established a credit facility with an existing partner. Under the credit
facility, the Company has agreed to fund a series of loans to a variety of the partner’s subsidiaries, with a total not exceeding $100,000. The loans will be secured by mortgages of stores that are subject to approval by the Company. The loans
are expected to close over the next three years, will bear interest at Libor plus 2.55%, and have terms of five years each. The closing of each loan is intended to be accompanied by a simultaneous put/call option agreement, under which the
partner’s subsidiaries can require the Company to buy the store, and whereby the Company can require the partner’s subsidiaries to sell the stores. No amounts have been drawn on this credit facility as of December 31, 2014.

7.

NOTES PAYABLE

The components of notes payable are summarized as follows:

December 31, 2014

December 31, 2013

Fixed Rate

Mortgage loans with banks (including loans subject to interest rate swaps) bearing interest at fixed rates between 2.8% and 6.7%. The
loans are collateralized by mortgages on real estate assets and the assignment of rents. Principal and interest payments are made monthly with all outstanding principal and interest due between May 2015 and February 2023.

$

1,164,303

$

1,249,295

Variable Rate

Mortgage loans with banks bearing floating interest rates based on LIBOR. Interest rates based on LIBOR are between LIBOR plus 1.65%
(1.82% at December 31, 2014 and 1.97% December 31, 2013) and LIBOR plus 2.0% (2.17% at December 31, 2014 and 2.26% December 31, 2013). The loans are collateralized by mortgages on real estate assets and the assignment of rents. Principal and
interest payments are made monthly with all outstanding principal and interest due between May 2015 and March 2021.

707,764

339,301

$

1,872,067

$

1,588,596



The following table summarizes the scheduled maturities of notes payable at December 31,
2014:


$

251,466


185,732


475,910


127,078


447,012

Thereafter

384,869

$

1,872,067

Certain mortgage and construction loans with variable interest rates are subject to interest rate floors
starting at 1.90%. Real estate assets are pledged as collateral for the notes payable. Of the Company’s $1,872,067 in notes payable outstanding at December 31, 2014, $1,207,817 were recourse due to guarantees or other security provisions.
The Company is subject to certain restrictive covenants relating to the outstanding notes payable. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants at December 31, 2014.

8.

DERIVATIVES

The Company is exposed to certain risk arising from both its business operations and economic conditions. The Company
principally manages its exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks through management of its core business activities. The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate, liquidity, and credit risk primarily by managing
the amount, sources and duration of its debt funding and the use of derivative financial instruments. Specifically, the Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage exposures that arise from business activities that result in the
receipt or payment of future known and uncertain cash amounts, the value of which are determined by interest rates. The Company’s derivative financial instruments are used to manage differences in the amount, timing and duration of the
Company’s known or expected cash receipts and its known or expected cash payments principally related to the Company’s investments and borrowings.

Cash Flow Hedges of Interest Rate Risk

The Company’s objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense and to manage its exposure to
interest rate movements. To accomplish this objective, the Company primarily uses interest rate swaps as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable amounts
from a counterparty in exchange for the Company making

fixed-rate

payments over the life of the agreements without exchange of the underlying notional amount.

The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges is recorded in accumulated
other comprehensive deficit and is subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. A portion of these changes is excluded from accumulated other comprehensive income as it is allocated
to noncontrolling interests. During the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, such derivatives were used to hedge the variable cash flows associated with existing

variable-rate

debt. During 2015,
the Company estimates that an additional $7,417 will be reclassified as an increase to interest expense.

The following table summarizes
the terms of the Company’s 19 derivative financial instruments, which have a total combined notional amount of $717,353, as of December 31, 2014:

Hedge Product

Range of Notional

Amounts

Strike

Effective Dates

Maturity Dates

Swap Agreements

$5,120 – $94,636

2.79% – 5.80%

6/11/2010 – 1/1/2014

6/1/2015 – 4/1/2021



Fair Values of Derivative Instruments

The table below presents the fair value of the Company’s derivative financial instruments as well as their classification on the
consolidated balance sheets:

Asset (Liability) Derivatives

December 31, 2014

December 31, 2013

Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:

Balance Sheet

Location

Fair

Value

Balance Sheet

Location

Fair

Value

Swap Agreements

Other assets

$

3,583

Other assets

$

13,630

Swap Agreements

Other liabilities

$

(3,533

)

Other liabilities

$

(3,684

)

Effect of Derivative Instruments

The tables below present the effect of the Company’s derivative financial instruments on the consolidated statements of operations for the
periods presented. No tax effect has been presented as the derivative instruments are held by the Company:

Type

Classification of

Income (Expense)

For the Year Ended December 31, 2014




Swap Agreements

Interest expense

$

(8,780

)

$

(8,917

)

$

(6,758

)

Gain (loss)

recognized in OCI

Location of amounts

reclassified from OCI

into income

Gain (loss) reclassified

from OCI

Type

December 31, 2014

For the Year Ended

December 31, 2014

Swap Agreements

$

(18,557

)

Interest expense

$

(8,780

)

Gain (loss)

recognized in OCI

Location of amounts

reclassified from OCI

into income

Gain (loss) reclassified

from OCI

Type

December 31, 2013

For the Year Ended

December 31, 2013

Swap Agreements

$

13,718

Interest expense

$

(8,917

)

Credit-Risk-Related

Contingent Features

The Company has agreements with some of its derivative counterparties that contain provisions pursuant to which, the Company could be
declared in default of its derivative obligations if the Company defaults on any of its indebtedness, including default where repayment of the indebtedness has not been accelerated by the lender.

The Company also has an agreement with some of its derivative counterparties that incorporates the loan covenant provisions of the
Company’s indebtedness with a lender affiliate of the derivative counterparty. Failure to comply with the loan covenant provisions would result in the Company being in default on any derivative instrument obligations covered by the agreement.

As of December 31, 2014, the fair value of derivatives in a net liability position, which includes accrued interest but excludes any
adjustment for nonperformance risk, related to these agreements was $3,532. As of December 31, 2014, the Company had not posted any collateral related to these agreements. If the Company had breached any of these provisions as of
December 31, 2014, it could have been required to settle its obligations under the agreements at their termination value of $3,757.



9.

NOTES PAYABLE TO TRUSTS

During July 2005, ESS Statutory Trust III (the “Trust III”), a newly formed Delaware statutory trust and a

wholly-owned,

unconsolidated subsidiary of the Operating Partnership, issued an aggregate of $40,000 of preferred securities which mature on July 31, 2035. In addition, the Trust III issued 1,238 of Trust
common securities to the Operating Partnership for a purchase price of $1,238. On July 27, 2005, the proceeds from the sale of the preferred and common securities of $41,238 were loaned in the form of a note to the Operating Partnership
(“Note 3”). Note 3 had a fixed rate of 6.91% through July 31, 2010, and then was payable at a variable rate equal to the

three-month

LIBOR plus 2.40% per annum. Effective
July 11, 2011, the Trust III entered into an interest rate swap that fixes the interest rate to be paid at 4.99% per annum and matures July 11, 2018. The interest on Note 3, payable quarterly, will be used by the Trust III to pay
dividends on the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities became redeemable by the Trust III with no prepayment premium on July 27, 2010.

During May 2005, ESS Statutory Trust II (the “Trust II”), a newly formed Delaware statutory trust and a

wholly-owned,

unconsolidated subsidiary of the Operating Partnership of the Company, issued an aggregate of $41,000 of preferred securities which mature on June 30, 2035. In addition, the Trust II issued 1,269
of Trust common securities to the Operating Partnership for a purchase price of $1,269. On May 24, 2005, the proceeds from the sale of the preferred and common securities of $42,269 were loaned in the form of a note to the Operating Partnership
(“Note 2”). Note 2 had a fixed rate of 6.67% through June 30, 2010, and then was payable at a variable rate equal to the

three-month

LIBOR plus 2.40% per annum. Effective
July 11, 2011, the Trust II entered into an interest rate swap that fixes the interest rate to be paid at 4.99% per annum and matures July 11, 2018. The interest on Note 2, payable quarterly, will be used by the Trust II to pay
dividends on the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities became redeemable by the Trust II with no prepayment premium on June 30, 2010.

During April 2005, ESS Statutory Trust I (the “Trust”), a newly formed Delaware statutory trust and a

wholly-owned,

unconsolidated subsidiary of the Operating Partnership of the Company issued an aggregate of $35,000 of trust preferred securities which mature on June 30, 2035. In addition, the Trust
issued 1,083 of Trust common securities to the Operating Partnership for a purchase price of $1,083. On April 8, 2005, the proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred and common securities of $36,083 were loaned in the form of a note to the
Operating Partnership (the “Note”). The Note has a variable rate equal to the

three-month

LIBOR plus 2.25% per annum. Effective June 30, 2010, the Trust entered into an interest rate swap
that fixes the interest rate to be paid at 5.14% per annum and matures on June 30, 2018. The interest on the Note, payable quarterly, will be used by the Trust to pay dividends on the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred
securities are redeemable by the Trust with no prepayment premium.

Trust, Trust II and Trust III (together, the “Trusts”) are
VIEs because the holders of the equity investment at risk (the trust preferred securities) do not have the power to direct the activities of the entities that most significantly affect the entities’ economic performance because of their lack of
voting or similar rights. Because the Operating Partnership’s investment in the Trusts’ common securities was financed directly by the Trusts as a result of its loan of the proceeds to the Operating Partnership, that investment is not
considered to be an equity investment at risk. The Operating Partnership’s investment in the Trusts is not a variable interest because equity interests are variable interests only to the extent that the investment is considered to be at risk,
and therefore the Operating Partnership cannot be the primary beneficiary of the Trusts. Since the Company is not the primary beneficiary of the Trusts, they have not been consolidated. A debt obligation has been recorded in the form of notes as
discussed above for the proceeds, which are owed to the Trusts by the Company. The Company has also recorded its investment in the Trusts’ common securities as other assets.

The Company has not provided financing or other support during the periods presented to the Trusts that it was not previously contractually
obligated to provide. The Company’s maximum exposure to loss as a result of its involvement with the Trusts is equal to the total amount of the notes discussed above less the amounts of the



Company’s investments in the Trusts’ common securities. The net amount is the notes payable that the Trusts owe to third parties for their investments in the Trusts’ preferred
securities.

Following is a tabular comparison of the liabilities the Company has recorded as a result of its involvements with the Trusts
to the maximum exposure to loss the Company is subject to related to the Trusts as of December 31, 2014:

Notes payable

to Trusts

Investment

Balance

Maximum

exposure to loss

Difference

Trust

$

36,083

$

1,083

$

35,000

$

—

Trust II

42,269

1,269

41,000

—

Trust III

41,238

1,238

40,000

—

$

119,590

$

3,590

$

116,000

$

—

10.

EXCHANGEABLE SENIOR NOTES

On June 21, 2013, the Operating Partnership issued $250,000 of its 2.375% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2033 at a 1.5%
discount, or $3,750. Costs incurred to issue the Notes due 2033 were approximately $1,672. These costs are being amortized as an adjustment to interest expense over five years, which represents the estimated term based on the first available
redemption date, and are included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheet. The Notes due 2033 are general unsecured senior obligations of the Operating Partnership and are fully guaranteed by the Company. Interest is payable on
January 1 and July 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2014, until the maturity date of July 1, 2033. The Notes due 2033 bear interest at 2.375% per annum and contain an exchange settlement feature, which provides that the
Notes due 2033 may, under certain circumstances, be exchangeable for cash (for the principal amount of the Notes due 2033) and, with respect to any excess exchange value, for cash, shares of the Company’s common stock or a combination of cash
and shares of the Company’s common stock at the Company’s option. The initial exchange rate of the Notes due 2033 is approximately 17.98 shares of the Company’s common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes due 2033.

The Operating Partnership may redeem the Notes due 2033 at any time to preserve the Company’s status as a REIT. In addition, on or after
July 5, 2018, the Operating Partnership may redeem the Notes due 2033 for cash, in whole or in part, at 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, upon at least 30 days but not more than 60 days prior written
notice to the holders of the Notes due 2033. The holders of the Notes due 2033 have the right to require the Operating Partnership to repurchase the Notes due 2033 for cash, in whole or in part, on July 1 of the years 2018, 2023, and 2028, and
upon the occurrence of certain designated events, in each case for a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes due 2033 plus accrued and unpaid interest. Certain events are considered “Events of Default,” as
defined in the indenture governing the Notes due 2033, which may result in the accelerated maturity of the Notes due 2033.

GAAP requires
entities with convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion to separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer’s economic
interest cost. The Company therefore accounts for the liability and equity components of the Notes due 2033 separately. The equity component is included in

paid-in

capital in stockholders’ equity in the
consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component is treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component. The discount is being amortized as interest expense over the remaining period of the debt
through its first redemption date, July 1, 2018. The effective interest rate on the liability component is 4.0%.



Information about the carrying amount of the equity component, the principal amount of the
liability component, its unamortized discount and its net carrying amount were as follows for the periods indicated:

December 31, 2014

December 31, 2013

Carrying amount of equity component

$

14,496

$

14,496

Principal amount of liability component

$

250,000

$

250,000

Unamortized discount—equity component

(10,448

)

(13,131

)

Unamortized cash discount

(2,606

)

(3,356

)

Net carrying amount of liability component

$

236,946

$

233,513

On March 27, 2007, the Company’s Operating Partnership issued $250,000 of 3.625% Exchangeable Senior
Notes due 2027. The Notes due 2027 bore interest at 3.625% per annum and contained an exchange settlement feature, which provided that under certain circumstances, the Notes due 2027 could have been exchanged for cash (up to the principal
amount) and, with respect to any excess exchange value, for cash, shares of the Company’s common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of the Company’s common stock at the option of the Operating Partnership. The Company accounted for
the liability and equity components of the Notes due 2027 separately as required under GAAP. The effective interest rate on the liability component of the Notes due 2027 was 5.75%.

On March 1, 2012, the Company announced that the holders of the Operating Partnership’s

then-outstanding

$87,663 principal amount of the Notes due 2027 had the right to surrender their notes for repurchase by the Operating Partnership on April 1, 2012 for 100% of the principal amount,
pursuant to the holders’ rights under the indenture governing the Notes due 2027.

As of April 3, 2012, the Company received
notice that the holders of the entire $87,663 principal amount of the Notes due 2027 had surrendered their notes for exchange. On April 26, 2012, the Company settled the exchange by paying cash for the principal amount, as required by the
indenture, and issuing 684,685 shares of common stock for the value in excess of the principal amount. The issuance of shares was reflected as an increase in

paid-in-capital

with a corresponding decrease in

paid-in-capital

attributable to the
reacquisition of the equity component of the convertible debt.

The amount of interest cost recognized relating to the contractual
interest rate and the amortization of the discount on the liability component for the Notes due 2033 and the Notes due 2027 was as follows for the periods presented:

For the Year Ended December 31,




Contractual interest

$

5,936

$

3,134

$


Amortization of discount

2,683

1,404


Total interest expense recognized

$

8,619

$

4,538

$

1,234



11.

LINES OF CREDIT

All of the Company’s lines of credit are guaranteed by the Company and secured by mortgages on certain real estate
assets. The following table presents information on the Company’s lines of credit, the proceeds of which are used to repay debt and for general corporate purposes, for the periods indicated:

As of December 31, 2014

Line of Credit

Amount

Drawn (1)

Capacity (1)

Interest

Rate

Origination

Date

Maturity

Basis Rate (2)

Notes

Credit Line 1

$

7,000

$

85,000

2.1%

6/4/2010

6/3/2016

LIBOR plus 1.9%

(3)

Credit Line 2

41,000

50,000

1.9%

11/16/2010

2/13/2017

LIBOR plus 1.8%

(4)

Credit Line 3

50,000

80,000

1.9%

4/29/2011

11/18/2016

LIBOR plus 1.7%

(4)

Credit Line 4

40,000

50,000

1.8%

9/29/2014

9/29/2017

LIBOR plus 1.7%

(4)

$

138,000

$

265,000

(1)

Amounts in thousands

(2)

30-day USD LIBOR

(3)

One two-year extension available

(4)

Two one-year extensions available

12.

OTHER LIABILITIES

The components of other liabilities are summarized as follows:

December 31, 2014

December 31, 2013

Deferred rental income

$

28,485

$

24,037

Lease obligation liability


2,076

Fair value of interest rate swaps

3,533

3,684

Income taxes payable



Deferred tax liability

5,367

3,481

Earnout provisions on acquisitions

8,033


Unpaid claims liability

1,832

1,236

Other miscellaneous liabilities

6,084

2,679

$

54,719

$

37,997

Included in the lease obligation liability is approximately $609 and $2,352 as of December 31, 2014 and
2013, respectively, related to minimum rentals to be received in the future under

non-cancelable

subleases.

Included in other miscellaneous liabilities is unpaid claims related to the Company’s tenant reinsurance program. For the years ended
December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, the number of claims made were 2,942, 2,316 and 2,060, respectively. The following table presents information on the Company’s unpaid claims liability for the periods presented:

For the Year Ended

December 31,

Tenant Reinsurance Claims:




Unpaid claims liability at beginning of year

$

1,236

$

1,414

$


Claims and claim adjustment expense for claims incurred in the current year

5,126

3,817

3,417

Claims and claim adjustment expense for claims incurred in the prior years

(345

)

(116

)


Payments for current year claims

(3,367

)

(2,627

)

(2,028

)

Payments for prior year claims

(818

)

(1,252

)

(712

)

Unpaid claims liability at the end of the year

$

1,832

$

1,236

$

1,414



13.

RELATED PARTY AND AFFILIATED REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURE TRANSACTIONS

The Company provides management services to certain joint ventures, third parties and other related party stores. Management
agreements provide generally for management fees of 6.0% of cash collected from total revenues for the management of operations at the stores. In addition, the Company receives an asset management fee equal to 50 basis points multiplied by the total
asset value of the stores owned by the SPI joint venture, provided certain requirements are met.

Management fee revenues for related
party and affiliated real estate joint ventures are summarized as follows:

For the Year Ended December 31,

Entity

Type




ESW

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

$


$


$


ESW II

Affiliated real estate joint ventures




ESNPS

Affiliated real estate joint ventures




ESSM

Affiliated real estate joint ventures




HSRE

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

1,201

1,146

1,094

PRISA

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

5,466

5,215

5,174

PRISA II

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

4,635

4,397

4,138

VRS

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

1,326

1,286

1,207

WCOT

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

1,680

1,601

1,520

SP I

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

1,999

1,953

1,885

Other

Franchisees, third parties and other

10,336

9,539

9,299

$

28,215

$

26,614

$

25,706

Receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures balances are summarized as follows:

December 31, 2014

December 31, 2013

Mortgage notes receivable

$

10,590

$

5,818

Other receivables from stores

1,188

1,724

$

11,778

$

7,542

Other receivables from stores consist of amounts due for management fees, asset management fees and expenses
paid on behalf of the stores that the Company manages. The Company believes that all of these related party and affiliated real estate joint venture receivables are fully collectible. The Company does not have any payables to related parties at
December 31, 2014 and 2013.

Centershift, a related party service provider, was partially owned by one of the Company’s board
members, whose interest was sold in February 2014. Effective January 1, 2004, the Company entered into a license agreement with Centershift which secured a perpetual right for continued use of STORE (the site management software used at all
sites operated by the Company) in all aspects of the Company’s property acquisition, development, redevelopment and operational activities. On October 1, 2013, the Company bought out the remainder of its three year contract with
Centershift for $1,500, which was included in general and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2013. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company purchased a copy of the STORE source code and some
equipment from Centershift for $2,600. Subsequent to these purchases, the Company no longer has any contractual liability to Centershift. During the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, the Company paid Centershift $0, $1,095 and
$1,235, respectively, relating to the purchase of software and license agreements.

The Company has entered into an annual aircraft dry
lease and service and management agreement with SpenAero, L.C. (“SpenAero”), an affiliate of Spencer F. Kirk, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer. Under the



terms of the agreement, the Company pays a defined hourly rate for use of the aircraft. During the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, the Company paid SpenAero $1,059, $803 and
$649, respectively. The services that the Company receives from SpenAero are similar in nature and comparable in price to those that are provided to other outside third parties.

14.

STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

The Company’s charter provides that it can issue up to 500,000,000 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value per
share and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $0.01 par value per share. As of December 31, 2014, 116,360,239 shares of common stock were issued and outstanding, and no shares of preferred stock were issued or outstanding.

All holders of the Company’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends and to one vote on all matters submitted to a vote of
stockholders. The transfer agent and registrar for the Company’s common stock is American Stock Transfer & Trust Company.

On November 8, 2013, the Company issued and sold 4,500,000 shares of its common stock in a public offering at a price to the underwriter
of $45.81 per share. The Company received gross proceeds of $206,145. Transaction costs were $157, resulting in net proceeds of $205,988.

On November 9, 2012, the Company issued and sold 5,980,000 shares of its common stock in a public offering at a price to the underwriter
of $33.98 per share. The Company received gross proceeds of $203,200. Transaction costs were $300, resulting in net proceeds of $202,900.

On April 16, 2012, the Company issued and sold 8,050,000 shares of its common stock in a public offering at a price to the underwriter of
$28.22 per share. The Company received gross proceeds of $227,171. Transaction costs were $483, resulting in net proceeds of $226,688.

15.

NONCONTROLLING INTEREST REPRESENTED BY PREFERRED OPERATING PARTNERSHIP UNITS

Classification of Noncontrolling Interests

GAAP requires a company to present ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the company in the consolidated financial
statements within the equity section, but separate from the company’s equity. It also requires the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest to be clearly identified and presented on the
face of the consolidated statement of operations and requires changes in ownership interest to be accounted for similarly as equity transactions. If noncontrolling interests are determined to be redeemable, they are to be carried at their redemption
value as of the balance sheet date and reported as temporary equity.

The Company has evaluated the terms of the Operating
Partnership’s preferred units and classifies the noncontrolling interest represented by such preferred units as stockholders’ equity in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The Company will periodically evaluate individual
noncontrolling interests for the ability to continue to recognize the noncontrolling amount as permanent equity in the consolidated balance sheets. Any noncontrolling interests that fail to qualify as permanent equity will be reclassified as
temporary equity and adjusted to the greater of (1) the carrying amount, or (2) its redemption value as of the end of the period in which the determination is made.

Series A Participating Redeemable Preferred Units

On June 15, 2007, the Operating Partnership entered into a Contribution Agreement with various limited partnerships affiliated with AAAAA

Rent-A-Space

to acquire ten stores in exchange for 989,980 Series A Units. The stores are located in California and Hawaii.



On June 25, 2007, the Operating Partnership loaned the holders of the Series A Units
$100,000. The note receivable bears interest at 4.85%. During 2013, a loan amendment was signed extending the maturity date to September 1, 2020. The loan is secured by the borrower’s Series A Units. The holders of the Series A
Units could redeem up to 114,500 Series A Units prior to the maturity date of the loan. If any redemption in excess of 114,500 Series A Units occurs prior to the maturity date, the holder of the Series A Units is required to repay the
loan as of the date of that redemption. On October 3, 2014, the holders of the Series A Units redeemed 114,500 Series A Units for $4,794 in cash and 280,331 shares of common stock. No additional redemption of Series A Units can be made without
repayment of the loan. The Series A Units are shown on the balance sheet net of the $100,000 loan because the borrower under the loan receivable is also the holder of the Series A Units.

The partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership (as amended, the “Partnership Agreement”) provides for the designation and
issuance of the Series A Units. The Series A Units have priority over all other partnership interests of the Operating Partnership with respect to distributions and liquidation.

Under the Partnership Agreement, Series A Units in the amount of $115,000 bear a fixed priority return of 5.0% and have a fixed
liquidation value of $115,000. The remaining balance participates in distributions with, and has a liquidation value equal to, that of the common OP Units. The Series A Units became redeemable at the option of the holder on September 1,
2008, which redemption obligation may be satisfied, at the Company’s option, in cash or shares of its common stock.

Series B Redeemable
Preferred Units

On April 3, 2014, the Operating Partnership completed the purchase of a store located in Georgia. This store was
acquired in exchange for $15,158 of cash and 333,360 Series B Units valued at $8,334.

On August 29, 2013, the Operating Partnership
completed the purchase of 19 out of 20 stores affiliated with All Aboard Mini Storage, all of which are located in California. On September 26, 2013, the Operating Partnership completed the purchase of the remaining facility. These stores were
acquired in exchange for $100,876 in cash (including $98,960 of debt assumed and immediately defeased at closing), 1,342,727 Series B Units valued at $33,568, and 1,448,108 common OP Units valued at $62,341.

The Partnership Agreement provides for the designation and issuance of the Series B Units. The Series B Units rank junior to the
Series A Units, on parity with the Series C Units and Series D Units, and senior to all other partnership interests of the Operating Partnership with respect to distributions and liquidation.

The Series B Units have a liquidation value of $25.00 per unit for a fixed liquidation value of $41,902. Holders of the Series B
Units receive distributions at an annual rate of 6.0%. These distributions are cumulative. The Series B Units are redeemable at the option of the holder on the first anniversary of the date of issuance, which redemption obligations may be
satisfied at the Company’s option in cash or shares of its common stock.

Series C Convertible Redeemable Preferred Units

On November 19, 2013, the Operating Partnership entered into Contribution Agreements with various entities affiliated with Grupe, under
which the Company agreed to acquire twelve stores, all of which are located in California. The Company completed the purchase of these self-storage stores between December 2013 and May 2014. The Company previously held a 35% interest in five of
these stores and a 40% interest in one store through six separate joint ventures with Grupe. These stores were acquired in exchange for a total of approximately $45,722 of cash, the assumption of $37,532 in existing debt, and the issuance of 704,016
Series C Units valued at $30,960.

The Partnership Agreement provides for the designation and issuance of the Series C Units. The
Series C Units rank junior to the Series A Units, on parity with the Series B Units and Series D Units, and senior to all other partnership interests of the Operating Partnership with respect to distributions and liquidation.



The Series C Units have a liquidation value of $42.10 per unit. From issuance to the fifth
anniversary of issuance, each Series C Unit holder will receive quarterly distributions equal to the quarterly distribution for common OP Unit plus $0.18. Beginning on the fifth anniversary of issuance, each Series C Unit holder will
receive a fixed quarterly distribution equal to the aggregate quarterly distribution payable in respect of such Series C Unit during the four quarters immediately preceding the fifth anniversary of issuance divided by four. These distributions
are cumulative. The Series C Units will become redeemable at the option of the holder one year from the date of issuance, which redemption obligation may be satisfied at the Company’s option in cash or shares of its common stock. The
Series C Units will also become convertible into common OP Units at the option of the holder one year from the date of issuance, at a rate of 0.9145 common OP Units per Series C Unit converted. This conversion option expires upon the fifth
anniversary of the date of issuance.

In December 2014, the Operating Partnership loaned holders of the Series C Units $20,230. The
notes receivable, which are collateralized by the Series C Units, bear interest at 5.0% and mature on December 15, 2024. The Series C Units are shown on the balance sheet net of the $20,230 loan because the borrower under the loan receivable is
also the holder of the Series C units.

Series D Redeemable Preferred Units

In December 2014, the Operating Partnership completed the acquisition of a store located in Florida. This store was acquired in exchange for
$5,621 in cash and 548,390 Series D Units valued at $13,710.

The Partnership Agreement provides for the designation and issuance of the
Series D Units. The Series D Units rank junior to the Series A Units, on parity with the Series B Units and Series C Units, and senior to all other partnership interest of the Operating Partnership with respect to distributions and liquidation.

The Series D Units have a liquidation value of $25.00 per unit, for a fixed liquidation value of $13,710. Holders of the Series D Units
receive distributions at an annual rate of 5.0%. These distributions are cumulative. The Series D Units will become redeemable at the option of the holder on the first anniversary of the date of issuance, which redemption obligation may be satisfied
at the Company’s option in cash or shares of its common stock.

16.

NONCONTROLLING INTEREST IN OPERATING PARTNERSHIP

The Company’s interest in its stores is held through the Operating Partnership. ESS Holding Business Trust I, a

wholly-owned

subsidiary of the Company, is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership. ESS Business Trust II, also a

wholly-owned

subsidiary of the Company, is a
limited partner of the Operating Partnership. Between its general partner and limited partner interests, the Company held a 93.4% majority ownership interest therein as of December 31, 2014. The remaining ownership interests in the Operating
Partnership (including Preferred Operating Partnership units) of 6.6% are held by certain former owners of assets acquired by the Operating Partnership. As of December 31, 2014, the Operating Partnership had 4,365,879 OP Units outstanding.

The noncontrolling interest in the Operating Partnership represents OP Units that are not owned by the Company. In conjunction with the
formation of the Company and as a result of subsequent acquisitions, certain persons and entities contributing interests in stores to the Operating Partnership received limited partnership units in the form of OP units. Limited partners who received
OP Units in the formation transactions or in exchange for contributions for interests in stores have the right to require the Operating Partnership to redeem part or all of their OP Units for cash based upon the fair market value of an equivalent
number of shares of the Company’s common stock (10 day average) at the time of the redemption. Alternatively, the Company may, at its sole discretion, elect to acquire those OP Units in exchange for shares of its common stock on a

one-for-one

basis, subject to

anti-dilution

adjustments provided in the Operating Partnership agreement. The ten day average closing
stock price at December 31, 2014, was $59.26 and there were 4,365,879 OP Units outstanding. Assuming



that all of the unit holders exercised their right to redeem all of their OP Units on December 31, 2014 and the Company elected to pay the

non-controlling

members cash, the Company would have paid $258,722 in cash consideration to redeem the units.

In December 2014, the Company purchased a single store in California. As part of the consideration, 50,620 OP Units were issued for a value of
$2,983.

In October 2014, 6,859 OP units were redeemed in exchange for the Company’s common stock. In December 2014, 12,000 OP units
were redeemed in exchange for the Company’s common stock.

In October 2013, 12,500 OP Units were redeemed in exchange for the
Company’s common stock. In March and April 2013, 1,000 OP Units were redeemed in exchange for $41 in cash.

On August 29, 2013
and September 26, 2013, the Company purchased 20 stores in California. As part of the consideration, 1,448,108 OP Units were issued for a value of $62,341.

In December 2012, 304,817 OP Units were redeemed in exchange for the Company’s common stock. In April 2012, 5,475 OP Units were redeemed
for $155 in cash.

GAAP requires a company to present ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the company in the
consolidated financial statements within the equity section but separate from the company’s equity. It also requires the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest to be clearly identified
and presented on the face of the consolidated statement of operations and requires changes in ownership interest to be accounted for similarly as equity transactions. If noncontrolling interests are determined to be redeemable, they are to be
carried at their redemption value as of the balance sheet date and reported as temporary equity.

The Company has evaluated the terms of
the common OP Units and classifies the noncontrolling interest represented by the common OP Units as stockholders’ equity in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The Company will periodically evaluate individual noncontrolling
interests for the ability to continue to recognize the noncontrolling amount as permanent equity in the consolidated balance sheets. Any noncontrolling interests that fail to qualify as permanent equity will be reclassified as temporary equity and
adjusted to the greater of (1) the carrying amount, or (2) its redemption value as of the end of the period in which the determination is made.

17.

OTHER NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS

Other noncontrolling interests represent the ownership interests of various third parties in two consolidated joint ventures
as of December 31, 2014. One of these consolidated joint ventures owns one store which was under construction at December 31, 2014. The second consolidated joint venture owns 19 stores. The ownership interests of the third party owners
range from 1.0% to 3.3%. Other noncontrolling interests are included in the stockholders’ equity section of the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. The income or losses attributable to these third party owners based on their ownership
percentages are reflected in net income allocated to the Operating Partnership and other noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statement of operations.

In November 2013, the Company purchased its joint venture partner’s 10% membership interest in an existing joint venture for $1,292. The
joint venture owned a single store located in California, and as a result of the acquisition, the store became

wholly-owned

by the Company. Since the Company retained its controlling financial interest in the
subsidiary, this transaction was accounted for as an equity transaction. The carrying amount of the noncontrolling interest was reduced to zero to reflect the purchase, and the difference between the price paid by the Company and the adjustment to
the carrying value of the noncontrolling interest was recorded as an adjustment to equity attributable to the parent.



In May 2013, the Company purchased one of its joint venture partner’s 27.6% capital interest
and 35% profit interest in a previously unconsolidated joint venture for $950. The partner’s interest was reported in other noncontrolling interests prior to the purchase. As a result of the acquisition, the store became

wholly-owned

by the Company. Since the Company retained its controlling financial interest in the subsidiary, this transaction was accounted for as an equity transaction. The carrying amount of the noncontrolling
interest was reduced to zero to reflect the purchase and the difference between the price paid by the Company and the carrying value of the noncontrolling interest was recorded as an adjustment to equity attributable to the parent.

In February 2013, the Company purchased one of its joint venture partner’s 1.7% capital interest and 17% profit interest in a
consolidated store for $200. As a result, the Company’s capital interest percentage in this joint venture increased from 95% to 96.7%. Since the Company retained its controlling financial interest in the subsidiary, this transaction was
accounted for as an equity transaction. The carrying amount of the noncontrolling interest was reduced to reflect the purchase and the difference between the price paid by the Company and the adjustment to the carrying value of the noncontrolling
interest was recorded as an adjustment to equity attributable to the parent.

18.

STOCK-BASED

COMPENSATION

The Company has the following plans under which shares were available for grant at December 31, 2014:

•

The 2004

Long-Term

Incentive Compensation Plan as amended and restated, and

•

The 2004

Non-Employee

Directors’ Share Plan (together, the “Plans”).

Option grants are issued with an exercise price equal to the closing price of stock on the date of grant. Unless otherwise determined by the
Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee (“CNG Committee”) at the time of grant, options shall vest ratably over a

four-year

period beginning on the date of grant. Each option will be
exercisable once it has vested. Options are exercisable at such times and subject to such terms as determined by the CNG Committee, but under no circumstances may be exercised if such exercise would cause a violation of the ownership limit in the
Company’s charter. Options expire 10 years from the date of grant.

Also as defined under the terms of the Plans, restricted
stock grants may be awarded. The stock grants are subject to a vesting period over which the restrictions are released and the stock certificates are given to the grantee. During the performance or vesting period, the grantee is not permitted to
sell, transfer, pledge, encumber or assign shares of restricted stock granted under the Plans; however, the grantee has the ability to vote the shares and receive nonforfeitable dividends paid on shares. Unless otherwise determined by the CNG
Committee at the time of grant, the forfeiture and transfer restrictions on the shares lapse over a

four-year

period beginning on the date of grant.

As of December 31, 2014, 2,270,790 shares were available for issuance under the Plans.



Option Grants

A summary of stock option activity is as follows:

Options

Number of Shares

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

Weighted Average

Remaining

Contractual Life

(Years)

Aggregate Intrinsic

Value as of

December 31, 2014

Outstanding at December 31, 2011

1,798,861

$

13.25

Granted

67,084

27.18

Exercised

(768,853

)

13.55

Forfeited

—

—

Outstanding at December 31, 2012

1,097,092

$

13.89

Granted

49,075

38.40

Exercised

(391,543

)

14.81

Forfeited

—

—

Outstanding at December 31, 2013

754,624

$

15.01

Granted

31,000

47.50

Exercised

(211,747

)

14.85

Forfeited

(5,150

)

28.28

Outstanding at December 31, 2014

568,727

$

16.62

4.77

$

23,898

Vested and Expected to Vest

563,432

$

16.40

4.73

$

23,798

Ending Exercisable

457,131

$

12.26

4.03

$

21,204

The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total value (the difference between the
Company’s closing stock price on the last trading day of 2014 and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of

in-the-money

options) that would have been
received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options on December 31, 2014. The amount of aggregate intrinsic value will change based on the fair market value of the Company’s stock.

The weighted average fair value of stock options granted in 2014, 2013 and 2012, was $12.03, $9.74 and $6.64, respectively. The fair value of
each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the

Black-Scholes

option-pricing

model with the following weighted average assumptions:

For the Year Ended December 31,




Expected volatility


%


%


%

Dividend yield


%


%


%

Risk-free interest rate

1.5

%

0.9

%

0.9

%

Average expected term (years)




The

Black-Scholes

model incorporates assumptions to value

stock-based

awards. The

risk-free

rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of the grant for the estimated life of the option. The Company uses
actual historical data to calculate the expected price volatility, dividend yield and average expected term. The forfeiture rate, which is estimated at a

weighted-average

of 5.0% of unvested options
outstanding as of December 31, 2014, is adjusted periodically based on the extent to which actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ, from the previous estimates.



A summary of stock options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2014, is as
follows:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Exercise Price

Shares

Weighted Average

Remaining

Contractual Life

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

Shares

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

$6.22—$6.22

174,765

4.13

$

6.22

174,765

$

6.22

$11.59—$12.85

113,910

4.96

12.07

113,910

12.07

$13.04—$16.83

118,750

2.22

15.24

118,750

15.24

$19.60—$38.40

132,552

6.83

28.78

48,956

26.47

$47.50—$47.50

28,750

8.90

47.50


47.50

$6.22—$47.50

568,727

4.77

$

16.62

457,131

$

12.26

The Company recorded compensation expense relating to outstanding options of $456, $536 and $585 in general
and administrative expense for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Total cash received for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, related to option exercises was $3,095, $5,896 and $10,267,
respectively. At December 31, 2014, there was $585 of total unrecognized compensation expense related to

non-vested

stock options under the Company’s 2004

Long-Term

Incentive Compensation Plan. That cost is expected to be recognized over a

weighted-average

period of 1.79 years. The valuation model applied in this
calculation utilizes subjective assumptions that could potentially change over time, including the expected forfeiture rate. Therefore, the amount of unrecognized compensation expense at December 31, 2014, noted above does not necessarily
represent the expense that will ultimately be realized by the Company in the statement of operations.

Common Stock Granted to Employees and Directors

The Company recorded $4,528, $4,283 and $3,771 of expense in general and administrative expense in its statement of operations related
to outstanding shares of common stock granted to employees and directors for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The forfeiture rate, which is estimated at a

weighted-average

of 10.21% of unvested awards outstanding as of December 31, 2014, is adjusted periodically based on the extent to which actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ, from the previous estimates. At December 31, 2014 there was
$7,010 of total unrecognized compensation expense related to

non-vested

restricted stock awards under the Company’s 2004

Long-Term

Incentive Compensation Plan. That
cost is expected to be recognized over a

weighted-average

period of 2.09 years.

The fair
value of common stock awards is determined based on the closing trading price of the Company’s common stock on the grant date.



A summary of the Company’s employee and director share grant activity is as follows:

Restricted Stock Grants

Shares

Weighted-Average

Grant-Date Fair

Value

Unreleased at December 31, 2011

662,766

$

12.81

Granted

182,052

28.39

Released

(287,754

)

12.98

Cancelled

(16,792

)

14.03

Unreleased at December 31, 2012

540,272

$

17.93

Granted

137,602

39.51

Released

(259,191

)

15.11

Cancelled

(23,323

)

23.62

Unreleased at December 31, 2013

395,360

$

26.96

Granted

117,370

49.25

Released

(197,386

)

23.07

Cancelled

(23,595

)

37.19

Unreleased at December 31, 2014

291,749

$

37.73

19.

EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN

The Company has a retirement savings plan under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code under which eligible
employees can contribute up to 15% of their annual salary, subject to a statutory prescribed annual limit. For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, the Company made matching contributions to the plan of $1,529, $1,013 and $894,
respectively, based on 100% of the first 3% and up to 50% of the next 2% of an employee’s compensation.

20.

INCOME TAXES

As a REIT, the Company is generally not subject to federal income tax with respect to that portion of its income which is
distributed annually to its stockholders. However, the Company has elected to treat one of its corporate subsidiaries, Extra Space Management, Inc., as a taxable REIT subsidiary. In general, the Company’s TRS may perform additional
services for tenants and generally may engage in any real estate or

non-real

estate related business. A TRS is subject to corporate federal income tax. The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with
the provisions of ASC 740,

“Income Taxes.”

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. The Company has elected to use the

Tax-Law-Ordering

approach to determine when excess tax benefits will be realized.

The income tax provision for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, is comprised of the following components:

For the Year Ended December 31, 2014

Federal

State

Total

Current expense

$

6,020

$

1,374

$

7,394

Tax credits

(2,176

)

—

(2,176

)

Change in deferred benefit


1,549

2,352

Total tax expense

$

4,647

$

2,923

$

7,570



For the Year Ended December 31, 2013

Federal

State

Total

Current expense

$

9,572

$


$

10,187

Tax credits

(4,556

)

—

(4,556

)

Change in deferred benefit

4,353

—

4,353

Total tax expense

$

9,369

$


$

9,984

For the Year Ended December 31, 2012

Federal

State

Total

Current expense

$

8,240

$


$

8,852

Tax credits

(5,528

)

—

(5,528

)

Change in deferred benefit

2,089

—

2,089

Total tax expense

$

4,801

$


$

5,413

A reconciliation of the statutory income tax provisions to the effective income tax provisions for the periods
presented is as follows:

For the Year Ended December 31,



Expected tax at statutory rate

$

71,215

35.0

%

$

67,012

35.0

%

Non-taxable REIT income

(64,402

)

(31.7

%)

(53,519

)

(27.9

%)

State and local tax expense—net of federal benefit

1,109

0.6

%


0.3

%

Change in valuation allowance

1,663

0.8

%


0.2

%

Tax Credits (WOTC & Solar)

(2,176

)

(1.1

%)

(4,562

)

(2.4

%)

Miscellaneous


0.1

%


0.0

%

Total provision

$

7,570

3.7

%

$

9,984

5.2

%

The major sources of temporary differences stated at their deferred tax effects are as follows:

December 31,


December 31,


Deferred Tax Liabilities:

Fixed Assets

$

(16,586

)

$

(14,557

)

Other

(269

)

(663

)

State Deferred Taxes

(1,576

)

—

Total Deferred Tax Liabilities

(18,431

)

(15,220

)

Deferred Tax Assets:

Capitive Insurance Subsidiary



Accrued liabilities

1,232

1,043

Stock compensation

1,176

1,394

Solar Credit

9,342

8,480

Other



State Deferred Taxes

6,260

4,570

Total Deferred Tax Assets

19,297

16,309

Valuation Allowance

(6,233

)

(4,570

)

Net deferred income tax liability

$

(5,367

)

$

(3,481

)



The state income tax net operating losses expire between 2015 and 2032. The valuation allowance
is associated with the state income tax net operating losses. The solar tax credit carryforwards expire between 2030 and 2034. The tax years 2010 through 2013 remain open related to the state returns, and 2011 through 2013 for the federal returns.

21.

SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Company operates in three distinct segments: (1) rental operations; (2) tenant reinsurance; and
(3) property management, acquisition and development. Management fees collected for

wholly-owned

stores are eliminated in consolidation. Financial information for the Company’s business segments is
set forth below:

December 31,


December 31,


Balance Sheet

Investment in unconsolidated real estate ventures

Rental operations

$

85,711

$

88,125

Total assets

Rental operations

$

4,109,673

$

3,641,746

Tenant reinsurance

39,383

34,393

Property management, acquisition and development

253,051

301,001

$

4,402,107

$

3,977,140



For The Year Ended December 31,




Statement of Operations

Total revenues

Rental operations

$

559,868

$

446,682

$

346,874

Tenant reinsurance

59,072

47,317

36,816

Property management, acquisition and development

28,215

26,614

25,706

$

647,155

$

520,613

$

409,396

Operating expenses, including depreciation and amortization

Rental operations

$

279,497

$

229,229

$

184,540

Tenant reinsurance

10,427

9,022

7,869

Property management, acquisition and development

78,763

68,879

59,746

$

368,687

$

307,130

$

252,155

Income (loss) from operations

Rental operations

$

280,371

$

217,453

$

162,334

Tenant reinsurance

48,645

38,295

28,947

Property management, acquisition and development

(50,548

)

(42,265

)

(34,040

)

$

278,468

$

213,483

$

157,241

Gain (loss) on sale of real estate and earnout from prior acquisitions

Property management, acquisition and development

$

(10,285

)

$


$

—

Property casualty loss, net

Rental operations

$

(1,724

)

$

—

$

—

Loss on extinguishment of debt related to portfolio acquisition

Property management, acquisition and development

$

—

$

(9,153

)

$

—

Interest expense

Rental operations

$

(80,160

)

$

(69,702

)

$

(70,472

)

Property management, acquisition and development

(1,170

)

(1,928

)

(1,378

)

$

(81,330

)

$

(71,630

)

$

(71,850

)

Non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of discount on equity component of exchangeable senior notes

Property management, acquisition and development

$

(2,683

)

$

(1,404

)

$

(444

)

Interest income

Tenant reinsurance

$


$


$


Property management, acquisition and development

1,590


1,804

$

1,607

$


$

1,816

Interest income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

Property management, acquisition and development

$

4,850

$

4,850

$

4,850

Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate ventures

Rental operations

$

10,541

$

11,653

$

10,859

Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate ventures—gain on sale of real estate assets and purchase of joint venture
partners’ interests

Rental operations

$

4,022

$

46,032

$

30,630

Income tax (expense) benefit

Rental operations

$

(1,157

)

$

(149

)

$

(660

)

Tenant reinsurance

(8,662

)

(13,409

)

(10,399

)

Property management, acquisition and development

2,249

3,574

5,646

$

(7,570

)

$

(9,984

)

$

(5,413

)

Net income (loss)

Rental operations

$

211,893

$

205,287

$

132,691

Tenant reinsurance

40,000

24,903

18,560

Property management, acquisition and development

(55,997

)

(44,634

)

(23,562

)

$

195,896

$

185,556

$

127,689

Depreciation and amortization expense

Rental operations

$

107,081

$

89,217

$

70,512

Property management, acquisition and development

7,995

6,015

3,941

$

115,076

$

95,232

$

74,453

Statement of Cash Flows

Acquisition of real estate assets

Property management, acquisition and development

$

(503,538

)

$

(349,959

)

$

(601,727

)

Development and redevelopment of real estate assets

Property management, acquisition and development

$

(23,528

)

$

(6,466

)

$

(3,759

)



22.

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Company has operating leases on its corporate offices and owns 17 stores that are subject to leases. At
December 31, 2014, future minimum rental payments under these

non-cancelable

operating leases were as follows (unaudited):

Less than 1 year

$

6,125

Year 2

5,054

Year 3

3,728

Year 4

2,899

Year 5

2,287

Thereafter

45,293

$

65,386

The monthly rental amounts for two of the ground leases include contingent rental payments based on the level
of revenue achieved at the stores. The Company recorded expense of $3,345, $2,983 and $2,830 related to these ground leases in the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

As of December 31, 2014, the Company was not involved in any material litigation nor, to its knowledge, is any material litigation
threatened against it which, in the opinion of management, is expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.

23.

SUPPLEMENTARY QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

For the Three Months Ended

March 31,


June 30,


September 30,


December 31,


Revenues

$

152,180

$

160,240

$

167,368

$

167,367

Cost of operations

91,782

89,579

89,875

97,451

Revenues less cost of operations

$

60,398

$

70,661

$

77,493

$

69,916

Net income

$

41,209

$

46,008

$

59,193

$

49,486

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

37,340

$

41,665

$

54,228

$

45,122

Earnings per common share—basic

$

0.32

$

0.36

$

0.47

$

0.39

Earnings per common share—diluted

$

0.32

$

0.36

$

0.47

$

0.39

For the Three Months Ended

March 31,


June 30,


September 30,


December 31,


Revenues

$

119,322

$

126,246

$

133,111

$

141,934

Cost of operations

72,593

72,871

77,047

84,619

Revenues less cost of operations

$

46,729

$

53,375

$

56,064

$

57,315

Net income

$

33,931

$

37,101

$

32,352

$

82,172

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

31,425

$

34,466

$

29,245

$

76,940

Earnings per common share—basic

$

0.28

$

0.31

$

0.26

$

0.68

Earnings per common share—diluted

$

0.28

$

0.31

$

0.26

$

0.67

24.

SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

On January 13, 2015, the Company purchased three self-storage stores located in Texas for $41,900.

On February 24, 2015, the Company purchased one self-storage store in Texas for $13,550.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real
Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

(Dollars in thousands)

Date acquired

or development

completed

Store Name

State

Debt

Land

initial cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Adjustments and

costs subsequent

to acquisition

Notes

Gross carrying amount at December 31, 2014

Accumulated

depreciation

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

08/23/2010

Auburn / Dean Rd

AL

$

2,460

$


$

1,895

$


$


$

2,016

$

2,341

$


08/23/2010

Auburn / Opelika Rd

AL

—








07/02/2012

Birmingham / Grace Baker Rd

AL

4,586


9,369



9,405

10,195


03/20/2014

Birmingham / Lorna Rd

AL

—

2,381

11,224


2,381

11,279

13,660


08/31/2007

Hoover

AL

2,670

1,313

2,858


1,313

3,505

4,818

1,047

07/25/2013

Chandler

AZ

4,250


4,213



4,378

4,925


08/18/2004

Mesa / Madero Ave

AZ

3,235


2,547



2,741

3,590


07/02/2012

Mesa / N. Alma School Rd

AZ

3,184

1,129

4,402


1,129

4,453

5,582


12/27/2012

Mesa / E Southern Ave

AZ

5,435

2,973

5,545


2,973

5,798

8,771


07/25/2013

Mesa / Southern Ave

AZ

—

1,453

2,897


1,453

3,027

4,480


04/01/2006

Peoria / 75th Ave

AZ

4,268


4,105



4,253

4,905


01/31/2011

Peoria / W Beardsley Rd

AZ

—

1,060

4,731


1,060

4,746

5,806


07/01/2005

Phoenix / East Bell Rd

AZ

6,936

1,441

7,982


1,441

8,660

10,101

2,331

06/30/2006

Phoenix / N Cave Creek Rd

AZ

3,315


3,530



3,786

4,337


01/02/2007

Phoenix / E Greenway Pkwy

AZ

—


4,135



4,453

5,122


11/30/2012

Phoenix / N 32nd St

AZ

7,006

2,257

7,820


2,257

7,976

10,233


11/30/2012

Tucson

AZ

—

1,090

7,845


1,090

7,890

8,980


06/25/2007

Alameda

CA

—

2,919

12,984

2,063

2,919

15,047

17,966

3,582

08/29/2013

Alhambra

CA

—

10,109

6,065


10,109

6,289

16,398


08/29/2013

Anaheim / S Adams St

CA

—

3,593

3,330


3,593

3,528

7,121


08/29/2013

Anaheim / S State College Blvd

CA

—

2,519

2,886


2,519

3,065

5,584


04/25/2014

Anaheim / Old Canal Rd

CA

—

2,765

12,680


2,765

12,778

15,543


07/01/2008

Antelope

CA

4,105

1,525

8,345

(282

)

(b)

1,185

8,403

9,588

1,361

10/19/2011

Bellflower

CA

1,247


1,350



1,443

2,082


05/15/2007

Belmont

CA

—

3,500

7,280


3,500

7,362

10,862

1,406

06/25/2007

Berkeley

CA

19,363

1,716

19,602

1,963

1,716

21,565

23,281

4,516

10/19/2011

Bloomington / Bloomington Ave

CA

—


1,937



2,104

3,038


10/19/2011

Bloomington / Linden Ave

CA

—


1,303



1,460

2,107


08/10/2000

Burbank / W Verdugo Ave

CA

13,837

3,199

5,082

1,803

3,618

6,466

10,084

2,467

08/29/2013

Burbank / Thornton Ave

CA

—

4,061

5,318


4,061

5,532

9,593


04/08/2011

Burlingame

CA

5,327

2,211

5,829


2,211

5,960

8,171


03/14/2011

Carson

CA

—

—

9,709


—

9,808

9,808


06/25/2007

Castro Valley

CA

—

—

6,346


—

6,741

6,741

1,326

10/19/2011

Cerritos

CA

16,947

8,728

15,895


8,728

16,489

25,217

1,443

11/01/2013

Chatsworth

CA

10,497

9,922

7,599


9,922

7,848

17,770

1,096

06/01/2004

Claremont / South Mills Ave

CA

2,949

1,472

2,012


1,472

2,274

3,746


10/19/2011

Claremont / W Arrow Hwy

CA

—

1,375

1,434


1,375

1,636

3,011


06/25/2007

Colma

CA

22,769

3,947

22,002

2,290

3,947

24,292

28,239

5,290

09/01/2008

Compton

CA

4,692

1,426

7,582


1,426

7,625

9,051

1,242

08/29/2013

Concord

CA

—

3,082

2,822


3,082

2,993

6,075




Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real
Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Date acquired

or development

completed

Store Name

State

Debt

Land

initial cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Adjustments and

costs subsequent

to acquisition

Notes

Gross carrying amount at December 31, 2014

Accumulated

depreciation

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

09/21/2009

El Cajon

CA

—

1,100

6,380


1,100

6,467

7,567


06/25/2007

El Sobrante

CA

—

1,209

4,018

1,572

1,209

5,590

6,799

1,352

12/02/2013

Elk Grove / Power Inn Rd

CA

—


6,949



6,993

7,887


12/02/2013

Elk Grove / Stockton Blvd

CA

—


8,640



8,656

9,296


05/01/2010

Emeryville

CA

—

3,024

11,321


3,024

11,481

14,505

1,364

12/02/2013

Fair Oaks

CA

4,275


11,287



11,291

11,935


09/15/2002

Fontana / Valley Blvd 1

CA

3,189


3,846


1,001

4,226

5,227

1,391

10/15/2003

Fontana / Valley Blvd 2

CA

5,287

1,246

3,356


1,300

3,765

5,065

1,119

10/19/2011

Fontana / Foothill Blvd

CA

3,914


3,951



4,167

4,851


10/19/2011

Fontana / Baseline Ave

CA

—


4,723



4,853

5,630


10/19/2011

Fontana / Foothill Blvd

CA

—


4,208



4,381

5,149


06/01/2004

Gardena

CA

—

3,710

6,271

2,260

4,110

8,131

12,241

2,075

06/01/2004

Glendale

CA

—

—

6,084


—

6,338

6,338

1,814

07/02/2012

Hawaiian Gardens

CA

9,323

2,964

12,478


2,964

12,676

15,640


06/01/2004

Hawthorne

CA

3,803

1,532

3,871


1,532

4,122

5,654

1,217

06/26/2007

Hayward

CA

8,461

3,149

8,006

3,081

3,149

11,087

14,236

2,586

07/01/2005

Hemet

CA

4,967

1,146

6,369


1,146

6,688

7,834

1,742

10/19/2011

Hesperia

CA

—








07/02/2012

Hollywood

CA

10,074

4,555

10,590


4,555

10,656

15,211


08/10/2000

Inglewood

CA

5,396

1,379

3,343


1,529

4,156

5,685

1,683

10/19/2011

Irvine

CA

4,989

3,821

3,999


3,821

4,087

7,908


05/28/2014

La Quinta

CA

13,242

4,706

12,604


4,706

12,717

17,423


10/19/2011

Lake Elsinore / Central Ave

CA

3,224


4,219



4,447

5,034


10/19/2011

Lake Elsinore / Collier Ave

CA

—


2,105



2,191

2,485


07/28/2006

Lancaster / West Ave J-8

CA

5,627

1,347

5,827


1,347

6,110

7,457

1,440

10/17/2009

Lancaster / 23rd St W

CA

—

1,425

5,855


1,425

5,953

7,378


06/01/2004

Livermore

CA

—

1,134

4,615


1,134

4,887

6,021

1,381

10/19/2011

Long Beach / E Artesia Blvd

CA

2,697

1,772

2,539


1,772

2,699

4,471


11/01/2013

Long Beach / W Wardlow Rd

CA

5,811

5,859

4,992


5,859

5,004

10,863


03/23/2000

Los Angeles / Casitas Ave

CA

8,838

1,431

2,976


1,611

3,561

5,172

1,362

12/31/2007

Los Angeles / La Cienega

CA

10,079

3,991

9,774


3,991

9,863

13,854

1,790

09/01/2008

Los Angeles / S Central Ave

CA

4,787

2,200

8,108


2,200

8,158

10,358

1,333

07/02/2012

Los Angeles / Fountain Ave

CA

5,138

3,099

4,889


3,099

4,962

8,061


12/02/2013

Los Angeles / S Western Ave

CA

—


2,011



2,197

2,484


04/25/2014

Los Angeles / Slauson Ave

CA

7,487

2,400

8,605


2,401

8,665

11,066


07/17/2012

Los Gatos

CA

—

2,550

8,257


2,550

8,316

10,866


01/01/2004

Manteca

CA

3,625


2,543



2,714

3,562


11/01/2013

Marina Del Rey

CA

17,245

19,928

18,742


19,928

18,790

38,718

2,105

08/29/2013

Menlo Park

CA

—

7,675

1,812


7,675

1,998

9,673


06/01/2007

Modesto / Crows Landing

CA

3,153


3,043



3,330

4,239




Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real
Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Date acquired

or development

completed

Store Name

State

Debt

Land

initial cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Adjustments and

costs subsequent

to acquisition

Notes

Gross carrying amount at December 31, 2014

Accumulated

depreciation

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

08/29/2013

Modesto / Sylvan Ave

CA

—

1,647

4,215


1,647

4,372

6,019


07/02/2012

Moreno Valley

CA

2,084


3,484



3,524

4,006


11/01/2013

North Highlands

CA

2,062


2,801



2,812

3,611


05/01/2006

North Hollywood / Van Owen

CA

6,867

3,125

9,257


3,125

9,458

12,583

2,111

08/29/2013

North Hollywood / Coldwater Canyon

CA

—

4,501

4,465


4,501

4,767

9,268


08/29/2013

Northridge

CA

—

3,641

2,872


3,641

3,132

6,773


04/24/2000

Oakland / Fallon St

CA

4,187

—

3,777

1,037

—

4,814

4,814

1,906

08/29/2013

Oakland / 29th Ave

CA

—

6,359

5,753


6,359

6,010

12,369


12/02/2013

Oakland / San Leandro St

CA

—

1,668

7,652


1,668

7,775

9,443


07/01/2005

Oceanside / Oceanside Blvd 1

CA

9,091

3,241

11,361


3,241

12,233

15,474

3,235

12/09/2014

Oceanside / Oceanside Blvd 2

CA

—

4,508

4,599

—

4,508

4,599

9,107

—

11/30/2012

Orange

CA

12,392

4,847

12,341


4,847

12,568

17,415


12/02/2013

Oxnard

CA

—

5,421

6,761


5,421

6,838

12,259


08/01/2009

Pacoima

CA

2,211

3,050

7,597


3,050

7,691

10,741

1,057

01/01/2005

Palmdale

CA

4,746

1,225

5,379

2,229

1,225

7,608

8,833

1,938

10/19/2011

Paramount

CA

2,596

1,404

2,549


1,404

2,708

4,112


08/31/2000

Pico Rivera / Beverly Blvd

CA

4,073

1,150

3,450


1,150

3,635

4,785

1,265

03/04/2014

Pico Rivera / San Gabriel River Pkwy

CA

—

2,150

4,734

—

2,150

4,734

6,884


10/19/2011

Placentia

CA

6,743

4,798

5,483


4,798

5,708

10,506


05/24/2007

Pleasanton

CA

6,955

1,208

4,283


1,208

4,714

5,922

1,134

06/01/2004

Richmond / Lakeside Dr

CA

4,872


4,635



5,248

6,201

1,579

09/26/2013

Richmond / Meeker Ave

CA

—

3,139

7,437


3,139

7,650

10,789


08/18/2004

Riverside

CA

—

1,075

4,042


1,075

4,586

5,661

1,363

12/02/2013

Rocklin

CA

—

1,745

8,005


1,745

8,047

9,792


11/04/2013

Rohnert Park

CA

—


8,094



8,144

9,134


07/01/2005

Sacramento / Auburn Blvd

CA

3,936


4,720



5,239

6,091

1,444

12/31/2007

Sacramento / Stockton Blvd

CA

2,886


6,936


1,075

7,260

8,335


10/01/2010

Sacramento / Franklin Blvd

CA

3,035

1,738

5,522


1,844

5,533

7,377


06/01/2004

San Bernardino / W Club Center Dr

CA

—

1,213

3,061


1,173

3,236

4,409


06/01/2006

San Bernardino / Sterling Ave.

CA

—


5,135



5,244

5,994

1,114

08/29/2013

San Diego

CA

—

5,919

6,729


5,919

7,029

12,948


10/19/2011

San Dimas

CA

5,394

1,867

6,354


1,867

6,527

8,394


06/14/2007

San Francisco / Folsom

CA

12,203

8,457

9,928

1,806

8,457

11,734

20,191

2,746

08/29/2013

San Francisco / Egbert Ave

CA

—

5,098

4,054


5,098

4,307

9,405


09/01/2009

San Jose / N 10th St

CA

10,784

5,340

6,821


5,340

7,071

12,411


07/26/2012

San Jose / Charter Park Dr

CA

2,455

2,428

2,323


2,428

2,551

4,979


08/01/2007

San Leandro / Doolittle Dr

CA

14,454

4,601

9,777

3,486

4,601

13,263

17,864

2,870

10/01/2010

San Leandro / Washington Ave

CA

—

3,343

6,630

(73

)

(f)

3,291

6,609

9,900


08/29/2013

San Ramon

CA

—

4,819

5,819


4,819

6,016

10,835


08/29/2013

Santa Ana

CA

—

3,485

2,382


3,485

2,579

6,064




Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real
Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Date acquired

or development

completed

Store Name

State

Debt

Land

initial cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Adjustments and

costs subsequent

to acquisition

Notes

Gross carrying amount at December 31, 2014

Accumulated

depreciation

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

07/30/2009

Santa Clara

CA

8,082

4,750

8,218


4,750

8,250

13,000

1,130

07/02/2012

Santa Cruz

CA

8,596

1,588

11,160


1,588

11,231

12,819


10/04/2007

Santa Fe Springs

CA

6,467

3,617

7,022


3,617

7,340

10,957

1,505

10/19/2011

Santa Maria / Farnel Rd

CA

2,944

1,556

2,740


1,556

3,032

4,588


10/19/2011

Santa Maria / Skyway Dr

CA

3,186

1,310

3,526


1,309

3,634

4,943


08/31/2004

Sherman Oaks

CA

16,513

4,051

12,152


4,051

12,621

16,672

3,398

Simi Valley

CA

—

5,533

—

(5,533

)

(d,b g)

—

—

—

—

08/29/2013

Stanton

CA

—

5,022

2,267


5,022

2,486

7,508


05/19/2002

Stockton / Jamestown

CA

2,436


3,272



3,513

4,162

1,168

12/02/2013

Stockton / Pacific Ave

CA

—

3,619

2,443


3,619

2,506

6,125


04/25/2014

Sunland

CA

5,039

1,688

6,381


1,688

6,418

8,106


08/29/2013

Sunnyvale

CA

—

10,732

5,004


10,732

5,197

15,929


05/02/2008

Sylmar

CA

—

3,058

4,671


3,058

4,926

7,984


Thousand Oaks

CA

—

4,500

—

(1,000

)

(d)

3,500

—

3,500

—

07/15/2003

Tracy / E 11th St 1

CA

5,035


2,638



3,284

4,195


04/01/2004

Tracy / E 11th St 2

CA

3,101


1,937



2,217

3,163


06/25/2007

Vallejo

CA

2,934

1,177

2,157

1,075

1,177

3,232

4,409


08/29/2013

Van Nuys

CA

—

7,939

2,576


7,939

2,911

10,850


08/31/2004

Venice

CA

—

2,803

8,410

(3,057

)

(h)

2,803

5,353

8,156

1,442

08/29/2013

Ventura

CA

—

3,453

2,837


3,453

3,025

6,478


10/19/2011

Victorville

CA

—






1,057


07/01/2005

Watsonville

CA

3,187

1,699

3,056


1,699

3,308

5,007


09/01/2009

West Sacramento

CA

—

2,400

7,425


2,400

7,522

9,922

1,030

06/19/2002

Whittier

CA

3,328

—

2,985


—

3,171

3,171

1,048

08/29/2013

Wilmington

CA

—

6,792

10,726


6,792

10,743

17,535


09/15/2000

Arvada

CO

1,808


1,521



2,204

2,490

1,008

05/25/2011

Castle Rock

CO

1,091


3,077



3,260

3,667


08/31/2007

Colorado Springs / Dublin Blvd

CO

3,811


3,400



3,655

4,436


11/25/2008

Colorado Springs / S 8th St

CO

4,123

1,525

4,310


1,525

4,614

6,139


06/10/2011

Colorado Springs / Austin Bluffs Pkwy

CO

1,726


4,199



4,460

4,756


10/24/2014

Colorado Springs / Stetson Hills Blvd

CO

—

2,077

4,087


2,077

4,119

6,196

—

09/15/2000

Denver / E 40th Ave

CO

2,559


2,052

1,369


3,278

4,023

1,283

07/01/2005

Denver / W 96th Ave

CO

3,659


1,574



1,836

2,204


07/18/2012

Fort Carson

CO

—

—

6,945


—

7,044

7,044


09/01/2006

Parker

CO

4,822


4,549



5,329

6,129

1,330

09/15/2000

Thornton

CO

2,804


2,044

1,141


3,149

3,397

1,303

09/15/2000

Westminster

CO

2,115


1,586

1,081


2,659

2,958

1,241

03/17/2014

Bridgeport

CT

—

1,072

14,028


1,072

14,135

15,207


07/02/2012

Brookfield

CT

5,099


7,891



8,010

9,001


01/15/2004

Groton

CT

—

1,277

3,992


1,277

4,398

5,675

1,420



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real
Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Date acquired

or development

completed

Store Name

State

Debt

Land

initial cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Adjustments and

costs subsequent

to acquisition

Notes

Gross carrying amount at December 31, 2014

Accumulated

depreciation

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

12/31/2007

Middletown

CT

2,789


2,810



3,005

3,937


11/04/2013

Newington

CT

—

1,363

2,978


1,363

3,385

4,748


08/16/2002

Wethersfield

CT

4,069


4,205



4,432

5,141

1,451

05/02/2012

Auburndale

FL

1,271


1,076



1,218

1,688


07/15/2009

Bonita Springs

FL

—

2,198

8,215


2,198

8,322

10,520

1,128

12/23/2014

Bradenton

FL

—

1,333

3,677

—

1,333

3,677

5,010

—

11/30/2012

Brandon

FL

4,609

1,327

5,656


1,327

5,784

7,111


06/19/2008

Coral Springs

FL

6,288

3,638

6,590


3,638

6,864

10,502

1,275

01/06/2006

Deland

FL

2,780

1,318

3,971


1,318

4,274

5,592

1,038

08/26/2004

Fort Lauderdale / NW 31st Ave

FL

—

1,587

4,205


1,587

4,558

6,145

1,333

05/04/2011

Fort Lauderdale / S State Rd 7

FL

7,046

2,750

7,002


2,750

7,563

10,313


11/30/2012

Fort Lauderdale / Commercial Blvd

FL

5,094

1,576

5,397


1,576

5,672

7,248


08/26/2004

Fort Myers / Cypress Lake Dr

FL

2,776

1,691

4,711


1,691

5,031

6,722

1,436

07/01/2005

Fort Myers / San Carlos Blvd

FL

4,124

1,985

4,983


1,985

5,462

7,447

1,510

03/08/2005

Greenacres

FL

2,575

1,463

3,244


1,463

3,390

4,853


08/01/2008

Hialeah / Okeechobee Rd

FL

—

2,800

7,588


2,800

7,715

10,515

1,278

01/01/2010

Hialeah / E 65th Street

FL

—

1,750

7,150


1,750

7,255

9,005


09/01/2010

Hialeah / W 84th St

FL

—

1,678

6,807


1,678

6,882

8,560


11/20/2007

Hollywood

FL

6,741

3,214

8,689


3,214

9,015

12,229

1,762

12/28/2012

Kenneth City

FL

2,389


3,345



3,386

4,191


05/02/2012

Lakeland / Harden Blvd

FL

3,847


4,701



4,869

5,462


05/02/2012

Lakeland / South Florida Ave

FL

5,526


6,905



7,116

7,987


09/03/2014

Lakeland / US Hwy 98

FL

—


3,604



3,659

4,188


12/27/2012

Land O Lakes

FL

—


4,490

(7

)

(e)


4,482

5,281


08/26/2004

Madeira Beach

FL

3,695

1,686

5,163


1,686

5,411

7,097

1,517

08/10/2000

Margate

FL

3,329


3,139



3,807

4,276

1,467

08/10/2000

Miami / NW 12th St

FL

—

1,325

4,395


1,440

5,227

6,667

2,036

08/10/2000

Miami / SW 72nd Street

FL

7,893

5,315

4,305

1,385

5,859

5,146

11,005

1,937

05/31/2007

Miami / SW 186th St

FL

4,439

1,238

7,597


1,238

7,914

9,152

1,673

02/04/2011

Miami / SW 147th Ave

FL

—

2,375

5,543


2,374

5,642

8,016


10/25/2011

Miami / Hammocks Blvd

FL

—


5,198



5,327

5,848


07/02/2012

Miami / NW 2nd Ave

FL

5,676

1,979

6,513


1,979

6,667

8,646


07/02/2012

Miami / Coral Way

FL

8,006

3,257

9,713


3,257

9,829

13,086


11/08/2013

Miami / SW 68th Ave

FL

10,079

3,305

11,997


3,305

12,020

15,325


11/30/2009

Miami Gardens

FL

6,757

4,798

9,475


4,798

9,604

14,402

1,254

12/27/2012

N Fort Myers

FL

—


2,372

(3,171

)

(a)

—

—

—

—

11/01/2013

Naples

FL

5,061

1,990

4,887


1,990

5,197

7,187


11/08/2013

Naranja

FL

8,645


11,223



11,251

11,854


08/10/2000

North Lauderdale

FL

4,101


3,516

1,013


4,498

4,957

1,869

06/01/2004

North Miami

FL

8,645

1,256

6,535


1,256

7,118

8,374

2,128



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real
Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Date acquired

or development

completed

Store Name

State

Debt

Land

initial cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Adjustments and

costs subsequent

to acquisition

Notes

Gross carrying amount at December 31, 2014

Accumulated

depreciation

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

03/08/2005

Ocoee

FL

3,047


3,642



3,882

4,754

1,089

08/26/2004

Orlando / LB McLeod Rd

FL

4,272

1,216

5,008


1,216

5,430

6,646

1,556

03/08/2005

Orlando / Hunters Creek

FL

4,026

2,233

9,223


2,233

9,598

11,831

2,616

03/08/2005

Orlando / Metrowest

FL

5,688

1,474

6,101


1,474

6,379

7,853

1,715

03/08/2005

Orlando / Waterford Lakes

FL

3,834

1,166

4,816

1,286

1,166

6,102

7,268

1,553

07/15/2010

Orlando / Orange Blossom Trail

FL

—


2,133



2,215

2,840


11/07/2013

Palm Springs

FL

—

2,108

8,028


2,108

8,138

10,246


Plantation

FL

—

3,850

—

(1,504

)

(d)

2,346

—

2,346

—

08/26/2004

Port Charlotte

FL

—

1,389

4,632


1,389

4,860

6,249

1,359

08/26/2004

Riverview

FL

2,351


2,953



3,224

3,878


11/30/2012

Sarasota / Clark Rd

FL

7,896

4,666

9,016


4,666

9,249

13,915


12/23/2014

Sarasota / Washington Blvd

FL

—

1,192

2,919

—

1,192

2,919

4,111

—

12/03/2012

Seminole

FL

2,473

1,133

3,017


1,133

3,182

4,315


12/23/2014

South Pasadena

FL

—

8,890

10,106

—

8,890

10,106

18,996

—

04/15/2014

Stuart

FL

—

1,640

8,358


1,640

8,488

10,128


11/01/2013

Tamiami

FL

5,718

5,042

7,164


5,042

7,380

12,422


11/22/2006

Tampa / Cypress St

FL

3,601


3,533



3,684

4,565


03/27/2007

Tampa / W Cleveland St

FL

3,779

1,425

4,766


1,425

5,075

6,500

1,160

12/23/2014

Tampa / W Hillsborough Ave

FL

—

1,086

2,937

—

1,086

2,937

4,023

—

08/26/2004

Valrico

FL

4,476

1,197

4,411


1,197

4,669

5,866

1,335

01/13/2006

Venice

FL

6,811

1,969

5,903


1,969

6,219

8,188

1,564

08/10/2000

West Palm Beach / N Military Trail 1

FL

—

1,312

2,511


1,416

3,355

4,771

1,335

08/10/2000

West Palm Beach / Forest Hill Bl

FL

—

1,164

2,511


1,246

3,159

4,405

1,239

07/01/2005

West Palm Beach / Southern Blvd

FL

3,749

1,752

4,909


1,752

5,332

7,084

1,535

12/01/2011

West Palm Beach / S Military Trail

FL

3,399

1,729

4,058


1,730

4,156

5,886


11/01/2013

West Palm Beach / N Military Trail 2

FL

2,437

1,595

2,833


1,595

2,907

4,502


08/08/2006

Alpharetta

GA

2,528

1,893

3,161


1,893

3,331

5,224


08/26/2004

Atlanta / Cheshire Bridge Rd NE

GA

7,820

3,737

8,333


3,737

8,979

12,716

2,497

08/26/2004

Atlanta / Roswell Rd

GA

—

1,665

2,028


1,665

2,284

3,949


02/28/2005

Atlanta / Virginia Ave

GA

6,432

3,319

8,325


3,319

8,881

12,200

2,442

04/03/2014

Atlanta / Mt Vernon Hwy

GA

—

2,961

19,819


2,961

19,890

22,851


08/06/2014

Atlanta / Chattahoochee Ave

GA

—

1,132

10,080


1,132

10,157

11,289


10/22/2014

Atlanta / Edgewood Ave SE

GA

—


10,295



10,296

10,884

—

11/04/2013

Augusta

GA

2,064


2,299



2,350

3,060


01/17/2006

Dacula

GA

3,723

1,993

3,001


1,993

3,156

5,149


06/17/2010

Douglasville

GA

—

1,209



1,209

1,045

2,254


06/14/2007

Duluth

GA

3,448

1,454

4,151


1,454

4,299

5,753


11/30/2012

Eastpoint

GA

5,584

1,718

6,388


1,718

6,499

8,217


06/17/2010

Kennesaw

GA

—


1,151



1,308

1,981


11/04/2013

Lawrenceville

GA

3,400

2,117

2,784


2,117

3,066

5,183




Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real
Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Date acquired

or development

completed

Store Name

State

Debt

Land

initial cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Adjustments and

costs subsequent

to acquisition

Notes

Gross carrying amount at December 31, 2014

Accumulated

depreciation

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

11/12/2009

Lithonia

GA

—

1,958

3,645


1,958

3,765

5,723


06/17/2010

Marietta

GA

—


2,617



2,923

3,810


08/26/2004

Snellville

GA

—

2,691

4,026


2,691

4,340

7,031

1,252

08/26/2004

Stone Mountain / Annistown Rd

GA

2,828

1,817

4,382


1,817

4,678

6,495

1,323

07/01/2005

Stone Mountain / S Hairston Rd

GA

2,573


3,505



3,836

4,761

1,036

06/14/2007

Sugar Hill / Nelson Brogdon Blvd 1

GA

—

1,371

2,547


1,371

2,755

4,126


06/14/2007

Sugar Hill / Nelson Brogdon Blvd 2

GA

—

1,368

2,540


1,368

2,771

4,139


10/15/2013

Tucker

GA

—

1,773

10,456


1,773

10,505

12,278


08/26/2004

Alpharetta

GL

—

1,973

1,587


1,973

1,849

3,822


05/03/2013

Honolulu

HI

—

4,674

18,350


4,674

18,408

23,082


06/25/2007

Kahului

HI

—

3,984

15,044


3,984

15,736

19,720

3,291

06/25/2007

Kapolei / Farrington Hwy 1

HI

9,495

—

24,701


—

25,150

25,150

5,018

12/06/2013

Kapolei / Farrington Hwy 2

HI

—

—

7,776


—

7,787

7,787


05/03/2013

Wahiawa

HI

—

1,317

2,626


1,317

2,703

4,020


11/04/2013

Bedford Park

IL

2,469


3,289



3,414

4,336


07/01/2005

Chicago / South Wabash

IL

4,124


3,428

2,312


5,740

6,361

1,384

07/01/2005

Chicago / West Addison

IL

2,999


2,471



3,247

3,696

1,000

07/01/2005

Chicago / West Harrison

IL

2,718


2,582



3,315

3,787

1,055

02/13/2013

Chicago / Montrose

IL

8,459

1,318

9,485


1,318

9,546

10,864


11/04/2013

Chicago / 60th Street

IL

—

1,363

5,850


1,363

5,979

7,342


11/04/2013

Chicago / 87th St

IL

—

2,881

6,324


2,881

6,333

9,214


11/04/2013

Chicago / Pulaski Rd

IL

3,743

1,143

6,138


1,143

6,249

7,392


Chicago / Stony Island

IL

—

1,925

—

—

1,925

—

1,925

—

07/15/2003

Crest Hill

IL

2,377


2,946



3,611

4,579

1,074

10/01/2007

Gurnee

IL

—

1,374

8,296


1,374

8,421

9,795

1,580

12/01/2011

Highland Park

IL

7,120

5,798

6,016


5,798

6,102

11,900


11/04/2013

Lincolnshire

IL

3,585

1,438

5,128


1,438

5,130

6,568


12/01/2008

Naperville / Ogden Avenue

IL

—

2,800

7,355

(724

)

(d)

1,950

7,481

9,431

1,183

12/01/2011

Naperville / State Route 59

IL

4,834

1,860

5,793


1,860

5,884

7,744


05/03/2008

North Aurora

IL

2,447


5,833



5,974

6,574

1,043

07/02/2012

Skokie

IL

3,996

1,119

7,502


1,119

7,708

8,827


10/15/2002

South Holland

IL

2,464


2,879



3,202

4,067

1,047

08/01/2008

Tinley Park

IL

—

1,823

4,794


1,548

6,050

7,598


10/10/2008

Carmel

IN

—

1,169

4,393


1,169

4,656

5,825


06/27/2011

Connersville

IN

1,114








10/31/2008

Ft Wayne

IN

3,974

1,899

3,292


1,899

3,582

5,481


08/31/2007

Indianapolis / E 65th St

IN

—


3,457



3,763

4,351


10/10/2008

Indianapolis / Dandy Trail-Windham Lake Dr

IN

—


4,545



4,932

5,782


10/10/2008

Indianapolis / Southport Rd-Kildeer Dr

IN

—


2,903



3,236

3,662


11/30/2012

Indianapolis / E 86th St

IN

1,083


1,294



1,453

2,099




Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real
Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Date acquired

or development

completed

Store Name

State

Debt

Land

initial cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Adjustments and

costs subsequent

to acquisition

Notes

Gross carrying amount at December 31, 2014

Accumulated

depreciation

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

10/10/2008

Mishawaka

IN

2,607


3,349



3,639

4,269


06/27/2011

Richmond

IN

—






1,633


04/13/2006

Wichita

KS

2,075


1,897



2,273

2,639


06/27/2011

Covington

KY

1,992


2,543



2,671

3,510


07/01/2005

Louisville / Bardstown Rd

KY

2,812


3,244



3,633

4,219

1,024

07/01/2005

Louisville / Warwick Ave

KY

4,403

1,217

4,611


1,217

4,822

6,039

1,281

12/01/2005

Louisville / Wattbourne Ln

KY

4,714


2,677



2,909

3,801


08/26/2004

Metairie

LA

3,768

2,056

4,216


2,056

4,400

6,456

1,235

08/26/2004

New Orleans

LA

5,327

4,058

4,325


4,058

5,013

9,071

1,490

06/01/2003

Ashland

MA

—


3,324



3,670

4,144

1,339

05/01/2004

Auburn

MA

—


3,728



4,053

4,971

1,543

11/04/2013

Billerica

MA

—

3,023

6,697


3,023

6,805

9,828


05/01/2004

Brockton / Centre St - Rte 123

MA

—


2,762



2,940

3,587

1,053

11/04/2013

Brockton / Oak St

MA

—


6,195



6,522

7,351


11/09/2012

Danvers

MA

7,662

3,115

5,736


3,115

5,885

9,000


03/04/2002

Dedham / Milton St

MA

—

2,127

3,041


2,127

3,667

5,794

1,407

02/06/2004

Dedham / Allied Dr

MA

—

2,443

7,328

1,393

2,443

8,721

11,164

2,659

02/06/2004

East Somerville

MA

—

—

—


—




07/01/2005

Everett

MA

—


2,129



2,915

3,607


05/01/2004

Foxboro

MA

—


4,158



4,624

5,383

1,886

07/02/2012

Framingham

MA

—

—

—


—




05/01/2004

Hudson

MA

3,328


3,122



3,526

4,332

1,471

12/31/2007

Jamaica Plain

MA

9,469

3,285

11,275


3,285

11,874

15,159

2,179

10/18/2002

Kingston

MA

—


2,491



2,646

3,201


06/22/2001

Lynn

MA

—

1,703

3,237


1,703

3,669

5,372

1,366

03/31/2004

Marshfield

MA

4,602

1,039

4,155


1,026

4,411

5,437

1,285

11/14/2002

Milton

MA

—

2,838

3,979

6,642

2,838

10,621

13,459

2,458

11/04/2013

North Andover

MA

—


4,120



4,240

5,013


10/15/1999

North Oxford

MA

—


1,762



2,188

2,714


02/28/2001

Northborough

MA

4,544


2,715



3,252

3,532

1,339

08/15/1999

Norwood

MA

6,626

2,160

2,336

1,783

2,220

4,059

6,279

1,434

07/01/2005

Plainville

MA

4,991

2,223

4,430


2,223

4,864

7,087

1,580

02/06/2004

Quincy

MA

6,910

1,359

4,078


1,359

4,502

5,861

1,320

05/15/2000

Raynham

MA

—


2,270



2,926

3,595

1,109

12/01/2011

Revere

MA

4,963

2,275

6,935


2,275

7,089

9,364


06/01/2003

Saugus

MA

—

1,725

5,514


1,725

6,091

7,816

2,013

06/15/2001

Somerville

MA

11,922

1,728

6,570


1,731

7,346

9,077

2,531

07/01/2005

Stoneham

MA

5,918


5,241



5,420

6,364

1,415

05/01/2004

Stoughton

MA

—

1,754

2,769


1,754

3,084

4,838

1,221

07/02/2012

Tyngsboro

MA

3,463

1,843

5,004


1,843

5,049

6,892




Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real
Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Date acquired

or development

completed

Store Name

State

Debt

Land

initial cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Adjustments and

costs subsequent

to acquisition

Notes

Gross carrying amount at December 31, 2014

Accumulated

depreciation

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

02/06/2004

Waltham

MA

5,176

3,770

11,310

1,115

3,770

12,425

16,195

3,613

09/14/2000

Weymouth

MA

—

2,806

3,129


2,806

3,360

6,166

1,328

02/06/2004

Woburn

MA

—

—

—


—




05/01/2004

Worcester / Millbury St

MA

4,476


4,377

3,172


7,549

8,445

2,504

12/01/2006

Worcester / Ararat St

MA

4,086

1,350

4,433


1,350

4,595

5,945


04/17/2007

Annapolis / Trout Rd

MD

6,437

5,248

7,247


5,248

7,451

12,699

1,550

08/31/2007

Annapolis / Renard Ct - Annex

MD

6,039

1,375

8,896


1,375

9,221

10,596

1,899

07/01/2005

Arnold

MD

8,904

2,558

9,446


2,558

9,899

12,457

2,559

11/01/2008

Baltimore / Moravia Rd

MD

4,424


5,955



6,068

6,868


06/01/2010

Baltimore / N Howard St

MD

—

1,900

5,277


1,900

5,413

7,313


05/31/2012

Baltimore / Eastern Ave 1

MD

4,540

1,185

5,051


1,185

5,181

6,366


02/13/2013

Baltimore / Eastern Ave 2

MD

7,108

1,266

10,789


1,266

10,868

12,134


07/01/2005

Bethesda

MD

11,997

3,671

18,331

1,400

3,671

19,731

23,402

5,407

10/20/2010

Capitol Heights

MD

8,276

1,461

9,866


1,461

10,074

11,535

1,145

03/07/2012

Cockeysville

MD

3,853


5,600



5,804

6,269


07/01/2005

Columbia

MD

7,873

1,736

9,632


1,736

9,914

11,650

2,542

Edgewood

MD

—

1,000

—

(575

)

(d)


—


—

01/11/2007

Ft. Washington

MD

9,040

4,920

9,174


4,920

9,401

14,321

1,997

07/02/2012

Gambrills

MD

4,842

1,905

7,104


1,905

7,206

9,111


07/08/2011

Glen Burnie

MD

4,514

1,303

4,218


1,303

4,527

5,830


06/10/2013

Hanover

MD

7,437

2,160

11,340


2,160

11,395

13,555


02/06/2004

Lanham

MD

12,121

3,346

10,079


2,618

11,428

14,046

3,442

12/27/2007

Laurel

MD

5,977

3,000

5,930


3,000

6,022

9,022

1,149

12/27/2012

Lexington Park

MD

—

4,314

8,412


4,314

8,543

12,857


09/17/2008

Pasadena / Fort Smallwood Rd

MD

3,751

1,869

3,056


1,869

3,759

5,628


03/24/2011

Pasadena / Mountain Rd

MD

—

3,500

7,407


3,500

7,537

11,037


08/01/2011

Randallstown

MD

4,548


6,331



6,611

7,375


09/01/2006

Rockville

MD

12,185

4,596

11,328


4,596

11,650

16,246

2,568

07/01/2005

Towson / East Joppa Rd 1

MD

3,843


4,742



4,963

5,824

1,331

07/02/2012

Towson / East Joppa Rd 2

MD

6,125

1,094

9,598


1,094

9,715

10,809


07/02/2012

Belleville

MI

3,898


4,984



5,068

6,022


07/01/2005

Grandville

MI

1,593


1,298



1,706

2,432


07/01/2005

Mt Clemens

MI

1,968


1,796



2,273

3,071


08/31/2007

Florissant

MO

3,412

1,241

4,648


1,241

4,976

6,217

1,118

07/01/2005

Grandview

MO

1,031


1,770



2,174

2,786


06/01/2000

St Louis / Forest Park

MO

2,564


1,313



1,913

2,086


06/01/2000

St Louis / Halls Ferry Rd

MO

2,593


2,159



2,722

3,412

1,093

08/31/2007

St Louis / Gravois Rd

MO

2,664


3,551



3,876

4,552


08/31/2007

St Louis / Old Tesson Rd

MO

6,624

1,444

4,162


1,444

4,512

5,956

1,006

10/15/2013

Cary

NC

4,311

3,614

1,788


3,614

1,791

5,405




Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real
Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Date acquired

or development

completed

Store Name

State

Debt

Land

initial cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Adjustments and

costs subsequent

to acquisition

Notes

Gross carrying amount at December 31, 2014

Accumulated

depreciation

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

12/11/2014

Greensboro / High Point Rd

NC

—

1,069

4,199

—

1,069

4,199

5,268

—

12/11/2014

Greensboro / Lawndale Drive

NC

—

3,725

7,036

—

3,723

7,038

10,761

—

12/11/2014

Hickory

NC

—


5,418



5,421

6,296

—

06/18/2014

Raleigh

NC

—

2,940

4,265


2,940

4,291

7,231


12/11/2014

Winston-Salem / Peters Creek Pkwy

NC

—

1,548

3,495

—

1,548

3,495

5,043

—

12/11/2014

Winston-Salem / University Pkwy

NC

—

1,131

5,084

—

1,131

5,084

6,215

—

04/15/1999

Merrimack

NH

3,840


3,299



3,835

4,652

1,289

07/01/2005

Nashua

NH

—

—



—




01/01/2005

Avenel

NJ

7,612

1,518

8,037


1,518

8,420

9,938

2,289

12/28/2004

Bayville

NJ

3,747

1,193

5,312


1,193

5,701

6,894

1,595

09/01/2008

Bellmawr

NJ

3,296

3,600

4,765


3,675

4,997

8,672


07/18/2012

Berkeley Heights

NJ

6,981

1,598

7,553


1,598

7,646

9,244


12/18/2014

Burlington

NJ

—


6,534



6,544

7,021

—

11/30/2012

Cherry Hill / Marlton Pike

NJ

2,600

2,323

1,549


2,323

1,706

4,029


12/18/2014

Cherry Hill / Rockhill Rd

NJ

—


3,407



3,427

3,963

—

11/30/2012

Cranbury

NJ

6,910

3,543

5,095


3,543

5,390

8,933


12/18/2014

Denville

NJ

—


14,398

—


14,398

14,982

—

12/31/2001

Edison

NJ

—

2,519

8,547


2,519

9,280

11,799

3,257

12/31/2001

Egg Harbor Township

NJ

4,088

1,724

5,001


1,724

5,719

7,443

2,140

03/15/2007

Ewing

NJ

—

1,552

4,720

(61

)

(c, d)

1,562

4,649

6,211

1,000

07/18/2012

Fairfield

NJ

6,083

—

9,402


—

9,495

9,495


11/30/2012

Fort Lee

NJ

—

4,402

9,831


4,402

10,082

14,484


03/15/2001

Glen Rock

NJ

—

1,109

2,401


1,222

2,846

4,068


07/01/2005

Hackensack / South River St

NJ

—

2,283

11,234


2,283

12,096

14,379

3,299

12/18/2014

Hackensack / Railroad Ave

NJ

—

2,053

9,882


2,053

9,895

11,948

—

08/23/2012

Hackettstown

NJ

5,960

2,144

6,660


2,144

6,798

8,942


07/02/2012

Harrison

NJ

3,592


6,003



6,370

6,670


12/31/2001

Hazlet

NJ

7,700

1,362

10,262


1,362

10,867

12,229

3,784

07/02/2002

Hoboken

NJ

7,876

2,687

6,092


2,687

6,401

9,088

2,117

12/31/2001

Howell

NJ

3,310

2,440

3,407


2,440

3,853

6,293

1,435

12/31/2001

Iselin

NJ

4,764


4,524



5,088

5,593

1,890

11/30/2012

Lawnside

NJ

—

1,249

5,613


1,249

5,827

7,076


02/06/2004

Lawrenceville

NJ

5,421

3,402

10,230


3,402

10,723

14,125

3,165

07/01/2005

Linden

NJ

3,731

1,517

8,384


1,517

8,637

10,154

2,199

12/22/2004

Lumberton

NJ

4,094


4,060



4,309

5,140

1,264

03/15/2001

Lyndhurst

NJ

—

2,679

4,644

1,019

2,928

5,414

8,342

1,796

08/23/2012

Mahwah

NJ

11,084

1,890

13,112


1,890

13,330

15,220


12/16/2011

Maple Shade

NJ

4,161

1,093

5,492


1,093

5,635

6,728


12/07/2001

Metuchen

NJ

5,663

1,153

4,462


1,153

4,803

5,956

1,654

08/28/2012

Montville

NJ

8,083

1,511

11,749


1,511

11,856

13,367




Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real
Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Date acquired

or development

completed

Store Name

State

Debt

Land

initial cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Adjustments and

costs subsequent

to acquisition

Notes

Gross carrying amount at December 31, 2014

Accumulated

depreciation

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

02/06/2004

Morrisville

NJ

—

2,487

7,494

1,214

2,487

8,708

11,195

2,600

07/02/2012

Mt Laurel

NJ

3,046


5,217



5,326

5,655


11/02/2006

Neptune

NJ

7,340

4,204

8,906


4,204

9,264

13,468

2,029

07/18/2012

Newark

NJ

7,430


8,340



8,447

9,253


07/25/2003

North Bergen / River Rd

NJ

9,178

2,100

6,606


2,100

6,913

9,013

2,162

07/01/2005

North Bergen / 83rd St

NJ

10,160

2,299

12,728


2,299

13,224

15,523

3,381

10/06/2011

North Bergen / Kennedy Blvd

NJ

—


17,127



17,297

18,158

1,438

07/18/2012

North Brunswick

NJ

6,212

2,789

4,404


2,789

4,529

7,318


12/31/2001

Old Bridge

NJ

5,605

2,758

6,450

1,001

2,758

7,451

10,209

2,691

05/01/2004

Parlin / Cheesequake Rd

NJ

—

—

5,273


—

5,705

5,705

2,249

07/01/2005

Parlin / Route 9 North

NJ

—

2,517

4,516


2,517

5,039

7,556

1,562

07/18/2012

Parsippany

NJ

6,409

2,353

7,798


2,354

7,910

10,264


06/02/2011

Pennsauken

NJ

3,712

1,644

3,115


1,644

3,343

4,987


12/09/2009

South Brunswick

NJ

2,983

1,700

5,835


1,700

5,978

7,678


07/01/2005

Toms River

NJ

4,920

1,790

9,935


1,790

10,320

12,110

2,772

12/28/2004

Union / Green Ln

NJ

6,416

1,754

6,237


1,754

6,639

8,393

1,872

11/30/2012

Union / Route 22 West

NJ

—

1,133

7,239


1,133

7,392

8,525


11/30/2012

Watchung

NJ

—

1,843

4,499


1,843

4,690

6,533


08/31/2007

Albuquerque / Calle Cuervo NW

NM

4,643

1,298

4,628


1,298

5,261

6,559

1,153

11/30/2012

Albuquerque / Airport Dr NW

NM

1,908


1,797



1,843

2,598


07/02/2012

Santa Fe

NM

5,815

3,066

7,366


3,066

7,704

10,770


11/30/2012

Henderson

NV

8,260

2,934

8,897


2,934

9,066

12,000


02/22/2000

Las Vegas / N Lamont St

NV

1,169





1,220

1,498


06/22/2011

Las Vegas / Jones Blvd

NV

2,432

1,441

1,810


1,441

1,946

3,387


11/30/2012

Las Vegas / W Sahara Ave

NV

4,417


6,006



6,109

6,882


11/30/2012

Las Vegas / W Tropicana Ave

NV

—


4,936



5,015

5,415


11/01/2013

Las Vegas / North Lamb Blvd

NV

3,655


3,900



3,915

4,194


07/02/2012

Amsterdam

NY

—



(956

)

(a)

—

—

—

—

12/19/2007

Bohemia

NY

—

1,456

1,398


1,456

1,773

3,229


08/26/2004

Bronx / Fordham Rd

NY

9,422

3,995

11,870


3,995

12,645

16,640

3,584

12/01/2011

Bronx / Edson Av

NY

17,879

3,450

21,210


3,450

21,586

25,036

1,729

10/02/2008

Brooklyn / 3rd Ave

NY

19,604

12,993

10,405


12,993

10,743

23,736

1,797

05/21/2010

Brooklyn / Atlantic Ave

NY

7,977

2,802

6,536


2,802

6,767

9,569


07/02/2012

Brooklyn / 64th St

NY

21,565

16,188

23,309


16,257

23,573

39,830

1,518

12/11/2014

Brooklyn / Avenue M

NY

—

12,085

7,665

—

12,085

7,665

19,750

—

10/02/2008

Centereach

NY

4,132

2,226

1,657


2,226

1,873

4,099


08/10/2012

Central Valley

NY

—

2,800

12,173


2,800

12,620

15,420


11/23/2010

Freeport

NY

—

5,676

3,784


5,676

4,586

10,262


07/02/2012

Hauppauge

NY

5,580

1,238

7,095


1,238

7,440

8,678


07/02/2012

Hicksville

NY

8,787

2,581

10,677


2,581

10,739

13,320




Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real
Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Date acquired

or development

completed

Store Name

State

Debt

Land

initial cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Adjustments and

costs subsequent

to acquisition

Notes

Gross carrying amount at December 31, 2014

Accumulated

depreciation

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

07/02/2012

Kingston

NY

4,874


6,199



6,290

7,127


11/26/2002

Mt Vernon / N Mac Questen Pkwy

NY

8,167

1,926

7,622


1,926

8,557

10,483

2,692

07/01/2005

Mt Vernon / Northwest St

NY

—

1,585

6,025

2,940

1,585

8,965

10,550

2,305

02/07/2002

Nanuet

NY

3,640

2,072

4,644

1,722

2,739

5,699

8,438

1,924

07/01/2005

New Paltz

NY

4,451

2,059

3,715


2,059

4,146

6,205

1,232

07/01/2005

New York

NY

18,847

3,060

16,978


3,060

17,717

20,777

4,593

12/04/2000

Plainview

NY

7,583

4,287

3,710


4,287

4,399

8,686

1,741

07/18/2012

Poughkeepsie

NY

5,960

1,038

7,862


1,038

7,956

8,994


07/02/2012

Ridge

NY

6,157

1,762

6,934


1,762

6,968

8,730


06/27/2011

Cincinnati / Glencrossing Way

OH

—

1,217

1,941


1,217

2,072

3,289


06/27/2011

Cincinnati / Glendale-Milford Rd

OH

4,541

1,815

5,733


1,815

5,986

7,801


06/27/2011

Cincinnati / Hamilton Ave

OH

—

2,941

2,177


2,941

2,405

5,346


06/27/2011

Cincinnati / Wooster Pk

OH

—

1,445

3,755


1,445

3,989

5,434


07/01/2005

Columbus / Innis Rd

OH

2,718


2,654



3,290

3,773

1,058

11/01/2013

Columbus / Kenny Rd

OH

3,562

1,227

5,057


1,227

5,133

6,360


11/04/2013

Fairfield

OH

—


3,856



4,140

5,044


06/27/2011

Greenville

OH

—








06/27/2011

Hamilton

OH

—


2,910



3,022

3,695


11/30/2012

Hilliard

OH

2,065

1,613

2,369


1,613

2,609

4,222


07/01/2005

Kent

OH

1,406


1,206



1,454

1,674


06/27/2011

Lebanon

OH

—

1,657

1,566


1,657

1,879

3,536


07/02/2012

Mentor / Mentor Ave

OH

1,299


1,609



1,719

2,128


11/30/2012

Mentor / Heisley Rd

OH

1,253


1,267



1,491

2,149


06/27/2011

Middletown

OH

1,267


1,047



1,162

1,695


06/27/2011

Sidney

OH

—








06/27/2011

Troy

OH

—








06/27/2011

Washington Court House

OH

1,409








11/01/2013

Whitehall

OH

1,406


1,965



2,067

2,793


07/02/2012

Willoughby

OH

1,072


1,811



1,855

2,010


06/27/2011

Xenia

OH

1,629


1,022



1,084

1,386


07/01/2005

Aloha / NW 185th Ave

OR

6,117

1,221

6,262


1,221

6,547

7,768

1,754

07/02/2012

Aloha / SW 229th Ave

OR

4,650

2,014

5,786


2,014

5,868

7,882


09/15/2009

King City

OR

3,019

2,520

6,845


2,520

6,911

9,431


12/28/2004

Bensalem / Bristol Pike

PA

3,258

1,131

4,525


1,131

4,828

5,959

1,373

03/30/2006

Bensalem / Knights Rd.

PA

—


3,015



3,209

3,959


11/15/1999

Doylestown

PA

—


3,442

1,095


4,237

4,757

1,457

05/01/2004

Kennedy Township

PA

2,560


3,173



3,431

4,167

1,332

02/06/2004

Philadelphia / Roosevelt Bl

PA

5,559

1,965

5,925

1,116

1,965

7,041

9,006

2,146

11/01/2013

Philadelphia / Wayne Ave

PA

8,435


10,368



10,382

10,978


08/03/2000

Pittsburgh / E Entry Dr

PA

2,560


1,990


1,082

2,800

3,882

1,052



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real
Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Date acquired

or development

completed

Store Name

State

Debt

Land

initial cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Adjustments and

costs subsequent

to acquisition

Notes

Gross carrying amount at December 31, 2014

Accumulated

depreciation

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

05/01/2004

Pittsburgh / Penn Ave

PA

3,776


4,117



4,679

5,568

1,831

01/01/2011

Willow Grove

PA

5,120

1,297

4,027


1,297

4,246

5,543


07/01/2005

Johnston / Hartford Ave

RI

6,655

2,658

4,799


2,658

5,414

8,072

1,519

12/01/2011

Johnston / Plainfield

RI

1,880


2,127



2,197

2,730


08/26/2004

Charleston

SC

3,470

1,279

4,171


1,279

4,408

5,687

1,239

08/26/2004

Columbia / Harban Ct

SC

2,781


3,312



3,564

4,402

1,047

07/19/2012

Columbia / Decker Blvd

SC

3,259

1,784

2,745


1,784

2,820

4,604


08/26/2004

Goose Creek

SC

—

1,683

4,372

1,071

1,683

5,443

7,126

1,431

08/26/2004

Summerville

SC

—


4,454



4,650

5,100

1,307

12/11/2014

Taylors

SC

—

1,433

6,071

—

1,433

6,071

7,504

—

07/02/2012

Bartlett

TN

2,430


3,798



3,879

4,511


07/01/2005

Cordova / N Germantown Pkwy 1

TN

2,531


2,720



3,002

3,854


01/05/2007

Cordova / Patriot Cove

TN

—


2,680



2,839

3,733


04/15/2011

Cordova / Houston Levee Rd

TN

2,014


1,791



1,882

2,534


11/01/2013

Cordova / N Germantown Pkwy 2

TN

6,467

8,187

4,628


8,187

4,663

12,850


11/30/2012

Franklin

TN

7,184

3,357

8,984


3,357

9,162

12,519


07/02/2012

Memphis / Covington Way

TN

1,657


2,623



2,652

2,926


07/02/2012

Memphis / Raleigh-LaGrange

TN

1,007


1,280



1,313

1,423


11/30/2012

Memphis / Summer Ave

TN

3,463

1,040

3,867


1,040

4,032

5,072


11/30/2012

Memphis / Mt Moriah

TN

2,573

1,617

2,875


1,617

3,020

4,637


11/01/2013

Memphis / Mt Moriah Terrace

TN

1,968

1,313

2,928


1,313

2,933

4,246


11/01/2013

Memphis / Riverdale Bend

TN

2,905


4,635



4,759

5,562


04/13/2006

Nashville

TN

2,852


2,598



3,522

3,912

1,090

11/22/2006

Allen

TX

4,507


5,553



5,806

6,707

1,296

08/26/2004

Arlington

TX

2,159


2,525



2,951

3,485


08/26/2004

Austin / Burnet Rd

TX

5,044


4,455



4,806

5,676

1,401

11/01/2013

Austin / McNeil Dr

TX

2,249

3,411

4,502


3,411

4,552

7,963


08/08/2014

Austin / North Lamar Blvd

TX

5,129

1,047

9,969


1,047

9,975

11,022


08/26/2004

Dallas / E NW Hwy

TX

10,541

4,432

6,181

1,174

4,432

7,355

11,787

2,016

04/13/2006

Dallas / Garland Rd

TX

2,004


2,216



2,827

3,164


05/04/2006

Dallas / Inwood Rd

TX

11,274

1,980

12,501


1,980

13,057

15,037

3,003

07/02/2012

Dallas / Preston Rd 1

TX

5,194


7,656



7,759

8,680


08/10/2012

Dallas / Preston Rd 2

TX

3,866

2,542

3,274


2,542

3,540

6,082


11/01/2013

Dallas / N Central Expressway

TX

4,124

7,143

6,353


7,143

6,394

13,537


12/11/2014

Dallas / N Central Expressway—Annex

TX

—

6,249

8,666

—

6,249

8,666

14,915

—

04/01/2011

Euless / W Euless Blvd

TX

2,880


3,213



3,868

4,539


05/08/2013

Euless / Mid-Cities Blvd

TX

4,453

1,374

5,636


1,374

5,712

7,086


11/04/2013

Fort Worth / White Settlement Rd

TX

3,734

3,158

2,512


3,158

2,588

5,746


12/09/2013

Fort Worth / Mandy Lane

TX

—

2,033

2,495


2,033

2,615

4,648


08/26/2004

Ft. Worth

TX

4,507


5,794



6,088

6,719

1,727



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real
Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Date acquired

or development

completed

Store Name

State

Debt

Land

initial cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Adjustments and

costs subsequent

to acquisition

Notes

Gross carrying amount at December 31, 2014

Accumulated

depreciation

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

11/04/2013

Garland

TX

—

1,424

2,209


1,424

2,318

3,742


08/26/2004

Grand Prairie / N Hwy 360 1

TX

2,333


2,330



2,668

3,219


08/10/2012

Grand Prairie / N Hwy 360 2

TX

3,201

2,327

1,551


2,327

1,725

4,052


04/13/2006

Houston / Southwest Freeway

TX

8,768

2,596

8,735


2,596

9,140

11,736

2,135

12/14/2010

Houston / Ryewater Dr

TX

—


1,870



2,062

2,464


02/29/2012

Houston / Space Center Blvd

TX

5,829

1,036

8,133


1,036

8,227

9,263


11/01/2013

Houston / South Main

TX

3,187

2,017

4,181


2,017

4,211

6,228


02/05/2014

Houston / Katy Fwy

TX

—

1,767

12,368


1,767

12,396

14,163


11/04/2013

Killeen

TX

—

1,207

1,688


1,207

2,022

3,229


12/14/2010

La Porte

TX

—

1,608

2,351


1,608

2,624

4,232


11/22/2006

Plano / Plano Parkway

TX

5,160

1,010

6,203


1,010

6,593

7,603

1,455

11/22/2006

Plano / Spring Creek

TX

4,483


3,775



4,058

4,672


11/01/2013

Plano / Wagner Way

TX

3,093

2,753

4,353


2,753

4,393

7,146


08/10/2006

Rowlett

TX

2,138

1,002

2,601


1,002

2,926

3,928


08/26/2004

San Antonio / Culebra Rd

TX

2,425

1,269

1,816


1,269

2,513

3,782


08/26/2004

San Antonio / Westchase Dr

TX

2,458


1,496



1,706

1,959


12/14/2007

San Antonio / DeZavala Rd

TX

6,315

2,471

3,556

(179

)

(e)

2,471

3,377

5,848


04/13/2006

South Houston

TX

3,145


4,069



4,877

5,355

1,277

08/02/2011

Spring / Treaschwig Rd

TX

1,920


1,347



1,516

2,495


07/02/2012

Spring / I-45 North

TX

3,259


5,096



5,290

5,796


10/20/2010

East Millcreek

UT

2,988


3,455



3,620

4,606


11/23/2010

Murray

UT

—



2,125


3,111

3,682


04/01/2011

Orem

UT

2,041


2,335



2,524

3,365


06/01/2004

Salt Lake City

UT

—


2,607



2,974

3,616


07/01/2005

Sandy / South 700 East 1

UT

5,408

1,349

4,372


1,349

4,876

6,225

1,313

09/28/2012

Sandy / South 700 East 2

UT

—

2,063

5,202

1,477

2,063

6,679

8,742


11/23/2010

West Jordan

UT

2,079


2,146



2,555

3,290


07/01/2005

West Valley City

UT

2,756


1,722



1,912

2,373


06/06/2007

Alexandria / S Dove St

VA

—

1,620

13,103


1,620

13,691

15,311

3,026

07/02/2012

Alexandria / N Henry St

VA

13,366

5,029

18,943


5,029

18,990

24,019

1,206

10/20/2010

Arlington

VA

—

—

4,802


—

4,946

4,946

1,768

11/01/2013

Burke

VA

4,780

11,534

7,347


11,534

7,383

18,917

1,103

01/07/2014

Chesapeake / Bruce Rd

VA

—

1,074

9,464


1,074

9,562

10,636


01/07/2014

Chesapeake / Military Hwy

VA

—


4,106



4,194

4,526


01/07/2014

Chesapeake / Poplar Hill Rd

VA

—


9,977



10,079

10,620


01/07/2014

Chesapeake / Woodlake Dr

VA

—

4,014

14,872


4,014

14,953

18,967


05/26/2011

Dumfries

VA

5,179


9,349



9,523

10,455


07/01/2005

Falls Church / Seminary Rd

VA

5,811

1,259

6,975


1,259

7,380

8,639

1,963

11/30/2012

Falls Church / Hollywood Rd

VA

9,006

5,703

13,307


5,713

13,569

19,282


07/02/2012

Fredericksburg / Plank Road

VA

4,265

2,128

5,398


2,128

5,480

7,608




Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real
Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Date acquired

or development

completed

Store Name

State

Debt

Land

initial cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Adjustments and

costs subsequent

to acquisition

Notes

Gross carrying amount at December 31, 2014

Accumulated

depreciation

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

11/30/2012

Fredericksburg / Jefferson Davis Hwy

VA

2,973

1,438

2,459


1,438

2,629

4,067


12/18/2014

Glen Allen

VA

—


8,220

—


8,220

8,829

—

01/07/2014

Hampton

VA

—

7,849

7,040


7,849

7,102

14,951


01/07/2014

Newport News / Denbigh Blvd

VA

5,723

4,619

5,870


4,619

5,991

10,610


01/07/2014

Newport News / J Clyde Morris Blvd

VA

—

4,838

6,124


4,838

6,260

11,098


01/07/2014

Newport News / Tyler Ave

VA

—

2,740

4,955


2,740

5,066

7,806


01/07/2014

Norfolk / Granby St

VA

—

1,785

8,543


1,785

8,628

10,413


01/07/2014

Norfolk / Naval Base Rd

VA

—

4,078

5,975


4,078

6,108

10,186


08/26/2004

Richmond / W Broad St

VA

4,516

2,305

5,467


2,305

5,811

8,116

1,583

01/07/2014

Richmond / Hull St

VA

—

2,016

9,425


2,016

9,508

11,524


01/07/2014

Richmond / Laburnum Ave

VA

—

5,945

7,613


5,945

7,754

13,699


01/07/2014

Richmond / Midlothian Turnpike

VA

—

2,735

5,699


2,735

5,791

8,526


01/07/2014

Richmond / Old Staples Mill Rd

VA

—

5,905

6,869


5,905

6,988

12,893


01/23/2009

Stafford / SUSA Dr

VA

4,373

2,076

5,175


2,076

5,298

7,374


09/20/2012

Stafford / Jefferson Davis Hwy

VA

4,377

1,172

5,562


1,172

5,699

6,871


01/07/2014

Virginia Beach / General Booth Blvd

VA

—

1,142

11,721


1,142

11,759

12,901


01/07/2014

Virginia Beach / Kempsville Rd

VA

—

3,934

11,413


3,934

11,445

15,379


01/07/2014

Virginia Beach / Village Dr

VA

—


13,175



13,250

13,581


02/15/2006

Lakewood / 80th St

WA

4,412

1,389

4,780


1,389

5,090

6,479

1,238

02/15/2006

Lakewood / Pacific Hwy

WA

4,415

1,917

5,256


1,917

5,476

7,393

1,314

04/30/2014

Puyallup

WA

—


3,808



3,810

4,247


07/01/2005

Seattle

WA

7,272

2,727

7,241


2,727

7,477

10,204

1,945

02/15/2006

Tacoma

WA

3,427

1,031

3,103


1,031

3,255

4,286


07/02/2012

Vancouver

WA

3,079


4,280



4,355

5,064


Various

Other corporate assets

—


2,202

73,752

—

76,803

76,803

12,845

Various

Construction in progress

—

—

—

17,870

—

17,870

17,870

—

Various

Intangible tenant relationships and lease rights

—

—

60,011

20,979

—

80,990

80,990

72,740

$

1,872,067

$

1,161,721

$

3,286,329

$

291,982

$

1,153,237

$

3,586,795

$

4,740,032

$

604,336

(a)

Adjustments relate to sale of property

(b)

Adjustment relates to partial disposition of land

(c)

Adjustment relates to asset transfers between land, building and/or equipment

(d)

Adjustment relates to impairment charge

(e)

Adjustment relates to a purchase price adjustment

(f)

Adjustment relates to the acquisition of a joint venture partner’s interest

(g)

Adjustment relates to asset reclassification as an investment

(h)

Adjustment relates to property casualty loss



Activity in real estate facilities during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012
is as follows:




Operating facilities

Balance at beginning of year

$

4,126,648

$

3,379,512

$

2,573,731

Acquisitions

557,158

711,710

761,977

Improvements

32,861

37,949

34,964

Transfers from construction in progress

12,308

3,643

8,957

Dispositions and other

(6,813

)

(6,166

)

(117

)

Balance at end of year

$

4,722,162

$

4,126,648

$

3,379,512

Accumulated depreciation:

Balance at beginning of year

$

496,754

$

391,928

$

319,302

Depreciation expense

109,531

104,963

72,626

Dispositions and other

(1,949

)

(137

)

—

Balance at end of year

$

604,336

$

496,754

$

391,928

Real estate under development/redevelopment:

Balance at beginning of year

$

6,650

$

4,138

$

9,366

Current development

23,528

6,466

3,759

Transfers to operating facilities

(12,308

)

(3,954

)

(8,987

)

Balance at end of year

$

17,870

$

6,650

$

4,138

Net real estate assets

$

4,135,696

$

3,636,544

$

2,991,722

The aggregate cost of real estate for U.S. federal income tax purposes is $4,135,696.



Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

(i)

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We maintain disclosure controls and procedures to
ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in
the rules and forms of the SEC, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure
based on the definition of “disclosure controls and procedures” in

Rule 13a-15(e)

of the Exchange Act. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized
that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and in reaching a reasonable level of assurance, management necessarily was required to
apply its judgment in evaluating the

cost-benefit

relationship of possible controls and procedures.

We have a disclosure committee that is responsible for considering the materiality of information and determining the disclosure obligations
of the Company on a timely basis. The disclosure committee meets quarterly and reports directly to our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.

We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level as of the end of the period covered by this report.

(ii)

Internal Control over Financial Reporting

(a)

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Our management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in

Rule 13a-15(f)

of the Exchange Act. Under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2014.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued the following attestation report over our
internal control over financial reporting.



(b)

Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm

Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Extra Space Storage Inc.

We have audited Extra Space Storage Inc.’s (the “Company”) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2014, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (1992 framework) (the COSO criteria). Extra Space Storage Inc.’s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control
over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Extra Space Storage Inc.
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated
balance sheets as of December 31, 2014, and 2013 and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014 of
Extra Space Storage Inc. and our report dated March 2, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Salt Lake City, Utah

March 2, 2015



(c)

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There was no change in our
internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Exchange Act

Rule 13a-15(f))

that occurred during our most recent quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.

Other Information

None.



PART III

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Information required by this
item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions “Executive Officers,” and “Information About the Board of Directors and its Committees” in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31, 2014.

We have adopted a
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics in compliance with rules of the SEC that applies to all of our personnel, including our board of directors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and principal accounting officer. The Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics is available free of charge on the “Investor Relations—Corporate Governance” section of our web site at www.extraspace.com. We intend to satisfy any disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of

Form 8-K

regarding amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of this Code of Business Conduct and Ethics by posting such information on our web site at the address and location specified above.

The board of directors has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for our Audit Committee and Compensation, Nominating and
Governance Committee, each of which is posted on our website at the address and location specified above. Investors may obtain a free copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, the Corporate Governance Guidelines and the committee charters by
contacting the Investor Relations Department at 2795 East Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 400, Salt Lake City, Utah 84121, Attn: Clint Halverson or by telephoning

(801) 365-4600.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

Information with respect to executive compensation is
incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption “Executive Compensation” in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within
120 days after December 31, 2014.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Information with respect to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters is incorporated by
reference to the information set forth under the captions “Executive Compensation” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Officers” in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31, 2014.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Information
with respect to certain relationships and related transactions is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions “Information about the Board of Directors and its Committees” and “Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions” in our Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31, 2014.

Item 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services

Information with respect to principal accounting
fees and services is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption “Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in our Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31, 2014.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)

Documents filed as part of this report:

(1) and (2). All Financial Statements
and Financial Statement Schedules filed as part of this Annual Report on

10-K

are included in Item 8—“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on

10-K

and reference is made thereto.

(3) The following documents are filed or
incorporated by references as exhibits to this report:

Exhibit

Number

Description

2.1

Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated May 5, 2005 by and among Security Capital Self Storage Incorporated, as seller and Extra Space Storage LLC, PRISA Self Storage LLC, PRISA II Self Storage LLC, PRISA III Self
Storage LLC, VRS Self Storage LLC, WCOT Self Storage LLC and Extra Space Storage LP, as purchaser parties and The Prudential Insurance Company of America (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of

Form 8-K

filed on May 11, 2005).

3.1

Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Extra Space Storage Inc.(1)

3.2

Articles of Amendment of Extra Space Storage Inc., dated September 28, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of

Form 8-K

filed on October 3, 2007).

3.3

Articles of Amendment of Extra Space Storage Inc., dated August 29, 2013 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of

Form 8-K

filed on August 29, 2013).

3.4

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Extra Space Storage Inc.(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of

Form 8-K

filed on May 26, 2009)

3.5

Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Extra Space Storage LP (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of

Form 8-K

filed on December 6,
2013).

3.6

Declaration of Trust of ESS Holdings Business Trust I.(1)

3.7

Declaration of Trust of ESS Holdings Business Trust II.(1)

4.1

Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of July 27, 2005, between Extra Space Storage LP and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of

Form 8-K

filed on August 2, 2005).

4.2

Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of July 27, 2005, among Extra Space Storage LP, as depositor and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as property trustee, Chase Bank USA, National Association, as
Delaware trustee, the Administrative Trustees named therein and the holders of undivided beneficial interest in the assets of ESS Statutory Trust III (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of

Form 8-K

filed on August 2, 2005).

4.3

Junior Subordinated Note (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of

Form 10-K

filed on February 26, 2010)

4.4

Trust Preferred Security Certificates (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of

Form 10-K

filed on February 26, 2010)

4.5

Indenture, dated March 27, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP, Extra Space Storage Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee, including the form of 3.625% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2027 and form of guarantee
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of

Form 8-K

filed on March 28, 2007).

4.6

Indenture, dated June 21, 2013, among Extra Space Storage LP, Extra Space Storage Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee, including the form of 2.375% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2033 and form
of guarantee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of

Form 8-K

filed on June 21, 2013).



Exhibit

Number

Description

10.1

Registration Rights Agreement, by and among Extra Space Storage Inc. and the parties listed on Schedule I thereto.(1)

10.2

License between Centershift Inc. and Extra Space Storage LP.(1)

10.3


Long-Term

Compensation Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective March 25, 2008 (incorporated by reference to the Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on
April 14, 2008)

10.4

Extra Space Storage Performance Bonus Plan.(1)

10.5

Form of 2004 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan Option Award Agreement for Employees with employment agreements. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 of

Form 10-K

filed on
February 26, 2010)

10.6

Form of 2004 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan Option Award Agreement for employees without employment agreements. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of

Form 10-K

filed
on February 26, 2010)

10.7

Form of 2004

Non-Employee

Directors Share Plan Option Award Agreement for Directors. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of

Form 10-K

filed on February 26, 2010)

10.8

Joint Venture Agreement, dated June 1, 2004, by and between Extra Space Storage LLC and Prudential Financial, Inc.(1)

10.9

Extra Space Storage

Non-Employee

Directors’ Share Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 of

Form 10-K/A

filed on March 22,
2007).

10.10

Registration Rights Agreement, dated June 20, 2005, among Extra Space Storage Inc. and the investors named therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of

Form 8-K

filed on June 24, 2005).

10.11

Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 27, 2005, among Extra Space Storage LP, ESS Statutory Trust III and the Purchaser named therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of

Form 8-K

filed on August 2, 2005).

10.12

Registration Rights Agreement, dated March 27, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP, Extra Space Storage Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of

Form 8-K

filed on March 28, 2007).

10.13

Contribution Agreement, dated June 15, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP and various limited partnerships affiliated with AAAAA

Rent-A-Space.

(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 of

Form 10-K

filed on February 26, 2010)

10.14

Promissory Note, dated June 25, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP, H. James Knuppe and Barbara Knuppe (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of

Form 8-K

filed on
June 26, 2007).

10.15

Pledge Agreement, dated June 25, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP, H. James Knuppe and Barbara Knuppe (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of

Form 8-K

filed on
June 26, 2007).

10.16

Registration Rights Agreement among Extra Space Storage LP, H. James Knuppe and Barbara Knuppe. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 of

Form 10-K

filed on
February 26, 2010)

10.17

First Amendment to Contribution Agreement and to Agreement Regarding Transfer of Series A units among Extra Space Storage LP, various limited partnerships affiliated with AAAAA

Rent-A-Space,

H. James Knuppe and Barbara Knuppe, dated September 28, 2007. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of

Form 8-K

filed on
October 3, 2007).

10.18

Membership Interest Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 13, 2012, between Extra Space Properties Sixty Three LLC and PRISA III

Co-Investment LLC

(incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 of

Form 8-K

filed on April 16, 2012).



Exhibit

Number

Description

10.19

2004 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of

Form 10-Q

filed on November 7, 2007).

10.20

First Amendment to Extra Space Storage Inc. 2004

Non-Employee

Directors’ Share Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of

Form 10-Q

filed on November 7, 2007).

10.21

Loan Agreement between ESP Seven Subsidiary LLC as Borrower and General Electric Capital Corporation as Lender, dated October 16, 2007. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 of

Form 10-K

filed on February 26, 2010)

10.22

Subscription Agreement, dated December 31, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LLC and Extra Space Development, LLC. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.31 of

Form 10-K

filed on February 26, 2010)

10.23

Revolving Promissory Note between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as Lender, dated February 13, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 of

Form 10-K

filed on February 26, 2010)

10.24

Revolving Line of Credit between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as Lender, dated February 13, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 of

Form 10-K

filed on February 26, 2010)

10.25

First Loan and Note Modification Agreement between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as lender, dated April 9, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 of

Form 10-K

filed on February 29, 2012).

10.26

Second Loan and Note Modification Agreement between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as lender, dated May 4, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 of

Form 10-K

filed on February 29, 2012).

10.27

Third Loan and Note Modification Agreement between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as lender, dated August 27, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29 of

Form 10-K

filed on February 29, 2012).

10.28

Fourth Loan and Note Modification Agreement between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as lender, dated October 19, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 of

Form 10-K

filed on February 29, 2012).

10.29

Extra Space Storage Inc. Executive Change in Control Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of

Form 8-K

filed on August 31, 2011).

10.30

Registration Rights Agreement, dated June 21, 2013, among Extra Space Storage LP, Extra Space Storage Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 of

Form 8-K

filed on June 21, 2013).

10.31

Letter Agreement, dated as of November 22, 2013, amending the Contribution Agreement, dated June 15, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP and various limited partnerships affiliated with AAAAA Rent-A-Space, and the
Promissory Note, dated June 25, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP, H. James Knuppe and Barbara Knuppe (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Form 10-Q filed on May 8, 2014).

21.1

Subsidiaries of the Company(2)

23.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP(2)

31.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the

Sarbanes-Oxley

Act of 2002.(2)

31.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the

Sarbanes-Oxley

Act of 2002.(2)



Exhibit

Number

Description

32.1

Certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the

Sarbanes-Oxley

Act of
2002.(2)


The following financial information from Registrant’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the period ended December 31, 2014, formatted in Extensible Business Reporting Language
(XBRL): (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2014 and 2013; (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012; (iii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012; (iv) Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012; (v) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012; and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements(2).

(1)

Incorporated by reference to Registration Statement on

Form S-11

(File

No. 333-115436

dated August 11, 2004).

(2)

Filed herewith.

(c)

See Item 15(a)(2) above.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: March 2, 2015

EXTRA

SPACE

STORAGE

INC

.

By:

/

S

/

SPENCER

F

.

KIRK

Spencer F. Kirk

Chief Executive
Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Date: March 2, 2015

By:

/

S

/

SPENCER

F

.

KIRK

Spencer F. Kirk

Chief Executive
Officer

(Principal Executive Officer)

Date: March 2, 2015

By:

/s/

P

.

SCOTT

STUBBS

P. Scott Stubbs

Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial

Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

Date: March 2, 2015

By:

/s/

GRACE

KUNDE

Grace Kunde

Senior Vice
President, Accounting and Finance (Principal Accounting Officer)

Date: March 2, 2015

By:

/s/

KENNETH

M

.

WOOLLEY

Kenneth M. Woolley

Executive Chairman

Date: March 2, 2015

By:

/s/

JOSEPH

D

.

MARGOLIS

Joseph D. Margolis

Director

Date: March 2, 2015

By:

/s/

ROGER

B

.

PORTER

Roger B. Porter

Director

Date: March 2, 2015

By:

/s/

K

.

FRED

SKOUSEN

K. Fred Skousen

Director

Date: March 2, 2015

By:

/s/

DIANE

OLMSTEAD

Diane Olmstead

Director

118