10-K


a2213217z10-k.htm

10-K

Use these links to rapidly review the document


Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

ý

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
from                                  to      
                            .

Commission File Number: 001-32269

EXTRA SPACE STORAGE INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Maryland

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

20-1076777

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

2795 East Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 400

Salt Lake City, Utah 84121

(Address of principal executive offices and zip code)

Registrant's
telephone number, including area code:

(801) 365-4600

Securities
Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $0.01 par value

New York Stock Exchange, Inc.

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes

o

No

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files). Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment of
this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

ý

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do not check if a

smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act). Yes

o

No

ý

.

The aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $2,990,113,517 based upon the closing price on the New York
Stock Exchange on June 29, 2012, the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter. This calculation does not reflect a determination that persons whose
shares are excluded from the computation are affiliates for any other purpose.

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock, $0.01 par value per share, as of February 15, 2013 was
110,742,088.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions
of the registrant's definitive proxy statement to be issued in connection with the registrant's annual stockholders' meeting to be held in 2013 are incorporated by reference
into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


EXTRA SPACE STORAGE INC.


PART I


Item 1.

Business


Item 1A.

Risk Factors


Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments


Item 2.

Properties


Item 3.

Legal Proceedings


Item 4.

Mine Safety Disclosures


PART II


Item 5.

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities


Item 6.

Selected Financial Data


Item 7.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures


Item 9B.

Other Information


PART III


Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance


Item 11.

Executive Compensation


Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters


Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence


Item 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services


PART IV


Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules


SIGNATURES




Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information

Certain information set forth in this report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the
federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include statements concerning our plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events, future revenues or performance, capital expenditures,
financing needs, plans or intentions relating to acquisitions and other information that is not historical information. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such
as "believes," "expects," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "anticipates," or "intends" or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy. We may also
make additional forward-looking statements from time to time. All such subsequent forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, by us or on our behalf, are also expressly qualified by these
cautionary statements.

All forward-looking statements, including without limitation, management's examination of historical operating trends and estimates of future earnings, are based
upon our current expectations and various assumptions. Our expectations, beliefs and projections are expressed in good faith and we believe there is a reasonable basis for them, but there can be no
assurance that management's expectations, beliefs and projections will result or be achieved. All forward-looking statements apply only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to publicly
update or revise forward-looking statements which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained in or
contemplated by this report. Any forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the risks referenced in "Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors" below. Such factors include, but are
not limited to:

•

adverse changes in general economic conditions, the real estate industry and in the markets in
which we operate;

•

the effect of competition from new and existing self-storage facilities or other
storage alternatives, which could cause rents and occupancy rates to decline;

•

difficulties in our ability to evaluate, finance, complete and integrate acquisitions and
developments successfully and to lease up those properties, which could adversely affect our profitability;

•

potential liability for uninsured losses and environmental
contamination;

•

the impact of the regulatory environment as well as national, state, and local laws and
regulations including, without limitation, those governing Real Estate Investment Trusts ("REITs"), which could increase our expenses and reduce our cash available for
distribution;

•

disruptions in credit and financial markets and resulting difficulties in raising capital or
obtaining credit at reasonable rates or at all, which could impede our ability to grow;

•

increased interest rates and operating costs;

•

reductions in asset valuations and related impairment
charges;

•

the failure of our joint venture partners to fulfill their obligations to us or their pursuit of
actions that are inconsistent with our objectives;

•

the failure to maintain our REIT status for federal income tax
purposes;

•

economic uncertainty due to the impact of war or terrorism, which could adversely affect our
business plan; and

•

difficulties in our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and management
members.

The forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and expectations of our future performance, taking into account all information currently
available to us. These beliefs, assumptions and



expectations are subject to risks and uncertainties and can change as a result of many possible events or factors, not all of which are known to us. If a change occurs, our business, financial
condition, liquidity and results of operations may vary materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider these risks before you make an investment
decision with respect to our securities.

We disclaim any duty or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect
new information, future events or otherwise.

PART I

Item 1.    Business

General

Extra Space Storage Inc. ("we," "our," "us" or the "Company") is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment
trust ("REIT") formed as a Maryland corporation on April 30, 2004, to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop professionally managed self-storage facilities. We closed our initial
public offering ("IPO") on August 17, 2004. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "EXR."

We
were formed to continue the business of Extra Space Storage LLC and its subsidiaries (the "Predecessor"), which had engaged in the self-storage business since 1977. These
companies were reorganized after the consummation of our IPO and various formation transactions. As of December 31, 2012, we held ownership interests in 729 operating properties. Of these
operating properties, 448 are wholly-owned, and 281 are owned in joint venture partnerships. An additional 181 operating properties are owned by third parties and operated by us in exchange for a
management fee, bringing the total number of operating properties which we own and/or manage to 910. These operating properties are located in 34 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico and contain
approximately 67.0 million square feet of net rentable space in approximately 610,000 units and currently serve a customer base of over 490,000 tenants.

We
operate in three distinct segments: (1) property management, acquisition and development; (2) rental operations; and (3) tenant reinsurance. Our property
management, acquisition and development activities include managing, acquiring, developing and redeveloping self-storage facilities. Our rental operations activities include rental operations of
self-storage facilities. Tenant reinsurance activities include the reinsurance of risks relating to the loss of goods stored by tenants in the Company's self storage facilities.

Substantially
all of our business is conducted through Extra Space Storage LP (the "Operating Partnership"). Our primary assets are general partner and limited partner interests
in the Operating Partnership. This structure is commonly referred to as an umbrella partnership REIT, or UPREIT. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Internal Revenue Code"). To the extent we continue to qualify as a REIT we will not be subject to tax, with certain exceptions, on our net taxable income that is distributed to our
stockholders.

We
file our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You may obtain copies of these documents by visiting the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330 or by accessing the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In addition, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are furnished to the SEC, we make copies of these documents
available to the public free of charge through our website at www.extraspace.com, or by contacting our Secretary at our principal offices, which are located at 2795 East Cottonwood Parkway,
Suite 400, Salt Lake City, Utah 84121, telephone number (801) 365-4600.



Management

Members of our executive management team have significant experience in all aspects of the self-storage industry, having acquired
and/or developed a significant number of properties since before our IPO. Our executive management team and their years of industry experience are as follows: Spencer F. Kirk, Chief Executive Officer,
15 years; Scott Stubbs, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 12 years; Karl Haas, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, 25 years;
Charles L. Allen, Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, 15 years; and Kenneth M. Woolley, Executive Chairman and Chief Investment Officer, 32 years.

Our
executive management team and board of directors have a significant ownership position in the Company with executive officers and directors owning approximately 6,119,889 shares or
5.5% of our outstanding common stock as of February 15, 2013.

Industry & Competition

Self-storage facilities refers to properties that offer month-to-month storage space rental for personal or business use. Self-storage
offers a cost-effective and flexible storage alternative. Tenants rent fully enclosed spaces that can vary in size according to their specific needs and to which they have unlimited, exclusive access.
Tenants have responsibility for moving their items into and out of their units. Self-storage unit sizes typically range from 5 feet by 5 feet to 20 feet by 20 feet, with an interior height of 8 feet
to 12 feet. Properties generally have on-site managers who supervise and run the day-to-day operations, providing tenants with assistance as needed.

Self-storage
provides a convenient way for individuals and businesses to store their possessions due to life changes, or simply because of a need for storage space. The mix of
residential tenants using a self-storage property is determined by a property's local demographics and often includes people who are looking to downsize their living space or others who are not yet
settled into a permanent residence. Items that residential tenants place in self-storage properties range from cars, boats and recreational vehicles, to furniture, household items and appliances.
Commercial tenants tend to include small business owners who require easy and frequent access to their goods, records, inventory or storage for seasonal goods.

Our
research has shown that tenants choose a self-storage property based primarily on the convenience of the site to their home or business, making high-density, high-traffic population
centers ideal locations for self-storage properties. A property's perceived security and the general professionalism of the site managers and staff are also contributing factors to a site's ability to
successfully secure rentals. Although most self-storage properties are leased to tenants on a month-to-month basis, tenants tend to continue their leases for extended periods of time.

There
are seasonal fluctuations in occupancy rates for self-storage properties. Based on our experience, generally, there is increased leasing activity at self-storage properties during
the spring and summer months. The highest level of occupancy is typically at the end of July, while the lowest level of occupancy is seen in late February and early March.

Since
inception in the early 1970's, the self-storage industry has experienced significant growth. According to the Self-Storage Almanac (the "Almanac"), in 2002 there were only 35,176
self-storage properties in the United States, with an average physical occupancy rate of 85.4% of net rentable square feet, compared to 50,859 self-storage properties in 2012 with an average physical
occupancy rate of 79.7% of net rentable square feet.

We
have encountered competition when we have sought to acquire properties, especially for brokered portfolios. Aggressive bidding practices have been commonplace between both public and
private entities, and this competition will likely continue.



The
industry is also characterized by fragmented ownership. According to the Almanac, the top ten self-storage companies in the United States owned approximately 11.4% of total U.S.
self-storage properties, and the top 50 self-storage companies owned approximately 15.1% of the total U.S. properties as of December 31, 2012. We believe this fragmentation will contribute to
continued consolidation at some level in the future. We also believe that we are well positioned to compete for acquisitions given our historical reputation for closing deals.

We
are the second largest self-storage operator in the United States. We are one of four public self-storage REITs along with Public Storage Inc., Sovran
Self-Storage, Inc., and CubeSmart.

Long-Term Growth and Investment Strategies

Our primary business objectives are to maximize cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders and to achieve sustainable
long-term growth in cash flow per share in order to maximize long-term stockholder value. We continue to evaluate a range of growth initiatives and opportunities, including the
following:

•

Maximize the performance of properties through strategic, efficient and
proactive management.

We pursue revenue-generating and expense-minimizing opportunities in our operations. Our revenue management team
seeks to maximize revenue by responding to changing market conditions through our technology system's ability to provide real-time, interactive rental rate and discount management. Our size allows us
greater ability than the majority of our competitors to implement national, regional and local marketing programs, which we believe will attract more customers to our stores at a lower net cost.

•

Acquire self-storage properties from strategic partners and third
parties.

Our acquisitions team continues to pursue the acquisition of single properties and multi-property portfolios that we believe
can provide stockholder value. We have established a reputation as a reliable, ethical buyer, which we believe enhances our ability to negotiate and close acquisitions. In addition, we believe our
status as an UPREIT enables flexibility when structuring deals. We continue to see available acquisitions on which to bid and are seeing increasing prices. However, we remain a disciplined buyer and
look for acquisitions that will strengthen our portfolio and increase stockholder value.

•

Expand our management
business.

Our management business enables us to generate increased revenues through management fees and expand our geographic footprint.
This expanded footprint enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. In addition, we see our management business as a future acquisition pipeline. We pursue strategic
relationships with owners whose properties would enhance our portfolio in the event an opportunity arises to acquire such properties.



Financing of Our Long-Term Growth Strategies

•

Acquisition and Development
Financing

The
following table presents information on our lines of credit (the "Credit Lines") for the periods indicated (amounts in thousands):

As of December 31, 2012

Line of Credit

Amount

Drawn

Capacity

Interest

Rate

Origination

Date

Maturity

Basis Rate

Notes

Credit Line 1

$

35,000

$

75,000

2.36

%

2/13/2009

2/13/2014

LIBOR plus 2.15%

(1)(4)(5)

Credit Line 2

—

75,000

2.41

%

6/4/2010

5/31/2013

LIBOR plus 2.20%

(2)(4)(5)

Credit Line 3

—

40,000

2.41

%

11/16/2010

11/16/2013

LIBOR plus 2.20%

(3)(4)(5)

Credit Line 4

50,000

50,000

2.36

%

4/29/2011

5/1/2014

LIBOR plus 2.15%

(3)(4)(5)

$

85,000

$

240,000

(1)

One
year extension available

(2)

One
two-year extension available

(3)

Two
one-year extensions available

(4)

Guaranteed
by the Company

(5)

Secured
by mortgages on certain real estate assets

We
expect to maintain a flexible approach in financing new property acquisitions. We plan to finance future acquisitions through a combination of cash, borrowings under the Credit Lines, traditional
secured mortgage financing, joint ventures and additional equity offerings.

•

Joint Venture
Financing

We
own 280 of our stabilized properties and one of our lease-up properties through joint ventures with third parties, including affiliates of Prudential Financial, Inc. In each joint venture,
we generally manage the day-to-day operations of the underlying properties and have the right to participate in major decisions relating to sales of properties or financings by the applicable joint
venture. Our joint venture partners typically provide most of the equity capital required for the operation of the respective business. Under the operating agreements for the joint ventures, we
maintain the right to receive between 2.0% and 58.3% of the available cash flow from operations after our joint venture partners and the Company have received a predetermined return, and between 17.0%
and 65.0% of the available cash flow from capital transactions after our joint venture partners and the Company have received a return of their capital plus such predetermined return. Most joint
venture agreements include buy-sell rights, as well as rights of first refusal in connection with the sale of properties by the joint venture.

•

Disposition of
Properties

We
will continue to review our portfolio for properties or groups of properties that are not strategically located and determine whether to dispose of these properties to fund other growth.

Regulation

Generally, self-storage properties are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to lien sale
rights and procedures. Changes in any of these laws or regulations, as well as changes in laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response and Compensation



Liability
Act, which increase the potential liability for environmental conditions or circumstances existing or created by tenants or others on properties, or laws affecting development, construction,
operation, upkeep, safety and taxation may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, loss of self-storage sites or other impairments to operations, which would adversely affect our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

Under
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the "ADA"), places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled
persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws also exist that may require modifications to the properties, or restrict further
renovations thereof, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could
result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, thereby requiring substantial capital expenditures. To the extent our properties are not in compliance, we are likely to incur additional costs
to comply with the ADA.

Insurance
activities are subject to state insurance laws and regulations as determined by the particular insurance commissioner for each state in accordance with the McCarran-Ferguson
Act, and are subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the privacy regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission pursuant thereto.

Property
management activities are often subject to state real estate brokerage laws and regulations as determined by the particular real estate commission for each state.

Changes
in any of the laws governing our conduct could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business or could materially affect our financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

Employees

As of February 15, 2013, we had 2,283 employees and believe our relationship with our employees is good. Our employees are not
represented by a collective bargaining agreement.

Item 1A.    Risk Factors

An investment in our securities involves various risks. All investors should carefully consider the following risk factors in
conjunction with the other information contained in this Annual Report before trading in our securities. If any of the events set forth in the following risks actually occur, our business, operating
results, prospects and financial condition could be harmed.

Our
performance is subject to risks associated with real estate investments. We are a real estate company that derives our income from operation of our properties. There are a number of
factors that may adversely affect the income that our properties generate, including the following:

Risks Related to Our Properties and Operations

Adverse economic or other conditions in the markets in which we do business could negatively affect our occupancy levels and rental rates and therefore our operating
results.

Our operating results are dependent upon our ability to maximize occupancy levels and rental rates in our self-storage properties.
Adverse economic or other conditions in the markets in which we operate may lower our occupancy levels and limit our ability to increase rents or require us to offer rental discounts. If our
properties fail to generate revenues sufficient to meet our cash requirements, including operating and other expenses, debt service and capital
expenditures, our net income, funds from operations ("FFO"), cash flow, financial condition, ability to make cash distributions to



stockholders
and the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected. The following factors, among others, may adversely affect the operating performance of our properties:

•

the national economic climate and the local or regional economic climate in the markets in which we operate, which may be
adversely impacted by, among other factors, industry slowdowns, relocation of businesses and changing demographics;

•

periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates, or declining demand for self-storage or the public
perception that any of these events may occur could result in a general decline in rental rates or an increase in tenant defaults;

•

a decline or worsening of the current economic environment;

•

local or regional real estate market conditions such as competing properties, the oversupply of self-storage or a
reduction in demand for self-storage in a particular area;

•

perceptions by prospective users of our self-storage properties of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our
properties and the neighborhoods in which they are located;

•

increased operating costs, including the need for capital improvements, insurance premiums, real estate taxes and
utilities;

•

the impact of environmental protection laws;

•

earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters, terrorist acts, civil disturbances or acts of war which may result in
uninsured or underinsured losses; and

•

changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws.

If we are unable to promptly re-let our units or if the rates upon such re-letting are significantly lower than expected, our business and results of operations would be
adversely affected.

Virtually all of our leases are on a month-to-month basis. Any delay in re-letting units as vacancies arise would reduce our revenues
and harm our operating results. In addition, lower than expected rental rates upon re-letting could adversely affect our revenues and impede our growth.

We depend upon our on-site personnel to maximize tenant satisfaction at each of our properties, and any difficulties we encounter in hiring, training and maintaining skilled
field personnel may harm our operating performance.

We had 1,925 field personnel as of February 15, 2013 in the management and operation of our properties. The general
professionalism of our site managers and staff are contributing factors to a site's ability to successfully secure rentals and retain tenants. We also rely upon our field personnel to maintain clean
and secure self-storage properties. If we are unable to successfully recruit, train and retain qualified field personnel, the quality of service we strive to provide at our properties could be
adversely affected which could lead to decreased occupancy levels and reduced operating performance.

Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition and our cash flow.

We maintain comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, wind (as deemed necessary or as required by our lenders), extended
coverage and rental loss insurance with respect to our properties. Certain types of losses, however, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, such as losses due to earthquakes,
hurricanes, tornadoes, riots, acts of war or terrorism. Should an uninsured loss occur, we could lose both our investment in and anticipated profits and cash flow from a property. In addition, if any
such loss is insured, we may be required to pay significant amounts on any claim for recovery of such a loss prior to our insurer being obligated to reimburse us for the loss, or the amount of the
loss may exceed our coverage for the loss. As a result, our operating results may be adversely affected.



Increases in taxes and regulatory compliance costs may reduce our income.

Costs resulting from changes in real estate tax laws generally are not passed through to tenants directly and will affect us. Increases
in income, property or other taxes generally are not passed through to tenants under leases and may reduce our net income, FFO, cash flow, financial condition, ability to pay or refinance our debt
obligations, ability to make cash distributions to stockholders, and the trading price of our securities. Similarly, changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions
existing on properties or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, which could similarly adversely affect our business and
results of operations.

Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with operating our properties may affect our results of operations.

Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, owners and operators of real estate may be liable for the
costs of investigating and remediating certain hazardous substances or other regulated materials on or in such property. Such
laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances or materials. The presence of such substances or
materials, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to lease, sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as
collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances or other regulated materials may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at a
disposal or treatment facility, whether or not such facility is owned or operated by such person. Certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air
and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials.

Certain
environmental laws also impose liability, without regard to knowledge or fault, for removal or remediation of hazardous substances or other regulated materials upon owners and
operators of contaminated property even after they no longer own or operate the property. Moreover, the past or present owner or operator from which a release emanates could be liable for any personal
injuries or property damages that may result from such releases, as well as any damages to natural resources that may arise from such releases.

Certain
environmental laws impose compliance obligations on owners and operators of real property with respect to the management of hazardous materials and other regulated substances.
For example, environmental laws govern the management of asbestos-containing materials and lead-based paint. Failure to comply with these laws can result in penalties or other sanctions.

No
assurances can be given that existing environmental studies with respect to any of our properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner or operator of our
properties did not create any material environmental condition not known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of our properties. There also
exists the risk that material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future. Finally, future laws, ordinances
or regulations and future interpretations of existing laws, ordinances or regulations may impose additional material environmental liability.

Costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 may result in unanticipated expenses.

Under the ADA, places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled
persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties, or restrict certain further
renovations of the properties, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of



damages
to private litigants and also could result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. We have not conducted an audit
or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If one or more of our properties is not
in compliance with the ADA or other legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the facility into compliance. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or
other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to make cash
distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected.

Our tenant reinsurance business is subject to significant governmental regulation, which may adversely affect our results.

Our tenant reinsurance business is subject to significant governmental regulation. The regulatory authorities generally have broad
discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, to promulgate, interpret and implement regulations, and to evaluate compliance with regulations through periodic examinations, audits and
investigations of the affairs of insurance providers. As a result of regulatory or private action in any jurisdiction, we may be temporarily or permanently suspended from continuing some or all of our
reinsurance activities, or otherwise fined or penalized or suffer an adverse judgment, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.

We face competition for the acquisition of self-storage properties and other assets, which may impede our ability to make future acquisitions or may increase the
cost of these acquisitions.

We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities for acquisitions of self-storage
properties and other assets, including national, regional and local operators and developers of self-storage properties. These competitors may drive up the price we pay for
self-storage properties or other assets we seek to acquire or may succeed in acquiring those properties or assets themselves. In addition, our potential acquisition targets may find our
competitors to be more attractive suitors because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In addition, the number of entities
and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase. This competition would result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them.
Because of an increased interest in single- property acquisitions among tax-motivated individual purchasers, we may pay higher prices if we purchase single
properties in comparison with portfolio acquisitions. If we pay higher prices for self-storage properties or other assets, our profitability will be reduced.

We may not be successful in identifying and consummating suitable acquisitions that meet our criteria, which may impede our growth.

Our ability to expand through acquisitions is integral to our business strategy and requires us to identify suitable acquisition
candidates or investment opportunities that meet our criteria and are compatible with our growth strategy. We may not be successful in identifying suitable properties or other assets that meet our
acquisition criteria or in consummating acquisitions or investments on satisfactory terms or at all. Failure to identify or consummate acquisitions will slow our growth, which could in turn adversely
affect our stock price.

Our
ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully integrate and operate them may be constrained by the following significant
risks:

•

competition from local investors and other real estate investors with significant capital, including other publicly-traded
REITs and institutional investment funds;

•

competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price which could reduce our
profitability;



•

the inability to achieve satisfactory completion of due diligence investigations and other customary closing conditions;

•

failure to finance an acquisition on favorable terms or at all;

•

we may spend more than the time and amounts budgeted to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties;
and

•

we may acquire properties subject to liabilities without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to
unknown liabilities such as liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by persons dealing with the former owners of the properties and claims for
indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.

In
addition, strategic decisions by us, such as acquisitions, may adversely affect the price of our securities.

We may not be successful in integrating and operating acquired properties.

We expect to make future acquisitions of self-storage properties. If we acquire any self-storage properties, we
will be required to integrate them into our existing portfolio. The acquired properties may turn out to be less compatible with our growth strategy than originally anticipated, may cause disruptions
in our operations or may divert management's attention away from day-to-day operations, which could impair our operating results as a whole.

We do not always obtain independent appraisals of our properties, and thus the consideration paid for these properties may exceed the value that may be indicated by
third-party appraisals.

We do not always obtain third-party appraisals in connection with our acquisition of properties and the consideration being paid by us
in exchange for those properties may exceed the value determined by third-party appraisals. In such cases, the value of the properties was determined by our senior management team.

Our investments in development and redevelopment projects may not yield anticipated returns, which would harm our operating results and reduce the amount of funds available
for distributions.

To the extent that we engage in development and redevelopment activities, we will be subject to the following risks normally associated
with these projects:

•

we may be unable to obtain financing for these projects on favorable terms or at all;

•

we may not complete development or redevelopment projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts;

•

we may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required
governmental permits and authorizations; and

•

occupancy rates and rents at newly developed or redeveloped properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors,
including market and economic conditions, and may result in our investment not being profitable.

In
deciding whether to develop or redevelop a particular property, we make certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. We may underestimate the costs
necessary to bring the property up to the standards established for its intended market position or may be unable to increase occupancy at a newly developed property as quickly as expected or at all.
Any substantial unanticipated delays or expenses could adversely affect the investment returns from these development or redevelopment projects and harm our operating results, liquidity and financial
condition, which could result in a decline in the value of our securities.



We
may rely on the investments of our joint venture partners for funding certain of our development and redevelopment projects. If our reputation in the self-storage industry
changes or the number of investors considering us an attractive strategic partner is otherwise reduced, our ability to develop or redevelop properties could be affected, which would limit our growth.

Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure

Our business could be harmed if key personnel with long-standing business relationships in the self-storage industry terminate their employment with
us.

Our success depends on the continued services of members of our executive management team, who have substantial experience in the
self-storage industry. In addition, our ability to acquire or develop properties in the future depends on the significant relationships our executive management team has developed with our
institutional joint venture partners such as affiliates of Prudential Financial, Inc. There is no guarantee that any of them will remain employed by us. We do not maintain key person life
insurance on any of our officers. The loss of services of one or more members of our executive management team could harm our business and our prospects.

We may change our investment and financing strategies and enter into new lines of business without stockholder consent, which may subject us to different risks.

We may change our investment and financing strategies and enter into new lines of business at any time without the consent of our
stockholders, which could result in our making investments and engaging in business activities that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and businesses described in this
document. A change in our investment strategy or our entry into new lines of business may increase our exposure to other risks or real estate market fluctuations.

If other self-storage companies convert to an UPREIT structure or if tax laws change, we may no longer have an advantage in competing for potential acquisitions.

Because we are structured as an UPREIT, we are a more attractive acquirer of properties to tax-motivated sellers than our
competitors that are not structured as UPREITs. However, if other self-storage companies restructure their holdings to become UPREITs, this competitive advantage will disappear. In
addition, new legislation may be enacted or new interpretations of existing legislation may be issued by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), or the U.S. Treasury Department that could affect the
attractiveness of our UPREIT structure so that it may no longer assist us in competing for acquisitions.

Tax indemnification obligations may require the Operating Partnership to maintain certain debt levels.

We have provided certain tax protections to various third parties in connection with their property contributions to the Operating
Partnership upon acquisition by the Company, including making available the opportunity to (1) guarantee debt or (2) enter into a special loss allocation and deficit restoration
obligation. We have agreed to these provisions in order to assist these contributors in preserving their tax position after their contributions. These obligations may require us to maintain certain
indebtedness levels that we would not otherwise require for our business.

Our joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority.

As of December 31, 2012, we held interests in 281 operating properties through joint ventures. Some of these arrangements could
be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on co-venturers financial conditions and disputes between us and our co-venturers. We expect
to continue our joint venture strategy by entering into more joint ventures for the purpose of developing new self-storage properties and acquiring existing properties. In such event, we
would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. The decision-making authority regarding the properties we
currently hold



through
joint ventures is either vested exclusively with our joint venture partners, is subject to a majority vote of the joint venture partners or equally shared by us and the joint venture partners.
In addition, investments in partnerships, joint ventures or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that
partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners or co-venturers may have economic or other business
interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the
potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between
us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and efforts on
our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In
addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers, which could harm our financial condition.

Conflicts of interest could arise as a result of our relationship with our Operating Partnership.

Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, and our Operating
Partnership or any partner thereof. Our directors and officers have duties to our Company under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of our Company. At the same time, we,
through our wholly-owned subsidiary, have fiduciary duties, as a general partner, to our Operating Partnership and to the limited partners under Delaware law in connection with the management of our
Operating Partnership. Our duties, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, as a general partner to our Operating Partnership and its partners may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and
officers to our Company. The partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership does not require us to resolve such conflicts in favor of either our Company or the limited partners in our Operating
Partnership. Unless otherwise provided for in the relevant partnership agreement, Delaware law generally requires a general partner of a Delaware limited partnership to adhere to fiduciary duty
standards under which it owes its limited partners the highest duties of good faith, fairness, and loyalty and which generally prohibit such general partner from taking any action or engaging in any
transaction as to which it has a conflict of interest.

Additionally,
the partnership agreement expressly limits our liability by providing that neither we, our direct wholly-owned Massachusetts business trust subsidiary, as the general
partner of the Operating Partnership, nor any of our or their trustees, directors or officers, will be liable or accountable in damages to our Operating Partnership, the limited partners or assignees
for errors in judgment, mistakes of fact or law or for any act or omission if we, or such trustee, director or officer, acted in good faith. In addition, our Operating Partnership is required to
indemnify us, our affiliates and each of our respective trustees, officers, directors, employees and agents to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities (whether joint or several), expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and other legal fees and expenses),
judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts arising from any and all claims, demands, actions, suits or proceedings, civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, that relate to the operations
of the Operating Partnership, provided that our Operating Partnership will not indemnify for (1) willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the law, (2) any transaction for which such
person received an improper personal benefit in violation or breach of any provision of the partnership agreement, or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, the person had reasonable cause
to believe the act or omission was unlawful.

The
provisions of Delaware law that allow the common law fiduciary duties of a general partner to be modified by a partnership agreement have not been resolved in a court of law, and we
have not obtained an opinion of counsel covering the provisions set forth in the partnership agreement that



purport
to waive or restrict our fiduciary duties that would be in effect under common law were it not for the partnership agreement.

Certain provisions of Maryland law and our organizational documents, including the stock ownership limit imposed by our charter, may inhibit market activity in our stock and
could prevent or delay a change in control transaction.

Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve
our qualification as a REIT and to limit any person to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 7.0% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding common
stock or 7.0% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding capital stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from
the ownership limit. However, our board of directors may not grant an exemption from the ownership limit to any proposed transferee whose ownership could jeopardize our qualification as a REIT. These
restrictions on ownership will not apply if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT. The ownership
limit may delay or impede a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our securities or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Different ownership
limits apply to the family of Kenneth M. Woolley, certain of his affiliates, family members and estates and trusts formed for the benefit of the foregoing; to Spencer F. Kirk, certain of his
affiliates, family members and estates and trusts formed for the benefit of the foregoing; and to certain designated investment entities as defined in our charter.

Our board of directors has the power to issue additional shares of our stock in a manner that may not be in the best interest of our stockholders.

Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and
to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares or the number of shares of any class or series without stockholder approval. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any
unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Our board of directors could issue additional shares of our
common stock or establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price for
our securities or otherwise not be in the best interests of our stockholders.

Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited.

Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good
faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition,
our charter eliminates our directors' and officers' liability to us and our stockholders for money damages except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit in money, property
or services or active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and which is material to the cause of action. Our bylaws require us to indemnify our directors and officers for
liability resulting from actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our
directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers.

To the extent our distributions represent a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders could recognize an increased capital gain upon a
subsequent sale of common stock.

Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and not treated by us as a dividend will not be taxable to
a U.S. stockholder under current U.S. federal income tax law to the extent those distributions do not exceed the stockholder's adjusted tax basis in his, her, or its common



stock,
but instead will constitute a return of capital and will reduce such adjusted basis. If distributions result in a reduction of a stockholder's adjusted basis in such holder's common stock,
subsequent sales of such holder's common stock will result in recognition of an increased capital gain or decreased capital loss due to the reduction in such adjusted basis.

Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry

Our primary business involves the ownership and operation of self-storage properties.

Our current strategy is to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop only self-storage properties. Consequently,
we are subject to risks inherent in investments in a single industry. Because investments in real estate are inherently illiquid, this strategy makes it difficult for us to diversify our investment
portfolio and to limit our risk when economic conditions change. Decreases in market rents, negative tax, real estate and zoning law changes and changes in environmental protection laws may also
increase our costs, lower the value of our investments and decrease our income, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.

Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties.

Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in
response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing,
interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us or
whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a
property.

We
may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those
defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a property, we may agree to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other
restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These transfer restrictions would impede our ability to sell a property even if we deem it
necessary or appropriate.

Any investments in unimproved real property may take significantly longer to yield income-producing returns, if at all, and may result in additional costs to us to comply
with re-zoning restrictions or environmental regulations.

We have invested in the past, and may invest in the future, in unimproved real property. Unimproved properties generally take longer to
yield income-producing returns based on the typical time required for development. Any development of unimproved property may also expose us to the risks and uncertainties associated with
re-zoning the land for a higher use or development and environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups. Any unsuccessful investments or delays in realizing an
income-producing return or increased costs to develop unimproved real estate could restrict our ability to earn our targeted rate of return on an investment or adversely affect our ability to pay
operating expenses which would harm our financial condition and operating results.

Any negative perceptions of the self-storage industry generally may result in a decline in our stock price.

To the extent that the investing public has a negative perception of the self-storage industry, the value of our securities
may be negatively impacted, which could result in our securities trading below the inherent value of our assets.



Risks Related to Our Debt Financings

Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms and have other adverse effects on us.

Uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing debt
maturities on favorable terms (or at all), which may negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions and fund development projects. A downturn in the credit markets may cause us to seek alternative
sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for us to sell properties or may
adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing.

Required payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash to operate our properties or to pay the distributions currently contemplated or
necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations.

As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $1.6 billion of outstanding indebtedness. We may incur additional debt in
connection with future acquisitions and development. We may borrow under our Credit Lines or borrow new funds to finance these future properties. Additionally, we do not anticipate that our internally
generated cash flow will be adequate to repay our existing indebtedness upon maturity and, therefore, we expect to repay our indebtedness through refinancings and equity and/or debt offerings.
Further, we may need to borrow funds in order to make cash distributions to maintain our qualification as a REIT or to make our expected distributions.

If
we are required to utilize our Credit Lines for purposes other than acquisition activity, this will reduce the amount available for acquisitions and could slow our growth. Therefore,
our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements could have significant adverse consequences, including the following:

•

our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments;

•

we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, including to make acquisitions or to continue
to make distributions required to maintain our qualification as a REIT;

•

we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms
of our original indebtedness;

•

because a portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates, an increase in interest rates could materially increase
our interest expense;

•

we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms;

•

after debt service, the amount available for cash distributions to our stockholders is reduced;

•

our debt level could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt;

•

we may experience increased vulnerability to economic and industry downturns, reducing our ability to respond to changing
business and economic conditions;

•

we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure their loans
and receive an assignment of rents and leases;

•

we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgages may enforce our guarantees;



•

we may violate restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt
obligations; and

•

our default under any one of our mortgage loans with cross-default or cross-collateralization provisions could result in a
default on other indebtedness or result in the foreclosures of other properties.

We could become highly leveraged in the future because our organizational documents contain no limitation on the amount of debt we may incur.

Our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of indebtedness that we or our Operating Partnership may incur. We
could alter the balance between our total outstanding indebtedness and the value of our portfolio at any time. If we become more highly
leveraged, the resulting increase in debt service could adversely affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and to pay our anticipated cash distributions and/or to continue
to make cash distributions to maintain our REIT qualification, and could harm our financial condition.

Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and make cash distributions to
our stockholders.

As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $1.6 billion of debt outstanding, of which approximately
$298.7 million or 19.0% was subject to variable interest rates (excluding debt with interest rate swaps). This variable rate debt had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 2.3% per
annum. Increases in interest rates on this variable rate debt would increase our interest expense, which could harm our cash flow and our ability to pay cash distributions. For example, if market
rates of interest on this variable rate debt increased by 100 basis points (excluding variable rate debt with interest rate floors), the increase in interest expense would decrease future earnings and
cash flows by approximately $2.6 million annually.

Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations.

In certain cases we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements. Hedging
involves risks, such as the risk that the counterparty may fail to honor its obligations under an arrangement. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our
financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders.

Risks Related to Qualification and Operation as a REIT

To maintain our qualification as a REIT, we may be forced to borrow funds on a short-term basis during unfavorable market conditions.

To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income each year, excluding net
capital gains, and we are subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, we are subject to a 4%
nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions made by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100%
of our undistributed income from prior years. While historically we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, a REIT is permitted to satisfy
these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, its own stock. Assuming we continue to satisfy these distributions requirements with cash, we
may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis, or possibly long-term, to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then prevailing market conditions are not
favorable for these borrowings. These borrowing needs could result from a difference in timing between the actual receipt



of
cash and inclusion of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt amortization payments.

Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates.

The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for dividends paid by domestic corporations to individual U.S. stockholders is 15% (through
2012). Dividends paid by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause stockholders who are
individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the
value of the stock of REITs, including our securities.

In
addition, the relative attractiveness of real estate in general may be adversely affected by the favorable tax treatment given to corporate dividends, which could negatively affect
the value of our properties.

Possible legislative or other actions affecting REITs could adversely affect our stockholders.

The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by
the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. Changes to tax laws (which changes may have retroactive application) could adversely affect our stockholders. It cannot be predicted whether, when, in what
forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws applicable to us or our stockholders will be changed.

The power of our board of directors to revoke our REIT election without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders.

Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our
stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our
taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our net taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on the total return to our stockholders.

Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our stock.

We believe we operate in a manner that allows us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue
Code. If we fail to qualify as a REIT or lose our qualification as a REIT at any time, we will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution for
each of the years involved because:

•

we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject
to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates;

•

we also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and

•

unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four
taxable years following a year during which we were disqualified.

In
addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to stockholders will be subject to tax as regular
corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. This means that our U.S. individual stockholders would be taxed on our dividends at capital gains rates, and our
U.S. corporate



stockholders
would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject, in each case, to applicable limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. If we fail to
qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and are able to avail ourselves of one or more of the relief provisions under the Internal Revenue Code in order to maintain our REIT status, we may
nevertheless be required to pay penalty taxes of $50,000 or more for each such failure. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our
business and raise capital, and could adversely affect the value of our securities.

Qualification
as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative
interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable Treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like
us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to
qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the composition of our assets, the sources of our gross income and the owners of our stock. Our ability to
satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the fair market value of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent
appraisals. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding capital gains, and we will be subject to income tax at regular
corporate rates to the extent we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income including capital gains. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court
decisions may adversely affect our investors, our ability to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments.
Although we believe that we have been organized and have operated in a manner that is intended to allow us to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we can give no assurance that we have qualified or will
continue to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service regarding our qualification as a REIT.

We will pay some taxes.

Even though we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay some U.S. federal, state and local
taxes on our income and property. Extra Space Management, Inc. manages self-storage properties for our joint venture properties and properties owned by third parties. We, jointly
with Extra Space Management, Inc., elected to treat Extra Space Management, Inc. as a taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS") of our Company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A taxable REIT
subsidiary is a fully taxable corporation, and may be limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us. ESM Reinsurance Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Extra Space
Management, Inc., generates income from insurance premiums that are subject to federal income tax and state insurance premiums tax. In addition, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on
certain amounts if the economic arrangements among our tenants, our taxable REIT subsidiary and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties or if we receive payments for
inventory or property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Also, if we sell property as a dealer (i.e., to customers in the ordinary course of our trade or business),
we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on any gain arising from such sales. While we don't intend to sell properties as a dealer, the IRS could take a contrary position. To the extent that we are,
or our taxable REIT subsidiary is, required to pay U.S. federal, state or local taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to stockholders.



Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.

To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the
sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to
forego attractive business or investment opportunities. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate solely to maximize profits.

Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2.    Properties

As of December 31, 2012, we owned or had ownership interests in 729 operating self-storage properties. Of these
properties, 448 are wholly-owned and 281 are held in joint ventures. In addition, we managed an additional 181 properties for third parties bringing the total number of properties which we own and/or
manage to 910. These properties are located in 34 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico. We receive a management fee generally equal to approximately 6% of cash collected from total revenues to
manage the joint venture and third party sites. As of December 31, 2012, we owned and/or managed approximately 67.0 million square feet of rentable space configured in approximately
610,000 separate storage units. Approximately 81% of our properties are clustered around large population centers, such as Atlanta, Baltimore/Washington, D.C., Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Houston, Las
Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, New York City, Orlando, Philadelphia, Phoenix, St. Petersburg/Tampa and San Francisco/Oakland. These markets contain above-average population and income demographics
for new self-storage properties. The clustering of assets around these population centers enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. Our acquisitions have given
us an increased scale in many core markets as well as a foothold in many markets where we had no previous presence.

We
consider a property to be in the lease-up stage after it has been issued a certificate of occupancy, but before it has achieved stabilization. We consider a property to be
stabilized once it has achieved either an 80% occupancy rate for a full year measured as of January 1, or has been open for three years.

As
of December 31, 2012, over 490,000 tenants were leasing storage units at the 910 operating properties that we own and/or manage, primarily on a
month-to-month basis, providing the flexibility to increase rental rates over time as market conditions permit. Although leases are short-term in duration, the
typical tenant tends to remain at our properties for an extended period of time. For properties that were stabilized as of December 31, 2012, the average length of stay was approximately
13 months. The average annual rent per square foot at these stabilized properties was approximately $13.88 at December 31, 2012, compared to $13.50 at December 31, 2011.

Our
property portfolio is made up of different types of construction and building configurations depending on the site and the municipality where it is located. Most often sites are what
we consider "hybrid" facilities, a mix of both drive-up buildings and multi-floor buildings. We have a number of multi-floor buildings with elevator access only, and a number of facilities
featuring ground-floor access only.



The following table presents additional information regarding the occupancy of our stabilized properties by state as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. The
information as of December 31, 2011, is on a pro forma basis as though all the properties owned at December 31, 2012, were under our control as of December 31, 2011.

Stabilized Property Data Based on Location

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Location

Number of

Properties

Number of

Units

as of

December 31,

2012(1)

Number of

Units

as of

December 31,


Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31,

2012(2)

Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31,


Square

Foot

Occupancy %

December 31,


Square

Foot

Occupancy %

December 31,


Wholly-owned properties

Alabama


1,971

1,957

233,643

233,429

85.4

%

77.2

%

Arizona


5,754

5,745

664,711

664,886

87.4

%

86.5

%

California


58,300

58,107

6,008,132

6,009,544

87.0

%

83.6

%

Colorado


5,290

5,256

660,425

661,320

88.6

%

86.5

%

Connecticut


2,644

2,650

257,813

257,848

88.8

%

90.0

%

Florida


29,213

29,197

3,175,399

3,178,605

86.5

%

84.2

%

Georgia


9,190

9,194

1,176,667

1,177,561

86.9

%

84.1

%

Hawaii


2,788

2,796

137,785

138,084

86.0

%

85.7

%

Illinois


8,070

8,032

872,672

873,699

90.6

%

85.8

%

Indiana


4,600

4,615

542,543

541,609

89.6

%

87.2

%

Kansas




50,350

50,340

84.9

%

89.5

%

Kentucky


2,151

2,155

254,115

254,065

90.1

%

89.2

%

Louisiana


1,412

1,413

149,865

150,165

89.3

%

88.5

%

Maryland


14,559

14,536

1,572,741

1,570,891

87.3

%

87.4

%

Massachusetts


19,572

19,390

2,000,034

1,988,816

89.2

%

88.8

%

Michigan


1,781

1,772

253,072

252,512

87.1

%

87.7

%

Missouri


3,155

3,156

374,537

374,912

86.9

%

88.5

%

Nevada


3,207

3,214

546,203

495,277

83.4

%

79.2

%

New Hampshire


1,005

1,005

125,773

124,873

90.2

%

90.3

%

New Jersey


35,248

35,328

3,402,478

3,404,398

89.6

%

87.7

%

New Mexico


1,592

1,579

216,064

215,864

86.2

%

87.8

%

New York


17,543

17,552

1,481,265

1,481,570

89.0

%

88.6

%

Ohio


9,670

9,748

1,257,321

1,248,006

88.9

%

83.7

%

Oregon


1,409

1,409

174,660

174,670

92.0

%

93.0

%

Pennsylvania


5,728

5,726

650,755

655,710

88.8

%

90.2

%

Rhode Island


1,180

1,181

130,836

130,756

86.3

%

84.2

%

South Carolina


2,700

2,698

327,725

327,478

85.9

%

84.6

%

Tennessee


4,926

4,889

673,159

668,954

85.3

%

84.3

%

Texas


16,095

16,085

1,894,205

1,891,005

87.4

%

85.5

%

Utah


4,032

3,845

503,750

484,974

87.3

%

87.0

%

Virginia


7,485

7,490

757,546

757,432

86.8

%

86.3

%

Washington


3,054

3,072

370,630

370,745

86.6

%

84.2

%

Total Wholly-Owned Stabilized


285,830

285,297

30,896,874

30,809,998

87.8

%

85.8

%



Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Location

Number of

Properties

Number of

Units

as of

December 31,

2012(1)

Number of

Units

as of

December 31,


Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31,

2012(2)

Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31,


Square

Foot

Occupancy %

December 31,


Square

Foot

Occupancy %

December 31,


Joint-venture properties

Alabama


1,147

1,145

145,213

145,063

89.7

%

84.6

%

Arizona


4,211

4,195

493,191

493,422

88.6

%

89.2

%

California


55,510

55,292

5,732,449

5,732,572

90.9

%

88.0

%

Colorado


1,320

1,316

158,553

158,513

88.5

%

82.3

%

Connecticut


5,298

5,299

612,255

611,890

88.9

%

89.2

%

Delaware




71,680

71,680

92.8

%

93.7

%

Florida


15,274

15,673

1,532,906

1,565,600

87.8

%

85.4

%

Georgia


1,061

1,063

151,684

151,644

86.8

%

79.5

%

Illinois


4,328

4,288

436,411

436,371

89.4

%

87.6

%

Indiana


2,145

2,135

283,611

284,591

91.9

%

89.3

%

Kansas




108,990

108,905

85.0

%

82.2

%

Kentucky


2,289

2,281

270,013

269,845

89.5

%

87.1

%

Maryland


10,534

10,492

1,023,779

1,019,754

88.8

%

87.9

%

Massachusetts


6,871

6,867

777,077

777,977

90.2

%

86.7

%

Michigan


4,749

4,696

611,558

611,943

91.2

%

88.8

%

Missouri




61,275

61,275

88.5

%

90.8

%

Nevada


3,062

3,082

325,923

326,895

86.7

%

81.7

%

New Hampshire


1,309

1,310

137,024

137,314

89.7

%

87.2

%

New Jersey


12,869

12,880

1,356,579

1,357,758

90.7

%

87.9

%

New Mexico


3,612

3,603

398,007

398,376

80.8

%

85.2

%

New York


14,119

14,121

1,106,469

1,105,940

92.8

%

89.9

%

Ohio


3,946

3,926

531,937

532,477

87.1

%

85.8

%

Oregon




64,970

64,970

93.2

%

94.9

%

Pennsylvania


7,944

7,991

799,590

799,911

89.6

%

88.9

%

Tennessee


9,288

9,238

1,214,916

1,213,839

85.8

%

84.7

%

Texas


10,536

10,464

1,388,171

1,381,405

89.3

%

88.2

%

Virginia


9,337

9,343

993,256

993,239

86.7

%

87.2

%

Washington, DC


1,529

1,529

101,989

101,989

90.6

%

89.1

%

Total Joint-Ventures Stabilized


194,903

194,833

20,889,476

20,915,158

89.4

%

87.4

%



Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Location

Number of

Properties

Number of

Units

as of

December 31,

2012(1)

Number of

Units

as of

December 31,


Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31,

2012(2)

Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31,


Square

Foot

Occupancy %

December 31,


Square

Foot

Occupancy %

December 31,


Managed properties

Arizona




67,460

67,300

69.5

%

54.8

%

California


32,763

33,075

4,275,594

4,255,844

73.8

%

71.6

%

Colorado


1,525

1,521

167,393

167,290

91.0

%

87.6

%

Connecticut




61,480

61,360

78.6

%

72.8

%

Florida


9,016

9,025

1,059,613

1,053,656

81.8

%

78.0

%

Georgia


1,437

1,432

183,800

180,550

80.0

%

77.0

%

Hawaii


3,449

3,516

195,833

202,429

65.5

%

57.1

%

Illinois


2,984

2,952

312,785

312,808

88.4

%

74.5

%

Indiana




55,225

55,225

81.0

%

74.9

%

Kentucky




66,868

66,100

89.4

%

91.2

%

Louisiana


1,013

1,015

134,940

135,315

76.5

%

65.7

%

Maryland


4,237

4,216

448,335

448,500

90.3

%

87.2

%

Massachusetts


4,267

4,306

376,423

376,623

61.7

%

59.8

%

Missouri


1,206

1,222

151,716

152,736

84.7

%

82.2

%

Nevada


1,562

1,566

170,575

170,375

75.6

%

78.4

%

New Jersey


4,114

4,127

430,198

427,358

74.4

%

70.3

%

New Mexico


1,109

1,105

132,137

132,262

88.8

%

87.5

%

North Carolina


5,130

5,224

577,589

577,804

80.0

%

79.0

%

Pennsylvania


6,980

7,031

860,662

860,285

82.9

%

79.5

%

South Carolina




88,430

88,130

88.6

%

80.5

%

Tennessee


1,503

1,491

206,465

205,225

87.3

%

86.4

%

Texas


4,119

4,128

551,599

544,094

87.0

%

83.4

%

Utah




136,005

136,005

74.8

%

74.8

%

Virginia


2,517

2,516

258,481

258,472

76.0

%

74.6

%

Washington




56,590

56,590

85.6

%

82.9

%

Washington, DC


1,263

1,263

112,459

112,459

84.7

%

89.0

%

Puerto Rico


2,775

2,775

289,003

289,003

80.2

%

80.2

%

Total Managed Stabilized


96,930

97,476

11,427,658

11,393,798

78.3

%

75.3

%

Total Stabilized Properties


577,663

577,606

63,214,008

63,118,954

86.6

%

84.5

%

(1)

Represents
unit count as of December 31, 2012, which may differ from unit count as of December 31, 2011, due to unit conversions or
expansions.

(2)

Represents
net rentable square feet as of December 31, 2012, which may differ from net rentable square feet as of December 31, 2011, due to
unit conversions or expansions.

The following table presents additional information regarding the occupancy of our lease-up properties by state as of
December 31, 2012 and 2011. The information as of December 31, 2011, is on a pro forma basis as though all the properties owned at December 31, 2012, were under our control as of
December 31, 2011.



Lease-up Property Data Based on Location

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Company

Pro forma

Location

Number of

Properties

Number of

Units

as of

December 31,

2012(1)

Number of

Units

as of

December 31,


Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31,

2012(2)

Net Rentable

Square Feet

as of

December 31,


Square

Foot

Occupancy %

December 31,


Square

Foot

Occupancy %

December 31,


Wholly-owned properties

Arizona




71,355

71,355

57.0

%

36.0

%

California


5,455

4,806

591,953

528,983

78.5

%

66.6

%

Florida


5,522

5,670

576,266

577,001

81.1

%

54.4

%

Maryland


1,675

1,677

172,035

172,035

72.5

%

45.3

%

Massachusetts




72,770

74,025

64.4

%

63.8

%

New Jersey




66,267

66,967

90.6

%

75.4

%

Oregon




75,950

75,950

92.0

%

77.3

%

Tennessee




70,700

68,750

77.1

%

68.9

%

Total Wholly-Owned in Lease up


15,831

15,201

1,697,296

1,635,066

78.3

%

59.5

%

Joint-venture properties

California




88,013

87,853

88.5

%

75.2

%

Total Joint-Ventures in Lease up




88,013

87,853

88.5

%

75.2

%

Managed properties

Colorado


1,086

1,100

121,044

121,494

87.9

%

44.0

%

Florida


4,113

4,174

404,548

401,422

66.2

%

56.8

%

Georgia


2,138

2,167

374,470

374,104

72.9

%

62.3

%

Maryland


1,822


170,295

88,200

45.5

%

12.1

%

Massachusetts


1,572

1,573

137,337

137,207

43.9

%

33.0

%

New York



—

94,545

—

22.2

%

0.0

%

North Carolina


1,353


175,592

103,655

64.5

%

81.8

%

Pennsylvania




68,409

68,609

81.3

%

74.6

%

Rhode Island




91,095

91,075

41.0

%

42.4

%

South Carolina




76,335

76,435

83.3

%

65.4

%

Texas


1,551

1,594

171,238

172,377

50.7

%

26.8

%

Utah



—

66,750

—

82.8

%

0.0

%

Total Managed in Lease up


17,508

14,775

1,951,658

1,634,578

62.4

%

51.5

%

Total Lease up Properties


34,310

30,958

3,736,967

3,357,497

70.2

%

56.0

%

(1)

Represents
unit count as of December 31, 2012, which may differ from unit count as of December 31, 2011, due to unit conversions or
expansions.

(2)

Represents
net rentable square feet as of December 31, 2012, which may differ from net rentable square feet as of December 31, 2011, due to
unit conversions or expansions.



Item 3.    Legal Proceedings

We are involved in various litigation and legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. We are not a party to any material
litigation or legal proceedings, or to the best of our knowledge, any threatened litigation or legal proceedings which, in the opinion of management, will have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition or results of operations either individually or in the aggregate.

Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures

Not Applicable.

PART II

Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Market Information

Our common stock has been traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "EXR" since our IPO on August 17,
2004. Prior to that time there was no public market for our common stock.

The
following table presents, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales price for our common stock as reported by the NYSE and the per share dividends declared:

Range

Dividends

Declared

Year

Quarter

High

Low


1st

$

20.92

$

17.39

$

0.14

2nd

22.22

19.27

0.14

3rd

22.44

17.81

0.14

4th

24.68

17.29

0.14


1st

28.92

23.80

0.20

2nd

30.82

27.45

0.20

3rd

35.17

30.21

0.20

4th

36.56

32.59

0.25

On
February 15, 2013, the closing price of our common stock as reported by the NYSE was $38.70. At February 15, 2013, we had 275 holders of record of our common stock.
Certain shares of the Company are held in "street" name and accordingly, the number of beneficial owners of such shares is not known or included in the foregoing number.

Holders
of shares of common stock are entitled to receive distributions when declared by our board of directors out of any assets legally available for that purpose. As a REIT, we are
required to distribute at least 90% of our "REIT taxable income," which is generally equivalent to our net taxable ordinary income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid to our
stockholders annually in order to maintain our REIT qualification for U.S. federal income tax purposes.

Information
about our equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference in Item 12 of Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities

On April 26, 2012, we issued 684,685 shares of our common stock and the Operating Partnership paid approximately
$87.7 million in cash to holders of the Operating Partnership's exchangeable senior



notes
in exchange for approximately $87.7 million in aggregate principal amount of the exchangeable senior notes at the request of holders pursuant to the terms of the indenture governing the
notes.

The
shares were issued in transactions exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Rule 506 of
Regulation D promulgated thereunder. The issuance of the shares did not involve a public offering and was made without general solicitation or advertising.

In
December 2012, we issued 304,817 shares of our common stock to limited partners in the Operating Partnership in exchange for an equal number of Operating Partnership units. The shares
were issued pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership in transactions exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.



Item 6.    Selected Financial Data

The following table presents selected financial data and should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto
included in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this
Form 10-K (amounts in thousands, except share and per share data).

For the Year Ended December 31,






Revenues:

Property rental

$

346,874

$

268,725

$

232,447

$

238,256

$

235,695

Tenant reinsurance and management fees

62,522

61,105

49,050

41,890

37,036

Total revenues

409,396

329,830

281,497

280,146

272,731

Expenses:

Property operations

114,028

95,481

86,165

88,935

84,522

Tenant reinsurance

7,869

6,143

6,505

5,461

5,066

Acquisition related costs, loss on sublease and severance

5,351

5,033

3,235

21,236

1,727

General and administrative

50,454

49,683

44,428

40,224

39,388

Depreciation and amortization

74,453

58,014

50,349

52,403

49,566

Total expenses

252,155

214,354

190,682

208,259

180,269

Income from operations

157,241

115,476

90,815

71,887

92,462

Interest expense

(72,294

)

(69,062

)

(65,780

)

(69,818

)

(68,671

)

Interest income

6,666

5,877

5,748

6,432

8,249

Gain on repurchase of exchangeable senior notes

—

—

—

27,928

6,311

Loss on investments available for sale

—

—

—

—

(1,415

)

Income before equity in earnings of real estate ventures and income tax expense

91,613

52,291

30,783

36,429

36,936

Equity in earnings of real estate ventures

10,859

7,287

6,753

6,964

6,932

Equity in earnings of real estate ventures—gain on sale of real estate assets and purchase of joint venture partners' interests

30,630

—

—

—

—

Income tax expense

(5,413

)

(1,155

)

(4,162

)

(4,300

)

(519

)

Net income

127,689

58,423

33,374

39,093

43,349

Noncontrolling interests in Operating Partnership and other

(10,380

)

(7,974

)

(7,043

)

(7,116

)

(7,568

)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

117,309

$

50,449

$

26,331

$

31,977

$

35,781

Net income per common share

Basic

$

1.15

$

0.55

$

0.30

$

0.37

$

0.46

Diluted

$

1.14

$

0.54

$

0.30

$

0.37

$

0.46

Weighted average number of shares

Basic

102,290,200

92,097,008

87,324,104

86,343,029

76,966,754

Diluted

106,523,015

96,683,508

92,050,453

91,082,834

82,352,988

Cash dividends paid per common share

$

0.85

$

0.56

$

0.40

$

0.38

$

1.00

Balance Sheet Data

Total assets

$

3,223,477

$

2,517,524

$

2,249,820

$

2,407,566

$

2,291,008

Total notes payable, notes payable to trusts, exchangeable senior notes and lines of credit

$

1,577,599

$

1,363,656

$

1,402,977

$

1,402,977

$

1,286,820

Noncontrolling interests

$

53,524

$

54,814

$

57,670

$

62,040

$

68,023

Total stockholders' equity

$

1,491,807

$

1,018,947

$

881,401

$

884,179

$

878,770

Other Data

Net cash provided by operating activities

$

215,879

$

144,164

$

104,815

$

81,165

$

98,391

Net cash used in investing activities

$

(606,938

)

$

(251,919

)

$

(83,706

)

$

(104,410

)

$

(244,481

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

$

395,360

$

87,489

$

(106,309

)

$

91,223

$

172,685



Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto
appearing elsewhere in this report. We make statements in this section that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. For a complete discussion of
forward-looking statements, see the section in this Form 10-K entitled "Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information." Certain risk factors may cause actual results, performance
or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the following discussion. For a discussion of such risk factors, see the section in this Form 10-K entitled
"Risk Factors." Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data.

Overview

We are a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, formed to
continue the business commenced in 1977 by our predecessor companies to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop professionally managed self-storage properties.

At
December 31, 2012, we owned, had ownership interests in, or managed 910 operating properties in 34 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico. Of these 910 operating properties,
we owned 448, we held joint venture interests in 281 properties, and our taxable REIT subsidiary, Extra Space Management, Inc., operated an additional 181 properties that are owned by third
parties. These operating properties contain approximately 67.0 million square feet of rentable space in approximately 610,000 units and currently serve a customer base of over 490,000 tenants.

Our
properties are generally situated in convenient, highly visible locations clustered around large population centers such as Atlanta, Baltimore/Washington, D.C., Boston, Chicago,
Dallas, Houston, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, New York City, Orlando, Philadelphia, Phoenix, St. Petersburg/Tampa and San Francisco/Oakland. These areas all enjoy above average population
growth and income levels. The clustering of our assets around these population centers enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. We consider a property to be in the
lease-up stage after it has been issued a certificate of occupancy, but before it has achieved stabilization. A property is considered to be stabilized once it has achieved an 80%
occupancy rate for a full year measured as of January 1, or has been open for three years.

To
maximize the performance of our properties, we employ state-of-the-art, web-based tracking and yield management technology, and an
industry-leading revenue management system. Developed by our management team, these systems enable us to analyze, set and adjust rental rates in real time across our portfolio in order to respond to
changing market conditions. We believe our systems and processes allow us to more proactively manage revenues.

We
derive substantially all of our revenues from rents received from tenants under existing leases at each of our wholly-owned self-storage properties, from management fees
on the properties we manage for joint-venture partners and unaffiliated third parties, and from our tenant reinsurance program. Our management fee is generally equal to approximately 6% of cash
collected from total revenues generated by the managed properties. We also receive an asset management fee of 0.5% of the total asset value from one of our joint ventures.

We
operate in competitive markets, often where consumers have multiple self-storage properties from which to choose. Competition has impacted, and will continue to impact,
our property
results. We experience seasonal fluctuations in occupancy levels, with occupancy levels generally higher in the summer months due to increased moving activity. Our operating results depend materially
on our ability to lease available self-storage units, to actively manage unit rental rates, and on the ability of our tenants to make required rental payments. We believe that we are able
to respond quickly and effectively to changes in local, regional and national economic conditions by adjusting rental rates through the use of our systems.



We
continue to evaluate and implement a range of new initiatives and opportunities in order to enable us to maximize stockholder value. Our strategies to maximize stockholder value
include the following:

•

Maximize the performance of properties through strategic, efficient and proactive
management.

We pursue revenue-generating and expense-minimizing opportunities in our operations. Our revenue management team seeks to maximize revenue by responding to changing
market conditions through our technology system's ability to provide real-time, interactive rental rate and discount management. Our size allows us greater ability than the majority of our
competitors to implement national, regional and local marketing programs, which we believe will attract more customers to our stores at a lower net cost.

•

Acquire self-storage properties from strategic partners and
third parties.

Our acquisitions team continues to pursue the acquisition of single properties and multi-property portfolios that we
believe can provide stockholder value. We have established a reputation as a reliable, ethical buyer, which we believe enhances our ability to negotiate and close acquisitions. In addition, we believe
our status as an UPREIT enables flexibility when structuring deals. We continue to see available acquisitions on which to bid and are seeing increasing prices. However, we remain a disciplined buyer
and look for acquisitions that will strengthen our portfolio and increase stockholder value.

•

Expand our management
business.

Our management business enables us to generate increased revenues through management fees and expand our geographic footprint.
This expanded footprint enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. In addition, we see our management business as a future acquisition pipeline. We pursue strategic
relationships with owners whose properties would enhance our portfolio in the event an opportunity arises to acquire the properties.

During
2012, we acquired 91 wholly-owned properties and completed the development of one wholly-owned property.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these
financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues
and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions, including those that impact our most critical accounting policies. We base our estimates and
assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following are
our most critical accounting policies:

CONSOLIDATION:

Arrangements that are not controlled through voting or similar rights are accounted for as variable interest entities
("VIEs"). An
enterprise is required to consolidate a VIE if it is the primary beneficiary of the VIE.

A
VIE is created when (i) the equity investment at risk is not sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from
other parties, or (ii) the entity's equity holders as a group either: (a) lack the power, through voting or similar rights, to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly
impact the entity's economic performance, (b) are not obligated to absorb expected losses of the entity if they occur, or (c) do not have the right to receive expected residual returns
of the entity if they occur. If an entity is deemed to be a VIE, the enterprise that is deemed to have a variable interest, or combination of variable interests, that provides the



enterprise
with a controlling financial interest in the VIE is considered the primary beneficiary and must consolidate the VIE.

We
have concluded that under certain circumstances when we (1) enter into option agreements for the purchase of land or facilities from an entity and pay a
non-refundable deposit, or (2) enter into arrangements for the formation of joint ventures, a VIE may be created under condition (i), (ii) (b) or (c) of
the previous paragraph. For each VIE created, we have performed a qualitative analysis, including considering which party, if any, has the power to direct the activities most significant to the
economic performance of each VIE and whether that party has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could be significant to the VIE. If we are
determined to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE, the assets, liabilities and operations of the VIE are consolidated with our financial statements. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had
no consolidated VIEs. Additionally, our Operating Partnership has notes payable to three trusts that are VIEs under condition (ii)(a) above. Since the Operating Partnership is not the primary
beneficiary of the trusts, these VIEs are not consolidated.

REAL ESTATE ASSETS:

Real estate assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Direct and allowable internal costs associated
with the
development, construction, renovation, and improvement of real estate assets are capitalized. Interest, property taxes, and other costs associated with development incurred during the construction
period are capitalized.

Expenditures
for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Major replacements and betterments that improve or extend the life of the asset are capitalized and
depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the buildings and improvements, which are
generally between 5 and 39 years.

In
connection with our acquisition of properties, the purchase price is allocated to the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired based on their fair values, which are
estimated using significant unobservable inputs. The value of the tangible assets, consisting of land and buildings, are determined as if vacant. Intangible assets, which represent the value of
existing tenant relationships, are recorded at their fair values based on the avoided cost to replace the current leases. We measure the value of tenant relationships based on the rent lost due to the
amount of time required to replace existing customers which is based on our historical experience with turnover in our facilities. Debt assumed as part of an acquisition is recorded at fair value
based on current interest rates compared to contractual rates. Acquisition-related transaction costs are expensed as incurred.

Intangible
lease rights include: (1) purchase price amounts allocated to leases on three properties that cannot be classified as ground or building leases; these rights are
amortized to expense over the term of the leases; and (2) intangibles related to ground leases on five properties where the ground leases were assumed by the Company at rates that were
different than the current market rates for similar leases. The value associated with these assumed leases were recorded as intangibles, which will be amortized over the lease terms.

EVALUATION OF ASSET IMPAIRMENT:

We evaluate long lived assets held for use when events or circumstances indicate that there may be
impairment. We
review each property at least annually to determine if any such events or circumstances have occurred or exist. We focus on properties where occupancy and/or rental income have decreased by a
significant amount. For these properties, we determine whether the decrease is temporary or permanent and whether the property will likely recover the lost occupancy and/or revenue in the short term.
In addition, we carefully review properties in the lease-up stage and compare actual operating results to original projections.

When
we determine that an event that may indicate impairment has occurred, we compare the carrying value of the related long-lived assets to the undiscounted future net
operating cash flows attributable to the assets. An impairment loss is recorded if the net carrying value of the assets exceeds



the
undiscounted future net operating cash flows attributable to the assets. The impairment loss recognized equals the excess of net carrying value over the related fair value of the assets.

When
real estate assets are identified as held for sale, we discontinue depreciating the assets and estimate the fair value of the assets, net of selling costs. If the estimated fair
values, net of selling costs, of the assets that have been identified for sale are less than the net carrying value of the assets, a valuation allowance is established. The operations of assets held
for sale or sold during the period are generally presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented.

INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES:

Our investments in real estate joint ventures where we have significant influence but not control,
and joint
ventures which are VIEs in which we are not the primary beneficiary, are recorded under the equity method of accounting on the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Under
the equity method, our investment in real estate ventures is stated at cost and adjusted for our share of net earnings or losses and reduced by distributions. Equity in earnings of
real estate ventures is generally recognized based on our ownership interest in the earnings of each of the unconsolidated real estate ventures. For the purposes of presentation in the statement of
cash flows, we follow the "look through" approach for classification of distributions from joint ventures. Under this approach, distributions are reported under operating cash flow unless the facts
and circumstances of a specific distribution clearly indicate that it is a return of capital (e.g., a liquidating dividend or distribution of the proceeds from the joint venture's sale of
assets) in which case it is reported as an investing activity.

Our
management assesses annually whether there are any indicators that the value of our investments in unconsolidated real estate ventures may be impaired and when events or
circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. An investment is impaired if management's estimate of the fair value of the investment, using significant unobservable inputs, is less than its
carrying value. To the extent impairment has occurred and is considered to be other than temporary, the loss is measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the fair value of
the investment.

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES:

The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on the intended use
of the
derivative and the resulting designation. Derivatives used to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability or firm commitment attributable to a particular risk, are
considered fair value hedges. Derivatives used to hedge the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges.

For
derivatives designated as fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivative and the hedged item related to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings. For derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is initially reported in other comprehensive income, outside of earnings and subsequently
reclassified to earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings.

REVENUE AND EXPENSE RECOGNITION:

Rental revenues are recognized as earned based upon amounts that are currently due from tenants.
Leases are
generally on month-to-month terms. Prepaid rents are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases. Promotional discounts are recognized as a
reduction to rental income over the promotional period. Late charges, administrative fees, merchandise sales and truck rentals are recognized in income when earned. Management fee revenues are
recognized monthly as services are performed and in accordance with the terms of the related management agreements. Tenant reinsurance premiums are recognized as revenues over the period of insurance
coverage. Equity in earnings of real estate entities is recognized based on our ownership interest in the earnings of each of the unconsolidated real estate entities. Interest income is recognized as
earned.



Property
expenses, including utilities, property taxes, repairs and maintenance and other costs to manage the facilities are recognized as incurred. We accrue for property tax expense
based upon
invoice amounts, estimates and historical trends. If these estimates are incorrect, the timing of expense recognition could be affected.

INCOME TAXES:

We have elected to be treated as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. In order to
maintain our
qualification as a REIT, among other things, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders and meet certain tests regarding the nature of our income and
assets. As a REIT, we are not subject to federal income tax with respect to that portion of our income which meets certain criteria and is distributed annually to our stockholders. We plan to continue
to operate so that we meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT. Many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. If we were to fail to meet these requirements, we would be
subject to federal income tax. We are subject to certain state and local taxes. Provision for such taxes has been included in income tax expense in our consolidated statements of operations.

We
have elected to treat one of our corporate subsidiaries, Extra Space Management, Inc., as a taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS"). In general, our TRS may perform additional services
for tenants and generally may engage in any real estate or non-real estate related business. A TRS is subject to corporate federal income tax. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Interest and penalties relating to uncertain tax positions will be recognized in income tax expense
when incurred.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In July 2012, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU No. 2012-02, "

Testing
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment

" ("ASU 2012-02"), which provides companies with the option to first assess qualitative factors in determining
whether events and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. If, after assessing the totality of events and circumstances, an entity
concludes that it is not more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, then the entity is not required to take further action. However, if an entity concludes otherwise,
then it is required to determine the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset and perform the quantitative impairment test by comparing the fair value with the carrying value. Previously,
companies were required to perform the quantitative impairment test at least annually. As permitted, we adopted these provisions in 2012. The adoption of ASU 2012-02 did not have a
material impact on our financial position or results of operations.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2012 to the Year Ended December 31, 2011

Overview

Results for the year ended December 31, 2012, included the operations of 729 properties (449 of which were consolidated and 280
of which were in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method) compared to the results for the year ended December 31, 2011, which included operations of 697 properties (357 of which
were consolidated and 340 of which were in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method).



Revenues

The following table presents information on revenues earned for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Revenues:

Property rental

$

346,874

$

268,725

$

78,149

29.1

%

Tenant reinsurance

36,816

31,181

5,635

18.1

%

Management fees

25,706

29,924

(4,218

)

(14.1

)%

Total revenues

$

409,396

$

329,830

$

79,566

24.1

%

Property Rental

—The increase in property rental revenues consists primarily of an
increase of $56,777 associated with acquisitions completed in 2012 and 2011. We completed the acquisition of 91 properties during 2012 and 55 properties during 2011. In addition, revenues
increased by $15,493 as a result of increases in occupancy and rental rates to existing customers at our stabilized properties. We have seen no significant increase in overall customer renewal rates;
our average length of stay is approximately 13 months. For existing customers we seek to increase rental rates approximately 7% to 10% at least annually. Occupancy at our stabilized properties
increased to 87.8% at December 31, 2012, as compared to 85.8% at December 31, 2011. Rental rates to new tenants increased by approximately 4.1% over the same period in the prior year.
Finally, revenues at our lease-up properties increased by $5,879 as a result of increased occupancy.

Tenant Reinsurance

—The increase in tenant reinsurance revenues was partially due to the increase in overall customer participation to 67% at
December 31, 2012, compared to approximately 63% at December 31, 2011. In addition, we operated 910 properties at December 31, 2012, compared to 882 at December 31, 2011.

Management Fees

—Our taxable REIT subsidiary, Extra Space Management, Inc., manages properties owned by our joint ventures and third parties.
Management fees generally represent 6% of cash collected from properties owned by third parties and unconsolidated joint ventures. The Company also earns an asset management fee from the Storage
Portfolio I ("SPI") joint venture, equal to 0.50% multiplied by the total asset value, provided certain conditions are met.

During
2011, it was discovered that the asset management fee owed to the Company by the SPI joint venture had not been recorded by either party for the five-year period ended
December 31, 2010. The annual asset management fee for this period was $885. After determining that the amounts were not material either in the prior periods or the year ended
December 31, 2011 for restatement purposes, $4,425 of asset management fees earned during the five-year period ended December 31, 2010, was recorded in the year ended
December 31, 2011. There were no such adjustments made during the year ended December 31, 2012.



Expenses

The following table presents information on expenses for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Expenses:

Property operations

$

114,028

$

95,481

$

18,547

19.4

%

Tenant reinsurance

7,869

6,143

1,726

28.1

%

Acquisition-related costs

5,351

2,896

2,455

84.8

%

Severance costs

—

2,137

(2,137

)

(100.0

)%

General and administrative

50,454

49,683


1.6

%

Depreciation and amortization

74,453

58,014

16,439

28.3

%

Total expenses

$

252,155

$

214,354

$

37,801

17.6

%

Property Operations

—The increase in property operations expense consists primarily of increases of $18,375 related to acquisitions completed in 2012
and 2011. We completed the acquisition of 91 properties during the year ended December 31, 2012 and completed the acquisition of 55 properties during the year ended December 31,
2011.

Tenant Reinsurance

—Tenant reinsurance expense represents the costs that are incurred to provide tenant reinsurance. The increase is due primarily to
approximately $1,000 of claims related to Superstorm Sandy which affected sites in the northeastern United States in October 2012.

Acquisition-Related Costs

—These costs relate to acquisition activities during the periods indicated. The increases were related to increased
acquisition activity when compared to the prior year. During 2012, we acquired 91 properties, compared to 55 properties during the year ended December 31, 2011.

Severance Costs

—The severance costs recorded during the year ended December 31, 2011, relate to severance granted to our former Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, Kent Christensen, who left the Company on December 7, 2011. There were no severance costs incurred during the year ended December 31, 2012.

General and Administrative

—General and administrative expenses primarily include all expenses not related to our properties, including corporate
payroll, travel and professional fees. The expenses are recognized as incurred. General and administrative expense increased over the prior year primarily as a result of the costs related to the
management of additional properties. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we purchased 91 properties, 31 of which we did not previously manage. We did not observe any material trends
specific to payroll, travel or other expense that contributed significantly to the increase in general and administrative expenses apart from the increase due to the management of additional
properties. Also included in general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011, is an expense of $1,800 related to litigation matters. There were no such expenses
incurred during the year ended December 31, 2012.

Depreciation and Amortization

—Depreciation and amortization expense increased as a result of the acquisition and development of new properties. We
acquired 91 properties and completed the development of one property during the year ended December 31, 2012.



Other Income and Expenses

The following table presents information on other revenues and expenses for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Other income and expenses:

Interest expense

$

(71,850

)

$

(67,301

)

$

(4,549

)

6.8

%

Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of discount on exchangeable senior
notes

(444

)

(1,761

)

1,317

(74.8

)%

Interest income

1,816

1,027


76.8

%

Interest income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

4,850

4,850

—

—

Equity in earnings of real estate ventures

10,859

7,287

3,572

49.0

%

Equity in earnings of real estate assets—gain on sale of real estate ventures and purchase of joint venture partners' interests

30,630

—

30,630

100.0

%

Income tax expense

(5,413

)

(1,155

)

(4,258

)

100.0

%

Total other expense, net

$

(29,552

)

$

(57,053

)

$

27,501

(48.2

)%

Interest Expense

—The increase in interest expense was primarily the result of an increase in the total amount of debt outstanding. At
December 31, 2012, our total face value of debt was $1,574,280, compared to total face value of debt of $1,359,254 at December 31, 2011. The increase was partially offset by lower
average interest rates of 4.2% as of December 31, 2012, compared to 4.7% as of December 31, 2011.

Non-cash Interest Expense Related to Amortization of Discount on Exchangeable Senior Notes

—Represents the amortization of the discount on
exchangeable senior notes, which reflects the effective interest rate relative to the carrying amount of the liability. All of the outstanding notes were surrendered for exchange in April 2012.

Interest Income

—Interest income represents amounts earned on cash and cash equivalents deposited with financial institutions. The increase in interest
income is due to higher average cash balances during the year ended December 31, 2012, primarily as a result of the cash proceeds received from stock offerings completed in April 2012 and
November 2012.

Interest Income on Note Receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership Unit Holder

—Represents interest on a $100,000 loan to the holder of the
Series A Participating Redeemable Preferred units of our Operating Partnership (the "Preferred OP units").

Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Ventures

—The increase in equity in earnings of real estate ventures was due primarily to an increase in revenues at
joint ventures, which resulted from higher occupancy and rental rates to new and existing customers. This increase was partially offset by a slight decrease in equity in earnings due to the
acquisition of our joint venture partners' interests in two joint ventures in July 2012 and November 2012.

During
2011, there was an increase of approximately $1,100 in equity in earnings as a result of the asset management fee expense recorded by the SPI joint venture in the prior year.
During 2011, it was discovered that the asset management fee owed to us by the SPI joint venture had not been recorded by either party for the five-year period ended December 31,
2010. The annual asset management fee for this period was $885, offset by an annual reduction of $221 of equity in earnings of SPI. The total prior period adjustment for the years 2006 through 2010
that was recorded during the year ended



December 31,
2011, increased asset management fee revenues by $4,425 and decreased equity in earnings by $1,106. There were no similar adjustments made during the year ended December 31,
2012.

Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Ventures—Gain on Sale of Real Estate Assets and Purchase of Joint Venture Partners' Interests

—In
December 2012, two joint ventures in which we held a 20.0% equity interest, each sold its only self-storage property. As a result of the sales, the joint ventures were dissolved, and we
received cash proceeds which resulted in a gain of $1,409.

On
November 30, 2012, we acquired our joint venture partner's 80.0% interest in the Storage Portfolio Bravo II LLC joint venture ("SPB II"). This transaction resulted in a
non-cash gain of $10,171, which represents the increase in fair value of our 20.0% interest in SPB II from the formation of the joint venture to the acquisition date.

On
July 2, 2012, we acquired Prudential Real Estate Investors' ("PREI®") 94.9% interest in the ESS PRISA III LLC joint venture ("PRISA III"). This transaction
resulted in a non-cash gain of $13,499, which represents the increase in fair value of our 5.1% interest in PRISA III from the formation of the joint venture to the acquisition date.

In
February 2012, a joint venture in which we held a 40% equity interest sold its only self-storage property. As a result of the sale, the joint venture was dissolved, and we
received cash proceeds which resulted in a gain of $5,550.

Income Tax Expense

—The increase in income tax expense relates primarily to increased tenant reinsurance income earned by our taxable REIT subsidiary.

Net Income Allocated to Noncontrolling Interests

The following table presents information on net income allocated to noncontrolling interests for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Net income allocated to noncontrolling interests:

Net income allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests

$

(6,876

)

$

(6,289

)

$

(587

)

9.3

%

Net income allocated to Operating Partnership and other noncontrolling interests

(3,504

)

(1,685

)

(1,819

)

108.0

%

Total income allocated to noncontrolling
interests:

$

(10,380

)

$

(7,974

)

$

(2,406

)

30.2

%

Net Income Allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership Noncontrolling Interests

—Income allocated to the Preferred Operating Partnership equals the
fixed distribution paid to the Preferred OP unit holder plus approximately 0.9% and 1.0% of the remaining net income allocated after the adjustment for the fixed distribution paid for the years ended
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The amount allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interest was higher in 2012 when compared to 2011, as a result of an increase in
net income.

Net Income Allocated to Operating Partnership and Other Noncontrolling Interests

—Income allocated to the Operating Partnership represents
approximately 2.9% and 3.2% of net income after the allocation of the fixed distribution paid to the Preferred OP unit holder for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.



Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2011 to the Year Ended December 31, 2010

Overview

Results for the year ended December 31, 2011, included the operations of 697 properties (357 of which were consolidated and 340
of which were in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method) compared to the results for the year ended December 31, 2010, which included operations of 660 properties (296 of which
were consolidated and 364 of which were in joint ventures accounted for using the equity method).

Revenues

The following table sets forth information on revenues earned for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Revenues:

Property rental

$

268,725

$

232,447

$

36,278

15.6

%

Management and franchise fees

29,924

23,122

6,802

29.4

%

Tenant reinsurance

31,181

25,928

5,253

20.3

%

Total revenues

$

329,830

$

281,497

$

48,333

17.2

%

Property Rental

—The increase in property rental revenues consists primarily of an
increase of $20,303 associated with acquisitions completed in 2011 and 2010, an increase of $9,934 resulting from increases in occupancy and rental rates to existing customers at our stabilized
properties and an increase of $6,961 related to increases in occupancy at our lease-up properties. This is offset by a decrease of $920 related to the sale of 19 properties to a joint
venture with Harrison Street Real Estate Capital LLC in January 2010.

Tenant Reinsurance

—The increase in tenant reinsurance revenues was partially due to the increase in overall customer participation to 63% at
December 31, 2011, compared to approximately 60% at December 31, 2010. In addition, we operated 882 properties at December 31, 2011, compared to 820 at December 31, 2010.

Management Fees

—Our taxable REIT subsidiary, Extra Space Management, Inc., manages properties owned by our joint ventures and third parties.
Management fees generally represent 6% of cash collected from properties owned by third parties and unconsolidated joint ventures. We also earn an asset management fee from the SPI joint venture,
equal to 0.50% of the total asset value, provided certain conditions are met.

During
2011, it was discovered that the asset management fee owed to us by the SPI joint venture had not been recorded by either party for the five-year period ended
December 31, 2010. The annual asset management fee for this period was $885. After determining that the amounts were not material either in the prior periods or the year ended
December 31, 2011 for restatement purposes, $4,425 of asset management fees earned during the five-year period ended December 31, 2010, was recorded in the year ended
December 31, 2011. Additionally, asset management fees earned during the year ended December 31, 2011, of $812 were recorded. The remainder of the increase in management fees is related
to the increase in third-party properties under management during 2011 compared to the prior year. We managed 185 third-party properties as of December 31, 2011, compared to 160 as of
December 31, 2010.



Expenses

The following table sets forth information on expenses for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Expenses:

Property operations

$

95,481

$

86,165

$

9,316

10.8

%

Tenant reinsurance

6,143

6,505

(362

)

(5.6

)%

Acquisition-related costs

2,896

1,235

1,661

134.5

%

Loss on sublease

—

2,000

(2,000

)

(100.0

)%

Severance costs

2,137

—

2,137

100.0

%

General and administrative

49,683

44,428

5,255

11.8

%

Depreciation and amortization

58,014

50,349

7,665

15.2

%

Total expenses

$

214,354

$

190,682

$

23,672

12.4

%

Property Operations

—The increase in property operations expense consists primarily of increases of $8,481 related to acquisitions completed in 2011
and 2010, and $1,781 related to increases in expenses at our lease-up properties. These increases were offset by a decrease of $946 resulting from lower expenses at our stabilized
properties, which relates mainly to decreases in property taxes and advertising and utilities expenses.

Tenant Reinsurance

—Tenant reinsurance expense represents the costs that are incurred to provide tenant reinsurance.

Acquisition-Related Costs

—These costs relate to acquisition activities during the periods indicated. The increase was related to increased acquisition
activity when compared to the prior year. During 2011, we acquired 55 properties, compared to only 15 during the year ended December 31, 2010.

Loss on Sublease

—This expense is a result of a $2,000 charge recorded in the year ended December 31, 2010, relating to the bankruptcy of a
tenant subleasing office space from us in Memphis,
TN. The Memphis, TN office lease is a liability assumed as part of the Storage USA acquisition in July 2005. There were no such losses recorded for the year ended December 31, 2011.

Severance Costs

—The severance costs recorded during the year ended December 31, 2011, relate to severance granted to our former Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, Kent Christensen, who left the Company on December 7, 2011. There were no severance costs incurred during the year ended December 31, 2010.

General and Administrative

—General and administrative expenses increased primarily as a result of costs related to the management of additional
properties. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we purchased 55 properties, 40 of which we did not previously manage. In addition, we managed 185 third-party properties at
December 31, 2011, compared to 160 at December 31, 2010. Also included in general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011, is an expense of $1,800 related
to litigation matters. There were no such expenses incurred during the year ended December 31, 2010.

Depreciation and Amortization

—Depreciation and amortization expense increased as a result of the acquisition and development of new properties. We
acquired 55 properties and completed the development of five properties during the year ended December 31, 2011.



Other Revenues and Expenses

The following table sets forth information on other revenues and expenses for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Other revenues and expenses:

Interest expense

$

(67,301

)

$

(64,116

)

$

(3,185

)

5.0

%

Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of discount on exchangeable senior
notes

(1,761

)

(1,664

)

(97

)

5.8

%

Interest income

1,027



14.4

%

Interest income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit
holder

4,850

4,850

—

—

Equity in earnings of real estate ventures

7,287

6,753


7.9

%

Income tax expense

(1,155

)

(4,162

)

3,007

(72.2

)%

Total other expense, net

$

(57,053

)

$

(57,441

)

$


(0.7

)%

Interest Expense

—The increase in interest expense was primarily the result of costs associated with prepaying certain loans and an increase in the
average amount of debt outstanding when compared to the prior year.

Non-cash Interest Expense Related to Amortization of Discount on Exchangeable Senior Notes

—Represents the amortization of the discount on
exchangeable senior notes, which reflects the effective interest rate relative to the carrying amount of the liability.

Interest Income

—Interest income represents amounts earned on cash and cash equivalents deposited with financial institutions. The increase in interest
income is due to slightly higher cash balances during the year ended December 31, 2011, primarily as a result of the cash proceeds received from the stock offering completed in May 2011.

Interest Income on Note Receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership Unit Holder

—Represents interest on a $100,000 loan to the holder of the
Preferred OP units.

Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Ventures

—The increase in equity in earnings of real estate ventures was due primarily to an increase in revenues at
joint ventures resulting from increases in occupancy and rental rates to new and existing customers. This increase was offset by a reduction of approximately $1,300 from the SPI joint venture as a
result of the asset management fee expense recorded by the joint venture.

During
2011, it was discovered that the asset management fee owed to us by the SPI joint venture had not been recorded by either party for the five-year period ended
December 31, 2010. The annual asset management fee for this period was $885, offset by an annual reduction of $221 of equity in earnings of SPI. The total prior period adjustment for the years
2006 through 2010 that was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2011, increased asset management fee revenues by $4,425 and decreased equity in earnings by $1,106. The remaining
reduction to equity in earnings related to the net effect of the current year asset management fee of $203.

Income Tax Expense

—The decrease in income tax expense relates primarily to solar tax credits. The decrease related to the credit was partially offset
by increased taxes resulting from increased tenant reinsurance income earned by our taxable REIT subsidiary.



Net Income Allocated to Noncontrolling Interests

The following table sets forth information on net income allocated to noncontrolling interests for the years indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

Net income allocated to noncontrolling interests:

Net income allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests

$

(6,289

)

$

(6,048

)

$

(241

)

4.0

%

Net income allocated to Operating Partnership and other noncontrolling interests

(1,685

)

(995

)

(690

)

69.3

%

Total income allocated to noncontrolling interests:

$

(7,974

)

$

(7,043

)

$

(931

)

13.2

%

Net Income Allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership Noncontrolling Interests

—Income allocated to the Preferred Operating Partnership equals the
fixed distribution paid to the Preferred OP unit holder plus approximately 1.0% and 1.1% of the remaining net income allocated after the adjustment for the fixed distribution paid for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The amount allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interest was higher in 2011 than in 2010 as our net income was higher in 2011
than it was in 2010.

Net Income Allocated to Operating Partnership and Other Noncontrolling Interests

—Income allocated to the Operating Partnership represents
approximately 3.2% and 3.8% of net income after the allocation of the fixed distribution paid to the Preferred OP unit holder for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Losses allocated to other noncontrolling interests represents the losses allocated to partners in consolidated joint ventures.

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS

FFO provides relevant and meaningful information about our operating performance that is necessary, along with net income and cash
flows, for an understanding of our operating results. We believe FFO is a meaningful disclosure as a supplement to net earnings. Net earnings assume that the values of real estate assets diminish
predictably over time as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. The values of real estate assets fluctuate due to market conditions and we believe FFO more accurately reflects the
value of our real estate assets. FFO is defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, Inc. ("NAREIT") as net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles ("GAAP"), excluding gains or losses on sales of operating properties and impairment write-downs of depreciable real estate assets, plus depreciation and amortization and after
adjustments to record unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures on the same basis. We believe that to further understand our performance, FFO should be considered along with the reported net
income and cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in the consolidated financial statements.

The
computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other REITs or real estate companies that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that
interpret the current NAREIT definition differently. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative
to net income as an indication of our performance, as an alternative to net cash flow from



operating
activities as a measure of our liquidity, or as an indicator of our ability to make cash distributions. The following table presents the calculation of FFO for the periods indicated:

For the Year Ended

December 31,




Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

117,309

$

50,449

$

26,331

Adjustments:

Real estate depreciation

64,301

52,647

47,063

Amortization of intangibles

6,763

2,375


Joint venture real estate depreciation and amortization

7,014

7,931

8,269

Joint venture (gain) / loss on sale of properties and purchase of partner's interest

(30,630

)



Distributions paid on Preferred Operating Partnership units

(5,750

)

(5,750

)

(5,750

)

Income allocated to Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests

10,349

7,978

7,096

Funds from operations

$

169,356

$

115,815

$

83,724

SAME-STORE STABILIZED PROPERTY RESULTS

We consider our same-store stabilized portfolio to consist of only those properties which were wholly-owned at the
beginning and at the end of the applicable periods presented and that have achieved stabilization as of the first day of such period. The following tables present operating data for our
same-store portfolio. We consider the following same-store presentation to be meaningful in regards to the properties shown below because these results provide information
relating to property level operating changes without the effects of acquisitions and completed developments.

For the Three Months

Ended December 31,

For the Year Ended

December 31,

Percent

Change

Percent

Change





Same-store rental and tenant reinsurance revenues

$

70,751

$

66,433

6.5

%

$

276,811

$

259,733

6.6

%

Same-store operating and tenant reinsurance expenses

21,698

21,208

2.3

%

86,414

86,953

(0.6

)%

Same-store net operating income

$

49,053

$

45,225

8.5

%

$

190,397

$

172,780

10.2

%

Non same-store rental and tenant reinsurance revenues

$

36,686

$

15,319

139.5

%

$

106,879

$

40,173

166.0

%

Non same-store operating and tenant reinsurance expenses

$

12,825

$

5,497

133.3

%

$

35,483

$

14,671

141.9

%

Total rental and tenant reinsurance revenues

$

107,437

$

81,752

31.4

%

$

383,690

$

299,906

27.9

%

Total operating and tenant reinsurance expenses

$

34,523

$

26,705

29.3

%

$

121,897

$

101,624

19.9

%

Same-store square foot occupancy as of quarter end

88.6

%

86.9

%

88.6

%

86.9

%

Properties included in same-store







For the Three Months

Ended December 31,

For the Year Ended

December 31,

Percent

Change

Percent

Change





Same-store rental and tenant reinsurance revenues

$

61,395

$

58,026

5.8

%

$

241,001

$

229,785

4.9

%

Same-store operating and tenant reinsurance expenses

19,387

19,593

(1.1

)%

78,892

79,098

(0.3

)%

Same-store net operating income

$

42,008

$

38,433

9.3

%

$

162,109

$

150,687

7.6

%

Non same-store rental and tenant reinsurance revenues

$

20,357

$

9,062

124.6

%

$

58,905

$

28,590

106.0

%

Non same-store operating and tenant reinsurance expenses

$

7,318

$

4,430

65.2

%

$

22,732

$

13,572

67.5

%

Total rental and tenant reinsurance revenues

$

81,752

$

67,088

21.9

%

$

299,906

$

258,375

16.1

%

Total operating and tenant reinsurance expenses

$

26,705

$

24,023

11.2

%

$

101,624

$

92,670

9.7

%

Same-store square foot occupancy as of quarter end

87.8

%

84.7

%

87.8

%

84.7

%

Properties included in same-store





Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2012 to the Year Ended December 31, 2011

The increase in same-store rental revenues was primarily due to increases in occupancy and rental rates to both incoming
and existing customers, and to decreases in discounts to new customers. The decreases in same-store operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2012 were primarily due to
decreases in utilities and office expenses. These decreases were partially offset by increased expenses as a result of Superstorm Sandy and higher property taxes.

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2011 to the Year Ended December 31, 2010

The increase in same-store rental revenues was primarily due to increased rental rates to both incoming and existing
customers and increased occupancy. Occupancy increased 310 basis points over the prior year. The decreases in same-store operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011,
were primarily due to lower utility costs, a decrease in yellow page advertising and lower than anticipated snow removal costs.

CASH FLOWS

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2012 to the Year Ended December 31, 2011

Cash flows provided by operating activities were $215,879 and $144,164 for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011,
respectively. The increase when compared to the prior year was primarily due to a $69,266 increase in net income. There was also an increase in depreciation and amortization of $16,439 and an increase
of $16,073 in cash received from affiliated joint ventures and related parties in 2012 when compared to 2011. These increases were offset by a $23,670 non-cash gain on the purchase of
joint venture partners' interests.

Cash
used in investing activities was $606,938 and $251,919 for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The increase in 2012 was primarily the result of $406,768
more cash being used to acquire new properties in 2012 compared to 2011. This increase was offset by a decrease of $42,265 in the amount paid to purchase notes receivable.

Cash
provided by financing activities was $395,360 and $87,489 for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The increase in cash provided was the result of an
increase of $317,239 in



the
net cash proceeds generated from the sale of common stock in the current year compared to 2011, along with an increase of $598,776 in cash proceeds received from notes payable and lines of credit
in 2012 when compared to 2011. These increases of cash were offset by the increase of $469,484 of cash used for principal repayments on notes payable and lines of credit during 2012 when compared to
2011, the use of $87,663 of cash to repurchase exchangeable senior notes in 2012, compared to $0 in 2011, and the increase of $36,260 of dividends paid on common stock in 2012, compared to 2011.

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2011 to the Year Ended December 31, 2010

Cash flows provided by operating activities were $144,164 and $104,815 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. The increase when compared to the prior year was due primarily to an increase in net income and a decrease in the amount of cash used to
pay accounts payable and accrued expenses, which were offset by a decrease in cash received from affiliated joint ventures and related parties during 2011 compared to 2010.

Cash
used in investing activities was $251,919 and $83,706 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in 2011 was primarily the result of $125,371
more cash being used to acquire new properties in 2011 compared to 2010. We also paid $51,000 to purchase a note receivable, which was offset by $860 of principal payments received in 2011, compared
to $0 in 2010. Additionally, we received $15,750 in proceeds from the sale of 19 properties to a joint venture in 2010, compared to $0 in 2011. These increases in cash used in investing activities
were offset by a decrease of $29,002 in the amount of cash used to fund development activities in 2011 compared to 2010.

Cash
provided by financing activities was $87,489 for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to cash used in financing activities of $106,309 for the year ended
December 31, 2010. The increase in cash provided was the result of $112,349 of net cash proceeds generated from the sale of common stock in the year ended December 31, 2011, compared
with $0 in 2010, along with an increase of $284,425 in cash proceeds received from notes payable and lines of credit in 2011 when compared to 2010. These increases of cash were offset by the increase
of $199,947 of cash used for principal repayments on notes payable and lines of credit during 2011 when compared to 2010.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

As of December 31, 2012, we had $30,785 available in cash and cash equivalents. We intend to use this cash to repay debt
scheduled to mature in 2013 and for general corporate purposes. We are required to distribute at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to our stockholders on an annual
basis to maintain our qualification as a REIT.

Our
cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts managed by third party financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in our operating accounts. During 2012, we
experienced no loss or lack of access to our cash or cash equivalents; however, there can be no assurance that access to our cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the
financial markets.



The
following table presents information on our lines of credit:

As of December 31, 2012

Line of Credit

Amount

Drawn

Capacity

Interest

Rate

Origination

Date

Maturity

Basis Rate

Notes

Credit Line 1

$

35,000

$

75,000

2.36

%

2/13/2009

2/13/2014

LIBOR plus 2.15%

(1)(4)(5)

Credit Line 2

—

75,000

2.41

%

6/4/2010

5/31/2013

LIBOR plus 2.20%

(2)(4)(5)

Credit Line 3

—

40,000

2.41

%

11/16/2010

11/16/2013

LIBOR plus 2.20%

(3)(4)(5)

Credit Line 4

50,000

50,000

2.36

%

4/29/2011

5/1/2014

LIBOR plus 2.15%

(3)(4)(5)

$

85,000

$

240,000

(1)

One
year extension available

(2)

One
two-year extension available

(3)

Two
one-year extensions available

(4)

Guaranteed
by the Company

(5)

Secured
by mortgages on certain real estate assets

As
of December 31, 2012, we had $1,574,280 of debt, resulting in a debt to total capitalization ratio of 27.5%. As of December 31, 2012, the ratio of total fixed rate debt
and other instruments to total debt was 81.0% (including $776,381 on which we have interest rate swaps that have been included as fixed-rate debt). The weighted average interest rate of the total of
fixed and variable rate debt at December 31, 2012 was 4.2%. Certain of our real estate assets are pledged as collateral for our debt. We are subject to certain restrictive covenants relating to
our outstanding debt. We were in compliance with all financial covenants at December 31, 2012.

We
expect to fund our short-term liquidity requirements, including operating expenses, recurring capital expenditures, dividends to stockholders, distributions to holders of OP units and
interest on our outstanding indebtedness out of our operating cash flow, cash on hand and borrowings under our Credit Lines. In addition, we are pursuing additional term loans secured by unencumbered
properties.

Our
liquidity needs consist primarily of cash distributions to stockholders, property acquisitions, principal payments under our borrowings and non-recurring capital expenditures. We may
from time to time seek to repurchase our outstanding debt, shares of common stock or other securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases, if
any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. In addition, we evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of strategic
acquisitions and other relationships, which may require us to raise additional funds. We do not expect that our operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund our liquidity needs and instead expect to
fund such needs out of additional borrowings of secured or unsecured indebtedness, joint ventures with third parties, and from the proceeds of public and private offerings of equity and debt.
Additional capital may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. Any additional issuance of equity or equity-linked securities may result in dilution to our stockholders. In addition, any
new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to holders of our common stock. We may also use OP units as currency to fund acquisitions from self-storage owners who
desire tax-deferral in their exiting transactions.



OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

Except as disclosed in the notes to our financial statements, we do not currently have any relationships with unconsolidated entities
or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purposes entities, which typically are established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet
arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Further, except as disclosed in the notes to our financial statements, we have not guaranteed any obligations of unconsolidated entities
nor do we have any commitments or intent to provide funding to any such entities. Accordingly, we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we
had engaged in these relationships.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

The following table sets forth information on future payments due by period as of December 31, 2012:

Payments due by Period:

Total

Less Than

1 Year

1 - 3

Years

3 - 5

Years

After

5 Years

Operating leases

$

69,396

$

7,463

$

12,536

$

6,855

$

42,542

Notes payable, notes payable to trusts and lines of credit

Interest

364,774

63,727

103,948

62,007

135,092

Principal

1,574,280

110,483

430,922

517,568

515,307

Total contractual obligations

$

2,008,450

$

181,673

$

547,406

$

586,430

$

692,941

As
of December 31, 2012, the weighted average interest rate for all fixed rate loans was 4.6%, and the weighted average interest rate on all variable rate loans was 2.3%.

FINANCING STRATEGY

We will continue to employ leverage in our capital structure in amounts reviewed from time to time by our board of directors. Although
our board of directors has not adopted a policy which limits the total amount of indebtedness that we may incur, we will consider a number of factors in evaluating our level of indebtedness from time
to time, as well as the amount of such indebtedness that will be either fixed or variable rate. In making financing decisions, we will consider factors including but not limited
to:

•

the interest rate of the proposed financing;

•

the extent to which the financing impacts flexibility in managing our properties;

•

prepayment penalties and restrictions on refinancing;

•

the purchase price of properties acquired with debt financing;

•

long-term objectives with respect to the financing;

•

target investment returns;

•

the ability of particular properties, and our Company as a whole, to generate cash flow sufficient to cover expected debt
service payments;

•

overall level of consolidated indebtedness;

•

timing of debt and lease maturities;



•

provisions that require recourse and cross-collateralization;

•

corporate credit ratios including debt service coverage, debt to total capitalization and debt to undepreciated assets;
and

•

the overall ratio of fixed and variable rate debt.

Our
indebtedness may be recourse, non-recourse or cross-collateralized. If the indebtedness is non-recourse, the collateral will be limited to the particular properties to which the
indebtedness relates. In addition, we may invest in properties subject to existing loans collateralized by mortgages or similar liens on our properties, or may refinance properties acquired on a
leveraged basis. We may use the proceeds from any borrowings to refinance existing indebtedness, to refinance investments, including the redevelopment of existing properties, for general working
capital or to purchase additional interests in partnerships or joint ventures or for other purposes when we believe it is advisable.

We
may from time to time seek to retire or repurchase our outstanding debt, as well as shares of common stock or other securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated
transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be
material.

SEASONALITY

The self-storage business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. A greater portion of revenues and profits are realized from May through
September. Historically, our highest level of occupancy has been at the end of July, while our lowest level of occupancy has been in late February and early March. Results for any quarter may not be
indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year.

Item 7a.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market Risk

Market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. Our future income, cash flows and fair
values of financial instruments are dependent upon prevailing market interest rates.

Interest Rate Risk

Interest rate risk is highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international
economic and political considerations and other factors beyond our control.

As
of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $1,574,280 in total debt, of which approximately $298,675 was subject to variable interest rates (excluding debt with interest rate
swaps). If LIBOR were to increase or decrease by 100 basis points, the increase or decrease in interest expense on the variable rate debt (excluding variable rate debt with interest rate floors) would
increase or decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $2,600 annually.

Interest
rate risk amounts were determined by considering the impact of hypothetical interest rates on our financial instruments. These analyses do not consider the effect of any change
in overall economic activity that could occur. Further, in the event of a change of that magnitude, we may take actions to further mitigate our exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty
of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, these analyses assume no changes in our financial structure.



Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

EXTRA SPACE STORAGE INC.

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AND SCHEDULES

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


SCHEDULE III


All
other schedules have been omitted since the required information is not present or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information
required is included in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To
the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Extra Space Storage Inc.

We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Extra Space Storage Inc. ("the Company") as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012. Our audits also included the financial
statement schedule listed in the index at Item 8. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at December 31, 2012 and
2011 and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material
respects the information set forth therein.

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
report dated February 28, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/
Ernst & Young LLP

Salt
Lake City, Utah

February 28, 2013



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Balance Sheets

(dollars in thousands, except share data)

December 31, 2012

December 31, 2011

Assets:

Real estate assets, net

$

2,991,722

$

2,263,795

Investments in real estate ventures

106,313

130,410

Cash and cash equivalents

30,785

26,484

Restricted cash

16,976

25,768

Receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures

11,078

18,517

Other assets, net

66,603

52,550

Total assets

$

3,223,477

$

2,517,524

Liabilities, Noncontrolling Interests and Equity:

Notes payable

$

1,369,690

$

937,001

Premium on notes payable

3,319

4,402

Notes payable to trusts

119,590

119,590

Exchangeable senior notes

—

87,663

Lines of credit

85,000

215,000

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

52,299

46,353

Other liabilities

48,248

33,754

Total liabilities

1,678,146

1,443,763

Commitments and contingencies

Noncontrolling Interests and Equity:

Extra Space Storage Inc. stockholders' equity:

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value, 50,000,000 shares authorized, no shares issued or outstanding

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value, 300,000,000 shares authorized, 110,737,205 and 94,783,590 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2012, and
December 31, 2011, respectively

1,107


Paid-in capital

1,740,037

1,290,021

Accumulated other comprehensive deficit

(14,273

)

(7,936

)

Accumulated deficit

(235,064

)

(264,086

)

Total Extra Space Storage Inc. stockholders' equity

1,491,807

1,018,947

Noncontrolling interest represented by Preferred Operating Partnership units, net of $100,000 note receivable

29,918

29,695

Noncontrolling interests in Operating Partnership

22,492

24,018

Other noncontrolling interests

1,114

1,101

Total noncontrolling interests and equity

1,545,331

1,073,761

Total liabilities, noncontrolling interests and equity

$

3,223,477

$

2,517,524

See accompanying notes.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Operations

(dollars in thousands, except share data)

For the Year Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Property rental

$

346,874

$

268,725

$

232,447

Tenant reinsurance

36,816

31,181

25,928

Management fees

25,706

29,924

23,122

Total revenues

409,396

329,830

281,497

Expenses:

Property operations

114,028

95,481

86,165

Tenant reinsurance

7,869

6,143

6,505

Acquisition related costs

5,351

2,896

1,235

Loss on sublease

—

—

2,000

Severance costs

—

2,137

—

General and administrative

50,454

49,683

44,428

Depreciation and amortization

74,453

58,014

50,349

Total expenses

252,155

214,354

190,682

Income from operations

157,241

115,476

90,815

Interest expense

(71,850

)

(67,301

)

(64,116

)

Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of discount on exchangeable senior notes

(444

)

(1,761

)

(1,664

)

Interest income

1,816

1,027


Interest income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

4,850

4,850

4,850

Income before equity in earnings of real estate ventures and income tax expense

91,613

52,291

30,783

Equity in earnings of real estate ventures

10,859

7,287

6,753

Equity in earnings of real estate ventures—gain on sale of real estate assets and purchase of joint venture partners' interests

30,630

—

—

Income tax expense

(5,413

)

(1,155

)

(4,162

)

Net income

127,689

58,423

33,374

Net income allocated to Preferred Operating Partnership noncontrolling interests

(6,876

)

(6,289

)

(6,048

)

Net income allocated to Operating Partnership and other noncontrolling interests

(3,504

)

(1,685

)

(995

)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

117,309

$

50,449

$

26,331

Net income per common share

Basic

$

1.15

$

0.55

$

0.30

Diluted

$

1.14

$

0.54

$

0.30

Weighted average number of shares

Basic

102,290,200

92,097,008

87,324,104

Diluted

106,523,015

96,683,508

92,050,453

See accompanying notes.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income

(dollars in thousands)

For the Year Ended December 31,




Net income

$

127,689

$

58,423

$

33,374

Other comprehensive income:

Change in fair value of interest rate swaps

(6,587

)

(2,237

)

(4,963

)

Total comprehensive income

121,102

56,186

28,411

Less: comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests

10,130

7,886

6,811

Comprehensive income attributable to common stockholders

$

110,972

$

48,300

$

21,600

See accompanying notes



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity

(dollars in thousands, except share data)

Extra Space Storage Inc. Stockholders' Equity

Noncontrolling Interests

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Deficit

Preferred

Operating

Partnership

Operating

Partnership

Other

Shares

Par Value

Paid-in

Capital

Accumulated

Deficit

Total

Equity

Balances at December 31, 2009

$

29,886

$

31,381

$


86,721,841

$


$

1,138,243

$

(1,056

)

$

(253,875

)

$

946,219

Issuance of common stock upon the exercise of options

—

—

—

484,261


5,656

—

—

5,661

Restricted stock grants issued

—

—

—

445,230


—

—

—


Restricted stock grants cancelled

—

—

—

(64,010

)

—

—

—

—

—

Compensation expense related to stock-based awards

—

—

—

—

—

4,580

—

—

4,580

Deconsolidation of noncontrolling interests

—

—


—

—

—

—

—


Redemption of Operating Partnership units for cash

—

(4,116

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(4,116

)

Investments from other noncontrolling interests

—

—


—

—

—

—

—


Purchase of noncontrolling interest

—

—


—

—

—

—

—


Net income (loss)

6,048

1,048

(53

)

—

—

—

—

26,331

33,374

Other comprehensive loss

(55

)

(177

)

—

—

—

—

(4,731

)

—

(4,963

)

Tax effect from vesting of restricted stock grants and stock option exercises

—

—

—

—

—


—

—


Tax effect from contribution of property to Taxable REIT Subsidiary

—

—

—

—

—

(495

)

—

—

(495

)

Distributions to Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interests

(6,146

)

(1,333

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(7,479

)

Dividends paid on common stock at $0.40 per share

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(34,964

)

(34,964

)

Balances at December 31, 2010

$

29,733

$

26,803

$

1,134

87,587,322

$


$

1,148,820

$

(5,787

)

$

(262,508

)

$

939,071

Issuance of common stock upon the exercise of options

—

—

—

1,388,269


18,608

—

—

18,622

Restricted stock grants issued

—

—

—

226,630


—

—

—


Restricted stock grants cancelled

—

—

—

(47,695

)

—

—

—

—

—

Issuance of common stock, net of offering costs

—

—

—

5,335,423


112,296

—

—

112,349

Compensation expense related to stock-based awards

—

—

—

—

—

5,757

—

—

5,757

Redemption of Operating Partnership units for common stock

—

(2,344

)

—

293,641


2,341

—

—

—

Redemption of Operating Partnership units for cash

—

(271

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(271

)

Net income (loss)

6,289

1,689

(4

)

—

—

—

—

50,449

58,423

Other comprehensive loss

(22

)

(66

)

—

—

—

—

(2,149

)

—

(2,237

)

Tax effect from vesting of restricted stock grants and stock option exercises

—

—

—

—

—

2,199

—

—

2,199

Distributions to Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interests

(6,305

)

(1,793

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(8,098

)

Distributions to other noncontrolling interests

—

—

(29

)

—

—

—

—

—

(29

)

Dividends paid on common stock at $0.56 per share

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(52,027

)

(52,027

)

Balances at December 31, 2011

$

29,695

$

24,018

$

1,101

94,783,590

$


$

1,290,021

$

(7,936

)

$

(264,086

)

$

1,073,761

See accompanying notes.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except share data)

Extra Space Storage Inc. Stockholders' Equity

Noncontrolling Interests

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Deficit

Preferred

Operating

Partnership

Operating

Partnership

Other

Shares

Par Value

Paid-in

Capital

Accumulated

Deficit

Total

Equity

Issuance of common stock upon the exercise of options

—

—

—

768,853


10,260

—

—

10,267

Restricted stock grants issued

—

—

—

182,052


—

—

—


Restricted stock grants cancelled

—

—

—

(16,792

)

—

—

—

—

—

Issuance of common stock, net of offering costs

—

—

—

14,030,000


429,448

—

—

429,588

Issuance of common stock related to settlement of exchangeable senior notes

—

—

—

684,685


—

—

—


Compensation expense related to stock-based awards

—

—

—

—

—

4,356

—

—

4,356

New issuance of Operating Partnership units

—


—

—

—

—

—

—


Redemption of Operating Partnership units for common stock

—

(2,479

)

—

304,817


2,476

—

—

—

Redemption of Operating Partnership units for cash

—

(155

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(155

)

Net income

6,876

3,473


—

—

—

—

117,309

127,689

Other comprehensive loss

(61

)

(189

)

—

—

—

—

(6,337

)

—

(6,587

)

Tax effect from vesting of restricted stock grants and stock option exercises

—

—

—

—

—

3,476

—

—

3,476

Distributions to Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interests

(6,592

)

(2,605

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(9,197

)

Distributions to other noncontrolling interests

—

—

(18

)

—

—

—

—

—

(18

)

Dividends paid on common stock at $0.85 per share

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(88,287

)

(88,287

)

Balances at December 31, 2012

$

29,918

$

22,492

$

1,114

110,737,205

$

1,107

$

1,740,037

$

(14,273

)

$

(235,064

)

$

1,545,331

See accompanying notes.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

(dollars in thousands)

For the Year Ended December 31,




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

127,689

$

58,423

$

33,374

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

74,453

58,014

50,349

Amortization of deferred financing costs

5,889

5,583

4,354

Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of discount on exchangeable senior notes


1,761

1,664

Non-cash interest expense related to amortization of premium on notes payable

(1,270

)

—

—

Compensation expense related to stock-based awards

4,356

5,757

4,580

Gain on purchase of joint venture partners' interests

(23,670

)

—

—

Loss on sublease

—

—

2,000

Distributions from real estate ventures in excess of earnings

2,581

7,008

6,722

Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

Receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures

7,439

(8,634

)

3,011

Other assets

8,746

7,533

(1,676

)

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

7,220

9,837

1,856

Other liabilities

2,002

(1,118

)

(1,419

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

215,879

144,164

104,815

Cash flows from investing activities:

Acquisition of real estate assets

(601,727

)

(194,959

)

(69,588

)

Development and construction of real estate assets

(3,759

)

(7,060

)

(36,062

)

Proceeds from sale of properties to joint venture

—

—

15,750

Investments in real estate ventures

(1,423

)

(4,088

)

(9,699

)

Return of investment in real estate ventures

2,421

4,614

8,802

Change in restricted cash

8,792

4,730

9,036

Purchase of notes receivable

(7,875

)

(50,140

)

—

Purchase of equipment and fixtures

(3,367

)

(5,016

)

(1,945

)

Net cash used in investing activities

(606,938

)

(251,919

)

(83,706

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from the sale of common stock, net of offering costs

429,588

112,349

—

Proceeds from notes payable and lines of credit

1,074,263

475,487

191,062

Principal payments on notes payable and lines of credit

(921,831

)

(452,347

)

(252,400

)

Deferred financing costs

(11,607

)

(6,197

)

(4,160

)

Repurchase of exchangeable senior notes

(87,663

)

—

—

Investments from other noncontrolling interests

—

—


Redemption of Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interest

(155

)

(271

)

(4,116

)

Net proceeds from exercise of stock options

10,267

18,622

5,661

Dividends paid on common stock

(88,287

)

(52,027

)

(34,964

)

Distributions to noncontrolling interests

(9,215

)

(8,127

)

(7,479

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

395,360

87,489

(106,309

)

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

4,301

(20,266

)

(85,200

)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the period

26,484

46,750

131,950

Cash and cash equivalents, end of the period

$

30,785

$

26,484

$

46,750

See accompanying notes.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Continued)

(dollars in thousands)

For the Year Ended December 31,




Supplemental schedule of cash flow information

Interest paid, net of amounts capitalized

$

65,687

$

61,726

$

60,100

Income taxes paid



6,539

Supplemental schedule of noncash investing and financing activities:

Deconsolidation of joint ventures due to application of Accounting Standards Codification 810:

Real estate assets, net

$

—

$

—

$

(42,739

)

Investments in real estate ventures

—

—


Receivables from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures

—

—

21,142

Other assets and other liabilities

—

—

(51

)

Notes payable

—

—

21,348

Other noncontrolling interests

—

—

(104

)

Redemption of Operating Partnership units held by noncontrolling interests for common stock:

Noncontrolling interests in Operating Partnership

$

2,479

$

2,344

$

—

Common stock and paid-in capital

(2,479

)

(2,344

)

—

Tax effect from vesting of restricted stock grants and stock option exercises

Other assets

$

3,476

$

2,199

$


Paid-in capital

(3,476

)

(2,199

)

(836

)

Acquisitions of real estate assets

Real estate assets, net

$

159,297

$

137,177

$

25,963

Notes payable assumed

(150,284

)

(132,327

)

(25,963

)

Notes payable issued to seller

(8,584

)

(4,850

)

—

OP Units Issued

(429

)

—

—

See accompanying notes.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property
and share data)

1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Extra Space Storage Inc. (the "Company") is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust ("REIT"), formed as a Maryland Corporation on April 30, 2004,
to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop professionally managed self-storage facilities located throughout the United States. The Company continues the business of Extra Space
Storage LLC and its subsidiaries, which had engaged in the self-storage business since 1977. The Company's interest in its properties is held through its operating partnership, Extra Space
Storage LP (the "Operating Partnership"), which was formed on May 5, 2004. The Company's primary assets are general partner and limited partner interests in the Operating Partnership.
This structure is commonly referred to as an umbrella partnership REIT, or UPREIT. The Company has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Internal Revenue Code"). To the extent the Company continues to qualify as a REIT, it will not be subject to tax, with certain limited exceptions, on
the taxable income that is distributed to its stockholders.

The
Company invests in self-storage facilities by acquiring wholly-owned facilities or by acquiring an equity interest in real estate entities. At December 31, 2012, the Company
had direct and indirect equity interests in 729 storage facilities. In addition, the Company managed 181 properties third parties bringing the total number of properties which it owns and/or manages
to 910, located in 34 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico.

The
Company operates in three distinct segments: (1) property management, acquisition and development; (2) rental operations; and (3) tenant reinsurance. The
Company's property management, acquisition and development activities include managing, acquiring, developing and redeveloping self-storage facilities. The rental operations activities include rental
operations of self-storage facilities. No single tenant accounts for more than 5% of rental income. Tenant reinsurance activities include the reinsurance of risks relating to the loss of goods stored
by tenants in the Company's self-storage facilities.

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Basis of Presentation

The consolidated financial statements are presented on the accrual basis of accounting in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles ("GAAP") and include
the accounts of the Company and its wholly- or majority-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Variable Interest Entities

The Company accounts for arrangements that are not controlled through voting or similar rights as variable interest entities ("VIEs").
An enterprise is required to consolidate a VIE if it is the primary beneficiary of the VIE. A VIE is created when (i) the equity investment at risk is not sufficient to permit the entity to
finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties, or (ii) the entity's equity holders as a group either: (a) lack the power, through voting or
similar rights, to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance, (b) are not obligated to absorb expected losses of the entity if they
occur, or (c) do not



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

have
the right to receive expected residual returns of the entity if they occur. If an entity is deemed to be a VIE, the enterprise that is deemed to have a variable interest, or combination of
variable interests, that provides the enterprise with a controlling financial interest in the VIE, is considered the primary beneficiary and must consolidate the VIE.

The
Company has concluded that under certain circumstances when the Company (1) enters into option agreements for the purchase of land or facilities from an entity and pays a
non-refundable deposit, or (2) enters into arrangements for the formation of joint ventures, a VIE may be created under condition (i), (ii) (b) or (c) of the
previous paragraph. For each VIE created, the Company has performed a qualitative analysis, including considering which party, if any, has the power to direct the activities most significant to the
economic performance of each VIE and whether that party has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could be significant to the VIE. If the
Company is determined to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE, the assets, liabilities and operations of the VIE are consolidated with the Company's financial statements. Additionally, the Operating
Partnership has notes payable to three trusts that are VIEs under condition (ii)(a) above. Since the Operating Partnership is not the primary beneficiary of the trusts, these VIEs are not
consolidated.

The
Company's investments in real estate joint ventures, where the Company has significant influence, but not control, and joint ventures which are VIEs in which the Company is not the
primary beneficiary, are recorded under the equity method of accounting on the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications

Certain amounts in the 2011 and 2010 financial statements and supporting note disclosures have been reclassified to conform to the
current year presentation. Such reclassifications did not impact previously reported net income or accumulated deficit.

Fair Value Disclosures

Derivative financial instruments

Currently, the Company uses interest rate swaps to manage its interest rate risk. The valuation of these instruments is determined
using widely accepted valuation techniques including discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash flows of each derivative. This analysis reflects the contractual terms of the derivatives,
including the period to maturity, and uses observable market-based inputs, including



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

interest
rate curves. The fair values of interest rate swaps are determined using the market standard methodology of netting the discounted future fixed cash payments and the discounted expected
variable cash receipts. The variable cash receipts are based on an expectation of future interest rates (forward curves) derived from observable market interest rate forward curves.

The
Company incorporates credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect both its own nonperformance risk and the respective counterparty's nonperformance risk in the fair value
measurements. In adjusting the fair value of its derivative contracts for the effect of nonperformance risk, the Company has considered the impact of netting and any applicable credit enhancements,
such as collateral postings, thresholds, mutual puts, and guarantees. In conjunction with the Financial Accounting Standard Board's fair value measurement guidance, the Company made an accounting
policy election to measure the credit risk of its derivative financial instruments that are subject to master netting agreements on a net basis by counterparty portfolio.

Although
the Company has determined that the majority of the inputs used to value its derivatives fall within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the credit valuation adjustments
associated with its derivatives utilize Level 3 inputs, such as estimates of current credit spreads to evaluate the likelihood of default by itself and its counterparties. However, as of
December 31, 2012, the Company has assessed the significance of the impact of the credit valuation adjustments on the overall valuation of its derivative positions and has determined that the
credit valuation adjustments are not significant to the overall valuation of its derivatives. As a result, the Company has determined that its derivative valuations in their entirety are classified in
Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

The
table below presents the Company's assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2012, aggregated by the level in the fair value
hierarchy within which those measurements fall.

Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using

Description

December 31,


Quoted Prices in

Active Markets for

Identical Assets

(Level 1)

Significant Other

Observable

Inputs

(Level 2)

Significant

Unobservable

Inputs

(Level 3)

Other liabilities—Cash Flow Hedge Swap Agreements

$

(15,228

)

$

—

$

(15,228

)

$

—

There
were no transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year ended December 31, 2012. The Company did not have any significant
assets or liabilities that are re-measured on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs as of December 31, 2012 or 2011.

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis

Long-lived assets held for use are evaluated by the Company for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that there may be
impairment. The Company reviews each self-storage facility at least annually to determine if any such events or circumstances have occurred or exist. The Company



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

focuses
on facilities where occupancy and/or rental income have decreased by a significant amount. For these facilities, the Company determines whether the decrease is temporary or permanent and
whether the facility will likely recover the lost occupancy and/or revenue in the short term. In addition, the Company carefully reviews facilities in the lease-up stage and compares actual operating
results to original projections.

When
the Company determines that an event that may indicate impairment has occurred, the Company compares the carrying value of the related long-lived assets to the undiscounted future
net operating cash flows attributable to the assets. An impairment loss is recorded if the net carrying value of the assets exceeds the undiscounted future net operating cash flows attributable to the
assets. The impairment loss recognized equals the excess of net carrying value over the related fair value of the assets.

When
real estate assets are identified by management as held for sale, the Company discontinues depreciating the assets and estimates the fair value of the assets, net of selling costs.
If the estimated fair value, net of selling costs, of the assets that have been identified for sale is less than the net carrying value of the assets, then a valuation allowance is established. The
operations of assets held for sale or sold during the period are generally presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented.

The
Company assesses whether there are any indicators that the value of the Company's investments in unconsolidated real estate ventures may be impaired annually and when events or
circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. An investment is impaired if management's estimate of the fair value of the investment is less than its carrying value. To the extent impairment
has occurred, and is considered to be other than temporary, the loss is measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the fair value of the investment.

As
of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, receivables, other financial instruments included in other assets,
accounts payable and accrued expenses, variable-rate notes payable, lines of credit and other liabilities reflected in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2012 and 2011, approximate
fair value. The fair values of the Company's note receivable



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

from
Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder, fixed rate notes payable and notes payable to trusts, and exchangeable senior notes at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows:

December 31, 2012

December 31, 2011

Fair Value

Carrying

Value

Fair Value

Carrying

Value

Note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

$

108,138

$

100,000

$

104,049

$

100,000

Fixed rate notes payable and notes payable to trusts

$

1,342,957

$

1,275,605

$

1,008,039

$

938,681

Exchangeable senior notes

$

—

$

—

$

92,265

$

87,663

Real Estate Assets

Real estate assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Direct and allowable internal costs associated with the
development, construction, renovation, and improvement of real estate assets are capitalized. Interest, property taxes, and other costs associated with development incurred during the construction
period are capitalized. The construction period begins when expenditures for the real estate assets have been made and activities that are necessary to
prepare the asset for its intended use are in progress. The construction period ends when the asset is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. Capitalized interest during the years
ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, was $0, $752 and $2,013, respectively.

Expenditures
for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Major replacements and betterments that improve or extend the life of the asset are capitalized and
depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the buildings and improvements, which are generally between
five and 39 years.

In
connection with the Company's acquisition of self-storage facilities, the purchase price is allocated to the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired based on their
fair values, which are estimated using significant unobservable inputs. The value of the tangible assets, consisting of land and buildings, are determined as if vacant. Intangible assets, which
represent the value of existing tenant relationships, are recorded at their fair values based on the avoided cost to replace the current leases. The Company measures the value of tenant relationships
based on the rent lost due to the amount of time required to replace existing customers which is based on the Company's historical experience with turnover in its facilities. Debt assumed as part of
an acquisition is recorded at fair value based on current interest rates compared to contractual rates. Acquisition-related transaction costs are expensed as incurred.

Intangible
lease rights represent: (1) purchase price amounts allocated to leases on three properties that cannot be classified as ground or building leases; these rights are
amortized to expense over the life of the leases and (2) intangibles related to ground leases on five properties where the leases were assumed by the Company at rates that were lower than the
current market rates for similar leases. The values associated with these assumed leases were recorded as intangibles, which will be amortized over the lease terms.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

Investments in Real Estate Ventures

The Company's investments in real estate joint ventures, where the Company has significant influence, but not control and joint
ventures which are VIEs in which the Company is not the primary beneficiary, are recorded under the equity method of accounting in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Under
the equity method, the Company's investment in real estate ventures is stated at cost and adjusted for the Company's share of net earnings or losses and reduced by distributions.
Equity in earnings of real estate ventures is generally recognized based on the Company's ownership interest in the earnings of each of the unconsolidated real estate ventures. For the purposes of
presentation in the statement of cash flows, the Company follows the "look through" approach for classification of distributions from joint ventures. Under this approach, distributions are reported
under operating cash flow unless the facts and circumstances of a specific distribution clearly indicate that it is a return of capital (e.g., a liquidating dividend or distribution of the
proceeds from the joint venture's sale of assets), in which case it is reported as an investing activity.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

The Company's cash is deposited with financial institutions located throughout the United States of America and at times may exceed
federally insured limits. The Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments with a maturity date of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Restricted Cash

Restricted cash is comprised of letters of credit and escrowed funds deposited with financial institutions located throughout the
United States relating to earnest money deposits on potential acquisitions, real estate taxes, insurance and capital expenditures.

Other Assets

Other assets consist primarily of equipment and fixtures, deferred financing costs, customer accounts receivable, investments in
trusts, other intangible assets, income taxes receivable, deferred tax assets and prepaid expenses. Depreciation of equipment and fixtures is computed on a straight-line basis over three to five
years. Deferred financing costs are amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the terms of the respective debt agreements.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

The Company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives
depends on the intended use of the derivative, whether the Company has elected to designate a derivative in a hedging relationship and apply hedge accounting and whether the hedging relationship has
satisfied the criteria necessary to apply hedge accounting. Derivatives designated and qualifying as a hedge of the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability or firm commitment
attributable to a particular risk, such as interest rate risk, are



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

considered
fair value hedges. Derivatives designated and qualifying as a hedge of the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered
cash flow hedges. Hedge accounting generally provides for the matching of the timing of gain or loss recognition on the hedging instrument with the recognition of the changes in the fair value of the
hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk in a fair value hedge or the earnings effect of the hedged forecasted transactions in a cash flow hedge. The Company may enter into
derivative contracts that are intended to economically hedge certain of its risk, even though hedge accounting does not apply or the Company elects not to apply hedge accounting.

The
Company made an accounting policy election to measure the credit risk of its derivative financial instruments that are subject to master netting agreements on a net basis by
counterparty portfolio.

Risk Management and Use of Financial Instruments

In the normal course of its ongoing business operations, the Company encounters economic risk. There are three main components of
economic risk: interest rate risk, credit risk and market risk. The Company is subject to interest rate risk on its interest-bearing liabilities. Credit risk is the risk of inability or unwillingness
of tenants to make contractually required payments. Market risk is the risk of declines in the value of properties due to changes in rental rates, interest rates or other market factors affecting the
value of properties held by the Company. The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to manage a portion of its interest rate risk.

Conversion of Operating Partnership Units

Conversions of Operating Partnership units to common stock, when converted under the original provisions of the Operating Partnership
agreement, are accounted for by reclassifying the underlying net book value of the units from noncontrolling interest to the Company's equity. The difference between the fair value of the
consideration paid and the adjustment to the carrying amount of the noncontrolling interest is recognized as additional paid in capital for the Company.

Revenue and Expense Recognition

Rental revenues are recognized as earned based upon amounts that are currently due from tenants. Leases are generally on month-to-month
terms. Prepaid rents are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases. Promotional discounts are recognized as a reduction to rental income over the promotional period. Late
charges, administrative fees, merchandise sales and truck rentals are recognized as income when earned. Management fee revenues are recognized monthly as services are performed and in accordance with
the terms of the related management agreements. Tenant reinsurance premiums are recognized as revenue over the period of insurance coverage. Equity in earnings of real estate entities is recognized
based on our ownership interest in the earnings of each of the unconsolidated real estate entities. Interest income is recognized as earned.

Property
expenses, including utilities, property taxes, repairs and maintenance and other costs to manage the facilities are recognized as incurred. The Company accrues for property tax
expense based



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

upon
invoice amounts, estimates and historical trends. If these estimates are incorrect, the timing of expense recognition could be affected.

Real Estate Sales

In general, sales of real estate and related profits/losses are recognized when all consideration has changed hands and risks and
rewards of ownership have been transferred. Certain types of continuing involvement preclude sale treatment and related profit recognition; other forms of continuing involvement allow for sale
recognition but require deferral of profit recognition.

Advertising Costs

The Company incurs advertising costs primarily attributable to directory, direct mail, internet and other advertising. Direct response
advertising costs are deferred and amortized over the expected benefit period determined to be 12 months. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had $0 and $860, respectively, of
prepaid advertising included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets. All other advertising costs are expensed as incurred. The Company recognized $6,026, $5,958, and $6,430 in advertising
expense for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Income Taxes

The Company has elected to be treated as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. In order to
maintain its qualification as a REIT, among other things, the Company is required to distribute at least 90% of its REIT taxable income to its stockholders and meet certain tests regarding the nature
of its income and assets. As a REIT, the Company is not subject to federal income tax with respect to that portion of its income which meets certain criteria and is distributed annually to
stockholders. The Company plans to continue to operate so that it meets the requirements for taxation as a REIT. Many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. If the Company
were to fail to meet these requirements, it would be subject to federal income tax. The Company is subject to certain state and local taxes. Provision for such taxes has been included in income tax
expense on the Company's consolidated statements of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2012, 0% (unaudited) of all distributions to stockholders qualified as a return of capital.

The
Company has elected to treat its corporate subsidiary, Extra Space Management, Inc. ("ESMI"), as a taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS"). In general, the Company's TRS may perform
additional services for tenants and may engage in any real estate or non-real estate related business. A TRS is subject to corporate federal income tax. ESM Reinsurance Limited, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of ESMI, generates
income from insurance premiums that are subject to corporate federal income tax and state insurance premiums tax.

Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, there
were no material unrecognized tax benefits. Interest and penalties relating to uncertain tax positions will be recognized in income tax expense when incurred. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011,
the Company had no interest or penalties related to uncertain tax provisions.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

Stock-Based Compensation

The measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards to employees and directors are based on
estimated fair values. Awards granted are valued at fair value and any compensation element is recognized on a straight line basis over the service periods of each award.

Net Income Per Share

Basic net income per common share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average common shares outstanding, including
unvested share-based payment awards that contain a non-forfeitable right to dividends or dividend equivalents. Diluted earnings per common share measures the performance of the Company over the
reporting period while giving effect to all potential common shares that were dilutive and outstanding during the period. The denominator includes the weighted average number of basic shares and the
number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potential common shares that were dilutive had been issued, and is calculated using either the treasury stock or as
if-converted method. Potential common shares are securities (such as options, convertible debt, exchangeable Series A Participating Redeemable Preferred Operating Partnership units ("Preferred
OP units") and exchangeable Operating Partnership units ("OP units")) that do not have a current right to participate in earnings but could do so in the future by virtue of their option or conversion
right. In computing the dilutive effect of convertible securities, net income is adjusted to add back any changes in earnings in the period associated with the convertible security. The numerator also
is adjusted for the effects of any other non-discretionary changes in income or loss that would result from the assumed conversion of those potential common
shares. In computing diluted earnings per share, only potential common shares that are dilutive (those that reduce earnings per share) are included.

The
Company's Operating Partnership had $87,663 of exchangeable senior notes (the "Notes") that were surrendered for exchange in April 2012. Prior to their exchange, the Notes could
potentially have had a dilutive effect on the Company's earnings per share calculations. The Notes were exchangeable by holders into cash and shares of the Company's common stock under certain
circumstances per the terms of the indenture governing the Notes and at the time prior to surrender had an exchange price of $23.20 per share. The Company had irrevocably agreed to pay only cash for
the accreted principal amount of the Notes relative to its exchange obligations, but retained the right to satisfy the exchange obligations in excess of the accreted principal amount in cash and/or
common stock. Though the Company retained that right, Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 260, "

Earnings Per Share,"

required an assumption that
shares would be used to pay the exchange obligations in excess of the accreted principal amount, and required that those shares be included in the Company's calculation of weighted average common
shares outstanding for the diluted earnings per share computation. No shares were included in the diluted share calculation for the years ended December 31, 2011 or 2010 as the stock price
during this time did not exceed the exchange price. No shares were included for the year ended December 31, 2012 as the Notes were no longer outstanding.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

For
the purposes of computing the diluted impact on earnings per share of the potential conversion of Preferred OP units into common shares, where the Company has the option to redeem in
cash or shares and where the Company has stated the positive intent and ability to settle at least $115,000 of the instrument in cash (or net settle a portion of the Preferred OP units against the
related outstanding note receivable), only the amount of the instrument in excess of $115,000 is considered in the calculation of shares contingently issuable for the purposes of computing diluted
earnings per share as allowed by ASC 260-10-45-46.

For
the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, options to purchase approximately 57,335 shares, 107,523 shares and 1,788,142 shares of common stock, respectively, were
excluded from the computation of earnings per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. All restricted stock grants have been included in basic and diluted shares outstanding because such
shares earn a non-forfeitable dividend and carry voting rights.

The
computation of net income per share is as follows:

For the Year Ended December 31,




Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

117,309

$

50,449

$

26,331

Add: Income allocated to noncontrolling interest—Preferred Operating Partnership and Operating Partnership

10,349

7,978

7,096

Subtract: Fixed component of income allocated to noncontrolling interest—Preferred Operating Partnership

(5,750

)

(5,750

)

(5,750

)

Net income for diluted computations

$

121,908

$

52,677

$

27,677

Weighted average common shares outstanding:

Average number of common shares outstanding—basic

102,290,200

92,097,008

87,324,104

Operating Partnership units

2,755,650

3,049,935

3,356,963

Preferred Operating Partnership units

989,980

989,980

989,980

Dilutive and cancelled stock options

487,185

546,585

379,406

Average number of common shares outstanding—diluted

106,523,015

96,683,508

92,050,453

Net income per common share

Basic

$

1.15

$

0.55

$

0.30

Diluted

$

1.14

$

0.54

$

0.30

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In July 2012, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU No. 2012-02, "

Testing
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment

" ("ASU 2012-02"), which provides companies with the option to first assess qualitative factors in
determining whether events and circumstances indicates that it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. If, after assessing the



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

totality
of events and circumstances, an entity concludes that it is not more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, then the entity is not required to take further
action. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then it is required to determine the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset and perform the quantitative impairment test by comparing
the fair value with the carrying value. Previously, companies were required to perform the quantitative impairment test at least annually. As permitted the Company adopted these provisions in 2012.
The adoption of ASU 2012-02 did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

3. REAL ESTATE ASSETS

The components of real estate assets are summarized as follows:

December 31,


December 31,


Land—operating

$

755,565

$

580,995

Land—development

12,050

14,600

Buildings and improvements

2,551,886

1,934,693

Intangible assets—tenant relationships

51,355

37,293

Intangible lease rights

8,656

6,150

3,379,512

2,573,731

Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization

(391,928

)

(319,302

)

Net operating real estate assets

2,987,584

2,254,429

Real estate under development/redevelopment

4,138

9,366

Net real estate assets

$

2,991,722

$

2,263,795

Real estate assets held for sale included in net real estate assets

$

8,600

$

7,875

The
Company amortizes to expense intangible assets—tenant relationships on a straight-line basis over the average period that a tenant is expected to utilize the
facility (currently estimated at 18 months). The Company amortizes to expense the intangible lease rights over the terms of the related leases. Amortization related to the tenant relationships
and lease rights was $7,068, $2,633, and $907, for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The remaining balance of the unamortized lease rights will be amortized over
the next 5 to 49 years.

Real
estate assets held for sale included in net real estate assets as of December 31, 2012 are recorded at fair value and consisted of undeveloped land and one
self-storage property.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

4. PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS

The following table shows the Company's acquisition of operating properties for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, and does not include purchases of raw land or
improvements made to existing assets:

Consideration Paid

Acquisition Date Fair Value

Notes

Issued

to/from

Seller

Net

Liabilities/

(Assets)

Assumed

Value of

OP

Units

Issued

Number

of OP

Units

Issued

Property

Location

Number of

Properties

Date of

Acquisition

Total

Cash Paid

Loan

Assumed

Non-cash

gain

Previous

equity

interest

Land

Building

Intangible

Closing

costs—

expensed

Source of Acquisition

Notes

Florida


12/28/2012

$

4,270

$

4,258

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$


$

—

—

$


$

3,345

$


$


Unrelated third party

Maryland


12/27/2012

13,107

10,596

2,692

—

—

—

(181

)

—

—

4,314

8,412



Unrelated third party

Arizona


12/27/2012

8,667

8,608

—

—

—

—


—

—

2,973

5,545



Unrelated third party

Florida


12/27/2012

8,766


—

—

8,584

—


—

—

1,597

6,862



Unrelated third party

(4)

Florida


12/3/2012

4,273

4,254

—

—

—

—


—

—

1,133

3,017



Unrelated third party

Various states


11/30/2012

164,566

140,513

—

10,171

—

14,184

(302

)

—

—

41,988

119,681

2,881


Affiliated joint venture

(3)

New Jersey


11/30/2012

39,336

39,283

—

—

—

—


—

—

10,920

26,712



Unrelated third party

Massachusetts


11/9/2012

9,011

8,994

—

—

—

—


—

—

3,115

5,684



Unrelated third party

Utah


9/28/2012

7,410

7,322

—

—

—

—


—

—

2,063

5,202



Related party

(2)

Virginia


9/20/2012

6,884

6,850

—

—

—

—


—

—

1,172

5,562



Unrelated third party

New Jersey


8/28/2012

13,678

13,678

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

1,511

11,732



Unrelated third party

New Jersey


8/23/2012

9,091

9,099

—

—

—

—

(8

)

—

—

2,144

6,660



Unrelated third party

New Jersey


8/23/2012

15,475

15,431

—

—

—

—


—

—

1,890

13,112



Unrelated third party

New York


8/10/2012

15,300

15,377

—

—

—

—

(77

)

—

—

2,800

12,173



Unrelated third party

Texas


8/10/2012

9,948

9,775

—

—

—

—


—

—

4,869

4,826



Unrelated third party

California


7/26/2012

4,860

2,376

2,592

—

—

—

(108

)

—

—

2,428

2,317



Unrelated third party

South Carolina


7/19/2012

4,651

4,621

—

—

—

—


—

—

1,784

2,755



Unrelated third party

New Jersey, New York


7/18/2012

55,622

55,748

—

—

—

—

(126

)

—

—

8,584

45,359

1,227


Unrelated third party

Colorado


7/18/2012

7,085

7,038

—

—

—

—


—

—

—

6,945



Unrelated third party

Various states


7/2/2012

322,516

162,705

145,000

13,499

—

3,355

(2,043

)

—

—

67,550

246,133

8,142


Affiliated joint venture

(1)

Maryland


5/31/2012

6,501

6,438

—

—

—

—



1,814

1,185

5,051



Unrelated third party

Florida


5/2/2012

14,942

14,792

—

—

—

—


—

—

1,933

12,682



Unrelated third party

Maryland


3/7/2012

6,284

5,886

—

—

—

—



14,193


5,600



Unrelated third party

Texas


2/29/2012

9,405

9,323

—

—

—

—


—

—

1,036

8,133



Unrelated third party

2012 Totals


$

761,648

$

563,107

$

150,284

$

23,670

$

8,584

$

17,539

$

(1,965

)

$


16,007

$

168,259

$

573,500

$

16,570

$

3,319

New Jersey


12/16/2011

$

6,832

$

6,806

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$


$

—

—

$

1,093

$

5,492

$


$


Unrelated third party

Various


12/1/2011

61,797

4,941

50,140

—

4,850

1,817


—

—

15,645

46,139

—


Affiliated joint venture

Florida


10/25/2011

5,853

5,615

—

—

—

—


—

—


5,198



Unrelated third party

California


10/19/2011

104,029

31,464

73,527

—

—

—

(962

)

—

—

32,270

69,496

2,164


Unrelated third party

New Jersey


10/6/2011

18,372

18,334

—

—

—

—


—

—


17,127



Unrelated third party

Texas


8/2/2011

2,402

2,353

—

—

—

—


—

—


1,347



Unrelated third party

Maryland


8/1/2011

7,343

7,342

—

—

—

—


—

—


6,331



Unrelated third party

Maryland


7/8/2011

5,785

5,795

—

—

—

—

(10

)

—

—

1,303

4,218



Unrelated third party

Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky


6/27/2011

39,773

39,387

—

—

—

—


—

—

13,478

25,098



Unrelated third party

Nevada


6/22/2011

3,355

3,339

—

—

—

—


—

—

1,441

1,810



Unrelated third party

Colorado


6/10/2011

4,600

2,664

1,907

—

—

—


—

—


4,199



Unrelated third party

New Jersey


6/2/2011

4,963

4,959

—

—

—

—


—

—

1,644

3,115



Affiliated joint venture

Virginia


5/26/2011

10,514

5,205

5,463

—

—

—

(154

)

—

—


9,349



Unrelated third party

Colorado


5/25/2011

3,540

2,262

1,290

—

—

—

(12

)

—

—


3,077


(5

)

Unrelated third party

Tennessee


4/15/2011

2,539

2,514

—

—

—

—


—

—


1,791



Unrelated third party

California


4/7/2011

8,207

8,150

—

—

—

—


—

—

2,211

5,829



Unrelated third party

Utah, Texas


4/1/2011

7,262

7,205

—

—

—

—


—

—

1,512

5,548



Affiliated joint venture

2011 Totals


$

297,166

$

158,335

$

132,327

$

—

$

4,850

$

1,817

$

(163

)

$

—

—

$

76,008

$

215,164

$

5,035

$


(1)

This
represents the acquisition of Prudential Real Estate Investors' ("PREI®") 94.9% interest in the ESS PRISA III LLC joint venture
("PRISA III") that was formed in 2005, resulting in full ownership by the Company. The joint venture owned 36 properties located in 18 states. Prior to the acquisition date, the Company accounted for
its 5.1% interest in PRISA III as an equity-method investment. The acquisition date fair value of the previous equity interest was approximately $16,300 and is included as consideration transferred.
The Company recognized a non-cash gain of $13,499 as a result of re-measuring its prior equity interest in PRISA III held before the acquisition.

(2)

This
property was purchased from Sandy Self Storage, LLC, which was partially owned by Kenneth T. Woolley, the son of Kenneth M. Woolley, Executive
Chairman and Chief Investment Officer.

(3)

This
represents the acquisition of the Company's joint venture partner's 80% interest in the Storage Portfolio Bravo II LLC ("SPB II") joint
venture, resulting in full ownership by the Company. The joint venture owned 21 properties in eleven states. Prior to the acquisition date, the Company accounted for its 20% interest in the joint
venture as an equity-method investment. The acquisition date fair value of the previous equity interest was approximately $31,500 and is included as consideration transferred. The Company recognized a
non-cash gain of $10,171 as a result of re-measuring its prior equity interest in SPB II held before the acquisition.

(4)

On
May 1, 2012, the Company purchased two notes receivable from Capmark Bank for a total of $7,875. These receivables were due from Spacebox Land
O'Lakes, LLC and Spacebox North Fort Myers, LLC (collectively, "Spacebox"), a third party. The notes bore interest at 15% per annum. Spacebox owned two self-storage
facilities located in Florida that served as collateral for the notes. On December 27, 2012, the Company acquired the two properties owned by Spacebox in exchange for $142 of cash and
forgiveness of the notes, which had an outstanding balance at the time of purchase of $8,584, including accrued interest.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

4. PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS (Continued)

On July 31, 2012, the Company acquired the land it had previously been leasing associated with a property in Bethesda, Maryland for a cash
payment of $3,671.

As
noted above, during the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company acquired 91 properties. The following pro forma financial information includes 77 of the 91 properties
acquired. Fourteen properties were excluded as it was impractical to obtain the historical information from the previous owners, and in total they represent an immaterial amount of total revenues. The
pro forma information is based on the combined historical financial statements of the Company and 77 of the properties acquired, and presents the Company's results as if the acquisitions had occurred
as of January 1, 2011:

For the Year Ended

December 31,



Total revenues

$

450,787

$

392,932

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

124,248

$

56,454

Net income per common share

Basic

$

1.21

$

0.61

Diluted

$

1.20

$

0.60

The
following table summarizes the revenues and earnings related to the 91 acquisitions since the acquisition dates, included in the consolidated statements of operations for the year
ended December 31, 2012:

For the

Year Ended

December 31, 2012

Total revenues

$

29,381

Net income

$

9,225

As
part of the acquisition of the 19-property portfolio purchased on October 19, 2011, the Company assumed three different mortgage loans with a total amount due of
$68,681 at the closing date. At the time of purchase, the Company recorded a $4,846 premium on the debt assumed in order to record the loans at their fair values at the purchase date. This premium is
included in premium on notes payable in the consolidated balance sheets and will be amortized to interest expense over the remaining term of the loans.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES

Investments in real estate ventures consist of the following:

Investment balance at

December 31,

Equity

Ownership %

Excess Profit

Participation %



Extra Space West One LLC ("ESW")


%


%

$


$


Extra Space West Two LLC ("ESW II")


%


%

4,404

4,501

Extra Space Northern Properties Six LLC ("ESNPS")


%


%



Extra Space of Santa Monica LLC ("ESSM")


%


%

2,655

3,015

Clarendon Storage Associates Limited Partnership ("Clarendon")


%


%

3,160

3,171

HSRE-ESP IA, LLC ("HSRE")


%


%

12,506

11,528

PRISA Self Storage LLC ("PRISA")


%


%

10,972

11,141

PRISA II Self Storage LLC ("PRISA II")


%


%

9,331

9,502

PRISA III Self Storage LLC ("PRISA III")


%


%

—

3,410

VRS Self Storage LLC ("VRS")


%


%

43,107

43,974

WCOT Self Storage LLC ("WCOT")


%


%

4,315

4,495

Storage Portfolio I LLC ("SP I")


%

25 - 40

%

12,587

11,853

Storage Portfolio Bravo II ("SPB II")


%

20 - 45

%

—

14,435

Extra Space Joint Ventures with Everest Real Estate Fund ("Everest")

39 - 58

%

40 - 50

%

3,478

3,609

U-Storage de Mexico S.A. and related entities ("U-Storage")


%


%

—

4,841

Other minority owned properties

18 - 50

%

19 - 50

%

(1,241

)

(707

)

$

106,313

$

130,410

In
these joint ventures, the Company and the joint venture partner generally receive a preferred return on their invested capital. To the extent that cash/profits in excess of these
preferred returns are generated through operations or capital transactions, the Company would receive a higher percentage of the excess cash/profits than its equity interest.

In
accordance with ASC 810, the Company reviews all of its joint venture relationships quarterly to ensure that there are no entities that require consolidation. As of
December 31, 2012, there were no previously unconsolidated entities that were required to be consolidated as a result of this review.

On
December 20, 2012 two joint ventures in which the Company held 20% interests each sold their only self storage properties. Both properties were located in Illinois. As a result
of the sale, the joint ventures were dissolved, and the Company received cash proceeds which resulted in a gain of $1,409.

On
November 30, 2012, the Company completed the acquisition of its joint venture partner's 80% interest in SPB II, which owned 21 properties located in eleven states. Prior to the
acquisition, the remaining 20% interest was owned by the Company, which accounted for its investment in SPB II using



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES (Continued)

the
equity method. Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company had full ownership. GAAP requires an entity that completes a business combination in stages to re-measure its previously held
equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition date fair value and recognize the resulting gain or loss, if any, in earnings. The Company recorded a gain of $10,171 related to this transaction,
which represents the increase in fair value of the Company's 20% interest in SPB II from the time the Company purchased its interest in the joint venture to the acquisition date.

On
July 2, 2012, the Company completed the acquisition of PREI®'s 94.9% interest in PRISA III, which was formed in 2005 and owned 36 properties located in 18 states.
Prior to the acquisition, the remaining 5.1% interest was owned by the Company, which accounted for its investment in PRISA III using the equity method. Subsequent to the acquisition, the
Company had full ownership. GAAP requires an entity that completes a business combination in stages to re-measure its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition
date fair value and recognize the resulting gain or loss, if any, in earnings. The Company recorded a gain of $13,499 related to this transaction, which represents the increase in fair value of the
Company's 5.1% interest in PRISA III from the formation of the joint venture to the acquisition date.

On
February 17, 2012, a joint venture in which the Company held a 40% equity interest sold its only self-storage property. The property was located in New York. As a
result of the sale, the joint venture was dissolved, and the Company received cash proceeds which resulted in a gain of $5,550.

On
January 15, 2012, the Company sold its 40% equity interest in U-Storage de Mexico S.A. and related entities to its joint venture partners for $4,841. The
Company received cash of $1,492 and a note receivable of $3,349. No gain or loss was recorded on the sale. At December 31, 2012, the balance of the note receivable was $1,853. The note
receivable is due December 15, 2014.

On
December 1, 2011, the Company purchased Everest Real Estate Fund LLC's interest in Storage Associates Holdco, LLC, a joint venture in which the Company previously
held a 10% equity interest, for $4,941 in cash and a $4,850 promissory note. This joint venture owned six properties located in Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts, New York and Rhode Island. These
properties became wholly-owned and consolidated as of the date of the purchase. During September 2011, the Company purchased a note payable due from Holdco to the Bank of America for $51,000. The note
payable had a monthly interest rate of LIBOR plus 185 basis points and was due in March 2012. Upon the purchase of the
remaining equity interest in Holdco on December 1, 2011, the balance of the note of $50,140 was assumed by the Company and was subsequently eliminated in consolidation.

On
January 1, 2011, the Company paid $320 in cash to obtain its joint venture partners' equity interests in a joint venture. No gain or loss was recognized on this transaction.
The joint venture owned a single stabilized self-storage property located in Pennsylvania and was previously accounted for under the equity method. The property is now wholly-owned and
consolidated by the Company.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES (Continued)

Equity in earnings of real estate ventures consists of the following:

For the Year Ended

December 31,




Equity in earnings of ESW

$

1,263

$

1,156

$

1,213

Equity in earnings (losses) of ESW II


(8

)

(31

)

Equity in earnings of ESNPS




Equity in earnings (losses) of ESSM



(142

)

Equity in earnings of Clarendon




Equity in earnings (losses) of HSRE

1,298


(161

)

Equity in earnings of PRISA




Equity in earnings of PRISA II




Equity in earnings of PRISA III




Equity in earnings of VRS

2,849

2,279

2,221

Equity in earnings of WCOT




Equity in earnings (losses) of SP I

1,103

(116

)


Equity in earnings of SPB II




Equity in earnings of Everest




Equity in earnings (losses) of U-Storage

—

(11

)


Equity in earnings (losses) of other minority owned properties



(6

)

$

10,859

$

7,287

$

6,753

Equity
in earnings (losses) of ESW II, SP I and SPB II includes the amortization of the Company's excess purchase price of $25,713 of these equity investments over its original basis. The excess basis
is amortized over 40 years.

Information
(unaudited) related to the real estate ventures' debt at December 31, 2012, is presented below:

Loan

Amount

Current

Interest Rate

Debt Maturity

ESW—Fixed

$

16,700

5.00%

September 2015

ESW II—Swapped to fixed

19,717

3.57%

February 2019

ESNPS—Fixed

34,500

5.27%

June 2015

ESSM—Variable

11,125

3.01%

November 2014

Clarendon—Swapped to fixed

8,151

5.93%

September 2018

HSRE—Fixed

97,779

5.29%

August 2015

VRS—Swapped to fixed

52,100

3.34%

July 2019

WCOT—Swapped to fixed

87,500

3.34%

August 2019

SP I—Fixed

96,334

4.66%

April 2018

Other minority owned properties

62,458

Various

Various



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES (Continued)

Combined,
condensed unaudited financial information of ESW, ESW II, ESNPS, PRISA, PRISA II, PRISA III, VRS, WCOT, SP I and SPB II and HSRE as of December 31, 2012 and 2011,
and for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, follows:

December 31,

Balance Sheets:

2012(a)


Assets:

Net real estate assets

$

1,629,402

$

1,971,431

Other

33,103

48,728

$

1,662,505

$

2,020,159

Liabilities and members' equity:

Notes payable

$

404,630

$

615,561

Other liabilities

27,383

37,558

Members' equity

1,234,492

1,367,040

$

1,666,505

$

2,020,159

For the Year Ended December 31,

Statements of Operations:




Rents and other income

$

266,222

$

304,499

$

297,658

Expenses

164,285

217,114

211,283

Net income

$

101,937

$

87,385

$

86,375

(a)

The
balance sheet information as of December 31, 2012 does not include PRISA III or SPB II, which were acquired by the Company during 2012.

Variable Interests in Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures:

The Company has interests in two unconsolidated joint ventures with unrelated third parties which are variable interest entities
("VIEs" or the "VIE JVs"). The Company holds 18% and 39% of the equity interests in the two VIE JVs, and has 50% of the voting rights in each of the VIE JVs. Qualification as a VIE was based on the
determination that the equity investments at risk for each of these joint ventures were not sufficient based on a qualitative and quantitative analysis performed by the Company. The Company performed
a qualitative analysis for these joint ventures to determine which party was the primary beneficiary of each VIE. The Company determined that since the powers to direct the activities most significant
to the economic performance of these entities are shared equally by the Company and its joint venture partners, there is no primary beneficiary. Accordingly, these interests are recorded using the
equity method.

The
VIE JVs each own a single self-storage property. These joint ventures are financed through a combination of (1) equity contributions from the Company and its joint
venture partners, (2) mortgage notes payable and (3) payables to the Company. The payables to the Company consist of amounts



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

5. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE VENTURES (Continued)

owed
for expenses paid on behalf of the joint ventures by the Company as manager and mortgage notes payable to the Company. The Company performs management services for the VIE JVs in exchange for a
management fee of approximately 6% of cash collected by the properties. Except as disclosed, the Company has not provided financial or other support during the periods presented to the VIE JVs that it
was not previously contractually obligated to provide.

The
Company guarantees the mortgage notes payable of the VIE JVs. The Company's maximum exposure to loss for these joint ventures as of December 31, 2012, is the total of the
guaranteed loan balances, the payables due to the Company and the Company's investment balances in the joint ventures. The Company believes that the risk of incurring a material loss as a result of
having to perform on the loan guarantees is unlikely and, therefore, no liability has been recorded related to these guarantees. Also, repossessing and/or selling the self-storage facility
and land that collateralize the loans could provide funds sufficient to reimburse the Company. Additionally, the Company believes the payables to the Company are collectible.

The
following table compares the liability balance and the maximum exposure to loss related to the VIE JVs as of December 31, 2012:

Liability

Balance

Investment

Balance

Balance of

Guaranteed

Loan

Payables to

Company

Maximum

Exposure

to Loss

Difference

Extra Space of Montrose Avenue LLC

$

—

$

1,173

$

5,120

$

2,216

$

8,509

$

(8,509

)

Extra Space of Sacramento One LLC

—

(1,015

)

4,307

6,083

9,375

(9,375

)

$

—

$


$

9,427

$

8,299

$

17,884

$

(17,884

)

The
Company had no consolidated VIEs for the year ended December 31, 2012.

6. OTHER ASSETS

The components of other assets are summarized as follows:

December 31,


December 31,


Equipment and fixtures

$

15,090

$

12,146

Less: accumulated depreciation

(10,223

)

(8,847

)

Other intangible assets

3,434

3,424

Deferred financing costs, net

19,783

15,386

Prepaid expenses and deposits

7,934

5,265

Receivables, net

19,881

15,536

Investments in Trusts

3,590

3,590

Income taxes receivable

3,609

2,447

Deferred tax asset

3,505

3,603

$

66,603

$

52,550



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

7. NOTES PAYABLE

The components of notes payable are summarized as follows:

December 31,


December 31,


Fixed Rate

Mortgage loans with banks (including loans subject to interest rate swaps) bearing interest at fixed rates between 2.8% and 7.0%. The loans
are collateralized by mortgages on real estate assets and the assignment of rents. Principal and interest payments are made monthly with all outstanding principal and interest due between April 2013 and February 2021.

$

1,156,015

$

819,091

Variable Rate

Mortgage and construction loans with banks bearing floating interest rates based on LIBOR. Interest rates based on LIBOR are between LIBOR
plus 2.0% (2.21% at December 31, 2012 and 2.30% December 31, 2011) and LIBOR plus 3.0% (3.21% at December 31, 2012 and 3.30% December 31, 2011). The loans are collateralized by mortgages on real estate assets and the assignment of
rents. Principal and interest payments are made monthly with all outstanding principal and interest due between December 2013 and November 2019.

213,675

117,910

$

1,369,690

$

937,001

The
following table summarizes the scheduled maturities of notes payable at December 31, 2012:


$

110,483


144,822


201,100


167,604


349,964

Thereafter

395,717

$

1,369,690

Certain
mortgage and construction loans with variable interest rates are subject to interest rate floors starting at 2.15%. Real estate assets are pledged as collateral for the notes payable. Of the
Company's $1,369,690 in notes payable outstanding at December 31, 2012, $845,317 were recourse due to guarantees or other security provisions. The Company is subject to certain restrictive
covenants relating to the outstanding notes payable. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants at December 31, 2012.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

8. DERIVATIVES

The Company is exposed to certain risk arising from both its business operations and economic conditions. The Company principally manages its exposures to a wide variety of business and
operational risks through management of its core business activities. The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate, liquidity, and credit risk primarily by managing the amount, sources
and duration of its debt funding and the use of derivative financial instruments. Specifically, the Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage exposures that arise from business
activities that result in the receipt or payment of future known and uncertain cash amounts, the value of which are determined by interest rates. The Company's derivative financial instruments are
used to manage differences in the amount, timing and duration of the Company's known or expected cash receipts and its known or expected cash payments principally related to the Company's investments
and borrowings.

Cash Flow Hedges of Interest Rate Risk

The Company's objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense and to manage its exposure to
interest rate movements. To accomplish this objective, the Company primarily uses interest rate swaps as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow
hedges involve the receipt of variable amounts from a counterparty in exchange for the Company making fixed-rate payments over the life of the agreements without exchange of the underlying
notional amount.

The
effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive deficit and is
subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, such derivatives were
used to hedge the variable cash flows associated with existing variable-rate debt. During 2013, the Company estimates that an additional $7,600 will be reclassified as an increase to
interest expense.

The
following table summarizes the terms of the Company's derivative financial instruments as of December 31, 2012:

Hedge Product

Current Notional

Amounts

Strike

Effective Dates

Maturity Dates

Swap Agreements

$7,983 - $97,579

2.79% - 6.98%

2/1/2009 - 12/14/2012

6/30/2013 - 5/1/2020

Fair Values of Derivative Instruments

The table below presents the fair value of the Company's derivative financial instruments as well as their classification on the
consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2012 and 2011.

Asset (Liability) Derivatives

December 31, 2012

December 31, 2011

Derivatives designated as

hedging instruments:

Balance Sheet

Location

Fair

Value

Balance Sheet

Location

Fair

Value

Swap Agreements

Other liabilities

$

(15,228

)

Other liabilities

$

(8,311

)



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

8. DERIVATIVES (Continued)

Effect of Derivative Instruments

The tables below present the effect of the Company's derivative financial instruments on the consolidated statements of operations for
the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.

For the Year Ended

December 31,

Classification of

Income (Expense)

Type




Swap Agreements

Interest expense

$

(6,758

)

$

(3,771

)

$

(3,078

)

Gain (loss) reclassified

from OCI

Gain (loss)

recognized in OCI

Location of amounts

reclassified from OCI

into income

For the Year Ended

December 31, 2012

Type

December 31, 2012

Swap Agreements

$

(6,917

)

Interest expense

$

(6,758

)

Gain (loss)

reclassified from OCI

Gain (loss)

recognized in OCI

Location of amounts

reclassified from OCI

into income

For the Year Ended

December 31, 2011

Type

December 31, 2011

Swap Agreements

$

(2,237

)

Interest expense

$

(3,771

)

Credit-risk-related Contingent Features

The Company has agreements with some of its derivative counterparties that contain provisions pursuant to which, the Company could be
declared in default of its derivative obligations if the Company defaults on any of its indebtedness, including default where repayment of the indebtedness has not been accelerated by the lender.

The
Company also has an agreement with some of its derivative counterparties that incorporates the loan covenant provisions of the Company's indebtedness with a lender affiliate of the
derivative counterparty. Failure to comply with the loan covenant provisions would result in the Company being in default on any derivative instrument obligations covered by the agreement.

As
of December 31, 2012, the fair value of derivatives in a net liability position, which includes accrued interest but excludes any adjustment for nonperformance risk, related to
these agreements was $15,569. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had not posted any collateral related to these agreements. If the Company had breached any of these provisions as of
December 31, 2012, it could have been required to settle its obligations under the agreements at their termination value of $15,569.

9. NOTES PAYABLE TO TRUSTS

During July 2005, ESS Statutory Trust III (the "Trust III"), a newly formed Delaware statutory trust and a wholly-owned, unconsolidated subsidiary of the Operating Partnership, issued an
aggregate of $40,000 of preferred securities which mature on July 31, 2035. In addition, the Trust III issued 1,238



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

9. NOTES PAYABLE TO TRUSTS (Continued)

of
Trust common securities to the Operating Partnership for a purchase price of $1,238. On July 27, 2005, the proceeds from the sale of the preferred and common securities of $41,238 were
loaned in the form of a note to the Operating Partnership ("Note 3"). Note 3 had a fixed rate of 6.91% through July 31, 2010, and then was payable at a variable rate equal to the
three-month LIBOR plus 2.40% per annum. Effective July 11, 2011, the Trust III entered into an interest rate swap that fixes the interest rate to be paid at 4.99% per annum and matures
July 11, 2018. The interest on Note 3, payable quarterly, will be used by the Trust III to pay dividends on the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities became
redeemable by the Trust III with no prepayment premium on July 27, 2010.

During
May 2005, ESS Statutory Trust II (the "Trust II"), a newly formed Delaware statutory trust and a wholly-owned, unconsolidated subsidiary of the Operating Partnership of the
Company, issued an aggregate of $41,000 of preferred securities which mature on June 30, 2035. In addition, the Trust II issued 1,269 of Trust common securities to the Operating Partnership for
a purchase price of $1,269. On May 24, 2005, the proceeds from the sale of the preferred and common securities of $42,269 were loaned in the form of a note to the Operating Partnership
("Note 2"). Note 2 had a fixed rate of 6.67% through June 30, 2010, and then was payable at a variable rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.40% per annum. Effective
July 11, 2011, the Trust II entered into an interest rate swap that fixes the interest rate to be paid at 4.99% per annum and matures July 11, 2018. The interest on Note 2,
payable quarterly, will be used by the Trust II to pay dividends on the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities became redeemable by the Trust II with no prepayment premium on
June 30, 2010.

During
April 2005, ESS Statutory Trust I (the "Trust"), a newly formed Delaware statutory trust and a wholly-owned, unconsolidated subsidiary of the Operating Partnership of the Company
issued an aggregate of $35,000 of trust preferred securities which mature on June 30, 2035. In addition, the Trust issued 1,083 of Trust common securities to the Operating Partnership for a
purchase price of $1,083. On April 8, 2005, the proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred and common securities of $36,083 were loaned in the form of a note to the Operating Partnership
(the "Note"). The Note has a variable rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.25% per annum. Effective June 30, 2010, the Trust entered into an interest rate swap that fixes the interest
rate to be paid at 5.62% per annum and matures on June 30, 2015. The interest on the Note, payable quarterly, will be used by the Trust to pay dividends on the trust preferred securities. The
trust preferred securities became redeemable by the Trust with no prepayment premium on June 30, 2010.

Trust,
Trust II and Trust III are VIEs because the holders of the equity investment at risk (the trust preferred securities) do not have the power to direct the activities of the
entities that most significantly affect the entities' economic performance because of their lack of voting or similar rights. Because the Operating Partnership's investment in the trusts' common
securities was financed directly by the trusts as a result of its loan of the proceeds to the Operating Partnership, that investment is not considered to be an equity investment at risk. The Operating
Partnership's investment in the trusts is not a variable interest because equity interests are variable interests only to the extent that the investment is considered to be at risk, and therefore the
Operating Partnership cannot be the primary beneficiary of the trusts. Since the Company is not the primary beneficiary of the trusts, they have not been consolidated. A debt obligation has been
recorded in the form of notes as discussed above for the



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

9. NOTES PAYABLE TO TRUSTS (Continued)

proceeds,
which are owed to the Trust, Trust II, and Trust III by the Company. The Company has also recorded its investment in the trusts' common securities as other assets.

The
Company has not provided financing or other support during the periods presented to the trusts that it was not previously contractually obligated to provide. The Company's maximum
exposure to loss as a result of its involvement with the trusts is equal to the total amount of the notes discussed above less the amounts of the Company's investments in the trusts' common
securities. The net amount is the notes payable that the trusts owe to third parties for their investments in the trusts' preferred securities.

Following
is a tabular comparison of the carrying amounts of the liabilities the Company has recorded as a result of its involvements with the trusts to the maximum exposure to loss the
Company is subject to related to the trusts as of December 31, 2012:

Notes payable

to Trusts

Investment

Balance

Maximum

exposure to loss

Difference

Trust

$

36,083

$

1,083

$

35,000

$

—

Trust II

42,269

1,269

41,000

—

Trust III

41,238

1,238

40,000

—

$

119,590

$

3,590

$

116,000

$

—

10. EXCHANGEABLE SENIOR NOTES

On March 27, 2007, the Company's Operating Partnership issued $250,000 of 3.625% Exchangeable Senior Notes ("the Notes"). The Notes bore interest at 3.625% per annum and contained
an exchange settlement feature, which provided that the Notes, under certain circumstances, could have been exchanged for cash (up to the principal amount of the Notes) and, with respect to any excess
exchange value, for cash, shares of the Company's common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of the Company's common stock at the option of the Operating Partnership.

On
March 1, 2012, the Company announced that the holders of the Operating Partnership's then-outstanding $87,663 principal amount of the Notes had the right to
surrender their Notes for repurchase by the Operating Partnership on April 1, 2012 for 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, pursuant to the holders' rights under the indenture governing
the Notes.

As
of April 3, 2012, the Company received notice that the holders of the entire $87,663 principal amount of the Notes had surrendered their Notes for exchange. On April 26,
2012, the Company settled the exchange by paying cash for the principal amount of the Notes, as required by the indenture, and issuing 684,685 shares of common stock for the value in excess of the
principal amount. The issuance of shares was reflected as an increase in paid-in-capital with a corresponding decrease in paid-in-capital attributable
to the reacquisition of the equity component of the convertible debt, as discussed below.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

10. EXCHANGEABLE SENIOR NOTES (Continued)

GAAP
requires entities with convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion to separately account for the liability and equity components
of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The Company, therefore, accounted for the liability and equity components of the Notes separately. The equity component
was included in paid-in-capital in stockholders' equity in the condensed consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component was treated as original issue
discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component. The discount was amortized over the period of the debt as additional interest expense. The effective interest rate on the liability
component was 5.75%.

The
carrying amounts of the equity component, the principal amount of the liability component, its unamortized discount, and its net carrying amount for the years ended
December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows:

December 31, 2012

December 31, 2011

Carrying amount of equity component

$

—

$

19,545

Principal amount of liability component

$

—

$

87,663

Unamortized discount

—

(444

)

Net carrying amount of liability component

$

—

$

87,219

The
amount of interest cost recognized relating to the contractual interest rate and the amortization of the discount on the liability component for the years ended December 31,
2012 and 2011 were as follows:

For the Year Ended

December 31,




Contractual interest

$


$

3,178

$

3,178

Amortization of discount


1,761

1,664

Total interest expense recognized

$

1,234

$

4,939

$

4,842



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

11. LINES OF CREDIT

Information about the Company's lines of credit, the proceeds of which are used to repay debt and for general corporate purposes, is summarized as follows:

As of December 31, 2012

Line of Credit

Amount

Drawn

Capacity

Interest

Rate

Origination

Date

Maturity

Basis Rate

Notes

Credit Line 1

$

35,000

$

75,000

2.36

%

2/13/2009

2/13/2014

LIBOR plus 2.15

%

(1)(4)(5)

Credit Line 2

—

75,000

2.41

%

6/4/2010

5/31/2013

LIBOR plus 2.20

%

(2)(4)(5)

Credit Line 3

—

40,000

2.41

%

11/16/2010

11/16/2013

LIBOR plus 2.20

%

(3)(4)(5)

Credit Line 4

50,000

50,000

2.36

%

4/29/2011

5/1/2014

LIBOR plus 2.15

%

(3)(4)(5)

$

85,000

$

240,000

(1)

One
year extension available

(2)

One
two-year extension available

(3)

Two
one-year extensions available

(4)

Guaranteed
by the Company

(5)

Secured
by mortgages on certain real estate assets

12. OTHER LIABILITIES

The components of other liabilities are summarized as follows:

December 31, 2012

December 31, 2011

Deferred rental income

$

20,752

$

14,907

Lease obligation liability

3,826

5,828

Fair value of interest rate swaps

15,228

8,311

Other miscellaneous liabilities

8,442

4,708

$

48,248

$

33,754

Included
in the lease obligation liability is approximately $3,826 and $1,747 for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, related to minimum rentals to be
received in the future under non cancelable subleases.

13. RELATED PARTY AND AFFILIATED REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURE TRANSACTIONS

The Company provides management services to certain joint ventures, third parties and other related party properties. Management agreements provide generally for management fees of 6% of
cash collected from total revenues for the management of operations at the self-storage facilities. In addition, the Company receives an asset management fee equal to 50 basis points
multiplied by the



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

13. RELATED PARTY AND AFFILIATED REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURE TRANSACTIONS (Continued)

total
asset value of the properties owned by the SPI joint venture, provided certain requirements are met.

Management
fee revenues for related party and affiliated real estate joint ventures are summarized as follows:

For the Year Ended December 31,

Entity

Type




ESW

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

$


$


$


ESW II

Affiliated real estate joint ventures




ESNPS

Affiliated real estate joint ventures




ESSM

Affiliated real estate joint ventures




HSRE

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

1,094

1,045


PRISA

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

5,174

4,961

4,917

PRISA II

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

4,138

4,016

3,964

PRISA III

Affiliated real estate joint ventures


1,796

1,722

VRS

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

1,207

1,156

1,136

WCOT

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

1,520

1,497

1,468

SP I

Affiliated real estate joint ventures

1,885

6,392

1,256

SPB II

Affiliated real estate joint ventures




Everest

Affiliated real estate joint ventures




Other

Franchisees, third parties and other

7,323

6,255

5,041

$

25,706

$

29,924

$

23,122

During
2011, it was discovered that the asset management fee owed to the Company by the SPI joint venture had not been recorded by either party for the five-year period ended
December 31, 2010. The annual asset management fee for this period was $885, offset by an annual reduction of $221 of equity in earnings of SPI. Therefore, the Company's net income was
understated by $664 for each year in the five-year period ended December 31, 2010. After determining that the amounts were not material either in the prior periods or the year ended
December 31, 2011 for restatement purposes, the Company recorded the asset management fee adjustments for the years 2006 through 2010 in 2011. The total prior period adjustment increased asset
management fee revenues by $4,425 and decreased equity in earnings by $1,106. Additionally, the Company recorded a receivable of $5,327 which represents the asset management fee owed for 2006 through
2011. This receivable was paid in full by December 31, 2012.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

13. RELATED PARTY AND AFFILIATED REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURE TRANSACTIONS (Continued)

Receivables
from related parties and affiliated real estate joint ventures balances are summarized as follows:

December 31, 2012

December 31, 2011

Mortgage notes receivable

$

7,670

$

7,253

Other receivables from properties

3,408

11,264

$

11,078

$

18,517

Other
receivables from properties consist of amounts due for management fees, asset management fees and expenses paid on behalf of the properties that the Company manages. The Company
believes that all of these related party and affiliated real estate joint venture receivables are fully collectible. The Company does not have any payables to related parties at December 31,
2012 and 2011.

Centershift,
a related party service provider, is partially owned by certain members of management of the Company. Effective January 1, 2004, the Company entered into a license
agreement with Centershift which secures a perpetual right for continued use of STORE (the site management software used at all sites operated by the Company) in all aspects of the Company's property
acquisition, development, redevelopment and operational activities. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company paid Centershift $1,235, $1,087, and $778, respectively,
relating to the purchase of software and license agreements.

The
Company has entered into an annual aircraft dry lease and service and management agreement with SpenAero, L.C. ("SpenAero"), an affiliate of Spencer F. Kirk, the Company's Chief
Executive Officer. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company pays a defined hourly rate for use of the aircraft. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company paid
SpenAero $649, $608, and $668, respectively. The services that the Company receives from SpenAero are similar in nature and price to those that are provided to other outside third parties.

14. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

The Company's charter provides that it can issue up to 300,000,000 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value per share and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $0.01 par value per share.
As of December 31, 2012, 110,737,205 shares of common stock were issued and outstanding, and no shares of preferred stock were issued or outstanding.

All
holders of the Company's common stock are entitled to receive dividends and to one vote on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. The transfer agent and registrar for the
Company's common stock is American Stock Transfer & Trust Company.

On
November 9, 2012, the Company issued and sold 5,980,000 shares of its common stock in a public offering at a price to the underwriter of $33.98 per share. The Company received
gross proceeds of $203,200. Transaction costs were $300, resulting in net proceeds of $202,900.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

14. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (Continued)

On
April 16, 2012, the Company issued and sold 8,050,000 shares of its common stock in a public offering at a price to the underwriter of $28.22 per share. The Company received
gross proceeds of $227,171. Transaction costs were $483, resulting in net proceeds of $226,688.

In
May 2011, the Company closed a public stock offering of 5,335,423 shares of its common stock at an offering price of $21.16 per share. The Company received gross proceeds of $112,898.
Transaction costs were $549, for net proceeds of $112,349.

15. NONCONTROLLING INTEREST REPRESENTED BY PREFERRED OPERATING PARTNERSHIP UNITS

On June 15, 2007, the Operating Partnership entered into a Contribution Agreement with various limited partnerships affiliated with AAAAA Rent-A-Space to
acquire ten self-storage facilities (the "Properties") in exchange for 989,980 Preferred OP units of the Operating Partnership. The self-storage facilities are located in
California and Hawaii.

On
June 25, 2007, the Company loaned the holder of the Preferred OP units $100,000. The note receivable bears interest at 4.85%, and is due September 1, 2017. The loan is
secured by the borrower's Preferred OP units. The holder of the Preferred OP units can convert up to 114,500 Preferred OP units prior to the maturity date of the loan. If any redemption in excess of
114,500 Preferred OP units occurs prior to the maturity date, the holder of the Preferred OP units is required to repay the loan as of the date of that Preferred OP unit redemption. Preferred OP units
are shown on the balance sheet net of the $100,000 loan because the borrower under the loan receivable is also the holder of the Preferred OP units.

The
Operating Partnership entered into a Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership (the "Partnership Agreement") which provides for the designation and issuance of the
Preferred OP units. The Preferred OP units will have priority over all other partnership interests of the Operating Partnership with respect to distributions and liquidation.

Under
the Partnership Agreement, Preferred OP units in the amount of $115,000 bear a fixed priority return of 5% and have a fixed liquidation value of $115,000. The remaining balance
will participate in distributions with and have a liquidation value equal to that of the common Operating Partnership units. The Preferred OP units became redeemable at the option of the holder on
September 1, 2008,
which redemption obligation may be satisfied, at the Company's option, in cash or shares of common stock.

GAAP
requires a company to present ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the company in the consolidated financial statements within the equity section but
separate from the company's equity. It also requires the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest to be clearly identified and presented on the
face of the consolidated statement of operations and requires changes in ownership interest to be accounted for similarly as equity transactions. If noncontrolling interests are determined to be
redeemable, they are to be carried at their redemption value as of the balance sheet date and reported as temporary equity.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

15. NONCONTROLLING INTEREST REPRESENTED BY PREFERRED OPERATING PARTNERSHIP UNITS (Continued)

The
Company has evaluated the terms of the Preferred OP units and classifies the noncontrolling interest represented by the Preferred OP units as stockholders' equity in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets. The Company will periodically evaluate individual noncontrolling interests for the ability to continue to recognize the noncontrolling amount as permanent equity in the
consolidated balance sheets. Any noncontrolling interests that fail to qualify as permanent equity will be reclassified as temporary equity and adjusted to the greater of (1) the carrying
amount, or (2) its redemption value as of the end of the period in which the determination is made.

16. NONCONTROLLING INTEREST IN OPERATING PARTNERSHIP

The Company's interest in its properties is held through the Operating Partnership. ESS Holding Business Trust I, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is the sole general partner of
the Operating Partnership. ESS Business Trust II, also a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is a
limited partner of the Operating Partnership. Between its general partner and limited partner interests, the Company held a 96.7% majority ownership interest therein as of December 31, 2012.
The remaining ownership interests in the Operating Partnership (including Preferred OP units) of 3.3% are held by certain former owners of assets acquired by the Operating Partnership. As of
December 31, 2012, the Operating Partnership had 2,755,650 common OP units outstanding.

The
noncontrolling interest in the Operating Partnership represents OP units that are not owned by the Company. In conjunction with the formation of the Company and as a result of
subsequent acquisitions, certain persons and entities contributing interests in properties to the Operating Partnership received limited partnership units in the form of OP units. Limited partners who
received OP units in the formation transactions or in exchange for contributions for interests in properties have the right to require the Operating Partnership to redeem part or all of their OP units
for cash based upon the fair market value of an equivalent number of shares of the Company's common stock (10 day average) at the time of the redemption. Alternatively, the Company may, at its
option, elect to acquire those OP units in exchange for shares of its common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to anti-dilution adjustments provided in the
Operating Partnership agreement. The ten day average closing stock price at December 31, 2012, was $36.03 and there were 2,755,650 OP units outstanding. Assuming that all of the unit holders
exercised their right to redeem all of their OP units on December 31, 2012 and the Company elected to pay the non-controlling members cash, the Company would have paid $99,272 in
cash consideration to redeem the units.

In
December 2012, 304,817 OP units were redeemed in exchange for the Company's common stock. In April 2012, 5,475 OP units were redeemed for $155 in cash.

In
January 2011, 150,000 OP units were redeemed in exchange for the Company's common stock. During April 2011, 143,641 OP units were redeemed in exchange for the Company's common stock
and 13,387 OP units were redeemed for $271 in cash.

GAAP
requires a company to present ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the company in the consolidated financial statements within the equity section but
separate from the company's equity. It also requires the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

16. NONCONTROLLING INTEREST IN OPERATING PARTNERSHIP (Continued)

to
the noncontrolling interest to be clearly identified and presented on the face of the consolidated statement of operations and requires changes in ownership interest to be accounted for similarly
as equity transactions. If noncontrolling interests are determined to be redeemable, they are to be carried at their redemption value as of the balance sheet date and reported as temporary equity.

The
Company has evaluated the terms of the common OP units and classifies the noncontrolling interest represented by the common OP units as stockholders' equity in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets. The Company will periodically evaluate individual noncontrolling interests for the ability to continue to recognize the noncontrolling amount as permanent equity in the
consolidated balance sheets. Any noncontrolling interests that fail to qualify as permanent equity will be reclassified as temporary equity and adjusted to the greater of (1) the carrying
amount, or (2) its redemption value as of the end of the period in which the determination is made.

17. OTHER NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS

Other noncontrolling interests represent the ownership interests of various third parties in three consolidated self-storage properties as of December 31, 2012. Two of
these consolidated properties were undeveloped, and one was in the lease-up stage as of December 31, 2012. The ownership interests of the third party owners range from 5.0% to
27.6%. Other noncontrolling interests are included in the stockholders' equity section of the Company's consolidated balance sheet. The income or losses attributable to these third party owners based
on their ownership percentages are reflected in net income allocated to the Operating Partnership and other noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statement of operations.

18. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

The Company has the following plans under which shares were available for grant at December 31, 2012:

•

The 2004 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan as amended and restated, effective March 25, 2008, and

•

The 2004 Non-Employee Directors' Share Plan (together, the "Plans").

Option
grants are issued with an exercise price equal to the closing price of stock on the date of grant. Unless otherwise determined by the Compensation, Nominating and Governance
Committee ("CNG Committee") at the time of grant, options shall vest ratably over a four-year period beginning on the date of grant. Each option will be exercisable once it has vested.
Options are exercisable at such times and subject to such terms as determined by the CNG Committee, but under no circumstances may be exercised if such exercise would cause a violation of the
ownership limit in the Company's charter. Options expire 10 years from the date of grant.

Also
as defined under the terms of the Plans, restricted stock grants may be awarded. The stock grants are subject to a vesting period over which the restrictions are released and the
stock certificates are given to the grantee. During the performance or vesting period, the grantee is not permitted to sell, transfer, pledge, encumber or assign shares of restricted stock granted
under the Plans; however, the



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

18. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION (Continued)

grantee
has the ability to vote the shares and receive nonforfeitable dividends paid on shares. Unless otherwise determined by the CNG Committee at the time of grant, the forfeiture and transfer
restrictions on the shares lapse over a four-year period beginning on the date of grant.

As
of December 31, 2012, 2,553,769 shares were available for issuance under the Plans.

Option Grants

A summary of stock option activity is as follows:

Options

Number of Shares

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

Weighted Average

Remaining

Contractual Life

(Years)

Aggregate

Intrinsic Value as

of December 31,


Outstanding at December 31, 2009

3,457,048

$

13.02

Granted

308,680

11.75

Exercised

(484,261

)

11.69

Forfeited

(175,562

)

12.27

Outstanding at December 31, 2010

3,105,905

$

13.13

Granted

110,900

19.60

Exercised

(1,388,269

)

13.44

Forfeited

(29,675

)

15.65

Outstanding at December 31, 2011

1,798,861

$

13.25

Granted

67,084

27.18

Exercised

(768,853

)

13.55

Outstanding at December 31, 2012

1,097,092

$

13.89

5.50

$

24,687

Vested and Expected to Vest

1,067,103

$

13.67

5.41

$

24,248

Ending Exercisable

724,368

$

13.87

4.56

$

16,313

The
aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total value (the difference between the Company's closing stock price on the last trading day of 2012 and the exercise
price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options on
December 31, 2012. The amount of aggregate intrinsic value will change based on the fair market value of the Company's stock.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

18. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION (Continued)

The
weighted average fair value of stock options granted in 2012, 2011 and 2010, was $6.64, $5.39 and $3.27, respectively. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of
grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:

For the Year Ended

December 31,




Expected volatility


%


%


%

Dividend yield

4.5

%

4.9

%

5.3

%

Risk-free interest rate

0.9

%

2.4

%

2.3

%

Average expected term (years)




The
Black-Scholes model incorporates assumptions to value stock-based awards. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of the grant
for the estimated life of the option. The Company uses actual historical data to calculate the expected price volatility, dividend yield and average expected term. The forfeiture rate, which is
estimated at a weighted-average of 17.7% of unvested options outstanding as of December 31, 2012, is adjusted periodically based on the extent to which actual forfeitures differ, or are
expected to differ, from the previous estimates.

A
summary of stock options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2012, is as follows:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Exercise Price

Shares

Weighted Average

Remaining

Contractual Life

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

Shares

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

$6.22 - $11.50

273,715

6.13

$

6.22

145,965

$

6.22

$11.51 - $12.50

239,026

5.75

12.02

121,736

12.24

$12.51 - $15.50

204,000

3.91

14.73

204,000

14.73

$15.51 - $19.60

188,267

5.56

17.76

127,667

16.88

$19.61 - $28.79

192,084

5.90

22.45

125,000

19.91

$6.22 - $28.79

1,097,092

5.50

$

13.89

724,368

$

14.37

The
Company recorded compensation expense relating to outstanding options of $585, $942 and $801 in general and administrative expense for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011
and 2010, respectively. Total cash received for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, related to option exercises was $10,267, $18,622, and $5,661, respectively. At
December 31, 2012, there was $742 of total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested stock options under the Company's 2004 Long-Term Incentive
Compensation Plan. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.32 years. The valuation model applied in this calculation utilizes subjective assumptions that
could potentially change over time, including the expected forfeiture rate. Therefore, the amount of unrecognized compensation expense at December 31, 2012, noted above does not necessarily
represent the expense that will ultimately be realized by the Company in the statement of operations.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

18. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION (Continued)

Common Stock Granted to Employees and Directors

The Company recorded $3,771, $4,815 and $3,779 of expense in general and administrative expense in its statement of operations related
to outstanding shares of common stock granted to employees and directors for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The forfeiture rate, which is estimated at a
weighted-average of 9.3% of unvested awards
outstanding as of December 31, 2012, is adjusted periodically based on the extent to which actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ, from the previous estimates. At
December 31, 2012, there was $6,117 of total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock awards under the Company's 2004 Long-Term Incentive
Compensation Plan. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.89 years.

The
fair value of common stock awards is determined based on the closing trading price of the Company's common stock on the grant date.

A
summary of the Company's employee and director share grant activity is as follows:

Restricted Stock Grants

Shares

Weighted-Average

Grant-Date Fair Value

Unreleased at December 31, 2009

766,854

$

9.94

Granted

445,230

12.24

Released

(256,950

)

11.50

Cancelled

(64,010

)

10.11

Unreleased at December 31, 2010

891,124

$

10.62

Granted

226,630

20.09

Released

(407,293

)

11.91

Cancelled

(47,695

)

14.31

Unreleased at December 31, 2011

662,766

$

12.81

Granted

182,052

28.39

Released

(287,754

)

12.98

Cancelled

(16,792

)

14.03

Unreleased at December 31, 2012

540,272

$

17.93

19. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN

The Company has a retirement savings plan under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code under which eligible employees can contribute up to 15% of their annual salary, subject
to a statutory prescribed annual limit. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company made matching contributions to the plan of $884, $832 and $805, respectively, based on
100% of the first 3% and up to 50% of the next 2% of an employee's compensation.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

20. INCOME TAXES

As a REIT, the Company is generally not subject to federal income tax with respect to that portion of its income which is distributed annually to its stockholders. However, the Company
has elected to treat one of its corporate subsidiaries, Extra Space Management, Inc., as a taxable REIT subsidiary. In general, the Company's TRS may perform additional services for tenants and
generally may engage in any real estate or non-real estate related business. A TRS is subject to corporate federal income tax. The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with the
provisions of ASC 740,

"Income Taxes."

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases
of assets and liabilities. The Company has elected to use the Tax-Law-Ordering approach to determine when excess tax benefits will be realized.

The
income tax provision for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, is comprised of the following components:

For the Year Ended

December 31, 2012

Federal

State

Total

Current expense

$

8,240

$


$

8,852

Tax credits

(5,528

)

—

(5,528

)

Change in deferred benefit

2,089

—

2,089

Total tax expense

$

4,801

$


$

5,413

For the Year Ended

December 31, 2011

Federal

State

Total

Current expense

$

1,350

$


$

1,956

Tax credits

(6,849

)

—

(6,849

)

Change in deferred benefit

6,048

—

6,048

Total tax expense

$


$


$

1,155

For the Year Ended

December 31, 2010

Federal

State

Total

Current expense

$

3,588

$


$

3,712

Tax credits

(832

)

—

(832

)

Change in deferred benefit

1,282

—

1,282

Total tax expense

$

4,038

$


$

4,162



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

20. INCOME TAXES (Continued)

A
reconciliation of the statutory income tax provisions to the effective income tax provisions for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 is as follows:

December 31, 2012

December 31, 2011

Expected tax at statutory rate

$

46,586

35.0

%

$

20,854

35.0

%

Non-taxable REIT income

(37,729

)

(28.3

)%

(14,957

)

(25.1

)%

State and local tax expense—net of federal benefit


0.5

%


1.0

%

Change in valuation allowance

1,641

1.2

%

1,298

2.2

%

Tax credits

(5,528

)

(4.2

)%

(6,849

)

(11.5

)%

Miscellaneous

(169

)

(0.1

)%


0.3

%

Total provision

$

5,413

4.1

%

$

1,155

1.9

%

The
major sources of temporary differences stated at their deferred tax effects are as follows:

December 31,


December 31,


Captive insurance subsidiary

$


$


Fixed assets

(10,791

)

(6,455

)

Various liabilities

1,721

1,542

Solar credit

10,313

6,849

Stock compensation

1,610

1,955

State net operating losses

4,402

2,691

7,640

6,814

Valuation allowance

(4,135

)

(3,211

)

Net deferred tax asset

$

3,505

$

3,603

The
state income tax net operating losses expire between 2013 and 2031. The deferred tax benefits associated with the state income tax net operating losses have been fully reserved
through the valuation allowance. The solar tax credit carryforwards expire in 2016. The tax years 2007 through 2011 remain open related to the state returns and 2010 for the federal return, and the
federal return for 2010 remains open for the Operating Partnership.

21. SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Company operates in three distinct segments; (1) property management, acquisition and development; (2) rental operations; and (3) tenant reinsurance. Management
fees collected for



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

21. SEGMENT INFORMATION (Continued)

wholly-owned
properties are eliminated in consolidation. Financial information for the Company's business segments is set forth below:

December 31, 2012

December 31, 2011

Balance Sheet

Investment in real estate ventures

Rental operations

$

106,313

$

130,410

Total assets

Property management, acquisition and development

$

199,379

$

250,953

Rental operations

2,996,453

2,244,715

Tenant reinsurance

27,645

21,856

$

3,223,477

$

2,517,524

For the Year Ended December 31,




Statement of Operations

Total revenues

Property management, acquisition and development

$

36,816

$

29,924

$

23,122

Rental operations

346,874

268,725

232,447

Tenant reinsurance

25,706

31,181

25,928

$

409,396

$

329,830

$

281,497

Operating expenses, including depreciation and amortization

Property management, acquisition and development

$

59,746

$

58,012

$

49,762

Rental operations

184,540

150,199

134,415

Tenant reinsurance

7,869

6,143

6,505

$

252,155

$

214,354

$

190,682

Income (loss) from operations

Property management, acquisition and development

$

(22,930

)

$

(28,088

)

$

(26,640

)

Rental operations

162,334

118,526

98,032

Tenant reinsurance

17,837

25,038

19,423

$

157,241

$

115,476

$

90,815

Interest expense

Property management, acquisition and development

$

(1,822

)

$

(2,464

)

$

(3,126

)

Rental operations

(70,472

)

(66,598

)

(62,654

)

$

(72,294

)

$

(69,062

)

$

(65,780

)



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

21. SEGMENT INFORMATION (Continued)

For the Year Ended December 31,




Interest income

Property management, acquisition and development

$

1,804

$

1,016

$


Tenant reinsurance




$

1,816

$

1,027

$


Interest income on note receivable from Preferred Operating Partnership unit holder

Property management, acquisition and development

$

4,850

$

4,850

$

4,850

Equity in earnings of real estate ventures

Rental operations

$

10,859

$

7,287

$

6,753

Equity in earnings of real estate ventures-gain on sale of real estate assets and purchase of partners interests

Rental operations

$

30,630

$

—

$

—

Income tax expense

Property management, acquisition and development

$

4,986

$

7,612

$

2,639

Tenant reinsurance

(10,399

)

(8,767

)

(6,801

)

$

(5,413

)

$

(1,155

)

$

(4,162

)

Net income (loss)

Property management, acquisition and development

$

(13,112

)

$

(17,074

)

$

(21,388

)

Rental operations

133,351

59,215

42,131

Tenant reinsurance

7,450

16,282

12,631

$

127,689

$

58,423

$

33,374

Depreciation and amortization expense

Property management, acquisition and development

$

3,941

$

3,296

$

2,099

Rental operations

70,512

54,718

48,250

$

74,453

$

58,014

$

50,349

Statement of Cash Flows

Acquisition of real estate assets

Property management, acquisition and development

$

(601,727

)

$

(194,959

)

$

(69,588

)

Development and construction of real estate assets

Property management, acquisition and development

$

(3,759

)

$

(7,060

)

$

(36,062

)



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

22. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Company has operating leases on its corporate offices and owns 18 self-storage facilities that are subject to ground leases. At December 31, 2012, future minimum
rental payments under these non-cancelable operating leases were as follows (unaudited):

Less than 1 year

$

7,463

Year 2

7,330

Year 3

5,206

Year 4

4,072

Year 5

2,783

Thereafter

42,542

$

69,396

The
monthly rental amounts for two of the ground leases include contingent rental payments based on the level of revenue achieved at the properties. The Company recorded expense of
$2,830, $2,799 and $2,416 related to these leases in the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

The
Company has fully guaranteed loans for the following unconsolidated joint ventures (unaudited):

Date of

Guaranty

Loan

Maturity

Date

Guaranteed

Loan Amount

Estimated

Fair Market

Value of

Assets

Extra Space of Montrose Avenue LLC

Dec-10

Dec-13

$

5,120

$

8,432

Extra Space of Sacramento One LLC

Apr-09

Apr-14

$

4,307

$

9,507

ESS Baltimore LLC

Nov-04

Feb-13

$

3,950

$

6,465

If
the joint ventures default on the loans, the Company may be forced to repay the loans. Repossessing and/or selling the self-storage facilities and land that collateralize
the loans could provide funds sufficient to reimburse the Company. The Company has recorded no liability in relation to these guarantees as of December 31, 2012, as the fair value of the
guarantees is not material. The Company believes the risk of incurring a material loss as a result of having to perform on these guarantees is remote.

The
Company has been involved in routine litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. As a result of these litigation matters, the Company recorded a liability of $1,800 during
the year ended December 31, 2011, which is included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company does not believe it to be reasonably possible that the loss related to
these litigation matters will be in excess of the current amount accrued. As of December 31, 2012, the Company was not involved in any material litigation nor, to its knowledge, is any material
litigation threatened against it which, in the opinion of management, is expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

December 31, 2012

(amounts in thousands, except property and share data)

23. SUPPLEMENTARY QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

For the Three Months Ended

March 31,


June 30,


September 30,


December 31,


Revenues

$

90,987

$

94,951

$

109,791

$

113,667

Cost of operations

58,217

57,076

66,307

70,555

Revenues less cost of operations

$

32,770

$

37,875

$

43,484

$

43,112

Net income

$

22,518

$

24,745

$

41,553

$

38,873

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

20,214

$

22,413

$

38,606

$

36,076

Net income—basic

$

0.21

$

0.22

$

0.37

$

0.33

Net income—diluted

$

0.21

$

0.22

$

0.37

$

0.33

For the Three Months Ended

March 31,


June 30,


September 30,


December 31,

2011(1)

Revenues

$

74,481

$

78,040

$

84,097

$

93,212

Cost of operations

50,451

52,188

52,882

58,833

Revenues less cost of operations

$

24,030

$

25,852

$

31,215

$

34,379

Net income

$

10,140

$

12,517

$

17,352

$

18,414

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

8,301

$

10,609

$

15,261

$

16,278

Net income—basic

$

0.09

$

0.12

$

0.16

$

0.17

Net income—diluted

$

0.09

$

0.12

$

0.16

$

0.17

(1)

Included
in revenues is $4,425 of asset management fees related to the years 2006 through 2010. For further discussion on the complete impact to the
financial statements, refer to Note 13.

24. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

On February 12, 2013, the Company acquired two properties located in Illinois and Maryland for approximately $12,900 in cash by purchasing a partner's interest in an existing
joint venture.



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2012

Building

costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property

Number

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation


Hoover

AL

$

2,754

$

1,313

$

2,858

$

—

$


$

—

$

—

$

1,313

$

3,466

$

4,779

$


Aug-07


Auburn

AL

2,538


1,895

—


—

—


2,001

2,325


Aug-10


Birmingham

AL

4,706


9,369

—

—

—

—


9,369

10,159


Jul-12


Auburn

AL

—



—


—

—





Aug-10


Phoenix

AZ

7,164

1,441

7,982

—


—

—

1,441

8,527

9,968

1,813

Jul-05


Phoenix

AZ

—


4,135

—


—

—


4,304

4,973


Jan-07


Peoria

AZ

2,248


4,105

—


—

—


4,205

4,857


Apr-06


Phoenix

AZ

3,405


3,530

—


—

—


3,741

4,293


Jun-06


Mesa

AZ

1,275


2,547

—


—

—


2,692

3,541


Aug-04


Peoria

AZ

—

1,060

4,731

—


—

—

1,060

4,828

5,888


Jan-11


Mesa

AZ

3,395

1,129

4,402

—


—

—

1,129

4,410

5,539


Jul-12


Tucson

AZ

—

1,090

7,845

—


—

—

1,090

7,847

8,937


Nov-12


Phoenix

AZ

—

2,257

7,820

—

—

—

—

2,257

7,820

10,077


Nov-12


Mesa

AZ

—

2,973

5,545

—


—

—

2,973

5,549

8,522


Dec-12


Colma

CA

15,718

3,947

22,002

—

2,136

—

—

3,947

24,138

28,085

3,833

Jun-07


Berkeley

CA

15,336

1,716

19,602

—

1,806

—

—

1,716

21,408

23,124

3,234

Jun-07


Sherman Oaks

CA

16,938

4,051

12,152

—


—

—

4,051

12,449

16,500

2,716

Aug-04


Oceanside

CA

9,391

3,241

11,361

—


—

—

3,241

12,025

15,266

2,548

Jul-05


Alameda

CA

—

2,919

12,984

—

1,851

—

—

2,919

14,835

17,754

2,540

Jun-07


Burbank

CA

8,473

3,199

5,082

—



(a)


(a)

3,618

6,348

9,966

2,068

Aug-00


San Leandro

CA

9,664

4,601

9,777

—

1,929

—

—

4,601

11,706

16,307

2,050

Aug-07


San Francisco

CA

12,776

8,457

9,928

—

1,668

—

—

8,457

11,596

20,053

1,980

Jun-07


Venice

CA

6,260

2,803

8,410

—


—

—

2,803

8,590

11,393

1,870

Aug-04


Hayward

CA

8,702

3,149

8,006

—

2,337

—

—

3,149

10,343

13,492

1,802

Jun-07


Oakland

CA

2,874

—

3,777

—


—


(a)

—

4,761

4,761

1,620

Apr-00


North Hollywood

CA

7,265

3,125

9,257

—


—

—

3,125

9,349

12,474

1,613

May-06


Torrance

CA

—

3,710

6,271

—



(d)

—

4,110

6,801

10,911

1,586

Jun-04


Palmdale

CA

5,021

1,225

5,379

—

2,156

—

—

1,225

7,535

8,760

1,510

Jan-05


Glendale

CA

—

—

6,084

—


—

—

—

6,324

6,324

1,464

Jun-04


Inglewood

CA

4,927

1,379

3,343

—



(a)


(a)

1,529

4,138

5,667

1,430

Aug-00


Hemet

CA

5,131

1,146

6,369

—


—

—

1,146

6,615

7,761

1,355

Jul-05


Los Angeles

CA

—

3,991

9,774

—


—

—

3,991

9,818

13,809

1,272

Dec-07


Richmond

CA

5,011


4,635

—


—

—


5,216

6,169

1,235

Jun-04


Fontana

CA

3,367


3,846

—



(a)


(a) (c)

1,000

4,207

5,207

1,173

Sep-02


Los Angeles

CA

5,109

1,431

2,976

—



(a)


(a)

1,611

3,525

5,136

1,163

Mar-00


Sacramento

CA

4,066


4,720

—


—

—


5,148

6,000

1,121

Jul-05


Lancaster

CA

5,781

1,347

5,827

—


—

—

1,347

6,045

7,392

1,116

Jul-06


Santa Fe Springs

CA

6,707

3,617

7,022

—


—

—

3,617

7,298

10,915

1,092

Oct-07


Riverside

CA

2,260

1,075

4,042

—


—

—

1,075

4,513

5,588

1,092

Aug-04


Livermore

CA

—

1,134

4,615

—


—

—

1,134

4,825

5,959

1,087

Jun-04


Pico Rivera

CA

4,222

1,150

3,450

—


—

—

1,150

3,596

4,746

1,054

Aug-00



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2012

Building

costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property

Number

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation


Belmont

CA

—

3,500

7,280

—


—

—

3,500

7,331

10,831

1,015

May-07


Castro Valley

CA

—

—

6,346

—


—

—

—

6,695

6,695


Jun-07


Hawthorne

CA

3,911

1,532

3,871

—


—

—

1,532

4,079

5,611


Jun-04


Stockton

CA

2,572


3,272

—


—

—


3,444

4,093


May-02


El Sobrante

CA

—

1,209

4,018

—

1,213

—

—

1,209

5,231

6,440


Jun-07


Fontana

CA

1,816

1,246

3,356

—



(a)


(a) (c)

1,300

3,700

5,000


Oct-03


Antelope

CA

3,902

1,525

8,345

—

(17

)

(340

)

(b)

—

1,185

8,328

9,513


Jul-08


Los Angeles

CA

4,938

2,200

8,108

—


—

—

2,200

8,128

10,328


Sep-08


Whittier

CA

—

—

2,985

—


—


(c)

—

3,137

3,137


Jun-02


Pleasanton

CA

2,894

1,208

4,283

—


—

—

1,208

4,686

5,894


May-07


Compton

CA

4,060

1,426

7,582

—


—

—

1,426

7,620

9,046


Sep-08


Tracy

CA

2,771


2,638

—



(a)


(a) (c)


3,292

4,203


Jul-03


San Bernardino

CA

—


5,135

—


—

—


5,190

5,940


Jun-06


San Bernardino

CA

—

1,213

3,061

—


—

—

1,213

3,209

4,422


Jun-04


Oakland

CA

—

3,024

11,321

—


—

—

3,024

11,471

14,495


May-10


Watsonville

CA

3,292

1,699

3,056

—


—

—

1,699

3,251

4,950


Jul-05


Santa Clara

CA

8,414

4,750

8,218

—


—

—

4,750

8,249

12,999


Jul-09


Sylmar

CA

4,209

3,058

4,671

—


—

—

3,058

4,918

7,976


May-08


Pacoima

CA

2,302

3,050

7,597

—


—

—

3,050

7,677

10,727


Aug-09


Manteca

CA

3,719


2,543

—


—

—


2,662

3,510


Jan-04


Sacramento

CA

—

2,400

7,425

—


—

—

2,400

7,478

9,878


Sep-09


Vallejo

CA

3,098

1,177

2,157

—


—

—

1,177

3,089

4,266


Jun-07


Tracy

CA

—


1,937

—


—


(c)


2,163

3,109


Apr-04


San Jose

CA

8,713

5,340

6,821

—


—

—

5,340

7,016

12,356


Sep-09


Modesto

CA

1,468


3,043

—


—

—


3,312

4,221


Jun-07


Claremont

CA

—

1,472

2,012

—


—

—

1,472

2,240

3,712


Jun-04


El Cajon

CA

—

1,100

6,380

—


—

—

1,100

6,424

7,524


Sep-09


Cerritos

CA

17,385

8,728

15,895

—


—

—

8,728

16,067

24,795


Oct-11


Lancaster

CA

—

1,425

5,855

—


—

—

1,425

5,901

7,326


Oct-09


Carson

CA

—

—

9,709

—


—

—

—

9,783

9,783


Mar-11


Elk Grove

CA

2,962


6,936

—



(a)


(a)

1,075

7,224

8,299


Dec-07


San Leandro

CA

4,299

3,343

6,630

—


(52

)

(a)

(237

)

(a)

3,291

6,444

9,735


Oct-10


Sacramento

CA

3,130

1,738

5,522

—



(a)

(81

)

(a) (c)

1,844

5,501

7,345


Oct-10


Burlingame

CA

5,555

2,211

5,829

—


—

—

2,211

5,924

8,135


Apr-11


San Dimas

CA

5,533

1,867

6,354

—


—

—

1,867

6,398

8,265


Oct-11


Los Gatos

CA

—

2,550

8,257

—


—

—

2,550

8,293

10,843


Jul-12


Placentia

CA

6,917

4,798

5,483

—


—

—

4,798

5,548

10,346


Oct-11


Fontana

CA

4,792


4,723

—


—

—


4,813

5,591


Oct-11


Hawaiian Gardens

CA

9,613

2,964

12,478

—


—

—

2,964

12,573

15,537


Jul-12



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2012

Building

costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property

Number

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation


Fontana

CA

4,324


4,208

—


—

—


4,267

5,035


Oct-11


Lake Elsinore

CA

—


4,219

—


—

—


4,253

4,840


Oct-11


Santa Cruz

CA

—

1,588

11,160

—


—

—

1,588

11,165

12,753


Jul-12


Fontana

CA

4,076


3,951

—


—

—


4,014

4,698


Oct-11


Irvine

CA

5,118

3,821

3,999

—


—

—

3,821

4,047

7,868


Oct-11


Los Angeles

CA

—

4,555

10,590

—


—

—

4,555

10,599

15,154


Jul-12


Santa Maria

CA

3,268

1,310

3,526

—


—

—

1,310

3,564

4,874


Oct-11


Santa Maria

CA

3,015

1,556

2,740

—


—

—

1,556

2,829

4,385


Oct-11


Long Beach

CA

2,767

1,772

2,539

—


—

—

1,772

2,614

4,386


Oct-11


Paramount

CA

2,663

1,404

2,549

—


—

—

1,404

2,654

4,058


Oct-11


Bloomington

CA

2,496


1,937

—


—

—


2,066

3,000


Oct-11


Lake Elsinore

CA

2,095


2,105

—


—

—


2,160

2,454


Oct-11


Los Angeles

CA

—

3,099

4,889

—


—

—

3,099

4,918

8,017


Jul-12


Claremont

CA

2,362

1,375

1,434

—


—

—

1,375

1,468

2,843


Oct-11


Bloomington

CA

1,515


1,303

—


—

—


1,353

2,000


Oct-11


Bellflower

CA

1,280


1,350

—


—

—


1,379

2,019


Oct-11


Moreno Valley

CA

2,139


3,484

—


—

—


3,487

3,969


Jul-12


Orange

CA

—

4,847

12,341

—


—

—

4,847

12,344

17,191


Nov-12


Victorville

CA




—


—

—





Oct-11


San Jose

CA

2,570

2,428

2,323

—


—

—

2,428

2,368

4,796


Jul-12


Hesperia

CA




—


—

—





Oct-11


Thousand Oaks

CA

—

4,500

—

—

—

(1,000

)

(e)

—

3,500

—

3,500

—


Simi Valley

CA

—

5,533

—

—

—

(1,285

)

(e)

—

4,248

—

4,248

—


Thornton

CO

2,966


2,044

—



(a)


(a)


3,084

3,332

1,084

Sep-00


Denver

CO

2,708


2,052

—



(a)


(a)


3,162

3,907

1,060

Sep-00


Westminster

CO

2,238


1,586

—



(a)


(a)


2,584

2,883

1,005

Sep-00


Parker

CO

2,604


4,549

—


—

—


5,148

5,948


Sep-06


Arvada

CO

1,913


1,521

—


—

—


2,168

2,454


Sep-00


Colorado Springs

CO

4,024


3,400

—


—

—


3,607

4,388


Aug-07


Colorado Springs

CO

3,314

1,525

4,310

—


—

—

1,525

4,522

6,047


Nov-08


Denver

CO

2,678


1,574

—


—

—


1,776

2,144


Jul-05


Colorado Springs

CO

1,833


4,199

—


—

—


4,391

4,687


Jun-11


Castle Rock

CO

1,208


3,077

—


—

—


3,183

3,590


May-11


Colorado Springs

CO

—

—

6,945

—


—

—

—

6,955

6,955


Jul-12


Wethersfield

CT

4,197


4,205

—


—


(c)


4,408

5,117

1,203

Aug-02


Groton

CT

2,309

1,277

3,992

—


—


(c)

1,277

4,421

5,698

1,166

Jan-04



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2012

Building

costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property

Number

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation


Middletown

CT

2,914


2,810

—


—

—


2,980

3,912


Dec-07


Brookfield

CT

5,233


7,891

—


—

—


7,930

8,921


Jul-12


Orlando

FL

4,237

2,233

9,223

—


—


(c)

2,233

9,574

11,807

2,046

Mar-05


Miami

FL

3,230

1,325

4,395

—



(a)


(a)

1,439

5,204

6,643

1,728

Aug-00


North Miami

FL

—

1,256

6,535

—


—

—

1,256

7,019

8,275

1,673

Jun-04


Miami

FL

8,219

5,315

4,305

—



(a)


(a)

5,859

5,036

10,895

1,635

Aug-00


North Lauderdale

FL

4,270


3,516

—



(a)


(a)


4,439

4,898

1,572

Aug-00


Orlando

FL

—

1,474

6,101

—


—


(c)

1,474

6,355

7,829

1,340

Mar-05


Margate

FL

3,508


3,139

—



(a)


(a)


3,782

4,251

1,246

Aug-00


Hollywood

FL

6,968

3,214

8,689

—


—

—

3,214

8,948

12,162

1,242

Nov-07


Orlando

FL

4,407

1,216

5,008

—


—


(c)

1,216

5,337

6,553

1,228

Aug-04


Miami

FL

4,678

1,238

7,597

—


—

—

1,238

7,856

9,094

1,226

May-07


Madeira Beach

FL

—

1,686

5,163

—


—


(c)

1,686

5,353

7,039

1,213

Aug-04


Orlando

FL

—

1,166

4,816

—

1,168

—


(c)

1,166

5,999

7,165

1,205

Mar-05


West Palm Beach

FL

3,872

1,752

4,909

—


—

—

1,752

5,296

7,048

1,199

Jul-05


Venice

FL

6,986

1,969

5,903

—


—

—

1,969

6,214

8,183

1,190

Jan-06


Fort Myers

FL

4,260

1,985

4,983

—


—

—

1,985

5,370

7,355

1,187

Jul-05


Fort Myers

FL

2,919

1,691

4,711

—


—


(c)

1,691

4,943

6,634

1,154

Aug-04


West Palm Beach

FL

1,765

1,312

2,511

—



(a)


(a)

1,416

3,228

4,644

1,128

Aug-00


Port Charlotte

FL

—

1,389

4,632

—


—


(c)

1,389

4,828

6,217

1,087

Aug-04


Ft Lauderdale

FL

2,627

1,587

4,205

—


—


(c)

1,587

4,508

6,095

1,064

Aug-04


Valrico

FL

3,013

1,197

4,411

—


—


(c)

1,197

4,630

5,827

1,060

Aug-04


West Palm Beach

FL

1,533

1,164

2,511

—



(a)


(a)

1,246

3,081

4,327

1,032

Aug-00


Coral Springs

FL

6,627

3,638

6,590

—


—

—

3,638

6,797

10,435


Jun-08


Tampa

FL

—

1,425

4,766

—


—

—

1,425

5,055

6,480


Mar-07


Ocoee

FL

—


3,642

—


—


(c)


3,846

4,718


Mar-05


Hialeah

FL

—

2,800

7,588

—


—

—

2,800

7,668

10,468


Aug-08


Deland

FL

2,866

1,318

3,971

—


—

—

1,318

4,216

5,534


Jan-06


Riverview

FL

2,475


2,953

—


—


(c)


3,137

3,791


Aug-04


Miami

FL

6,950

4,798

9,475

—


—

—

4,798

9,501

14,299


Nov-09


Greenacres

FL

2,655

1,463

3,244

—


—


(c)

1,463

3,348

4,811


Mar-05


Estero

FL

—

2,198

8,215

—


—

—

2,198

8,235

10,433


Jul-09


Tampa

FL

3,390


3,533

—


—

—


3,679

4,562


Nov-06


Hialeah

FL

1,103

1,750

7,150

—


—

—

1,750

7,186

8,936


Jan-10



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2012

Building

costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property

Number

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation


Hialeah

FL

—

1,678

6,807

—


—

—

1,678

6,835

8,513


Sep-10


Ft Lauderdale

FL

5,122

2,750

7,002

—


—

—

2,750

7,471

10,221


May-11


Kendall

FL

—

2,375

5,543

—


—

—

2,375

5,598

7,973


Feb-11


Miami

FL

—


5,198

—


—

—


5,302

5,823


Oct-11


Orlando

FL

—


2,133

—


—

—


2,182

2,807


Jul-10


Miami

FL

8,235

3,257

9,713

—


—

—

3,257

9,753

13,010


Jul-12


Lakeland

FL

5,754


6,905

—


—

—


7,083

7,954


May-12


West Palm Beach

FL

3,488

1,729

4,058

—


—

—

1,729

4,070

5,799


Dec-11


Lakeland

FL

4,005


4,701

—


—

—


4,844

5,437


May-12


Miami

FL

5,911

1,979

6,513

—


—

—

1,979

6,530

8,509


Jul-12


Sarasota

FL

—

4,665

9,016

—

—

—

—

4,665

9,016

13,681


Nov-12


Auburndale

FL

1,323


1,076

—


—

—


1,148

1,618


May-12


Brandon

FL

—

1,327

5,656

—

—

—

—

1,327

5,656

6,983


Nov-12


Fort Lauderdale

FL

—

1,576

5,397

—


—

—

1,576

5,398

6,974


Nov-12


Land O Lakes

FL

—


4,490

—

—

—

—


4,490

5,288


Dec-12


St Petersburg

FL

—


3,345

—

—

—

—


3,345

4,150


Dec-12


Seminole

FL

4,742

1,133

3,017

—

—

—

—

1,133

3,017

4,150


Dec-12


North Fort Myers

FL

—


2,372

—

—

—

—


2,372

3,171


Dec-12


Plantation

FL

—

3,850

—

—

—

(1,900

)

(e)

—

1,950

—

1,950

—


Atlanta

GA

8,066

3,737

8,333

—


—


(c)

3,737

8,700

12,437

1,982

Aug-04


Atlanta

GA

6,706

3,319

8,325

—


—


(c)

3,319

8,790

12,109

1,910

Feb-05


Stone Mountain

GA

2,909

1,817

4,382

—


—


(c)

1,817

4,640

6,457

1,053

Aug-04


Snellville

GA

—

2,691

4,026

—


—


(c)

2,691

4,300

6,991


Aug-04


Stone Mountain

GA

1,761


3,505

—


—

—


3,783

4,708


Jul-05


Duluth

GA

3,246

1,454

4,151

—


—

—

1,454

4,260

5,714


Jun-07


Alpharetta

GA

2,648

1,893

3,161

—


—

—

1,893

3,299

5,192


Aug-06


Dacula

GA

3,819

1,993

3,001

—


—

—

1,993

3,118

5,111


Jan-06


Atlanta

GA

—

1,665

2,028

—


—


(c)

1,665

2,218

3,883


Aug-04


Sugar Hill

GA

—

1,371

2,547

—


—

—

1,371

2,698

4,069


Jun-07


Sugar Hill

GA

—

1,368

2,540

—


—

—

1,368

2,697

4,065


Jun-07


Lithonia

GA

—

1,958

3,645

—


—

—

1,958

3,723

5,681


Nov-09


Marietta

GA

—


2,617

—


—

—


2,818

3,705


Jun-10



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2012

Building

costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property

Number

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation


Kennesaw

GA

—


1,151

—


—

—


1,257

1,930


Jun-10


Douglasville

GA

3,360

1,209


—


—

—

1,209


2,205


Jun-10


Atlanta

GA

—

1,718

6,388

—


—

—

1,718

6,390

8,108


Nov-12


Alpharetta

GL

—

1,973

1,587

—


—


(c)

1,973

1,789

3,762


Aug-04


Kapolei

HI

14,545

—

24,701

—


—

—

—

25,118

25,118

3,670

Jun-07


Kahului

HI

—

3,984

15,044

—


—

—

3,984

15,665

19,649

2,400

Jun-07


Gurnee

IL

—

1,374

8,296

—


—

—

1,374

8,382

9,756

1,132

Oct-07


Chicago

IL

4,260


3,428

—


—

—


4,279

4,900

1,073

Jul-05


Crest Hill

IL

2,444


2,946

—



(a)


(a) (c)


3,595

4,563


Jul-03


South Holland

IL

1,540


2,879

—



(a)


(a) (c)


3,174

4,039


Oct-02


Chicago

IL

2,808


2,582

—


—

—


3,278

3,750


Jul-05


Naperville

IL

—

2,800

7,355

—


(850

)

(e)

—

1,950

7,471

9,421


Dec-08


Chicago

IL

3,098


2,471

—


—

—


3,169

3,618


Jul-05


North Aurora

IL

2,523


5,833

—


—

—


5,934

6,534


May-08


Tinley Park

IL

—

1,823

4,794

—


(275

)

(e)

—

1,548

4,876

6,424


Aug-08


Highland Park

IL

7,344

5,798

6,016

—


—

—

5,798

6,080

11,878


Dec-11


Naperville

IL

5,033

1,860

5,793

—


—

—

1,860

5,847

7,707


Dec-11


Skokie

IL

4,260

1,119

7,502

—


—

—

1,119

7,528

8,647


Jul-12


Chicago

IL

—

1,925

—

—

—

—

—

1,925

—

1,925

—


Indianapolis

IN

—


4,545

—


—

—


4,852

5,702


Oct-08


Indianapolis

IN

—


3,457

—


—

—


3,721

4,309


Aug-07


Carmel

IN

—

1,169

4,393

—


—

—

1,169

4,616

5,785


Oct-08


Fort Wayne

IN

—

1,899

3,292

—


—

—

1,899

3,550

5,449


Oct-08


Mishawaka

IN

2,689


3,349

—


—

—


3,566

4,196


Oct-08


Indianapolis

IN

—


2,903

—


—

—


3,151

3,577


Oct-08


Richmond

IN

—



—


—

—



1,262


Jun-11


Connersville

IN

—



—


—

—





Jun-11


Indianapolis

IN

—


1,294

—

—

—

—


1,294

1,940


Nov-12


Wichita

KS

2,132


1,897

—


—

—


2,258

2,624


Apr-06


Louisville

KY

2,447

1,217

4,611

—


—

—

1,217

4,767

5,984

1,002

Jul-05


Louisville

KY

2,904


3,244

—


—

—


3,599

4,185


Jul-05



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2012

Building

costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property

Number

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation


Louisville

KY

3,549


2,677

—


—

—


2,847

3,739


Dec-05


Covington

KY

2,074


2,543

—


—

—


2,647

3,486


Jun-11


New Orleans

LA

5,555

4,058

4,325

—


—


(c)

4,058

4,925

8,983

1,169

Aug-04


Metairie

LA

3,929

2,056

4,216

—


—


(c)

2,056

4,364

6,420


Aug-04


Waltham

MA

5,337

3,770

11,310

—

1,050

—


(c)

3,770

12,377

16,147

2,882

Feb-04


Dedham

MA

—

2,443

7,328

—

1,229

—


(c)

2,443

8,573

11,016

2,101

Feb-04


Somerville

MA

6,809

1,728

6,570

—



(a)


(a)

1,731

7,142

8,873

2,090

Jun-01


Worcester

MA

4,660


4,377

—

3,076

—

—


7,453

8,349

1,996

May-04


Milton

MA

—

2,838

3,979

—

6,499

—


(c)

2,838

10,498

13,336

1,863

Nov-02


Foxboro

MA

—


4,158

—


—

—


4,665

5,424

1,778

May-04


Saugus

MA

3,680

1,725

5,514

—


—


(c)

1,725

6,106

7,831

1,728

Jun-03


Jamaica Plain

MA

9,894

3,285

11,275

—


—

—

3,285

11,407

14,692

1,508

Dec-07


Auburn

MA

—


3,728

—


—

—


3,961

4,879

1,304

May-04


Hudson

MA

3,409


3,122

—


—

—


3,444

4,250

1,255

May-04


Plainville

MA

5,133

2,223

4,430

—


—

—

2,223

4,812

7,035

1,247

Jul-05


Dedham

MA

2,393

2,127

3,041

—


—


(c)

2,127

3,587

5,714

1,190

Mar-02


Norwood

MA

6,832

2,160

2,336

—

1,521


(a)


(a)

2,221

3,952

6,173

1,170

Aug-99


Weymouth

MA

—

2,806

3,129

—


—

—

2,806

3,318

6,124

1,138

Sep-00


Northborough

MA

4,654


2,715

—


—

—


3,213

3,493

1,133

Feb-01


Ashland

MA

—


3,324

—


—


(c)


3,651

4,125

1,133

Jun-03


Lynn

MA

—

1,703

3,237

—


—

—

1,703

3,551

5,254

1,131

Jun-01


Stoneham

MA

6,087


5,241

—


—

—


5,404

6,348

1,105

Jul-05


Quincy

MA

—

1,359

4,078

—


—


(c)

1,359

4,327

5,686

1,093

Feb-04


Stoughton

MA

—

1,754

2,769

—


—

—

1,754

3,027

4,781

1,029

May-04


Marshfield

MA

4,728

1,039

4,155

—


(13

)

—

1,026

4,401

5,427

1,024

Mar-04


Raynham

MA

—


2,270

—



(a)


(a)


2,915

3,585


May-00


Brockton

MA

—


2,762

—


—

—


2,910

3,557


May-04


Kingston

MA

—


2,491

—


—


(c)


2,651

3,206


Oct-02


North Oxford

MA

—


1,762

—



(a)


(a)


2,167

2,695


Oct-99


Worcester

MA

4,269

1,350

4,433

—


—

—

1,350

4,553

5,903


Dec-06


Everett

MA

—


2,129

—


—

—


2,801

3,493


Jul-05


Revere

MA

5,230

2,275

6,935

—


—

—

2,275

7,003

9,278


Dec-11


Woburn

MA

—

—

—

—


—


(c)

—




Feb-04



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2012

Building

costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property

Number

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation


East Somerville

MA

—

—

—

—


—


(c)

—




Feb-04


Tyngsboro

MA

3,554

1,843

5,004

—


—

—

1,843

5,030

6,873


Jul-12


Danvers

MA

—

3,115

5,736

—


—

—

3,115

5,737

8,852


Nov-12


Framingham

MA

—

—

—

—


—

—

—




Jul-12


Bethesda

MD

12,392

3,671

18,331

—


—

—

3,671

18,730

22,401

4,150

Jul-05


Lanham

MD

12,823

3,346

10,079

—

1,279

(728

)

(b)


(c)

2,618

11,370

13,988

2,736

Feb-04


Columbia

MD

8,132

1,736

9,632

—


—

—

1,736

9,889

11,625

1,988

Jul-05


Arnold

MD

9,197

2,558

9,446

—


—

—

2,558

9,750

12,308

1,986

Jul-05


Rockville

MD

12,502

4,596

11,328

—


—

—

4,596

11,581

16,177

1,930

Sep-06


Ft. Washington

MD

9,424

4,920

9,174

—


—

—

4,920

9,367

14,287

1,488

Jan-07


Annapolis

MD

6,229

1,375

8,896

—


—

—

1,375

9,184

10,559

1,388

Aug-07


Annapolis

MD

6,704

5,248

7,247

—


—

—

5,248

7,433

12,681

1,145

Apr-07


Towson

MD

3,969


4,742

—


—

—


4,946

5,807

1,041

Jul-05


Laurel Heights

MD

6,232

3,000

5,930

—


—

—

3,000

5,997

8,997


Dec-07


Baltimore

MD

4,550


5,955

—


—

—


6,060

6,860


Nov-08


Capitol Heights

MD

8,617

1,461

9,866

—


—

—

1,461

10,048

11,509


Oct-10


Pasadena

MD

3,869

1,869

3,056

—


—

—

1,869

3,757

5,626


Sep-08


Baltimore

MD

—

1,900

5,277

—


—

—

1,900

5,367

7,267


Jun-10


Pasadena

MD

—

3,500

7,407

—


—

—

3,500

7,535

11,035


Mar-11


Randallstown

MD

1,967


6,331

—


—

—


6,477

7,241


Aug-11


Glen Burnie

MD

—

1,303

4,218

—


—

—

1,303

4,390

5,693


Jul-11


Cockeysville

MD

4,061


5,600

—


—

—


5,671

6,136


Mar-12


Towson

MD

6,286

1,094

9,598

—


—

—

1,094

9,607

10,701


Jul-12


Gambrills

MD

4,969

1,905

7,104

—


—

—

1,905

7,117

9,022


Jul-12


Baltimore

MD

4,744

1,185

5,051

—


—

—

1,185

5,071

6,256


May-12


Lexington Park

MD

2,665

4,314

8,412

—

—

—

—

4,314

8,412

12,726


Dec-12


Edgewood

MD

—

1,000

—

—

—

(575

)

(e)

—


—


—


Mount Clemens

MI

2,033


1,796

—


—

—


2,146

2,944


Jul-05


Grandville

MI

1,646


1,298

—


—

—


1,671

2,397


Jul-05


Belleville

MI

4,156


4,984

—


—

—


4,991

5,945


Jul-12


St. Louis

MO

2,009


2,159

—



(a)


(a)


2,694

3,384


Jun-00



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2012

Building

costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property

Number

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation


Florissant

MO

3,603

1,241

4,648

—


—

—

1,241

4,952

6,193


Aug-07


St. Louis

MO

—

1,444

4,162

—


—

—

1,444

4,441

5,885


Aug-07


St. Louis

MO

1,540


1,313

—



(a)


(a)


1,873

2,046


Jun-00


St. Louis

MO

2,777


3,551

—


—

—


3,835

4,511


Aug-07


Grandview

MO

1,065


1,770

—


—

—


2,111

2,723


Jul-05


Merrimack

NH

3,933


3,299

—



(a)


(a)


3,811

4,628

1,045

Apr-99


Nashua

NH

—

—


—


—

—

—




Jul-05


Hazlet

NJ

7,920

1,362

10,262

—


—

—

1,362

10,841

12,203

3,149

Dec-01


Edison

NJ

—

2,519

8,547

—


—

—

2,519

9,090

11,609

2,690

Dec-01


North Bergen

NJ

10,476

2,299

12,728

—


—

—

2,299

13,130

15,429

2,620

Jul-05


Hackensack

NJ

—

2,283

11,234

—


—

—

2,283

11,961

14,244

2,584

Jul-05


Lawrenceville

NJ

5,724

3,402

10,230

—


—


(c)

3,402

10,678

14,080

2,555

Feb-04


Old Bridge

NJ

5,765

2,758

6,450

—


—

—

2,758

7,413

10,171

2,213

Dec-01


Toms River

NJ

5,060

1,790

9,935

—


—

—

1,790

10,238

12,028

2,189

Jul-05


Morrisville

NJ

—

2,487

7,494

—

1,169

—


(c)

2,487

8,674

11,161

2,094

Feb-04


Parlin

NJ

—

—

5,273

—


—

—

—

5,642

5,642

1,937

May-04


North Bergen

NJ

6,402

2,100

6,606

—


—


(c)

2,100

6,928

9,028

1,830

Jul-03


Avenel

NJ

7,859

1,518

8,037

—


—


(c)

1,518

8,340

9,858

1,797

Jan-05


Hoboken

NJ

8,079

2,687

6,092

—


—


(c)

2,687

6,313

9,000

1,764

Jul-02


Egg Harbor Twp.

NJ

3,319

1,724

5,001

—


—

—

1,724

5,676

7,400

1,764

Dec-01


Linden

NJ

3,838

1,517

8,384

—


—

—

1,517

8,598

10,115

1,717

Jul-05


Iselin

NJ

4,900


4,524

—


—

—


5,022

5,527

1,563

Dec-01


Neptune

NJ

7,550

4,204

8,906

—


—

—

4,204

9,178

13,382

1,501

Nov-06



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2012

Building

costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property

Number

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation


Lyndhurst

NJ

—

2,679

4,644

—



(a)


(a) (c)

2,929

5,366

8,295

1,493

Mar-01


Union

NJ

6,788

1,754

6,237

—


—


(c)

1,754

6,585

8,339

1,489

Dec-04


Metuchen

NJ

5,992

1,153

4,462

—


—

—

1,153

4,723

5,876

1,377

Dec-01


Bayville

NJ

3,146

1,193

5,312

—


—


(c)

1,193

5,633

6,826

1,257

Dec-04


Parlin

NJ

—

2,517

4,516

—


—

—

2,517

4,960

7,477

1,218

Jul-05


Howell

NJ

3,413

2,440

3,407

—


—

—

2,440

3,795

6,235

1,178

Dec-01


Lumberton

NJ

3,576


4,060

—


—


(c)


4,258

5,089

1,007

Dec-04


Glen Rock

NJ

—

1,109

2,401

—



(a)


(a) (c)

1,222

2,801

4,023


Mar-01


Ewing

NJ

—

1,552

4,720

—



(c)

(362

)

(e)

1,563

4,607

6,170


Mar-07


North Bergen

NJ

—


17,127

—


—

—


17,190

18,051


Oct-11


Bellmawr

NJ

—

3,600

4,765

—



(c)

—

3,675

4,943

8,618


Sep-08


Monmouth Junction

NJ

3,117

1,700

5,835

—


—

—

1,700

5,920

7,620


Dec-09


Maple Shade

NJ

4,385

1,093

5,492

—


—

—

1,093

5,562

6,655


Dec-11


Merchantville

NJ

3,802

1,644

3,115

—


—

—

1,644

3,302

4,946


Jun-11


Mahwah

NJ

8,335

1,890

13,112

—


—

—

1,890

13,156

15,046


Aug-12


Montville

NJ

—

1,511

11,749

—


—

—

1,511

11,758

13,269


Aug-12


Fairfield

NJ

—

—

9,402

—


—

—

—

9,472

9,472


Jul-12


Newark

NJ

—


8,340

—


—

—


8,397

9,203


Jul-12


Parsippany

NJ

—

2,353

7,798

—


—

—

2,353

7,850

10,203


Jul-12


Berkeley Heights

NJ

—

1,598

7,553

—


—

—

1,598

7,615

9,213


Jul-12


Harrison

NJ

3,686


6,003

—


—

—


6,027

6,327


Jul-12


Hackettstown

NJ

—

2,144

6,660

—


—

—

2,144

6,685

8,829


Aug-12


Mt Laurel

NJ

3,126


5,217

—


—

—


5,256

5,585


Jul-12


North Brunswick

NJ

—

2,789

4,404

—


—

—

2,789

4,486

7,275


Jul-12


Fort Lee

NJ

—

4,402

9,831

—


—

—

4,402

9,832

14,234


Nov-12


Union

NJ

—

1,133

7,239

—

—

—

—

1,133

7,239

8,372


Nov-12


Lawnside

NJ

—

1,249

5,613

—


—

—

1,249

5,614

6,863


Nov-12


Cranbury

NJ

—

3,543

5,095

—

—

—

—

3,543

5,095

8,638


Nov-12


Watchung

NJ

—

1,843

4,499

—

—

—

—

1,843

4,499

6,342


Nov-12


Cherry Hill

NJ

—

2,323

1,549

—


—

—

2,323

1,556

3,879


Nov-12


Albuquerque

NM

4,902

1,298

4,628

—


—

—

1,298

5,247

6,545


Aug-07


Santa Fe

NM

5,996

3,066

7,366

—


—

—

3,066

7,386

10,452


Jul-12


Albuquerque

NM

—


1,797

—


—

—


1,803

2,558


Nov-12


Las Vegas

NV

1,219



—



(a)


(a)


1,157

1,435


Feb-00


Las Vegas

NV

2,491

1,441

1,810

—


—

—

1,441

1,898

3,339


Jun-11


Henderson

NV

—

2,934

8,897

—

—

—

—

2,934

8,897

11,831


Nov-12


Las Vegas

NV

—


6,006

—

—

—

—


6,006

6,779


Nov-12


Las Vegas

NV

—


4,936

—

—

—

—


4,936

5,336


Nov-12


New York

NY

9,867

3,060

16,978

—


—

—

3,060

17,626

20,686

3,599

Jul-05


Bronx

NY

9,665

3,995

11,870

—


—


(c)

3,995

12,512

16,507

2,873

Aug-04



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2012

Building

costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property

Number

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation


Mount Vernon

NY

7,297

1,926

7,622

—


—


(c)

1,926

8,267

10,193

2,229

Nov-02


Nanuet

NY

3,733

2,072

4,644



—


(c)

2,739

5,660

8,399

1,589

Feb-02


Mount Vernon

NY

3,819

1,585

6,025

—

1,422

—

—

1,585

7,447

9,032

1,572

Jul-05


Plainview

NY

7,800

4,287

3,710

—


—

—

4,287

4,322

8,609

1,460

Dec-00


Brooklyn

NY

13,788

12,993

10,405

—


—

—

12,993

10,677

23,670

1,183

Oct-08


New Paltz

NY

3,146

2,059

3,715

—


—

—

2,059

4,114

6,173


Jul-05


Bronx

NY

18,841

3,450

21,210

—


—

—

3,450

21,303

24,753


Dec-11


Brooklyn

NY

8,335

2,802

6,536

—


—

—

2,802

6,693

9,495


May-10


Bohemia

NY

1,527

1,456

1,398

—


—

—

1,456

1,727

3,183


Dec-07


Brooklyn

NY

—

16,188

23,309

—


—

—

16,188

23,370

39,558


Jul-12


Freeport

NY

5,373

5,676

3,784

—


—

—

5,676

4,213

9,889


Nov-10


Centereach

NY

4,250

2,226

1,657

—


—

—

2,226

1,777

4,003


Oct-08


Hicksville

NY

9,017

2,581

10,677

—


—

—

2,581

10,684

13,265


Jul-12


Central Valley

NY

—

2,800

12,173

—


—

—

2,800

12,224

15,024


Aug-12


Poughkeepsie

NY

—

1,038

7,862

—


—

—

1,038

7,869

8,907


Jul-12


Hauppauge

NY

5,726

1,238

7,095

—


—

—

1,238

7,172

8,410


Jul-12


Ridge

NY

6,319

1,762

6,934

—


—

—

1,762

6,938

8,700


Jul-12


Kingston

NY

5,002


6,199

—


—

—


6,206

7,043


Jul-12


Amsterdam

NY




—


—

—



1,001


Jul-12


Columbus

OH

2,808


2,654

—


—

—


3,176

3,659


Jul-05


Kent

OH

1,452


1,206

—


—

—


1,404

1,624


Jul-05


Cincinnati

OH

4,735

1,815

5,733

—


—

—

1,815

5,939

7,754


Jun-11


Cincinnati

OH

—

1,445

3,755

—


—

—

1,445

3,915

5,360


Jun-11


Hamilton

OH

—


2,910

—


—

—


3,003

3,676


Jun-11


Cincinnati

OH

—

2,941

2,177

—


—

—

2,941

2,362

5,303


Jun-11


Cincinnati

OH

—

1,217

1,941

—


—

—

1,217

2,039

3,256


Jun-11


Lebanon

OH

—

1,657

1,566

—


—

—

1,657

1,666

3,323


Jun-11


Middletown

OH

1,351


1,047

—


—

—


1,114

1,648


Jun-11


Xenia

OH

1,680


1,022

—


—

—


1,077

1,379


Jun-11


Troy

OH

—



—


—

—





Jun-11


Washington Court House

OH

—



—


—

—





Jun-11


Willoughby

OH

1,143


1,811

—

—

—

—


1,811

1,966


Jul-12


Mentor

OH

1,386


1,609

—


—

—


1,633

2,042


Jul-12


Sidney

OH

—



—


—

—





Jun-11


Greenville

OH

—



—


—

—





Jun-11


Hilliard

OH

—

1,613

2,369

—

—

—

—

1,613

2,369

3,982


Nov-12



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2012

Building

costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property

Number

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation


Mentor

OH

—


1,267

—

—

—

—


1,267

1,925


Nov-12


Aloha

OR

6,292

1,221

6,262

—


—

—

1,221

6,493

7,714

1,364

Jul-05


King City

OR

3,143

2,520

6,845

—


—

—

2,520

6,890

9,410


Sep-09


Beaverton

OR

4,772

2,014

5,786

—


—

—

2,014

5,809

7,823


Jul-12


Philadelphia

PA

5,732

1,965

5,925

—

1,034

—


(c)

1,965

6,966

8,931

1,702

Feb-04


Pittsburgh

PA

3,868


4,117

—


—

—


4,663

5,552

1,516

May-04


Doylestown

PA

—


3,442

—



(a) (d)


(a)


4,173

4,694

1,190

Nov-99


Kennedy Township

PA

2,622


3,173

—


—

—


3,353

4,089

1,135

May-04


Bensalem

PA

3,068

1,131

4,525

—


—


(c)

1,131

4,781

5,912

1,101

Dec-04


Pittsburgh

PA

2,622


1,990

—



(a)


(a)

1,082

2,778

3,860


Aug-00


Bensalem

PA

—


3,015

—


—

—


3,184

3,934


Mar-06


Willow Grove

PA

5,244

1,297

4,027

—


—

—

1,297

4,225

5,522


Jan-11


Johnston

RI

6,874

2,659

4,799

—


—

—

2,659

5,216

7,875

1,165

Jul-05


Johnston

RI

1,982


2,127

—


—

—


2,151

2,684


Dec-11


Goose Creek

SC

—

1,683

4,372

—


—


(c)

1,683

5,365

7,048

1,117

Aug-04


Summerville

SC

—


4,454

—


—


(c)


4,621

5,071

1,050

Aug-04


Charleston

SC

3,569

1,279

4,171

—


—


(c)

1,279

4,330

5,609


Aug-04


Columbia

SC

2,860


3,312

—


—


(c)


3,509

4,347


Aug-04


Columbia

SC

—

1,784

2,745

—


—

—

1,784

2,747

4,531


Jul-12


Nashville

TN

2,930


2,598

—


—

—


3,278

3,668


Apr-06


Cordova

TN

2,614


2,720

—


—

—


2,949

3,801


Jul-05


Cordova

TN

—


2,680

—


—

—


2,819

3,713


Jan-07


Cordova

TN

2,100


1,791

—


—

—


1,858

2,510


Apr-11


Bartlett

TN

2,591


3,798

—


—

—


3,802

4,434


Jul-12


Memphis

TN

1,766


2,623

—


—

—


2,629

2,903


Jul-12


Franklin

TN

—

3,357

8,984

—

—

—

—

3,357

8,984

12,341


Nov-12


Memphis

TN

1,074


1,280

—


—

—


1,284

1,394


Jul-12


Memphis

TN

—

1,040

3,867

—

—

—

—

1,040

3,867

4,907


Nov-12


Memphis

TN

—

1,617

2,875

—

—

—

—

1,617

2,875

4,492


Nov-12


Dallas

TX

11,582

1,980

12,501

—


—

—

1,980

12,819

14,799

2,278

May-06


Houston

TX

8,981

2,596

8,735

—


—

—

2,596

9,042

11,638

1,617

Apr-06


Dallas

TX

10,989

4,432

6,181

—


—


(c)

4,432

6,698

11,130

1,557

Aug-04


Fort Worth

TX

—


5,794

—


—


(c)


6,012

6,643

1,375

Aug-04



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2012

Building

costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property

Number

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation


Austin

TX

4,927


4,455

—


—


(c)


4,765

5,635

1,115

Aug-04


Plano

TX

—

1,010

6,203

—


—

—

1,010

6,519

7,529

1,064

Nov-06


Allen

TX

4,244


5,553

—


—

—


5,760

6,661


Nov-06


South Houston

TX

2,330


4,069

—


—

—


4,813

5,291


Apr-06


Arlington

TX

2,251


2,525

—


—


(c)


2,863

3,397


Aug-04


Plano

TX

—


3,775

—


—

—


3,999

4,613


Nov-06


Dallas

TX

2,059


2,216

—


—

—


2,660

2,997


Apr-06


San Antonio

TX

—

1,269

1,816

—


—


(c)

1,269

2,404

3,673


Aug-04


Grand Prairie

TX

2,279


2,330

—


—


(c)


2,601

3,152


Aug-04


Rowlett

TX

2,013

1,002

2,601

—


—

—

1,002

2,885

3,887


Aug-06


San Antonio

TX

—

2,471

3,556

—


—

(408

)

(f)

2,471

3,346

5,817


Dec-07


San Antonio

TX

—


1,496

—


—


(c)


1,641

1,894


Aug-04


Houston

TX

6,167

1,036

8,133

—


—

—

1,036

8,213

9,249


Feb-12


Euless

TX

2,950


3,213

—


—

—


3,803

4,474


Apr-11


La Porte

TX

—

1,608

2,351

—


—

—

1,608

2,606

4,214


Dec-10


Houston

TX

—


1,870

—


—

—


2,016

2,418


Dec-10


Dallas

TX

—


7,656

—


—

—


7,660

8,581


Jul-12


Spring

TX

3,360


5,096

—


—

—


5,152

5,658


Jul-12


Spring

TX

4,656


1,347

—


—

—


1,440

2,418


Aug-11


Dallas

TX

3,986

2,542

3,274

—


—

—

2,542

3,328

5,870


Aug-12


Grand Prairie

TX

—

2,327

1,551

—


—

—

2,327

1,559

3,886


Aug-12


Sandy

UT

3,950

1,349

4,372

—


—

—

1,349

4,755

6,104

1,003

Jul-05


Kearns

UT

—


2,607

—


—

—


2,890

3,532


Jun-04


West Valley City

UT

1,775


1,722

—


—

—


1,866

2,327


Jul-05


Salt Lake City

UT

3,116


3,455

—


—

—


3,612

4,598


Oct-10


West Jordan

UT

2,168


2,146

—


—

—


2,461

3,196


Nov-10


Orem

UT

2,155


2,335

—


—

—


2,426

3,267


Apr-11


Murray

UT

—



—


—

—


1,426

1,997


Nov-10


Sandy

UT

—

2,063

5,202

—

—

—

—

2,063

5,202

7,265


Sep-12


Alexandria

VA

5,902

1,620

13,103

—


—

—

1,620

13,620

15,240

2,266

Jun-07


Falls Church

VA

6,002

1,259

6,975

—


—

—

1,259

7,356

8,615

1,528

Jul-05


Richmond

VA

4,644

2,305

5,467

—


—


(c)

2,305

5,627

7,932

1,244

Aug-04


Arlington

VA

—

—

4,802

—


—

—

—

4,946

4,946


Oct-10


Stafford

VA

4,498

2,076

5,175

—


—

—

2,076

5,252

7,328


Jan-09


Dumfries

VA

5,345


9,349

—


—

—


9,480

10,412


May-11


Alexandria

VA

13,770

5,029

18,943

—


—

—

5,029

18,958

23,987


Jul-12



Extra Space Storage Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation (Continued)

(Dollars in thousands)

Gross carrying amount at

December 31, 2012

Building

costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Date

acquired or

development

completed

Property

Number

Property Name

State

Debt

Land

initial

cost

Building and

improvements

initial cost

Land costs

subsequent

to acquisition

Land

Adjustments

Notes

Building

Adjustments

Notes

Land

Building and

improvements

Total

Accumulated

depreciation


Fredericksburg

VA

4,377

2,128

5,398

—


—

—

2,128

5,415

7,543


Jul-12


Falls Church

VA

—

5,703

13,307

—


—

—

5,703

13,312

19,015


Nov-12


Stafford

VA

4,513

1,172

5,562

—


—

—

1,172

5,566

6,738


Sep-12


Fredericksburg

VA

—

1,438

2,459

—

—

—

—

1,438

2,459

3,897


Nov-12


Seattle

WA

7,480

2,727

7,241

—


—

—

2,727

7,461

10,188

1,530

Jul-05


Lakewood

WA

4,529

1,917

5,256

—


—

—

1,917

5,437

7,354

1,004

Feb-06


Lakewood

WA

4,526

1,389

4,780

—


—

—

1,389

4,996

6,385


Feb-06


Tacoma

WA

3,301

1,031

3,103

—


—

—

1,031

3,244

4,275


Feb-06


Vancouver

WA

3,159


4,280

—


—

—


4,315

5,024


Jul-12

Other corporate assets

4,850


2,202

—

47,688

(849

)

(d)

—

—

49,890

49,890

5,689

Various

Construction in progress

—

—

—

—

4,138

—

—

—

4,138

4,138

—

Intangible tenant relationships and lease rights

—

—

60,011

—

—

—

—

—

60,011

60,011

44,359

Various

$

1,369,690

$

770,764

$

2,430,654

$


$

175,903

$

(3,816

)

$

9,478

$

767,615

$

2,616,035

$

3,383,650

$

391,928

(a)

Adjustments
relate to the acquisition of joint venture partners interests

(b)

Adjustment
relates to partial disposition of land

(c)

Adjustment
relates to asset transfers between land, building and/or equipment

(d)

Adjustment
relates to asset transfers between entities

(e)

Adjustment
relates to impairment charges

(f)

Adjustment
relates to a purchase price adjustment



Activity in real estate facilities during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is as follows:




Operating facilities

Balance at beginning of year

$

2,573,731

$

2,198,361

$

2,249,262

Acquisitions

761,977

301,531

89,750

Improvements

34,964

39,352

16,563

Transfers from real estate under development/redevelopment

8,957

34,777

33,407

Dispositions and other

(117

)

(290

)

(190,621

)

Balance at end of year

$

3,379,512

$

2,573,731

$

2,198,361

Accumulated depreciation:

Balance at beginning of year

$

319,302

$

263,042

$

233,830

Depreciation expense

72,626

56,702

48,665

Dispositions and other

—

(442

)

(19,453

)

Balance at end of year

$

391,928

$

319,302

$

263,042

Real estate under development/redevelopment:

Balance at beginning of year

$

9,366

$

37,083

$

34,427

Current development/redevelopment

3,759

7,060

36,063

Transfers to operating facilities

(8,987

)

(34,777

)

(33,407

)

Dispositions and other

—

—

—

Balance at end of year

$

4,138

$

9,366

$

37,083

Net real estate assets

$

2,991,722

$

2,263,795

$

1,972,402

The
aggregate cost of real estate for U.S. federal income tax purposes is $3,194,952.

Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures

(i)    Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We maintain disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC, and that such information is accumulated
and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure based on the definition
of "disclosure controls and procedures" in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that any
controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and in reaching a reasonable level of assurance,
management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.

We
have a disclosure committee that is responsible for considering the materiality of information and determining the disclosure obligations of the Company on a timely basis. The
disclosure committee meets quarterly and reports directly to our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.



We
carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of
the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level as of the end of the period covered by this report.

(ii)   Internal Control over Financial Reporting

(a)   Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f)
of the Exchange Act. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2012.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Our
independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued the following attestation report over our internal control over financial reporting.

(b)   Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Extra Space Storage Inc.

We have audited Extra Space Storage Inc.'s (the "Company") internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Extra Space
Storage Inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit.

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the



maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In
our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on the COSO criteria.

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2012,
and 2011 and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012 of
Extra Space Storage Inc. and our report dated February 28, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/
Ernst & Young LLP

Salt
Lake City, Utah

February 28, 2013

(c)   Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f)) that occurred
during our most recent quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.    Other Information

None.

PART III

Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions "Executive Officers,"
and "Information About the Board of Directors and its Committees" in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within
120 days after December 31, 2012.

We
have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics in compliance with rules of the SEC that applies to all of our personnel, including our board of directors, Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer and principal accounting officer. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available free of charge on the "Investor Relations—Corporate Governance" section of
our web site at www.extraspace.com. We intend to satisfy any disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of this
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics by posting such information on our web site at the address and location specified above.

The
board of directors has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for our Audit Committee and Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee, each of which is posted on



our
website at the address and location specified above. Investors may obtain a free copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, the Corporate Governance Guidelines and the committee charters by
contacting the Investor Relations Department at 2795 East Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 400, Salt Lake City, Utah 84121, Attn: Clint Halverson or by telephoning (801) 365-4600.

Item 11.    Executive Compensation

Information with respect to executive compensation is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption
"Executive Compensation" in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31,
2012.

Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Information with respect to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters is
incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions "Executive Compensation" and "Security Ownership of Directors and Officers" in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31, 2012.

Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Information with respect to certain relationships and related transactions is incorporated by reference to the information set forth
under the captions "Information about the Board of Directors and its Committees" and "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" in our Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31, 2012.

Item 14.    Principal Accounting Fees and Services

Information with respect to principal accounting fees and services is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the
caption "Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" in our Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A
within 120 days after December 31, 2012.



PART IV

Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)

Documents
filed as part of this report:

(1)   and
(2).    All Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules filed as part of this Annual Report on 10-K are included in
Item 8—"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on 10-K and reference is made thereto.

(3)   The
following documents are filed or incorporated by references as exhibits to this report:

Exhibit

Number

Description

2.1

Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated May 5, 2005 by and among Security Capital Self Storage Incorporated, as seller and Extra Space Storage LLC, PRISA Self Storage LLC, PRISA II Self Storage LLC, PRISA
III Self Storage LLC, VRS Self Storage LLC, WCOT Self Storage LLC and Extra Space Storage LP, as purchaser parties and The Prudential Insurance Company of America (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 2.1 of Form 8-K
filed on May 11, 2005).

3.1

Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Extra Space Storage Inc.(1)

3.2

Articles of Amendment dated September 28, 2007 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 of Form 8-K filed on October 3, 2007).

3.3

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Extra Space Storage Inc.(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 of Form 8-K filed on May 26, 2009)

3.4

Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Extra Space Storage LP (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on June 26, 2007).

3.5

First Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Extra Space Storage LP, dated September 18, 2008 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.32 of Form 10-K filed
on February 26, 2010).

3.6

Declaration of Trust of ESS Holdings Business Trust I.(1)

3.7

Declaration of Trust of ESS Holdings Business Trust II.(1)

4.1

Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of July 27, 2005, between Extra Space Storage LP and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 of
Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2005).

4.2

Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of July 27, 2005, among Extra Space Storage LP, as depositor and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as property trustee, Chase Bank USA, National
Association, as Delaware trustee, the Administrative Trustees named therein and the holders of undivided beneficial interest in the assets of ESS Statutory Trust III (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 of Form 8-K filed on
August 2, 2005).

4.3

Junior Subordinated Note (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.3 of Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2010)

4.4

Trust Preferred Security Certificates (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.4 of Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2010)

4.5

Indenture, dated March 27, 2007 among Extra Space Storage LP, Extra Space Storage Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee, including the form of 3.625% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2027 and form of
guarantee (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 of Form 8-K filed on March 28, 2007).



Exhibit

Number

Description

10.1

Registration Rights Agreement, by and among Extra Space Storage Inc. and the parties listed on Schedule I thereto.(1)

10.2

License between Centershift Inc. and Extra Space Storage LP.(1)

10.3

2004 Long-Term Compensation Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective March 25, 2008 (incorporated by reference from the Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on April 14,
2008)

10.4

Extra Space Storage Performance Bonus Plan.(1)

10.5

Form of 2004 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan Option Award Agreement for Employees with employment agreements. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.11 of Form 10-K filed on February 26,
2010)

10.6

Form of 2004 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan Option Award Agreement for employees without employment agreements. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.12 of Form 10-K filed on February 26,
2010)

10.7

Form of 2004 Non-Employee Directors Share Plan Option Award Agreement for Directors. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.13 of Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2010)

10.8

Joint Venture Agreement, dated June 1, 2004, by and between Extra Space Storage LLC and Prudential Financial, Inc.(1)

10.9

Extra Space Storage Non-Employee Directors' Share Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.22 of Form 10-K/A filed on March 22, 2007).

10.10

Registration Rights Agreement, dated June 20, 2005, among Extra Space Storage Inc. and the investors named therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on June 24,
2005).

10.11

Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 27, 2005, among Extra Space Storage LP, ESS Statutory Trust III and the Purchaser named therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed
on August 2, 2005).

10.12

Registration Rights Agreement, dated March 27, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP, Extra Space Storage Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on March 28, 2007).

10.13

Contribution Agreement, dated June 15, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP and various limited partnerships affiliated with AAAAA Rent-A-Space. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.23 of
Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2010)

10.14

Promissory Note, dated June 25, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP, H. James Knuppe and Barbara Knuppe (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Form 8-K filed on June 26,
2007).

10.15

Pledge Agreement, dated June 25, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LP, H. James Knuppe and Barbara Knuppe (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of Form 8-K filed on June 26,
2007).

10.16

Registration Rights Agreement among Extra Space Storage LP, H. James Knuppe and Barbara Knuppe. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.26 of Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2010)



Exhibit

Number

Description

10.17

First Amendment to Contribution Agreement and to Agreement Regarding Transfer of Series A units among Extra Space Storage LP, various limited partnerships affiliated with AAAAA Rent-A-Space, H. James Knuppe and
Barbara Knuppe, dated September 28, 2007. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on October 3, 2007).

10.18

Membership Interest Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 13, 2012, between Extra Space Properties Sixty Three LLC and PRISA III Co-Investment LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
Form 8-K filed on April 16, 2012).

10.19

2004 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 of Form 10-Q filed on November 7, 2007).

10.20

First Amendment to Extra Space Storage Inc. 2004 Non-Employee Directors' Share Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 of Form 10-Q filed on November 7, 2007).

10.21

Loan Agreement between ESP Seven Subsidiary LLC as Borrower and General Electric Capital Corporation as Lender, dated October 16, 2007. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.30 of Form 10-K
filed on February 26, 2010)

10.22

Subscription Agreement, dated December 31, 2007, among Extra Space Storage LLC and Extra Space Development, LLC. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.31 of Form 10-K filed on
February 26, 2010)

10.23

Revolving Promissory Note between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as Lender, dated February 13, 2009 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.33 of Form 10-K filed on
February 26, 2010)

10.24

Revolving Line of Credit between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as Lender, dated February 13, 2009 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.34 of Form 10-K filed on
February 26, 2010)

10.25

First Loan and Note Modification Agreement between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as lender, dated April 9, 2009 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.27 of Form 10-K
filed on February 29, 2012).

10.26

Second Loan and Note Modification Agreement between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as lender, dated May 4, 2009 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.28 of Form 10-K
filed on February 29, 2012).

10.27

Third Loan and Note Modification Agreement between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as lender, dated August 27, 2010 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.29 of Form 10-K
filed on February 29, 2012).

10.28

Fourth Loan and Note Modification Agreement between Extra Space Properties Thirty LLC and Bank of America as lender, dated October 19, 2011 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.30 of
Form 10-K filed on February 29, 2012).

10.29

Extra Space Storage Inc. Executive Change in Control Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on August 31, 2011).

10.30

Separation and Release Agreement, dated December 7, 2011, among Extra Space Storage Inc., Extra Space Storage LP and Kent W. Christensen (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K
filed on December 9, 2011).

10.31

Retention Agreement, dated February 21, 2012, between Extra Space Storage Inc. and Karl Haas, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K filed on February 21, 2012).



Exhibit

Number

Description

21.1

Subsidiaries of the Company(2)

23.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP(2)

31.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.(2)

31.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.(2)


Certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.(2)


The following financial information from Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2012, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2013, formatted in Extensible Business
Reporting Language (XBRL): (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2012 and 2011; (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010; (iii) Consolidated Statements of
Stockholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010; (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010; and (v) Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

(1)

Incorporated
by reference from our Registration Statement on Form S-11 (File No. 333-115436 dated August 11,
2004).

(2)

Filed
herewith

(c)

See
Item 15(a)(2) above.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: February 28, 2013

EXTRA SPACE STORAGE INC.

By:

/s/ SPENCER F. KIRK

Spencer F. Kirk

Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.

Date: February 28, 2013

By:

/s/ SPENCER F. KIRK

Spencer F. Kirk

Chief Executive Officer

(Principal Executive Officer)

Date: February 28, 2013

By:

/s/ P. SCOTT STUBBS

P. Scott Stubbs

Executive Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial Officer)

Date: February 28, 2013

By:

/s/ GRACE KUNDE

Grace Kunde

Vice President and Corporate Controller

(Principal Accounting Officer)

Date: February 28, 2013

By:

/s/ KENNETH M. WOOLLEY

Kenneth M. Woolley

Executive Chairman and Chief Investment Officer

Date: February 28, 2013

By:

/s/ JOSEPH D. MARGOLIS

Joseph D. Margolis

Director

Date: February 28, 2013

By:

/s/ ROGER B. PORTER

Roger B. Porter

Director

Date: February 28, 2013

By:

/s/ K. FRED SKOUSEN

K. Fred Skousen

Director

117