10-K


d10k.htm

FORM 10-K

Form 10-K


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS

PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year
Ended December 31, 2004

or

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Transition
Period From                      to

Commission File Number 001-31240

Newmont Mining Corporation

(Exact
Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code (303) 863-7414

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock, $1.60 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or
any amendment to this Form 10-K.

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    Yes

x

No

¨

State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity
held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of June 30, 2004: $17,161,160,854. There were 409,987,107 shares of common stock
outstanding (and 35,698,488 exchangeable shares exchangeable into Newmont Mining Corporation common stock on a one-for-one basis) on March 3, 2005.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of Registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement submitted to the Registrant’s stockholders in connection with our 2005 Annual Stockholders
Meeting to be held on April 27, 2005, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.



i


ii


This document (including information incorporated herein by reference) contains “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which involve a degree of risk and uncertainty due to various factors affecting Newmont Mining Corporation and
our affiliates and subsidiaries. For a discussion of some of these factors, see the discussion in Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this report.

PART I

ITEM 1.     BUSINESS

Introduction

Newmont Mining
Corporation is the world’s largest gold producer with significant assets or operations in the United States, Australia, Peru, Indonesia, Canada, Uzbekistan, Bolivia, New Zealand, Ghana and Mexico. As of December 31, 2004, Newmont had proven and
probable gold reserves of 92.4 million equity ounces and an aggregate land position of approximately 51,500 square miles (133,500 square kilometers). In 2004, we derived more than 65% of our equity gold sales from politically and economically stable
countries, namely the United States, Australia and Canada. Newmont is also engaged in the production of silver, copper and zinc.

Newmont Mining Corporation’s original predecessor corporation was incorporated in 1921 under the laws of Delaware. On February 13, 2002, at a special
meeting of the stockholders of Newmont, stockholders approved adoption of an Agreement and Plan of Merger that provided for a restructuring of Newmont to facilitate the February 2002 acquisitions described below and to create a more flexible
corporate structure. Newmont merged with an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary, which resulted in Newmont becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of a new holding company. The new holding company was renamed Newmont Mining Corporation. There was no impact
to the consolidated financial statements of Newmont as a result of this restructuring and former stockholders of Newmont became stockholders of the new holding company. In this report, “Newmont,” the “Company” and “we”
refer to Newmont Mining Corporation and/or our affiliates and subsidiaries.

On February 16, 2002, Newmont completed the acquisition of Franco-Nevada Mining Corporation Limited, a Canadian company, pursuant to a Plan of Arrangement. On February 20, 2002, Newmont gained control of Normandy
Mining Limited, an Australian company, through an off-market bid for all of the ordinary shares of Normandy. On February 26, 2002, when Newmont’s off-market bid for Normandy expired, Newmont had a relevant interest in more than 96% of
Normandy’s outstanding shares. Newmont exercised compulsory acquisition rights under Australian law to acquire all of the remaining shares of Normandy in April 2002. The results of operations of Normandy and Franco-Nevada have been included in
this Annual Report and Newmont’s financial statements from February 16, 2002 forward.

In November 2003, Newmont completed a public offering of 25 million shares of common stock, receiving proceeds of approximately $1.0 billion.

For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, Newmont had revenues of $4.52 billion, $3.16 billion, and $2.62
billion, respectively. In 2004, 2003 and 2002, Newmont had net income applicable to common shares of $434.5 million, $475.7 million and $154.3 million, respectively.

(1)

Newmont’s corporate headquarters are in Denver, Colorado, USA.

(1)

All references to “dollars,” “U.S.$,” or “$” in this report refer to United States currency unless otherwise specified. References to
“A$” are to Australian currency, “CDN$” to Canadian currency, “NZD$” to New Zealand currency, “IDR” to Indonesian currency and “CHF” to Swiss currency.



For additional information, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Segment Information, Export Sales, etc.

Newmont predominantly operates in a single industry, namely exploration for and production of gold and copper. Newmont’s major operations are in North America, South America, Indonesia and Australia/New Zealand. Newmont also has two
significant development projects in Ghana, West Africa. Newmont also has a Merchant Banking Segment and an Exploration Segment. See Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information relating to our business segments, our domestic and
export sales, and our customers.

Products

Gold

General.

Newmont sold
7.0 million equity ounces of gold in 2004, 7.4 million equity ounces in 2003 and 7.6 million equity ounces in 2002. References in this report to “equity ounces” or “equity pounds” mean that portion of gold or base metals,
respectively, produced, sold, or included in proven and probable reserves that is attributable to our ownership or economic interest. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, 81%, 98% and 98%, respectively, of Newmont’s revenues
were attributable to gold sales.

Approximately 39% of
Newmont’s equity gold sales in 2004 and 2003 came from North American operations and 61% came from overseas operations. Of Newmont’s 2004 equity gold sales, approximately 22% came from Yanacocha and 7% from Indonesia. As of December 31,
2004, approximately 46% of our total long-lived assets were related to operations outside North America, with 19% of that total in Indonesia and 11% in Peru.

Most of Newmont’s revenue comes from the sale of refined gold in the international market. The end product at each of Newmont’s gold operations,
however, is generally doré bars. In certain limited circumstances Newmont sells doré directly to a customer, but generally, because doré is an alloy consisting mostly of gold but also containing silver, copper and other metals,
doré bars are sent to refiners to produce bullion that meets the required market standard of 99.95% pure gold. Under the terms of refining agreements, the doré bars are refined for a fee, and Newmont’s share of the refined gold
and the separately-recovered silver are credited to Newmont’s account or delivered to buyers, except in the case of the doré produced from Newmont’s operation in Uzbekistan. Doré from that operation is refined locally and the
refined gold is physically returned to Newmont for sale in international markets.

Newmont has interests in two gold refining businesses: a 40% interest in the AGR Matthey joint venture in Australia, which is one of the world’s largest gold refineries and the largest distributor into the Asian
market; and a 50% interest in European Gold Refineries SA in Switzerland, which owns 100% of a gold refining business and 66.65% of a gold distribution business.

Gold Uses.

Gold has two main categories of use—product fabrication and investment.
Fabricated gold has a variety of end uses, including jewelry, electronics, dentistry, industrial and decorative uses, medals, medallions and official coins. Gold investors buy gold bullion, official coins and high-karat jewelry.

Gold Supply.

The worldwide supply of gold
consists of a combination of new production from mining and the draw-down of existing stocks of bullion and fabricated gold held by governments, financial institutions, industrial organizations and private individuals. In recent years, mine
production has accounted for 60% to 70% of the total annual supply of gold.



Gold Price.

The following table presents the annual high, low and average
afternoon fixing prices for gold over the past ten years, expressed in U.S. dollars per ounce on the London Bullion Market.

Source

of Data: Kitco and Reuters

On March 3, 2005, the afternoon fixing price for gold on the London Bullion Market was $430.20 per ounce and the spot market price of gold on the New York
Commodity Exchange was $429.40 per ounce.

Newmont generally
sells its gold or doré at the prevailing market prices during the month in which the gold or doré is delivered to the customer. Newmont recognizes revenue from a sale when the price is determinable, the gold or doré has been
delivered, the title has been transferred to the customer and collection of the sales price is reasonably assured.

Copper

General.

At December 31, 2004, Newmont had a 52.875% economic interest (a 45% ownership interest) in the Batu Hijau mine in
Indonesia, which began production in 1999. Production at Batu Hijau is in the form of a copper/gold concentrate that is sold to smelters for smelting and refining. During 2004, Batu Hijau sold concentrates containing 378.8 million equity pounds of
copper and 396,300 equity ounces of gold. The 100% owned Golden Grove operation in Western Australia produces concentrates that contain copper, gold, lead and zinc. Golden Grove sold concentrates containing 43.5 million pounds of copper during 2004.
Except for hedged commitments (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), the majority of Newmont’s copper production is sold under long-term contracts at market prices, and the balance on the spot market. For the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, 19%, 2% and 1%, respectively, of Newmont’s revenues were attributable to copper sales.

Copper Uses.

Refined copper, the final product from the treatment of concentrates, is incorporated into wire and cable
products for use in the construction, electric utility, communications and transportation industries. Copper is also used in industrial equipment and machinery, consumer products and a variety of other electrical and electronic applications and is
used to make brass. Copper substitutes include aluminum, plastics, stainless steel and fiber optics. Refined, or cathode, copper is also an internationally traded commodity.



Copper Price.

The price of copper is quoted on the London Metal Exchange in
terms of dollars per metric ton of high grade copper. The volatility of the copper market is illustrated by the following table, which shows the dollar per pound equivalent of the high, low and average prices of high grade copper on the London Metal
Exchange in each of the last ten years.

Source

of Data: London Metal Exchange

On March 3, 2005, the closing price of high grade copper was $1.51 per pound on the London Metal Exchange.

Hedging Activities

Newmont
generally avoids gold hedging. Newmont’s philosophy is to provide shareholders with leverage to changes in metal prices by selling its gold production at market prices. Newmont has, on a limited basis, entered into derivative contracts to
protect the selling price for certain anticipated gold and copper production and to manage risks associated with commodities, interest rates and foreign currencies.

At the time of Normandy’s acquisition, three of Normandy’s affiliates had substantial derivative instrument
positions. Normandy entered into gold forward sales contracts with fixed and floating gold lease rates, but did not enter into contracts that required margin calls and had no outstanding long-dated sold call options.

Following the acquisition, and in accordance with Newmont’s philosophy
regarding gold hedging, the Normandy hedge positions were reduced by approximately 9.6 million ounces from February 16, 2002 to December 31, 2004. Gold forward sales contracts and other “committed hedging obligations” were reduced by 7.5
million ounces by delivering production into the contracts or through early close-outs. Similarly, uncommitted contracts for 2.1 million ounces were either delivered into, were allowed to lapse or were closed out early. As of December 31, 2004, the
Normandy hedge positions had been reduced to 324,750 uncommitted ounces with a negative mark-to-market valuation of $9 million.

During the year ended December 31, 2004, Newmont entered into copper option collar contracts.

For additional information, see Hedging in Item 7A, Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Merchant Banking

Merchant
Banking is a “reportable segment” for financial reporting purposes. Merchant Banking, also referred to as Newmont Capital, manages a Royalty Portfolio, an Equity Portfolio, and a Downstream Gold Refining business, and engages in Value
Realization activities (managing interests in oil and gas, iron ore, and coal properties as well as providing in-house investment banking and advisory services).



Merchant Banking manages Newmont’s Royalty Portfolio. Royalties generally offer a natural hedge
against lower gold prices by providing free cash flow from a diversified set of assets with limited operating, capital or environmental risk while retaining upside exposure to further exploration discoveries and reserve expansions. Merchant Banking
seeks to grow Newmont’s royalty portfolio in a number of different ways, and looks for opportunities to acquire existing royalties from third parties or to create them in connection with transactions. Merchant Banking also identifies current
Newmont properties or exploration targets for sale if they are incompatible with our core objectives. In the case of a sale, Merchant Banking often seeks to retain royalty or other future participation rights in addition to cash or other
consideration received in the sale. Through this process, Newmont intends to continue to benefit from any discoveries made by other operators on lands on which we have a royalty, and to obtain revenues from the properties without incurring operating
or capital risk.

In 2004, Newmont’s royalty interests and
investments generated $65.8 million in

Royalty and dividend income

. Newmont has royalty interests in Barrick Gold Corporation’s Goldstrike and Eskay Creek mines, Placer Dome’s Henty and Bald Mountain mines and Stillwater
Mining’s Stillwater and East Boulder palladium-platinum mines, among others. Newmont also has a significant oil and gas royalty portfolio in western Canada. During the year, new royalties were added through property transactions and asset
sales. A land lease program in Nevada is accelerating exploration of non-core lands with Newmont retaining royalties and future participation rights. For additional information regarding Newmont’s royalty portfolio, see Item 2, Properties,
Royalty Properties, below.

As of December 31, 2004, Merchant
Banking’s Equity Portfolio had a market value of approximately $0.5 billion. The Equity Portfolio is primarily composed of our investments in Kinross Gold Corporation, Canadian Oil Sands Trust and Gabriel Resources, Ltd.

Merchant Banking also manages our interests in downstream gold refining and
distribution businesses (40% interest in AGR Matthey Joint Venture (“AGR”) and 50% interest in European Gold Refineries (“EGR”)). Merchant Banking earned $2.6 million in

Equity income of affiliates

through its investments
in AGR and EGR in 2004.

Merchant Banking’s Value
Realization activities include managing the reserve delineation program on our 100% owned heavy oil leases in Alberta, Canada, and advancing our other interests in coal, iron ore and natural gas.

Merchant Banking provides advisory services to Newmont to assist it in
managing its portfolio of operating and property interests. The Merchant Banking group helps Newmont maximize net asset value per share and increase cash flow, earnings and reserves by working with Newmont’s exploration, operations and finance
teams to prioritize near-term goals within longer-term strategies. Merchant Banking is engaged in developing value optimization strategies for operating and non-operating assets, business development activities, potential merger and acquisition
analysis and negotiations, monetizing inactive exploration properties, capitalizing on Newmont’s proprietary technology and know-how and acting as an internal resource for other corporate groups to improve and maximize business outcomes. In
2004, Merchant Banking’s assistance was provided in the sale of non-core properties including Bronzewing in Australia, Perama in Greece and Midwest Uranium in Canada. In addition, Merchant Banking participated in the restructuring of Australian
Magnesium Corporation, which eliminated all remaining Newmont obligations.

A key aspect of these advisory services is assisting Newmont in extracting economies of scale with its partners and neighboring mines. Merchant Banking continues to evaluate district optimization opportunities in
Nevada, Australia and Canada, covering a broad range of alternatives, including asset exchanges, unitization, joint ventures, partnerships, sales, spinouts and buyouts.

Exploration

Exploration is a
“reportable segment” for financial reporting purposes. Newmont’s exploration group is responsible for all activities, regardless of location, associated with the Company’s world-wide efforts to discover mineralized material and
advance such mineralized material into proven and probable reserves.



Exploration work is conducted in areas surrounding our existing mines for the purpose of locating additional deposits and determining mine geology, and in
other prospective gold regions globally. Our exploration teams employ state-of-the-art technology, including airborne geophysical data acquisition systems, satellite location devices and field-portable imaging systems, as well as geochemical and
geological prospecting methods, to identify prospective targets. Newmont spent $192.4 million in 2004, $115.2 million in 2003 and $88.9 million in 2002 on

Exploration, research and development

.

As of December 31, 2004, Newmont had proven and probable reserves of 92.4
million equity ounces. As a result of exploration efforts and the assumption of a higher gold price, Newmont added 12.4 million equity ounces to proven and probable reserves in 2004, with 11.3 million ounces of depletion, divestitures and
reclassifications during the year.

In Nevada, exploration
efforts resulted in proven and probable reserves of 34.0 million equity ounces as of December 31, 2004, after depletion of 3.0 million equity ounces during 2004.

In Peru, equity gold reserves increased to 16.6 million ounces, after depletion of 2.0 million ounces and a reclassification
of 2.0 million ounces to mineralized material not in reserves at Cerro Quilish. At Minas Conga, 4.5 million equity ounces of gold and 1.1 billion equity pounds of copper were added to proven and probable reserves. Minas Conga is a development
project that currently consists of two gold-copper porphyry deposits located northeast of the Minera Yanacocha operating area in the provinces of Celendin, Cajamarca and Hualgayoc.

In Australia/New Zealand, the Company depleted 1.9 million equity ounces during 2004. Australia/New Zealand had proven and
probable reserves of 15.1 million equity ounces at December 31, 2004.

At Batu Hijau, positive mine optimization efforts resulted in proven and probable reserves of 6.3 billion equity pounds of copper and 7.2 million equity ounces of gold as of December 31, 2004, which approximated 2003 reserves,
notwithstanding depletion of approximately 450 million equity pounds of copper and 500,000 equity ounces of gold.

In addition, exploration and mine development efforts in 2004 focused on the Ahafo and Akyem projects in Ghana, substantially increasing proven and
probable reserves there by 3.0 million and 1.1 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2004, the Company reported reserves of 10.6 million ounces at Ahafo and 5.4 million equity ounces at Akyem.

For additional information, see Item 2, Properties, Proven and Probable
Reserves.

Licenses and Concessions

Other
than operating licenses for our mining and processing facilities, there are no third party patents, licenses or franchises material to Newmont’s business. In many countries, however, we conduct our mining and exploration activities pursuant to
concessions granted by, or under contract with, the host government. These countries include, among others, Australia, Bolivia, Canada, Ghana, Indonesia, Peru, New Zealand, Mexico and Uzbekistan. The concessions and contracts are subject to the
political risks associated with foreign operations. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, Risks Related to Newmont Operations, below. For a more detailed description of our Indonesian Contracts of Work, see Item 2, Properties, below.

Condition of Physical Assets and Insurance

Our business is capital intensive, requiring ongoing capital investment for the replacement, modernization or expansion of equipment and facilities. For more information, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources, below.



We maintain insurance policies against property loss and business interruption and insure against risks
that are typical in the operation of our business, in amounts that we believe to be reasonable. Such insurance, however, contains exclusions and limitations on coverage, particularly with respect to environmental liability and political risk. There
can be no assurance that claims would be paid under such insurance policies in connection with a particular event. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, Risks Related to Newmont Operations, below.

Environmental Matters

Newmont’s United States mining and exploration activities are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, including the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act; the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act; the Endangered Species Act; the Federal Land Policy and Management Act; the National Environmental Policy Act; the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act; and related state laws. These laws and regulations are continually changing and are generally becoming more restrictive. Newmont’s activities outside the United States are also subject to governmental regulations for the
protection of the environment. In general, environmental regulations have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse impact on Newmont’s operations or our competitive position.

We conduct our operations so as to protect public health and environment and
believe our operations are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in all material respects. Each operating Newmont mine has a reclamation plan in place that meets all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have made, and expect
to make in the future, expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. We have made estimates of the amount of such expenditures, but cannot precisely predict the amount of such future expenditures. Estimated future reclamation costs are
based principally on legal and regulatory requirements. At December 31, 2004, $410.3 million was accrued for reclamation costs relating to currently producing mineral properties.

Newmont is also involved in several matters concerning environmental obligations associated with former, primarily historic,
mining activities. Generally, these matters concern developing and implementing remediation plans at the various sites. We believe that the related environmental obligations associated with these sites are similar in nature with respect to the
development of remediation plans, their risk profile and the activities required to meet general environmental standards. Based upon our best estimate of our liability for these matters, $74.9 million was accrued as of December 31, 2004 for such
obligations associated with properties previously owned or operated by Newmont or our subsidiaries. These amounts are included in

Other current liabilities

and

Reclamation and remediation liabilities.

Depending upon the ultimate
resolution of these matters, we believe that it is reasonably possible that the liability for these matters could be as much as 81% greater or 34% lower than the amount accrued as of December 31, 2004. The amounts accrued for these matters are
reviewed periodically based upon facts and circumstances available at the time. Changes in estimates are charged to costs and expenses in the period estimates are revised.

For a discussion of the most significant reclamation and remediation activities, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Notes 15 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, below.

Employees

There were
approximately 14,000 people employed by Newmont and our affiliates worldwide at December 31, 2004.

Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements contained in this report (including information incorporated by reference) are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and



Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are intended to be covered by the safe harbor provided for under these sections. Our
forward-looking statements include, without limitation:

•

Statements regarding future earnings, and the sensitivity of earnings to gold and other metal prices;

•

Estimates of future mineral production and sales, for specific operations and on a consolidated basis;

•

Estimates of future production costs and other expenses, for specific operations and on a consolidated basis;

•

Estimates of future cash flows and the sensitivity of cash flows to gold and other metal prices;

•

Estimates of future capital expenditures and other cash needs, for specific operations and on a consolidated basis, and expectations as to the funding thereof;

•

Statements as to the projected development of certain ore deposits, including estimates of development and other capital costs, financing plans for these deposits, and expected
production commencement dates;

•

Estimates of future costs and other liabilities for certain environmental matters;

•

Estimates of reserves, and statements regarding future exploration results and reserve replacement;

•

Statements regarding modifications to hedge positions;

•

Statements regarding future transactions relating to portfolio management or rationalization efforts; and

•

Estimates regarding timing of future capital expenditures, production or closure activities.

Where we express an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good
faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, our forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied
by those forward-looking statements. Such risks include, but are not limited to: the price of gold and copper; currency fluctuations; geological and metallurgical assumptions; operating performance of equipment, processes and facilities; labor
relations; timing of receipt of necessary governmental permits or approvals; domestic and foreign laws or regulations, particularly relating to the environment and mining; domestic and international economic and political conditions; the ability of
Newmont to obtain or maintain necessary financing; and other risks and hazards associated with mining operations. More detailed information regarding these factors is included in Item 1, Business, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and elsewhere throughout this
report. Given these uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements.

All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to Newmont or to persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their
entirety by these cautionary statements. Newmont disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable
securities laws.

Available Information

Newmont
maintains an internet web site at

www.newmont.com.

Newmont makes available, free of charge, through the Investor Information section of the web site, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form
8-K, Section 16 filings and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Newmont has provided same day access to such reports through its
web site since November 15, 2002. Newmont’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters of key committees of its Board of Directors and its Code of Business Ethics and Conduct are also available on the web site. Any of the foregoing
information is available in print to any stockholder who requests it by contacting Newmont’s Investor Relations Department.



The Company filed with the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) on May 24, 2004, the annual
certification by its Chief Executive Officer, certifying that, as of the date of the certification, he was not aware of any violation by the Company of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards, as required by Section 303A.12(a) of
the NYSE Listed Company Manual. The Company has filed the required certifications under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 regarding the quality of its public disclosures as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this report.

ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS

Every investor or potential investor in Newmont should carefully consider the following risks, which have been separated into two groups:

•

Risks related to the mining industry generally; and

•

Risks related to Newmont’s operations.

Risks Related to the Mining Industry Generally

A Substantial or Extended Decline in Gold or Copper Prices Would Have a Material Adverse Effect on Newmont

Newmont’s business is dependent on the prices of gold and copper, which are affected by numerous factors beyond Newmont’s control. Factors
tending to put downward pressure on the prices of gold and copper include:

•

Sales or leasing of gold by governments and central banks;

•

A strong U.S. dollar;

•

Global and regional recession or reduced economic activity;

•

Speculative trading;

•

Decreased demand for industrial uses, use in jewelry or investment;

•

High supply from production, disinvestment and scrap;

•

Sales by producers in forward transactions and other hedging transactions; and

•

Devaluing local currencies (relative to gold priced in U.S. dollars) leading to lower production costs and higher production in certain regions.

Any drop in the prices of gold or copper adversely impacts our revenues,
profits and cash flows, particularly in light of our philosophy of avoiding gold hedging. Newmont has recorded asset write-downs in prior years as a result of low gold prices and may experience additional asset impairments as a result of low gold or
copper prices in the future.

In addition, sustained low gold
or copper prices can:

•

Reduce revenues further through production cutbacks due to cessation of the mining of deposits or portions of deposits that have become uneconomic at the then-prevailing gold or
copper price;

•

Halt or delay the development of new projects;

•

Reduce funds available for exploration, with the result that depleted reserves are not replaced; and/or

•

Reduce existing reserves, by removing ores from reserves that cannot be economically mined or treated at prevailing prices.

Also see the discussion in Item 1, Business, Gold or Copper Price.



Gold and Copper Producers Must Continually Obtain Additional Reserves

Gold and copper producers must continually replace reserves depleted by
production. Depleted reserves must be replaced by expanding known ore bodies or by locating new deposits in order for producers to maintain production levels over the long term. Exploration is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and
frequently is unproductive. No assurances can be given that any of our new or ongoing exploration programs will result in new mineral producing operations. Once mineralization is discovered, it may take many years from the initial phases of drilling
until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change.

Estimates of Proven and Probable Reserves Are Uncertain

Estimates of proven and probable reserves are subject to considerable uncertainty. Such estimates are, to a large extent,
based on interpretations of geologic data obtained from drill holes and other sampling techniques. Producers use feasibility studies to derive estimates of operating costs based upon anticipated tonnage and grades of ore to be mined and processed,
the predicted configuration of the ore body, expected recovery rates of metals from the ore, comparable facility, equipment, operating costs, and other factors. Actual operating costs and economic returns on projects may differ significantly from
original estimates. Further, it may take many years from the initial phase of drilling before production is possible and, during that time, the economic feasibility of exploiting a discovery may change.

Increased Costs Could Affect Profitability

Costs at any particular mining location frequently are subject to variation
from one year to the next due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, metallurgy and revisions to mine plans in response to the physical shape and location of the ore body. In addition, costs are affected by the price of commodities such
as fuel and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production at certain operations less profitable. A material increase in costs at any significant location could have a
significant effect on Newmont’s profitability.

Mining Accidents or Other Adverse Events at a Mining Location Could Reduce Our Production Levels

At any of Newmont’s operations, production may fall below historic or estimated levels as a result of mining accidents such as a pit wall failure in
an open pit mine, or cave-ins or flooding at underground mines. In addition, production may be unexpectedly reduced at a location if, during the course of mining, unfavorable ground conditions or seismic activity are encountered; ore grades are
lower than expected; the physical or metallurgical characteristics of the ore are less amenable to mining or treatment than expected; or our equipment, processes or facilities fail to operate properly or as expected.

Mining Companies Are Subject to Extensive Environmental Laws and
Regulations

Newmont’s exploration, mining and
processing operations are regulated in all countries in which we operate under various federal, state, provincial and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, which generally include air and water quality, hazardous waste management
and reclamation. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain government permits and approvals may adversely impact our operations. The regulatory environment in which Newmont operates could change in ways that would substantially increase costs to
achieve compliance, or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on Newmont’s operations or financial position. For a more detailed discussion of potential environmental liabilities, see the discussion in Environmental Matters, Note 27 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Risks Related to Newmont Operations

Our Operations Outside North America and Australia Are Subject to Risks of Doing Business Abroad

Exploration, development and production activities outside of North America and Australia are potentially subject to political and economic risks,
including:

•

Cancellation or renegotiation of contracts;

•

Disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;

•

Changes in foreign laws or regulations;

•

Royalty and tax increases or claims by governmental entities, including retroactive claims;

•

Expropriation or nationalization of property;

•

Currency fluctuations (particularly in countries with high inflation);

•

Foreign exchange controls;

•

Restrictions on the ability of local operating companies to sell gold offshore for U.S. dollars, or on the ability of such companies to hold U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies
in offshore bank accounts;

•

Import and export regulations, including restrictions on the export of gold;

•

Restrictions on the ability to pay dividends offshore;

•

Risk of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism;

•

Risk of loss due to disease and other potential endemic health issues; and

•

Other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over the areas in which our operations are conducted.

Consequently, Newmont’s exploration, development and production activities outside of North America and Australia may
be substantially affected by factors beyond Newmont’s control, any of which could materially adversely affect Newmont’s financial position or results of operations. Furthermore, in the event of a dispute arising from such activities,
Newmont may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of courts outside North America or Australia, which could adversely affect the outcome of a dispute.

Newmont has substantial investments in Indonesia, a nation that since 1997 has undergone financial crises and devaluation of its currency, outbreaks of
political and religious violence, changes in national leadership, and the secession of East Timor, one of its former provinces. These factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy toward foreign investors, which in turn could
result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. If this were to occur with respect to the Batu Hijau Contract of Work, Newmont’s financial
condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

In July 2004, a criminal complaint was filed against P.T. Newmont Minahasa Raya (“PTNMR”), the Newmont subsidiary that operated the Minahasa mine in Indonesia, alleging environmental pollution relating to
submarine tailings placement into nearby Buyat Bay. The Indonesian police detained five PTNMR employees during September and October of 2004. The police investigation and the detention of PTNMR’s employees was declared illegal by the South
Jakarta District Court in December of 2004, and the police have appealed that decision to the Indonesian Supreme Court. A civil lawsuit, which was filed by three residents of Buyat Pante, a village located near the Minahasa mine, was settled without
payment to the plaintiffs in December 2004. In addition, on March 9, 2005, the Indonesian Ministry of the Environment reportedly filed a civil lawsuit against PTNMR and its President Director in relation to these allegations.

Independent sampling and testing of Buyat Bay water and fish, as well as area
residents, conducted by the World Health Organization and the Australian Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization,



confirm that PTNMR has not polluted the Buyat Bay environment, and, therefore, has not adversely affected the fish in the Bay or the health of nearby
residents. The Company remains steadfast that it has not caused pollution or health problems and will continue to vigorously defend itself against these allegations. However, Newmont cannot predict the outcome of these actions or whether additional
legal actions may occur. Any of these actions could adversely affect our ability to operate in Indonesia.

During the last several years, Minera Yanacocha, of which Newmont owns a 51.35% interest, has been the target of numerous local political protests,
including ones that blocked the road between the Yanacocha mine complex and the city of Cajamarca in Peru. During September 2004, individuals from the Cajamarca region conducted a sustained blockade of the road in protest of drilling activities at
Cerro Quilish, one of the ore deposits within the Yanacocha mine complex. Yanacocha suspended all drilling activities at Cerro Quilish, and the blockade was resolved. At the request of Yanacocha, the Cerro Quilish drilling permit was revoked in
November 2004. Newmont has reassessed the challenges involved in obtaining required permits for Cerro Quilish primarily related to increased community concerns. Based upon this reassessment, Newmont has reclassified the deposit’s 1.98 million
equity gold ounces from proven and probable reserves to mineralized material not in reserves as of December 31, 2004. We cannot predict whether these incidents will continue, nor can we predict the government’s continuing positions on foreign
investment, mining concessions, land tenure, environmental regulation or taxation. The continuation or intensification of protests or a change in prior governmental positions could adversely affect operations in Peru.

Recent violence committed by radical elements in Indonesia and other
countries, and the presence of U.S. forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, may increase the risk that operations owned by U.S. companies will be the target of further violence. If any of Newmont’s operations were so targeted it could have an adverse
effect on our business.

Our Success May Depend on Our
Social and Environmental Performance

Newmont’s
ability to operate successfully in communities around the world will likely depend on our ability to develop, operate and close mines in a manner that is consistent with the health and safety of our employees, the protection of the environment, and
the creation of long-term economic and social opportunities in the communities in which we operate. Newmont has implemented a management system designed to promote continuous improvement in health and safety, environmental performance and community
relations. However, our ability to operate may be adversely impacted by accidents or events detrimental (or perceived to be detrimental) to the health and safety of our employees, the environment or the communities in which we operate.

Remediation Costs for Environmental Liabilities May Exceed the
Provisions We Have Made

Newmont has conducted
extensive remediation work at two inactive sites in the United States. At one of these sites, remediation requirements have not been finally determined, and, therefore, the final cost cannot be determined. At a third site in the United States, an
inactive uranium mine and mill formerly operated by a subsidiary of Newmont, remediation work at the mill is ongoing, but remediation at the mine is subject to dispute and has not yet commenced. The environmental standards that may ultimately be
imposed at this site remain uncertain and there is a risk that the costs of remediation may exceed the provision that has been made for such remediation by a material amount.

Whenever a previously unrecognized remediation liability becomes known or a previously estimated cost is increased, the
amount of that liability or additional cost can materially reduce net income in that period.

The Use of Hedging Instruments May Prevent Gains Being Realized from Subsequent Price Increases

Newmont does not intend to enter into material new gold hedging positions and intends to continue to decrease gold hedge positions over time by
opportunistically delivering gold into our existing hedge contracts, or



by seeking to eliminate our hedge position when economically attractive. Nonetheless, Newmont currently has gold hedging positions and may, from
time-to-time, enter into hedge contracts for copper, other metals or commodities, interest rates or foreign currencies. In 2004, Newmont entered into copper hedging positions covering approximately 459 million pounds of copper. If the gold, copper
or other metal price rises above the price at which future production has been committed under these hedge instruments, Newmont will have an opportunity loss. However, if the gold, copper or other metal price falls below that committed price,
Newmont’s revenues will be protected to the extent of such committed production. In addition, we may experience losses if a hedge counterparty defaults under a contract when the contract price exceeds the gold, copper or other metal price.

For a more detailed description of the Newmont hedge
positions, see the discussion in Hedging in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Currency Fluctuations May Affect Costs

Currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur at our operations. Gold is sold throughout the world based
principally on the U.S. dollar price, but a portion of Newmont’s operating expenses are incurred in local currencies. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies against the U.S. dollar can increase the costs of gold production in U.S.
dollar terms at mines located outside the United States, making such mines less profitable. The currencies that primarily impact Newmont’s results of operations are the Australian and Canadian dollars.

During 2004, the Australian and Canadian dollars strengthened by an average
of 13% and 7%, respectively, against the U.S. dollar. This increased U.S. dollar reported operating costs in Australia and Canada by approximately $56.6 million and $4.8 million, respectively. For additional information, see Item 7,
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Results of Operations, Foreign Currency Exchange Rates, below. For a more detailed description of how currency exchange rates may affect costs,
see discussion in Foreign Currency in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Our Level of Indebtedness May Affect Our Business

As of December 31, 2004, Newmont had debt of $1.6 billion, as compared to $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2003. Our level of indebtedness could
have important consequences for our operations, including:

•

Newmont may need to use a large portion of its cash flow to repay principal and pay interest on our debt, which will reduce the amount of funds available to finance our operations
and other business activities;

•

Newmont’s debt level may make us vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in Newmont’s businesses and markets; and

•

Newmont’s debt level may limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow money for operations or capital expenditures in the future or implement our business
strategy.

Newmont expects to be able to pay
principal and interest on our debt by utilizing cash flow from operations and Newmont’s ability to meet these payment obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other
factors. Newmont will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets in which Newmont operates. Newmont cannot be certain that our future cash flow from operations will be sufficient to allow us to pay
principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If cash flow from operations is insufficient, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, utilize existing cash balances, borrow more money or
issue additional equity. We cannot be sure that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.



Our Interest in the Batu Hijau Mine in Indonesia May Be Reduced Under the Contract of Work

Under the Batu Hijau Contract of Work with the
Indonesian government, beginning in 2005 and continuing through 2010, a portion of each foreign shareholders’ equity interest in the project must be offered for sale to the Indonesian government or to Indonesian nationals. The price at which
such interest must be offered for sale to the Indonesian parties is the highest of the then-current replacement cost, the price at which shares of the project company would be accepted for listing on the Jakarta Stock Exchange, or the fair market
value of such interest in the project company as a going concern. An Indonesian national currently owns a 20% interest in Batu Hijau, which would require Newmont and Sumitomo, collectively, to offer a 3% interest to the Indonesian government or to
Indonesian nationals in 2006. Pursuant to this provision of the Batu Hijau Contract of Work, it is possible that the ownership interest of the Newmont/Sumitomo partnership in Batu Hijau could be reduced to 49% by the end of 2010.

Occurrence of Events for Which We Are Not Insured May Affect Our Cash
Flow and Overall Profitability

We maintain insurance
policies to protect ourselves against certain risks related to our operations. This insurance is maintained in amounts that we believe to be reasonable depending upon the circumstances surrounding each identified risk. However, Newmont may elect not
to have insurance for certain risks because of the high premiums associated with insuring those risks or for various other reasons; in other cases, insurance may not be available for certain risks. Some concern always exists with respect to
investments in parts of the world where civil unrest, war, nationalist movements, political violence or economic crisis are possible. These countries may also pose heightened risks of expropriation of assets, business interruption, increased
taxation and a unilateral modification of concessions and contracts. Newmont does not maintain insurance policies against political risk. Occurrence of events for which Newmont is not insured may affect our cash flow and overall profitability.

Our Business Depends on Good Relations with Our
Employees

Newmont could experience labor disputes,
work stoppages or other disruptions in production that could adversely affect us. At December 31, 2004, unions represented approximately 20% of our worldwide work force. On that date, Newmont had 1,098 employees at its Carlin, Nevada operations, 211
employees in Canada at its Golden Giant operations, 2,727 employees in Indonesia at its Batu Hijau operations, 41 employees in New Zealand at its Martha operation, 325 employees in Bolivia at its Kori Kollo operation, 628 employees at its Australia
operations, and 552 employees in Peru at its Yanacocha operation, working under a collective bargaining agreement or similar labor agreement. Currently there are labor agreements in effect for all of these workers.

Our Earnings Could Be Affected by the Prices of Other Commodities

The earnings of Newmont also could be affected by the
prices of other commodities such as fuel and other consumable items, although to a lesser extent than by the price of gold or copper. The prices of these commodities are affected by numerous factors beyond Newmont’s control.

Title to Some of Our Properties May Be Defective or Challenged

Although we have conducted title reviews of our
properties, title review does not necessarily preclude third parties from challenging our title. While Newmont believes that it has satisfactory title to its properties, some risk exists that some titles may be defective or subject to challenge. In
addition, certain of our Australian properties could be subject to native title or traditional landowner claims, but such claims would not deprive us of the properties. For information regarding native title or traditional landowner claims, see the
discussion under the Australia section of Item 2, Properties, below.



We Compete With Other Mining Companies

We compete with other mining companies to attract and retain key executives
and other employees with technical skills and experience in the mining industry. We also compete with other mining companies for rights to mine properties containing gold and other minerals. There can be no assurance that Newmont will continue to
attract and retain skilled and experienced employees, or to acquire additional rights to mine properties.

Certain Factors Outside of Our Control May Affect Our Ability to Support the Carrying Value of Goodwill

At December 31, 2004, the carrying value of our goodwill was approximately
$3.0 billion or 24% of our total assets. Such goodwill has been assigned to our Merchant Banking ($1.6 billion) and Exploration ($1.1 billion) Segments, and to various mine site reporting units ($0.3 billion in the aggregate). This goodwill arose in
connection with our February 2002 acquisitions of Normandy and Franco-Nevada, and it represents the excess of the aggregate purchase price over the fair value of the identifiable net assets of Normandy and Franco-Nevada. We evaluate, on at least an
annual basis, the carrying amount of goodwill to determine whether current events and circumstances indicate that such carrying amount may no longer be recoverable. This evaluation involves a comparison of the fair value of our reporting units to
their carrying values.

Based on valuations of the Merchant
Banking and Exploration Segments, the Company concluded that the fair values significantly exceeded the respective carrying values as of December 31, 2004. The fair values of the reporting units are based in part on certain factors that may be
partially or completely outside of our control, such as the investing environment, the discovery of proven and probable reserves, commodity prices and other factors. In addition, certain of the assumptions underlying the December 31, 2004 Merchant
Banking and Exploration valuations may not be easily achieved by the Company, even though such assumptions were based on historical experience and the Company considers such assumptions to be reasonable under the circumstances.

At December 31, 2004, the $1.6 billion carrying value of the Merchant Banking
Segment goodwill represented approximately 65% of the carrying value of the total assets of the Merchant Banking Segment. The December 31, 2004 discounted cash flow analysis for the equity portfolio sub-segment of the Merchant Banking Segment
assumed: (i) a discount rate of 9%; (ii) a time horizon of ten years; (iii) pre-tax returns on investment ranging from 35% starting in 2005 and gradually declining to 15% in 2012 through 2014; (iv) an initial equity portfolio investment of
approximately $0.5 billion; (v) capital infusions of $50 million annually for the next three years; and (vi) a terminal value of approximately $2.2 billion. The December 31, 2004 discounted cash flow analysis for the royalty portfolio sub-segment of
the Merchant Banking Segment assumed: (i) a discount rate of 9%; (ii) a time horizon of ten years; (iii) an annual growth rate of 5% in the royalty portfolio; and (iv) a pre-tax rate of return on investment of 13%. The December 31, 2004 discounted
cash flow analysis for the portfolio management sub-segment of the Merchant Banking Segment assumed: (i) a discount rate of 9%; (ii) a time horizon of ten years; and (iii) a pre-tax advisory fee of 5% on approximately $0.5 billion of transactions
and value-added activities in 2005, with the dollar amount of such transactions and activities increasing by 5% annually thereafter. The December 31, 2004 discounted cash flow analysis for the value realization sub-segment of the Merchant Banking
Segment assumed: (i) a discount rate of 9%; (ii) a time horizon of ten years; and (iii) a pre-tax annual return on investments of $4.2 million. The December 31, 2004 discounted cash flow analysis assumed a combined terminal value for the royalty
portfolio, portfolio management and downstream gold refining sub-segments of approximately $0.7 billion.

At December 31, 2004, the $1.1 billion carrying value of the Exploration Segment goodwill represented approximately 98% of the carrying value of the total
assets of the Exploration Segment. Based on the review of historical additions to proven and probable reserves and on management’s expectation of the growth rate and levels of reserve additions that could be expected to continue in the future,
the discounted cash flow model developed to value the Exploration Segment at December 31, 2004 assumed that (i) the Exploration Segment



would be responsible for 11.0 million ounces of additions to proven and probable reserves in 2005; (ii) such additions would increase by 5% annually; and
(iii) approximately 9.1%, 8.7%, 8.3% and 7.9% of additions in years 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, would represent ounces that had previously been valued in the Normandy purchase accounting. In addition, the discounted cash flow model for
the Exploration Segment assumed, among other matters: (i) a 16-year time horizon, including a seven-year time lapse between additions to proven and probable reserves and the initiation of production and a five-year production period; (ii) a discount
rate of 8%; (iii) a terminal value of approximately $5.8 billion; (iv) an average gold price of $375 per ounce during the time horizon; (v) total cash costs per ounce of $230; and (vi) capital costs of $50 per ounce. The Company believes that any
model used to value the Exploration Segment will need to take into account the relatively long time horizon required to evaluate the activities of the Exploration Segment.

In the absence of any mitigating valuation factors, the Company’s failure to achieve one or more of the December 31,
2004 valuation assumptions will over time result in an impairment charge. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that significant non-cash impairment charges will not be recorded in the future due to possible declines in the fair values of our
reporting units. For a more detailed description of the estimates and assumptions involved in assessing the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition
and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Policies, below.

Our Ability to Recognize the Benefits of Deferred Tax Assets is Dependant on Future Cash Flows and Taxable Income

The Company recognizes the expected future tax benefit from deferred tax assets when the tax benefit is considered to be more likely than not of being
realized. Otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied against deferred tax assets. Assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant estimates related to expectations of future taxable income. Estimates of
future taxable income are based on forecasted cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction. To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the
Company to realize the deferred tax assets recorded at the balance date could be impacted. Additionally, future changes in tax laws in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates could limit the Company’s ability to obtain the future tax
benefits represented by its deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date. At December 31, 2004, the Company recorded $173.6 million and $491.7 million of current and long-term deferred tax assets, respectively.

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES

Gold and Copper Processing Methods

Gold is extracted from naturally-oxidized ores by either heap leaching or milling, depending on the amount of gold contained in the ore and the amenability of the ore to treatment. Higher grade oxide ores are generally processed through
mills, where the ore is ground into a fine powder and mixed with water in slurry, which then passes through a cyanide leaching circuit. Lower grade oxide ores are generally processed using heap leaching. Heap leaching consists of stacking crushed or
run-of-mine ore on impermeable pads, where a weak cyanide solution is applied to the top surface of the heap to dissolve the gold. In both cases, the gold-bearing solution is then collected and pumped to process facilities to remove the gold by
collection on carbon or by zinc precipitation directly from leach solutions.

Gold contained in ores that are not naturally oxidized can be directly milled if the gold is amenable to cyanidization, generally known as free milling ores. Ores that are not amenable to cyanidization, known as
refractory ores, require more costly and complex processing techniques than oxide or free milling ore. Higher-grade refractory ores are processed through either roasters or autoclaves. Roasters heat finely ground ore with air and oxygen to a high
temperature, burn off the carbon and oxidize the sulfide minerals that prevent efficient leaching. Autoclaves use heat, oxygen and pressure to oxidize sulfide minerals in the ore.



Some gold-bearing sulfide ores may be processed through a flotation plant or by bio-milling. In
flotation, ore is finely ground, turned into slurry, then placed in a tank known as a flotation cell. Chemicals are added to the slurry causing the gold-containing sulfides to float in air bubbles to the top of the tank, where they can be separated
from waste particles that sink to the bottom. The sulfides are removed from the cell and converted into a concentrate that can then be processed in an autoclave or roaster to recover the gold. Bio-milling incorporates patented technology that
involves inoculation of suitable crushed ore on a leach pad with naturally occurring bacteria strains, which oxidize the sulfides over a period of time. The ore is then processed through an oxide mill.

At Batu Hijau, mined ore containing copper and gold is crushed to a coarse
size at the mine and then transported from the mine via conveyor to a concentrator. The ore is finely ground and then treated by successive stages of flotation, resulting in a concentrate of copper sulfides containing approximately 30% copper. The
concentrate is transferred by pipeline to port facilities. At the port, the concentrate is dewatered and stored for later reclaiming and loading onto ships for transport to smelters.

Newmont Properties

Production Properties

Set forth
below is a description of the significant production properties of Newmont and its subsidiaries. Total cash costs and total production costs for each operation are presented in a table in the next section of this Item 2. Total cash costs and total
production costs represent measures of performance that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to analyze the cash generating capacities
and performance of Newmont’s mining operations. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to

Costs Applicable to Sales

as calculated and presented under GAAP, see Item 2, Properties, Operating Statistics.

North America

Nevada.

Newmont has been mining gold in Nevada
since 1965. Newmont’s Nevada operations include Carlin, located west of the city of Elko on the geologic feature known as the Carlin Trend, the Twin Creeks mine approximately 15 miles north of Golconda, the Lone Tree Complex near the town of
Valmy, and the Midas mine near the town of the same name. Newmont also participates in the Turquoise Ridge joint venture with Placer



Dome, which utilizes mill capacity at Twin Creeks. The Phoenix gold/copper project located 10 miles south of Battle Mountain, is under construction with
production expected in mid-2006.

Gold sales from
Newmont’s Nevada operations totaled approximately 2.4 million equity ounces for 2004. Ore was mined from 13 open pit mines and four underground mines in 2004. In 2005, initial production will commence at Leeville on the Carlin Trend, the first
shaft accessed mine constructed by Newmont in Nevada. Ore production is expected to begin in late 2005 with an annual production rate of 450,000 to 500,000 ounces. At Phoenix, construction commenced in 2004 for this gold/copper project. Upon
completion in mid-2006, 370,000 to 420,000 ounces of gold and 16 to 40 million pounds of copper will be produced annually.

At year-end 2004, Newmont reported 34 million equity ounces of gold reserves in Nevada. These reserves are distributed 80% at open pit mines and 20% in
underground mines. Process methods assumed over the reserve base are 74% refractory and 26% oxide. Refractory ores require more complex, higher cost processing methods. Refractory ore treatment facilities generated 66% of Nevada’s gold
production in 2004, compared with 71% in 2003, and 66% in 2002. In 2005, the percentage of production from refractory treatment facilities is expected to be approximately 67%. Thereafter, the percentage of production from refractory ores is expected
to range between 69%–75%.

Newmont’s Nevada
operations produce gold from a variety of ore types requiring different processing techniques depending on economic and metallurgical characteristics. To schedule the best use of processing capacity, the Company uses a linear programming model to
guide the flow of both mining sequence selection and routing of ore streams to various plants. Higher-grade oxide ores are processed by conventional milling and cyanide leaching at Carlin (Mill 5), Twin Creeks (Juniper) and Lone Tree. Lower-grade
material with suitable cyanide solubility is treated on heap leach pads at Carlin, Twin Creeks and Lone Tree. Higher-grade refractory ores are processed through either a roaster at Carlin (Mill 6) or through autoclaves at Twin Creeks (Sage) and Lone
Tree. Lower-grade refractory ores are processed by a flotation plant at Lone Tree and either bio-oxidation/flotation or direct flotation at Mill 5. Ore from the Midas mine is processed by conventional milling and Merrill-Crowe zinc precipitation.
Activated carbon from the various leaching circuits is treated to produce gold ore at Carlin and Twin Creeks. Zinc precipitate at Midas is refined on-site.

Newmont owns, or controls through long-term mining leases and unpatented mining claims, all of the minerals and surface area within the boundaries of the
present Nevada mining operations (except for Turquoise Ridge and Getchell described below). The long-term leases extend for at least the anticipated mine life of those deposits. With respect to a significant portion of the Gold Quarry mine at
Carlin, Newmont owns a 10% undivided interest in the mineral rights and leases the remaining 90%, on which Newmont pays a royalty equivalent to 18% of the mineral production. The remainder of the Gold Quarry mineral rights are wholly-owned or
controlled by Newmont, in some cases subject to additional royalties. With respect to certain smaller deposits in the Winnemucca Region, Newmont is obligated to pay royalties on production to third parties that vary from 2% to 5% of production.

Newmont has a 25% interest in a joint venture with a
subsidiary of Placer Dome Inc. to operate the Turquoise Ridge and Getchell mines. Newmont has an agreement to provide up to 2,000 tons per day of milling capacity at Newmont’s Twin Creeks facility to the joint venture. Placer Dome is the
operator of the joint venture for mining and ore delivery to process. Gold sales of 40,700 ounces were attributed to Newmont in 2004, based on its 25% ownership interest.

Newmont has an ore sale agreement with Barrick Goldstrike Mines to provide feed to the facilities operated by Barrick on the
Carlin Trend. The agreement provides for the sale of whole ore to Barrick. Newmont recognizes attributed gold sales net of the sale price, resulting in gold sales of 28,200 ounces in 2004.

Canada.

Newmont’s Canadian operations
include two underground mines. The Golden Giant mine (100% owned) is located approximately 25 miles (40 kilometers) east of Marathon in Ontario, Canada, and has been in production since 1985. The Holloway mine is located approximately 35 miles (56
kilometers) east of Matheson



in Ontario, and about 400 miles (644 kilometers) northeast of Golden Giant, and has been in production since 1996. The Holloway mine is owned by a joint
venture in which Newmont has an 84.65% interest. The remaining 15.35% interest is held by Teddy Bear Valley Mines. In 2004, the Golden Giant mine sold 160,000 equity ounces of gold, and the Holloway mine sold 67,400 equity ounces of gold.

Mexico.

Newmont has a 44%
interest in the La Herradura mine, which is located in Mexico’s Sonora desert. La Herradura is operated by Industriales Peñoles. The mine is an open pit operation with run-of-mine heap leach recovery. La Herradura sold 68,800 equity
ounces of gold in 2004.

South America

Peru.

The properties of
Minera Yanacocha S.R.L. (“Yanacocha”) are located approximately 375 miles (604 kilometers) north of Lima and 30 miles (48 kilometers) north of the city of Cajamarca. Yanacocha began production in 1993. Newmont holds a 51.35% interest in
Yanacocha. The remaining interests are held by Compañia de Minas Buenaventura, S.A.A. (43.65%) and the International Finance Corporation (5%).

Yanacocha has mining rights with respect to a large land position. Yanacocha’s mining rights were acquired through assignments of concessions granted
by the Peruvian government to a related entity. These mining concessions provide for both the right to explore and exploit. However, Yanacocha must first obtain the respective exploration and exploitation permits, which are generally granted in due
course. Yanacocha may retain mining concessions indefinitely by paying annual fees and, during exploitation, complying with production obligations or paying assessed fines. Mining concessions are freely assignable or transferable. In 2000, Newmont
and Buenaventura consolidated their land holdings in northern Peru, folding them into Yanacocha. The consolidation increased Yanacocha’s land position from 100 to 535 square miles.

The Yanacocha operations contain the Minas Conga deposit, for which a feasibility study was completed in 2004. Yanacocha
added 8.7 million ounces of gold (4.5 million equity ounces) and 2.2 billion pounds of copper (1.1 million equity pounds) to proven and probable reserves at Minas Conga in 2004.

Yanacocha has five separate open pit mines, Carachugo, San José, Maqui Maqui, Cerro Yanacocha and La Quinua.
Reclamation and/or backfilling activities in the mining areas of Carachugo, San José and Maqui Maqui are currently underway. Cerro Yanacocha and La Quinua are still active pits. In addition, Yanacocha has four leach pads and three processing
facilities. Yanacocha’s gold sales for 2004 totaled 3.04 million ounces (1.56 million equity ounces).

Cerro Quilish is one of the ore deposits within the Yanacocha complex. In July 2004, Yanacocha received a drilling permit for the Cerro Quilish deposit
and commenced drilling activities to further define the deposit. During September 2004, individuals from the Cajamarca region conducted a sustained blockade of the road between the City of Cajamarca and the mine site, in protest of these exploration
activities. Yanacocha suspended all drilling activities at Cerro Quilish and the blockade was resolved. At the request of Yanacocha, the Cerro Quilish drilling permit was revoked in November 2004. Yanacocha has reassessed the challenges involved in
obtaining required permits for Cerro Quilish primarily related to increased community concerns. Based upon this reassessment, Yanacocha has reclassified 3.9 million ounces (1.98 million equity ounces) of gold from proven and probable reserves to
mineralized material not in reserves as of December 31, 2004.

Bolivia.

The Kori Kollo open pit mine is on a high plain in northwestern Bolivia near Oruro, on government mining concessions issued to a Bolivian corporation, Empresa Minera Inti Raymi S.A.
(“Inti Raymi”), in which Newmont has an 88% interest. The remaining 12% is owned by Mrs. Beatriz Rocabado. Inti Raymi owns and operates the mine. In 2004, the mine sold 21,700 equity ounces of gold. Mining was completed and the mill
closed in October 2003. Production has continued from residual leaching. Inti Raymi will begin processing oxide ores on leach pads from the Kori Chaca pit and reprocessing high-grade tailings on a new leach pad in 2005.



Australia/New Zealand

Prior to the acquisition of Normandy, Newmont owned a 50% interest in the Pajingo mine. The remaining 50% interest in
Pajingo, and all other Australian and New Zealand properties described in this report, were acquired as part of the acquisition of Normandy in February 2002.

In Australia, mineral exploration and mining titles are granted by the individual states or territories. Mineral titles may also be subject to native
title legislation. In 1992, the High Court of Australia held that Aboriginal people who have maintained a continuing connection with their land according to their traditions and customs may hold certain rights in respect of the land, such rights
commonly referred to as native title. Since the High Court’s decision, Australia has passed legislation providing for the protection of native title and established procedures for Aboriginal people to claim these rights. The fact that native
title is claimed with respect to an area, however, does not necessarily mean that native title exists, and disputes may be resolved by the courts.

Generally, under native title legislation, all mining titles granted before January 1, 1994 are valid. Titles granted between January 1, 1994 and December
23, 1996, however, may be subject to invalidation if they were not obtained in compliance with applicable legislative procedures, though subsequent legislation has validated some of these titles. After December 23, 1996, mining titles over areas
where native title is claimed to exist became subject to legislative processes that generally give native title claimants the “right to negotiate” with the title applicant for compensation and other conditions. Native title holders do not
have a veto over the granting of mining titles, but if agreement cannot be reached, the matter can be referred to the National Native Title Tribunal for decision.

Newmont does not expect that native title claims will have a material adverse effect on any of its operations in Australia.
The High Court of Australia determined in an August 2002 decision, which refined and narrowed the scope of native title, that native title does not subsist in minerals in Western Australia and that the rights granted under a mining title would, to
the extent inconsistent with asserted native title rights, operate to extinguish those native title rights. Generally, native title is only an issue for Newmont with respect to obtaining new mineral titles or moving from one form of title to
another, for example, from an exploration title to a mining title. In these cases, the requirements for negotiation and the possibility of paying compensation may result in delay and increased costs for mining in the affected areas. Similarly, the
process of conducting Aboriginal heritage surveys to identify and locate areas or sites of Aboriginal cultural significance can result in additional costs and delay in gaining access to land for exploration and mining-related activities.

In Australia, various ad valorem royalties are paid to state and
territorial governments, typically based on a percentage of gross revenues.

Pajingo.

The Pajingo mine is an underground mine located approximately 93 miles (150 kilometers) southwest of Townsville, Queensland and 45 miles (72 kilometers) south of the local
township of Charters Towers. Prior to the Normandy acquisition, Newmont owned a 50% interest in Pajingo. Following the Normandy acquisition, Newmont owns 100% of Pajingo. In 2004, Pajingo sold 251,400 equity ounces of gold.

Yandal.

In 2004, the Yandal operations
consisted of the Bronzewing and Jundee mines situated approximately 435 miles (700 kilometers) northeast of Perth in Western Australia. The operations sold 379,300 equity ounces of gold in 2004. Newmont owns a 100% interest in Newmont Yandal
Operations Pty Ltd, which owns and operates the Yandal mines and nearby mineral exploration licenses. The Wiluna mine, previously part of the Yandal operations, was sold in December 2003. The Bronzewing mine was sold during the third quarter of
2004.

Tanami.

The Tanami
operations include The Granites treatment plant and associated mining operations, which are located in the Northern Territory approximately 342 miles (550 kilometers) northwest of Alice Springs, adjacent to the Tanami highway, and the Dead Bullock
Soak mining operations, approximately 25 miles (40 kilometers) west of The Granites. The Tanami operations also include the Groundrush deposit. Mining at the Groundrush open pit was completed in September 2004. Processing of stockpiles will continue
through the first



quarter of 2005. The Tanami operations have been wholly-owned since April 2003, when Newmont acquired the minority interests in Newmont NFM by means of a
scheme of arrangement and buy-back offer under Australian law.

The operations are predominantly focused on the Callie underground mine at Dead Bullock Soak, with mill feed supplemented by production stockpiles from the Dead Bullock Soak open pit and Windy Hill at The Granites. Ore from all of these
operations is processed through The Granites plant with the exception of ore from Groundrush, which is processed through the Tanami plant. During 2004, the Tanami operations sold 658,000 equity ounces of gold.

Kalgoorlie.

The Kalgoorlie operations comprise
the Fimiston open pit (commonly referred to as the Super Pit) and Mt. Charlotte underground mine at Kalgoorlie-Boulder, 373 miles (600 kilometers) east of Perth. The mines are managed by Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines Pty Ltd for the joint
venture owners, Newmont and Barrick Gold Corporation, each of which holds a 50% interest. The Super Pit is Australia’s largest gold mine, in terms of both gold production and total annual mining volume. During 2004, the Kalgoorlie operations
sold 468,400 equity ounces of gold.

Martha.

The Martha open pit mine is located within the town of Waihi, located approximately 68 miles (110 kilometers) southeast of Auckland, New Zealand. Newmont acquired the minority interests in the Martha
mine in April 2003, giving it 100% ownership. During 2004, development commenced on the Favona underground deposit. Production from the Favona mine is scheduled for 2006. The operation sold 130,500 equity ounces of gold during 2004. The Martha mine
does not currently pay royalties. Under new royalty arrangements, a royalty will apply to the Favona mine. The royalty rate is the greater of 1% of gross revenues from gold and silver sales, or 5% of accounting profit.

Boddington.

Boddington is located 81 miles (130
kilometers) southeast of Perth in Western Australia. Boddington is owned by Newmont (44.4%), Anglo Gold Limited (33.3%) and Newcrest Mining Limited (22.2%). An updated feasibility study for the primary ore body is expected to be completed by the end
of 2005, and restructuring of current management arrangements is under discussion.

Golden Grove.

Golden Grove is located in Western Australia, approximately 217 miles (350 kilometers) north of Perth. The principal products are zinc and copper concentrates. Golden Grove
has two underground mines at the Scuddles and Gossan Hill deposits. Golden Grove sold 43.5 million pounds of copper, 114.8 million pounds of zinc and 19,300 ounces of by-product gold during 2004.

Indonesia

Newmont operates Batu Hijau, a producer of copper/gold concentrates, in
Indonesia. The Minahasa gold operation completed production in 2004.

Batu Hijau.

Newmont has a 45% ownership interest in Batu Hijau. Newmont’s interest is held through a partnership with an affiliate of Sumitomo Corporation. Newmont has a 56.25% interest in the partnership
and the Sumitomo affiliate holds the remaining 43.75%. The partnership, in turn, owns 80% of P.T. Newmont Nusa Tenggara (“PTNNT”), the subsidiary that owns Batu Hijau. The remaining 20% interest in PTNNT is a carried interest held by P.T.
Pukuafu Indah, an unrelated Indonesian company. Through September 30, 2004, PTNNT recorded cumulative losses, therefore, Newmont has historically reported a 56.25% economic interest in Batu Hijau. As a result of higher metal prices, improved
operating and financial results, and increased life of mine expectations regarding production, costs and economics, PTNNT’s cumulative losses had been recovered by the fourth quarter of 2004, thereby allowing for the payment of dividends. Under
existing shareholder agreements, the Indonesian shareholder will be entitled to receive 6% of any dividends paid by PTNNT until such time as a loan to the Indonesia shareholder is fully repaid (including accrued interest). Newmont, therefore,
decreased its reported interest in Batu Hijau to 52.875%, reflecting 56.25% of the 94% of PTNNT’s dividends payable to the Newmont/Sumitomo partnership.



Prior to January 1, 2004, we accounted for our investment in Batu Hijau as an equity investment due to
each of PTNNT shareholders’ significant participating rights in Batu Hijau’s business. Newmont has identified the Batu Hijau operation as a variable interest entity because of certain capital structures and contractual relationships.
Newmont has also determined that it is the primary beneficiary of Batu Hijau. Therefore, pursuant to FIN 46R, Newmont began to consolidate Batu Hijau effective January 1, 2004. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more
information.

Batu Hijau is located on the island of Sumbawa,
approximately 950 miles (1,529 kilometers) east of Jakarta. Batu Hijau is a large porphyry copper/gold deposit, which Newmont discovered in 1990. Development and construction activities began in 1997 and start-up took place in late 1999. In 2004,
copper sales were 378.8 million equity pounds, while gold sales were 396,300 equity ounces.

In Indonesia, rights are granted to foreign investors to explore for and to develop mineral resources within defined areas through Contracts of Work entered into with the Indonesian government. In 1986, Newmont
entered into a Contract of Work with the central government covering Batu Hijau, under which Newmont was granted the exclusive right to explore in the contract area, construct any required facilities, extract and process the mineralized materials,
and sell and export the minerals produced, subject to certain requirements including Indonesian government approvals and payment of royalties to the government. Under the Contract of Work, PTNNT has the right to continue operating the project for 30
years from operational start-up, or longer if approved by the Indonesian government.

Under the Batu Hijau Contract of Work, beginning in 2005, and continuing through 2010, a portion of the project must be offered for sale to the Indonesian government or to Indonesian nationals, equal to the difference
between the following percentages and the percentage of shares already owned by the Indonesian government or Indonesian nationals (if such number is positive): 15%, by the end of the 2005; 23%, by the end of 2006; 30%, by the end of 2007; 37%, by
the end of 2008, 44%, by the end of 2009; and 51%, by the end of 2010. The price at which such interest must be offered for sale to the Indonesian parties is the highest of the then-current replacement cost, the price at which shares of the project
company would be accepted for listing on the Jakarta Stock Exchange, or the fair market value of such interest as a going concern.

An Indonesian national currently owns a 20% interest in Batu Hijau, which would require Newmont and Sumitomo to offer a 3% interest in Batu Hijau to the
Indonesian government or to Indonesian nationals in 2006. Pursuant to this provision, it is possible that the ownership interest of the Newmont/Sumitomo partnership in Batu Hijau could be reduced to 49% by the end of 2010.

Minahasa.

Newmont owns 80% of Minahasa. The
remaining 20% interest is a carried interest held by P.T. Tanjung Serapung, an unrelated Indonesian company. Prior to November 2001, 100% of Minahasa’s gold production was attributed to Newmont. As of November 2001, Newmont had recouped a
sufficient amount of its investment in Minahasa to entitle the Indonesian shareholder to receive 6% of any dividends distributed after that date. As a result, 94% of Minahasa’s gold production has been attributed to Newmont since November 2001.

Minahasa, on the island of Sulawesi, approximately 1,500 miles
(2,414 kilometers) northeast of Jakarta, was a Newmont discovery. Production began in 1996 and mining was completed in late 2001. The remaining stockpiles were processed by August 2004. In 2004, Minahasa sold 70,200 equity ounces of gold. See Note
27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Minahasa.

Central Asia

Zarafshan.

Newmont has a 50% interest in the Zarafshan-Newmont Joint Venture in Uzbekistan. Ownership of the remaining 50% interest is divided between the State Committee for Geology and Mineral Resources and
the Navoi Mining and Metallurgical Combine, each a state entity of Uzbekistan. The joint venture produces gold by crushing and leaching ore from existing stockpiles of low-grade oxide material from the nearby



government-owned Muruntau mine, located in the Kyzylkum Desert. The gold produced by Zarafshan-Newmont is sold in international markets for U.S. dollars.
Zarafshan-Newmont sold 210,100 equity ounces of gold in 2004.

The State Committee and Navoi furnish ore to Zarafshan-Newmont under an ore supply agreement. Under the agreement, the State Committee and Navoi are obligated to deliver 242.5 million tons of ore to Zarafshan- Newmont from various areas of
the stockpiles designated into four different “Zones” under the agreement. As of December 31, 2004, approximately 140.1 million tons of ore have been delivered, leaving a balance of 102.4 million tons to be delivered from Zone 4.
Initially, ore from all Zones was to be delivered regardless of the gold price and the price of the ore was dependent on the grade of ore delivered. In May 2003, the parties amended the grade and pricing structure of the ore supply agreement with
respect to ore to be delivered from Zone 4. Under the May 2003 amendment the parties agreed to a mine plan designed to achieve an average grade of at least 0.036 ounce per ton for ore from Zone 4. The amount paid for this ore is dependent on the
average grade of ore and the average gold price during the period in which the ore is processed. In the event the State Committee and Navoi supply ore from Zone 4 having an average grade less than 0.036 ounce per ton in a given month and the average
gold price during such month is less than $320 per ounce, the price of such ore will be discounted. At certain combinations of low ore grade and at gold prices less than $320 per ounce, the computed price may result in a credit to Zarafshan-Newmont,
which will be offset against free cash distributions or future ore purchase payments due to the State Committee and Navoi.

Ovacik.

The Ovacik mine, located in western Turkey 12 miles from the Aegean Sea and 66 miles (106 kilometers) north of the
city of Izmir, commenced production in May 2001 and sold 110,000 equity ounces of gold during 2004. Newmont acquired the Ovacik mine in February 2002 as part of the Normandy acquisition. In August 2004, the Ovacik mine suspended operations as a
result of a court decision ordering suspension of operating permits pending completion of certain additional permitting requirements and the submission of an updated environmental impact assessment. On March 1, 2005, the Ovacik mine was sold to a
subsidiary of Koza Davetiye, a Turkish conglomerate. For additional information, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Results of Operations, below.

Africa

Newmont has two advanced development projects in Ghana, West Africa. The
Ahafo project, located in the Brong Ahafo Region of Ghana, is 100% owned by Newmont following the acquisition of the remaining 50% of the Ntotoroso property from Moydow Mines International, Inc. in December 2003. Camp and infrastructure construction
has commenced, as well as earth works preparation for the mill, the tailings facility and the water storage dam. Initial development costs at Ahafo are estimated at approximately $440 million, with gold production expected to commence in the second
half of 2006. The Ahafo project is anticipated to generate steady-state annual gold sales of approximately 500,000 ounces, with higher production in the initial years. At December 31, 2004, the Ahafo project had reserves of 10.6 million ounces of
gold.

Newmont also has an 85% interest in the Akyem project,
located in the Eastern Region of Ghana. At year-end, the Akyem project had 5.4 million equity ounces of gold reserves. The remaining 15% interest is held by Kenbert Mines Limited. Newmont is currently updating and optimizing the feasibility study
for Akyem with a view to making a development decision by mid-2005. Kenbert’s interest is a carried interest until completion of the feasibility update and optimization.

In December 2003, Ghana’s Parliament unanimously ratified an Investment Agreement between Newmont and the Government of
Ghana. The Agreement establishes a fixed fiscal and legal regime, including fixed royalty and tax rates, for the life of any Newmont project in Ghana. Under the Agreement, Newmont will pay corporate income tax at a rate up to 32.5% and fixed gross
royalties on gold production of 3.0% (3.6% for any production from forest reserve areas). The Government of Ghana is also entitled to receive 10% of a project’s net cash flow after Newmont has recouped its investment and may acquire up to 20%
of a project’s equity at fair market value on or after the 15

th

anniversary of such project’s commencement
of production. The Investment Agreement also contains commitments with respect to job training for local Ghanaians, community development, purchasing of local goods and services and environmental protection.



Operating Statistics

The
following tables detail Newmont’s operating statistics related to gold production and sales.



(1)

Batu Hijau was accounted for using the equity method in 2003 and 2002, and was not included in the Company’s weighted average total cash costs
per ounce for such years. 2003 and 2002 production costs per ounce/pound reflect the pro forma change to co-product accounting effective January 1, 2004. Co-product



accounting for copper and gold includes production costs identifiable for each product (royalties, freight, smelting and refining) and allocates the
remaining costs in proportion to the sales revenue generated by each product. Newmont’s economic interest decreased to 52.875% from 56.25% on October 1, 2004.

(1)

See footnote (1) to operating statistics related to gold production and sales table above.





The following table details Newmont’s operating statistics related to copper and zinc production and
sales.

(1)

See footnote (1) to operating statistics related to gold production and sales table above.

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures

For all periods presented, total cash costs include charges for mining ore and waste associated with current period production, processing ore through milling and leaching facilities, by-product credits, production taxes, royalties and
other cash costs. Certain gold mines produce silver as a by-product. Proceeds from the sale of by-products are reflected as credits to total cash costs. With the exception of Yanacocha and Golden Grove, such by-product sales have not been
significant to the economics or profitability of the Company’s mining operations. See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations. All of these charges and by-product credits
are included in

Costs applicable to sales.

Charges for reclamation are also included in

Costs applicable to sales,

but are not included in total cash costs. Reclamation charges are included in total production costs, together with
total cash costs and

Depreciation, depletion and amortization.

A reconciliation of total cash costs to

Costs applicable to sales

in total and by segment is provided below. Total production costs provide an indication of earnings before
interest expense and taxes for Newmont’s share of mining properties, when taking into account the average realized price received for production sold, as this measure combines

Costs applicable to sales

plus

Depreciation, depletion and
amortization,

net of minority interest.

Total cash costs
per ounce is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacities of these mining operations. Newmont’s management uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring the performance of its mining
operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP. This measure was
developed in conjunction with gold mining companies associated with the Gold Institute, a non-profit industry group no longer in existence, in an effort to provide a level of comparability; however, Newmont’s measures may not be comparable to
similarly titled measures of other companies.



Reconciliation of

Costs applicable to sales-Gold

to total cash costs and total production costs
per ounce (unaudited):





(1)

Includes 94.3 ounces sold from purchased concentrates, excluded for per ounce calculations.



(1)

Includes 94.3 ounces sold from purchased concentrates, excluded for per ounce calculations.







Reconciliation of

Costs applicable to sales-Base Metals

to total cash costs per base metal pound
(unaudited):

Royalty Properties

The
following is a description of Newmont’s principal royalty interests, all of which were acquired as a result of the Franco-Nevada acquisition. Newmont’s royalty interests are generally in the form of a net smelter return (“NSR”)
royalty, which provides for the payment either in cash or physical metal (“in kind”) of a specified percentage of production, less certain specified transportation and refining costs. In some cases, Newmont owns a net profit interest
(“NPI”) pursuant to which Newmont is entitled to a specified percentage of the net profits, as defined in each case, from a particular mining operation. The majority of NSR royalty revenue and NPI revenue can be received in kind (generally
in the form of gold bullion) at the option of Newmont. Newmont also has a significant oil and gas royalty portfolio in Western Canada. In 2004, Newmont’s

Royalty and dividend income

was $65.8 million.

Nevada-Goldstrike

.    Newmont holds various NSR
and NPI royalties at the Goldstrike properties (Betze-Post and Meikle mines) located on the Carlin Trend in northern Nevada. The Betze-Post and Meikle mines are owned and operated by a subsidiary of Barrick Gold Corporation. Newmont received $23.2
million in royalty income from the Goldstrike properties in 2004.



The Betze-Post mine is a conventional open pit operation. The Betze-Post property consists of various
claim blocks and Newmont’s royalty interest in each claim block is different, ranging from 0% to 4% for the NSRs and 0% to 6% for the NPIs. The Meikle mine is an underground operation comprising the Meikle, Rodeo and Griffin deposits, located
one mile north of the Betze-Post mine, with which it shares the Goldstrike processing facilities. Newmont holds a 4% NSR and a 5% NPI over 1,280 acres of the claims that cover most of the Meikle, Rodeo and Griffin deposits. Newmont is not obligated
to fund any portion of the cost associated with the Betze-Post or the Meikle mines.

Montana-Stillwater.

Newmont holds a 5% NSR royalty on a portion of the Stillwater mine and all of the East Boulder mine, both located near Nye, Montana and owned and operated by
Stillwater Mining Company. Newmont received $8.2 million in royalty income from the Stillwater properties in 2004. Stillwater produces palladium, platinum, and associated metals (platinum group metals or PGMs) from a geological formation known as
the J-M Reef. Stillwater is the only significant producer of PGMs outside of South Africa and Russia. The J-M Reef is an extensive mineralized zone containing PGMs, which has been traced over a strike length of approximately 28 miles. To date, the
majority of production has been from the Stillwater mine, with East Boulder commencing production during 2001. For the year 2004, an average of approximately 81% of the total production from the Stillwater mine and 100% of the total production from
the East Boulder mine was subject to Newmont’s royalty. Because Newmont’s royalty does not apply to a portion of the Stillwater properties the percentage of future production from the royalty lands will vary from year to year.

Canada-Oil and Gas Interests

.    Newmont’s
oil and gas royalty portfolio covers 1.8 million gross acres of producing and non-producing lands located in western Canada and the Canadian Arctic. The average royalty on these lands is 6%. Newmont received $23.5 million in royalty income from
these properties in 2004.

Investment Interests

Canadian Oil Sands Trust

.    In 2004, Newmont purchased marketable equity securities of Canadian Oil Sands Trust for approximately $199.6 million. Canadian Oil Sands Trust is traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
As of December 31, 2004, the market value of Newmont’s interest in the trust was approximately $336.9 million.

Gabriel Resources, Ltd.

In 2004, Newmont purchased marketable equity securities of Gabriel Resources Ltd., a Canadian
mineral exploration company traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange, for approximately $19.2 million. Gabriel Resources, Ltd. owns 80% of the Rosia Montana project in Romania. As of December 31, 2004, the market value of Newmont’s interest in
Gabriel Resources was approximately $19.4 million.

Kinross
Gold Corporation.

As a result of a combination of Kinross Gold Corporation, Echo Bay Mines Ltd. and TVX Gold Inc. in January 2003, Newmont acquired a 13.8% interest in the restructured Kinross. During the third quarter of
2003, Newmont sold approximately 28 million Kinross shares representing 66% of its investment for total cash proceeds of $224.6 million, and recorded a net loss of $7.4 million. At June 30, 2004, Newmont recognized a $38.5 million impairment charge
on its investment in Kinross in

(Loss) gain on investments, net

for an other-than-temporary decline in value in accordance with SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.” Newmont
classified the remaining balance of its investment in Kinross as short-term, available-for-sale marketable securities at December 31, 2004. At December 31, 2004, the market value of the Kinross investment was approximately $101.5 million.

Proven and Probable Reserves

Newmont had proven and probable equity gold reserves of 92.4 million ounces as of December 31, 2004.

Gold reserves for 2004 were calculated at a $350, A$550 or NZD$650 per ounce gold price, except at Boddington and Kalgoorlie, where gold reserves were
calculated using a gold price of A$425 and A$560, per ounce, respectively. Newmont’s 2004 reserves would decline by approximately 7%, or 6.0 million ounces, if



calculated at a $325 per ounce gold price. An increase in the gold price to $375 per ounce would increase reserves by approximately 6% or 5.3 million ounces.

At year-end 2004, Newmont’s North American equity gold
reserves were 35.0 million ounces (including 34.0 million equity ounces in Nevada). Outside of North America, year-end equity gold reserves were 57.4 million ounces, including 15.1 million ounces in Australia/New Zealand, 16.6 million
ounces in Peru and 16.0 million ounces in Ghana.

Newmont’s equity copper reserves at year-end 2004 were 8.9 billion pounds. Except at Boddington, copper reserves were calculated at a price of $0.90 or A$1.45 per pound.

Newmont’s equity zinc reserves at year-end 2004 were 730 million pounds. Zinc reserves were calculated at a price of
A$0.62 per pound.

Under Newmont’s current mining plans,
all reserves are located on fee property or mining claims or will be depleted during the terms of existing mining licenses or concessions, or where applicable, any assured renewal or extension periods for the licenses or concessions.

Proven and probable reserves are based on extensive drilling, sampling, mine
modeling and metallurgical testing from which economic feasibility has been determined. The price sensitivity of reserves depends upon several factors including grade, metallurgical recovery, operating cost, waste-to-ore ratio and ore type.
Metallurgical recovery rates vary depending on the metallurgical properties of each deposit and the production process used. The reserve tables below list the average metallurgical recovery rate for each deposit, which takes into account the several
different processing methods to be used. The cut-off grade, or lowest grade of mineralized material considered economic to process, varies with material type, metallurgical recoveries and operating costs.

The proven and probable reserve figures presented herein are estimates based
on information available at the time of calculation. No assurance can be given that the indicated levels of recovery of gold, copper and zinc will be realized. Ounces of gold or pounds of copper or zinc in the proven and probable reserves are
calculated without regard to any losses during metallurgical treatment. Reserve estimates may require revision based on actual production experience. Market price fluctuations of gold, copper and zinc, as well as increased production costs or
reduced metallurgical recovery rates, could render proven and probable reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic to exploit and might result in a reduction of reserves.

Reserves are published once each year and will be recalculated as of December
31, 2005, for the entire Company, taking into account metal prices, divestments and depletion as well as any acquisitions and additions to reserves based on results of exploration, mine optimization and development work performed during 2005.



The following tables detail Newmont’s gold proven and probable reserves

(1)

reflecting only those reserves owned by Newmont on December 31, 2004 or 2003:



(1)

The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve
determination.

The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated in a full
feasibility study to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions.

The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues
have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, the Company must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at
a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a timeframe consistent with the Company’s current mine plans.



The term “proven reserves” means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (b) grade and/or
quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (c) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves
are well established.

The term “probable reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for sampling
are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.

Proven and probable reserves were calculated using different cut-off grades. The term “cut-off grade” means the lowest grade of mineralized material that can be included
in the reserves in a given deposit. Cut-off grades vary between deposits depending upon prevailing economic conditions, mineability of the deposit, amenability of the ore to gold extraction, and type of milling or leaching facilities available.

2004 reserves were calculated at a $350, A$550 or NZD$650 per ounce gold price unless otherwise noted. 2003 reserves were calculated at a $325, A$545 or NZD$665 per ounce gold price
unless otherwise noted.

(2)

Tonnages are after allowances for losses resulting from mining methods. Tonnages are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.

(3)

Ounces or pounds are estimates of metal contained in ore tonnages and are before allowances for processing losses. Metallurgical recovery rates represent the
estimated amount of metal to be recovered through metallurgical extraction processes. Ounces are rounded to the nearest ten thousand.

(4)

Cut-off grades utilized in 2004 were as follows: oxide leach material not less than 0.006 ounce per ton; oxide mill material not less than 0.060 ounce per ton;
refractory leach material not less than 0.026 ounce per ton; refractory mill material not less than 0.021 ounce per ton.

(5)

Includes undeveloped reserves at Castle Reef, North Lantern and Emigrant deposits for combined total undeveloped reserves of 1,450,000 ounces.

(6)

Deposit is currently undeveloped except for minor leach production. Construction of facilities began in November 2004.

(7)

Includes partially developed reserves at Leeville, which contains a total reserve of 2,610,000 ounces.

(8)

Also contains reserves of over 18 million and 24 million ounces of silver at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, with a metallurgical recovery rate of 91% and
93%, respectively.

(9)

Reserve estimates provided by Placer Dome, the operator of the Turquoise Ridge Joint Venture.

(10)

Stockpiles are primarily material that has been set aside to allow processing of higher grade material in the mills. Stockpiles increase or decrease depending on
current mine plans. Stockpiles are reported separately where tonnage or contained ounces are greater than 5% of the total site reported reserves and contained ounces are greater than 100,000 ounces.

(11)

Material in-process represents that material on leach pads at the end of the year from which gold remains to be recovered. Material in-process is reported separately
where tonnage or contained ounces are greater than 5% of the total site reported reserves and contained ounces are greater than 100,000 ounces.

(12)

Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.155 ounce per ton.

(13)

Percentage reflects Newmont’s weighted equity interest from 84.65% interest in the Holloway Joint Venture and 100% interest in remaining reserves. In 2003, this
percentage was 91.5%. Property includes currently undeveloped reserves at the Blacktop deposit of 80,000 ounces. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.126 ounce per ton.

(14)

Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.009 ounce per ton.

(15)

Reported reserves are based on Newmont’s 51.35% equity interest. Yanacocha is
consolidated on a 100% basis for accounting purposes, then the minority interests of our partners are recognized. Reserves include currently undeveloped deposits at Corimayo and Chaquicocha Sur, which contain a combined undeveloped reserve of
2,970,000 equity ounces. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.006 ounce per ton.

(16)

Deposit is undeveloped. Cut-off grade and recoveries vary depending on the gold and copper content. Cut-off grade used for reserve reporting in 2004 was equivalent
to 0.016 ounce per ton.

(17)

Reserves at Kori Chaca containing a total reserve of 300,000 equity ounces are currently being developed. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.010 ounce
per ton.



(18)

As in 2003, reserves were calculated at a A$425 per ounce gold price, and accounted for on an equity basis. Deposit is currently undeveloped. Cut-off grade utilized
in 2004 of not less than 0.011 ounce per ton.

(19)

Gold reported in reserves is contained within zinc and copper ore bodies. Cut-off grade and recoveries vary depending on the copper, gold and zinc content. The
cut-off grades used for reserve reporting in 2004 were equivalent to 2.4% copper and 7.9% zinc.

(20)

Reserve based on A$560 per ounce gold price for 2004 and A$545 for 2003. Percentage reflects Newmont’s equity interest. Pro-rata consolidated for accounting
purposes. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.026 ounce per ton.

(21)

Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.093 ounce per ton.

(22)

Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.045 ounce per ton.

(23)

Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.021 ounce per ton.

(24)

Includes currently undeveloped reserves at the Favona deposit containing 350,000 ounces. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.022 ounce per ton.

(25)

Production is in the form of a copper/gold concentrate. Cut-off grade and recoveries vary
depending on the gold and copper content. The cut-off grade used for reserve reporting in 2004 was equivalent to 0.28% copper.

(26)

Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest in remaining reserves.

(27)

Property sold March 1, 2005. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.092 ounce per ton.

(28)

Material made available to Zarafshan-Newmont for processing from designated stockpiles or from other specified sources. Tonnage and gold content of material made
available to Zarafshan-Newmont for processing from such designated stockpiles or from other specified sources are guaranteed by state entities of Uzbekistan.

(29)

Deposits are currently undeveloped. Construction of facilities began in November 2004. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.014 ounce per ton.

(30)

Deposit is undeveloped. Cut-off grade utilized in 2004 of not less than 0.013 ounce per ton.

(31)

Property sold in 2004.

(32)

Processing of remaining stockpiles was completed in August 2004.

(33)

Property sold in 2004.



The following tables detail Newmont’s base metal proven and probable reserves

(1)

reflecting only those reserves owned by Newmont on December 31, 2004 or 2003:

(1)

See footnote (1) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserve tables above. Copper reserves are calculated at a $0.90 or A$1.45 per pound copper price unless otherwise
noted. 2003 reserves were calculated at a $0.75 or A$1.35 per pound copper price unless otherwise noted.

(2)

See footnote (2) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves Tables above.

(3)

See footnote (3) to the Gold Proven and Probable Reserves Tables above. Pounds are rounded to the nearest ten million. Tonnage amounts are rounded to the nearest one
hundred thousand.

(4)

Deposit is currently undeveloped except for minor gold leach production. Construction of facilities began in November 2004.

(5)

Deposit is undeveloped.



(6)

Percentage reflects Newmont’s economic interest in remaining reserves.

Stockpiles are primarily material that has been set aside to allow processing of higher grade material in the mills. Stockpiles increase or decrease depending on current mine plans.
Stockpiles are reported separately where tonnage or contained metal are greater than 5% of the total site reported reserves.

(7)

As in 2003, reserves are calculated at a A$1.25 per pound copper price, and accounted for on an equity basis. Deposit is undeveloped.

(8)

Zinc reserves are calculated at a A$0.62 per pound zinc price. 2003 reserves were calculated at a A$0.71 per pound zinc price. Tonnage amounts are rounded to the
nearest one hundred thousand and zinc pounds are rounded to the nearest ten million.

The following table details Newmont’s reconciliation of December 2004 and December 2003 Gold Proven and Probable Reserves:

(1)

Reserves mined and processed in 2004.

(2)

Includes 1.0 million ounces from the sale of the Perama property. In addition, 1.98 million ounces at Cerro Quilish were reclassified from proven and probable
reserves to mineralized material not in reserves.

(3)

Due to reserve conversions, optimizations, model updates and updated unit costs and recoveries.

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

For a discussion of legal proceedings, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders, through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise, during the quarter ended December 31, 2004.



ITEM 4A.    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Newmont’s executive officers as of March 3, 2005 were:

There are no family
relationships by blood, marriage or adoption among any of the above executive officers of Newmont. All executive officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors of Newmont to serve for one year or until his respective successor is elected
and qualified. The Arrangement Agreement between Newmont and Franco-Nevada provided that Mr. Lassonde would become the President of Newmont upon our acquisition of Franco-Nevada. There is no arrangement or understanding between any of the above
executive officers and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as an executive officer.

Mr. Murdy has been Chairman of the Board of Newmont since January 2002 and Chief Executive Officer thereof since January 2001. Mr. Murdy was President of
Newmont from July 1999 to February 2002. He served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from July 1996 to July 1999, and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from December 1992 to July 1996. Mr. Murdy was elected to
the Board of Directors of Newmont in September 1999.

Mr.
Lassonde became President of Newmont in February 2002 and was elected a director in March 2002. Previously he served as President and Co-Chief Executive Officer of Franco-Nevada from September 1999 to February 2002 and as President of Franco-Nevada
from October 1982 to February 2002. He also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Euro-Nevada Mining Corporation from 1985 to September 1999, when it amalgamated with Franco-Nevada. He has served as a director of Franco-Nevada since
October 1982 and was a director of Normandy Mining Limited from May 2001 to March 2002.

Mr. Francisco was elected Executive Vice President, Operations of Newmont in July 1999. He served as Senior Vice President, International Operations from May 1997 to July 1999. Previously, he served as Vice President,
International Operations from July 1995 to May 1997.

Mr.
Hansen was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Newmont in July 1999. He served as Vice President, Project Development from May 1997 to July 1999. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Development of Santa
Fe Pacific Gold Corporation from April 1994 to May 1997.

Mr.
Ball was elected Vice President and Controller of Newmont in August 2004. Previously, he served as Group Executive, Investor Relations, May 2002 to August 2004 and Finance Director, Indonesia, from June 2001 to April 2002.

Mr. Banks was elected Vice President and General Counsel of Newmont in May
2001. He served as Secretary from April 2001 to April 2004. He served as Associate General Counsel of Newmont from July 1996 to May 2001.



Mr. Dowd was elected Vice President, Australian Operations, of Newmont in December 2004, having served as
Vice President, Operational Development, Health and Safety since July 2002. Mr. Dowd served as Group Executive, Operations of Normandy Mining Limited from May 1999 to July 2002.

Mr. Enos was elected Vice President, International Operations of Newmont in December 2002. Previously, he served as Vice
President of Newmont and Managing Director of Newmont Indonesia Limited from May 2002 to November 2002. He served as Vice President, Indonesian Operations from July 1998 to May 2002. He served as Vice President and General Manager of Newmont’s
Carlin operations from May 1996 to July 1998.

Mr. Gallagher
was elected Vice President, Indonesian Operations, in April 2004, having served as Managing Director, Newmont Indonesia Limited since November 2002. He served as General Manager of Newmont’s Batu Hijau operations in Indonesia from April 2001 to
November 2002 and Director of Operations thereof from August 2000 to April 2001. Previously, he served as Vice President Operations at Vengold Inc. from 1993 to August 2000.

Mr. Harquail was elected Vice President, Merchant Banking, in April 2004, having served as President and Managing Director
of Newmont Capital Limited since May 2002 and Vice President of Newmont since September 2003. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President of Franco-Nevada Mining Corporation Limited from May 1998 to February 2002. Prior to May 1998, Mr. Harquail
was a Vice President of Franco-Nevada.

Mr. Karras has served
as Vice President, Taxes of Newmont since November 1992.

Mr.
Mahoney was elected Vice President and Treasurer of Newmont in May 2002. He served as Treasurer of Newmont from May 2001 to May 2002. Previously, he served as Assistant Treasurer from March 1997 to May 2001. He served as Assistant Treasurer,
International from April 1994 to March 1997.

Mr. Perry has
served as Vice President, North American Operations, of Newmont since April 2001. He served as General Manager of Newmont’s Batu Hijau copper and gold mine in Sumbawa, Indonesia from October 1998 to April 2001.

Mr. Santa Cruz has served as Vice President, South American Operations, of
Newmont since August 2001. He served as General Manager of Minera Yanacocha S.R.L. from 1997 to 2001, and as Assistant General Manager thereof from 1995 to 1997.



PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASE OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Newmont’s common stock is listed and principally traded on the New York
Stock Exchange (under the symbol “NEM”) and is also listed in the form of CHESS Depositary Interests (“CDIs”) (under the symbol “NEM”) on the Australian Stock Exchange (“ASX”). In Australia, Newmont is
referred to as “Newmont Mining Corporation ARBN 099 065 997 organized in Delaware with limited liability.” Since July 1, 2002, Newmont CDIs have traded on the ASX as a Foreign Exempt Listing granted by the ASX, which provides an ancillary
trading facility to Newmont’s primary listing on NYSE. Newmont Mining Corporation of Canada Limited’s exchangeable shares (“Exchangeable Shares”) are listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange (under the symbol “NMC”). The
Exchangeable Shares were issued in connection with the acquisition of Franco-Nevada. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per share of Newmont’s common stock as reported on the New York Stock
Exchange Composite Tape.

On March 3, 2005,
there were outstanding 409,987,107 shares of Newmont’s common stock (including shares represented by CDIs), which were held by approximately 18,916 stockholders of record. A dividend of $0.05 per share of common stock outstanding was declared
in the first quarter of 2004, $0.075 per share of common stock outstanding was declared in the second and third quarters of 2004 and $0.10 per share of common stock outstanding was declared in the fourth quarter of 2004, for a total of $0.30 during
the year. A dividend of $0.04 per share of common stock outstanding was declared in each of the first three quarters of 2003, and $0.05 per share of common stock outstanding was declared in the fourth quarter of 2003, for a total of $0.17 during the
year.

On March 3, 2005, there were outstanding 35,698,488
Exchangeable Shares, which were held by 54 holders of record. The Exchangeable Shares are exchangeable at the option of the holders into Newmont common stock. Holders of Exchangeable Shares are therefore entitled to receive dividends equivalent to
those that Newmont declares on its common stock.

The
determination of the amount of future dividends will be made by Newmont’s Board of Directors from time to time and will depend on Newmont’s future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other relevant factors.

Issuer purchase of equity securities:

Period

(a)

Total

Number

of Shares

Purchased

(b)

Average

Price Paid

Per Share

(c)

Total Number of

Shares Purchased as

Part of Publicly

Announced Plans or

Programs

(d)

Maximum Number

(or Approximate Dollar Value)

of Shares that may yet be

Purchased under the Plans
or

Programs

October 1, 2004 through October 31, 2004

—

—

—

N/A

November 1, 2004 through November 30, 2004

3,202

(1)

$

39.11

—

N/A

December 1, 2004 through December 31, 2004

—

—

—

N/A

(1)

Represents shares delivered to the Company from restricted stock forfeited by Company employees upon termination of employment.



ITEM

6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(1)

Effective January 1, 2004, the Company fully consolidated Batu Hijau in its Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2)

Net income (loss) includes the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle related to a net expense for the consolidation of Batu Hijau of $47.1 million
($0.11 per share) net of tax in 2004; a net expense for reclamation and remediation of $34.5 million ($0.08 per share), net of tax, in 2003; a net gain for depreciation of property, plant and mine development of $7.7 million ($0.02 per share), net
of tax, in 2002; and a net expense for revenue recognition of $12.6 million ($0.06 per share), net of tax, in 2000.

ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion provides information that management believes is
relevant to an assessment and understanding of the consolidated financial condition and results of operations of Newmont Mining Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Newmont” or the “Company”). References to
“A$” refer to Australian currency, “CDN$” to Canadian currency, “CHF” to Swiss currency, “NZD$” to New Zealand currency, “IDR” to Indonesian currency and “U.S.$” or “$” to United
States currency.

This discussion addresses matters we consider
important for an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations as of and for the three years ended December 31, 2004, as well as our future results. It consists of the following subsections:

•

“Overview,” which provides a brief summary of our consolidated results and financial position and the primary factors affecting those results, as well as a summary of our
expectations for 2005;

•

“Accounting Changes,” which provides a discussion of recent changes to our accounting policies that have affected our consolidated results and financial position;

•

“Critical Accounting Policies,” which provides an analysis of the accounting policies we consider critical because of their effect on the reported amounts
of assets, liabilities, income and/or expenses in



our consolidated financial statements and because they require difficult, subjective or complex judgments by our management;

•

“Consolidated Financial Results,” which includes a discussion of our consolidated financial results for the last three years;

•

“Results of Operations,” which sets forth an analysis of the operating results for the last three years of Newmont’s gold and copper operations, the Merchant Banking
Segment and the Exploration Segment;

•

“Recent Accounting Pronouncements,” which summarizes recently published authoritative accounting guidance, how it might apply to us and how it might affect our future
results; and

•

“Liquidity and Capital Resources,” which contains a discussion of our cash flows and liquidity, investing activities and financing activities, contractual obligations and
off-balance sheet arrangements.

This item should
be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in this annual report.

Overview

Newmont is the
world’s largest gold producer and is the only gold company included in the S&P 500 Index. We are also engaged in the exploration for and acquisition of gold properties. We have operations in the United States, Australia, Peru, Indonesia,
Canada, Uzbekistan, Bolivia, New Zealand and Mexico. We have an advanced development project in Ghana, which is expected to become our next core operating district. During the last several years we have expanded our global footprint through our
exploration efforts and through the acquisition of operating and development assets. We believe that Newmont is positioned to remain a gold industry leader capable of achieving further profitable growth as we discover, acquire and develop new
projects.

We face key risks associated with our business. One
of the most significant risks is fluctuation in the prices of gold and copper, which are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. Other challenges we face are production cost increases and social and environmental issues. Operating costs at
our operations are subject to variation from one year to the next due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grades, metallurgy and revisions to mine plans in response to the physical shape and location of the ore bodies. At foreign locations,
such costs are also influenced by currency fluctuations that may affect our U.S. dollar operating costs. In addition, we must continually replace reserves depleted by production. Depleted reserves must be replaced by expanding known ore bodies, by
acquisition or by locating new deposits in order to maintain production levels over the long term.

Summary of Consolidated Financial and Operating Performance

The table below highlights key financial and operating results:

(1)

Total cash costs and total production costs are non-GAAP measures of performance that we use to determine the cash generating capacities of our mining operations and
to monitor the performance of our mining operations. For a reconciliation of

Costs applicable to sales

to total cash costs and total production costs per ounce (unaudited), see Item 2, Properties, above.



Consolidated Financial Performance

Increased revenues in 2004 from 2003 primarily resulted from the
consolidation of Batu Hijau and higher gold and copper prices, offset by lower gold sales. Increased revenues in 2003 from 2002 resulted from higher gold prices. Our equity gold sales decreased to 7.0 million equity ounces in 2004 from 7.4 million
equity ounces in 2003 primarily due to lower production in Nevada due to lower average grades and at Ovacik due to the suspension of operations in August 2004 (see Results of Operations below). Our equity gold sales in 2003 were slightly lower than
the 7.6 million ounces in 2002 because of the Company’s divestiture of non-core investments and operations.

During 2004 and 2003, the weakening U.S. dollar and other factors helped strengthen gold prices and as a result, our average realized price per ounce
increased from $313 in 2002 to $366 in 2003 and to $412 in 2004. The average realized gold price increases over the last few years were partially offset by higher production costs and lower equity gold ounces sold. During the past three years,
Newmont has seen significant increases in the costs of fuel, power and other bulk consumables. In addition, our production costs were affected by increases in foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar. While a weaker U.S. dollar
generally benefits the gold price, which is quoted in U.S. dollars, it also results in higher costs quoted in U.S. dollars at certain of our foreign operations. We experienced appreciation of 13% between 2004 and 2003 and 17% between 2003 and 2002
in the average Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate. Equity gold ounces sold have decreased due to lower grade ores and the sale of non-core mines.

In addition, our financial and operating results for the year ended December 31, 2004 were impacted by the following:

•

Consolidation of Batu Hijau as a result of the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 46R (“FIN 46R”) as of January 1, 2004
(see Accounting Changes below);

•

Write-down of goodwill at the Pajingo reporting unit (Australia/New Zealand segment) ($51.8 million);

•

Significantly higher amounts spent on exploration, research and development;

•

Income tax expense of $275.9 million in 2004 compared to $207.0 million in 2003; and

•

Write-down of available-for-sale marketable equity securities of Kinross ($38.5 million).

Liquidity

The Company’s financial position at December 31, 2004 and 2003 was as follows:

During 2004, our debt
and liquidity positions were affected by the following:

•

Total debt increased $848.6 million and cash and cash equivalents increased $82.2 million effective January 1, 2004 as a result of the consolidation of Batu Hijau (see Accounting
Changes below);

•

Net debt repayments of $197.8 million;

•

Net investment of $601.5 million in marketable debt securities;

•

Investment of $224.2 million in marketable equity securities;



•

Capital expenditures of $718.0 million;

•

Dividends paid to common shareholders of $133.3 million; and

•

Dividends paid to minority interests of $236.9 million.

Looking Forward

Certain key factors will affect our future financial and operating results. These include, but are not limited to the following:

•

Fluctuations in gold prices and, to a lesser extent, copper prices;

•

Given the progress made on development projects, production is anticipated to range between 6.5 million and 7.0 million equity ounces per year through 2007. We anticipate that our
Ahafo advanced development project in Ghana, West Africa, will generate steady-state annual gold sales of approximately 500,000 ounces commencing in 2006, with higher production in the initial years. We expect to make an investment decision on the
Akyem project, also in Ghana, by mid 2005. In Nevada, at the Leeville underground project ore production is expected to begin in late 2005 with annual gold production of approximately 450,000 to 500,000 ounces, while annual production from the
Phoenix project, anticipated to begin operating in 2006, is expected to be between 370,000 to 420,000 ounces of gold and 16 to 40 million pounds of copper;

•

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar will continue to affect our future profitability and cash flow. Fluctuations in local currency exchange
rates in relation to the U.S. dollar can increase or decrease profit margins, total cash costs per ounce and capital costs to the extent costs are paid in local currency at foreign operations. Historically, such fluctuations have not had a material
impact on the Company’s revenue since gold is sold throughout the world principally in U.S. dollars. The Company’s total cash costs are most significantly impacted by variations in the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate. However,
variations in the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate historically have been strongly correlated to variations in the U.S. dollar gold price over the long-term. Increases or decreases in costs at Australian locations due to exchange rate
changes have therefore tended to be mitigated by changes in sales reported in U.S. dollars at Australian locations in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. No assurance, however, can be given that the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar
exchange rate will continue to be strongly correlated to the U.S. dollar gold price in the future;

•

Capital expenditures in 2004 were $718.0 million. We expect to increase capital expenditures in 2005 to between $1.0 billion and $1.3 billion, including costs related to the Ahafo
project in Ghana, the Leeville and Phoenix projects in Nevada, the power plant project in Nevada and mine equipment, leach pad expansions and processing facilities at Yanacocha; and

•

We expect 2005 exploration, research and development expenditures will total between $170 million and $200 million.

Accounting Changes

Consolidation of Batu Hijau

In
December 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46R, which provides guidance on the identification and reporting for entities over which control is achieved through means other than voting rights. FIN 46R defines such entities as variable interest entities
(“VIEs”). Application of this revised interpretation was required in financial statements for companies that have interests in VIEs or potential VIEs commonly referred to as special-purpose entities for periods ending after December 31,
2003. Application for all other types of entities was required in financial statements for periods ending after March 15, 2004.



Newmont identified the Nusa Tenggara Partnership (“NTP”) and P.T. Newmont Nusa Tenggara
(“PTNNT”) (collectively, “Batu Hijau”) as VIEs because of certain capital structures and contractual relationships (primarily the sharing of the expected residual returns with a party that did not have an equity investment at
risk that is considered significant to the total expected residual returns, as well as indications of insufficient equity). Newmont also determined that it is the primary beneficiary of Batu Hijau. Therefore, as of January 1, 2004, the Company has
fully consolidated Batu Hijau in its Consolidated Financial Statements. For periods prior to 2004, the investment in Batu Hijau was accounted for using the equity method of accounting.

Upon consolidation of Batu Hijau, effective January 1, 2004, certain adjustments were recorded to the opening balance sheet
of PTNNT to conform to Newmont’s accounting policies. These adjustments were recorded to change from units-of-production depreciation of processing plant and mining facilities to straight-line depreciation of such facilities and to change from
allocating costs to stockpile inventories based on mining costs per ton to allocating costs based on recoverable pounds of copper equivalent contained in the various categories of stockpiles. The impact of these adjustments were charges of $15.1
million and $32.0 million, respectively, which have been recorded in

Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax

in the 2004 Consolidated Statement of Income, net of income tax expense and minority interest. The
consolidation had a significant impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Mineral Interests

On April 30, 2004, a FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) was issued amending Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141 and No. 142 to provide that certain mineral rights are considered tangible assets and that
mineral rights should be accounted for based on their substance. The FSP was effective for the first reporting period beginning after April 29, 2004, with early adoption permitted. As a result, Newmont reclassified all of its mineral, royalty and
oil and gas interests, with a carrying value of $1,273.0 million, from mineral interests and other intangible assets to

Property, plant and mine development, net

in its balance sheets and ceased amortization of exploration stage mineral
interests effective April 1, 2004. The aggregate amortization expense related to mineral, royalty and oil and gas interests was $110.5 million and $150.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Reclamation and Remediation (Asset Retirement Obligations)

In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143,
“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” which established a uniform methodology for accounting for estimated reclamation and abandonment costs. Newmont adopted SFAS No. 143 as required and as a result, on January 1, 2003,

Reclamation and remediation liabilities

increased by $120.7 million for the fair value of the estimated asset retirement obligations,

Other current liabilities

increased by $2.3 million,

Deferred income tax assets

increased by
$11.2 million,

Property, plant and mine development, net

increased by $69.1 million, Minority interest in subsidiaries decreased by $16.2 million,

Investments

decreased by $8.0 million and a $34.5 million loss was recorded for the

Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax.

In 2002, the pro forma effect would have increased net income by $0.2 million ($0.00 per share) had the accounting change been in effect during the period.

Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization

Newmont changed its accounting policy effective January, 1, 2002, with
respect to

Depreciation, depletion and amortization (“DD&A”)

of

Property, plant and mine development, net

to exclude future estimated development costs expected to be incurred for certain underground operations. In
addition, the Company revised its policy such that costs incurred to access specific ore blocks are depreciated, depleted, or amortized over the reserves associated with the specific ore area. The cumulative effect of this change in accounting
principle through December 31, 2001 increased net income in 2002 by $7.7 million, net of tax of $4.1 million, and increased net income per share by $0.02.



Critical Accounting Policies

Listed below are the accounting policies that the Company believes are critical to its financial statements due to the degree of uncertainty regarding the estimates or assumptions involved and the magnitude of the asset, liability, revenue
or expense being reported

.

Carrying Value of
Goodwill

At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the carrying
value of the Company’s goodwill was approximately $3.0 billion. Such goodwill was assigned to the Company’s Merchant Banking (approximately $1.6 billion) and Exploration (approximately $1.1 billion) Segments and to various mine site
reporting units (approximately $300 million in the aggregate). This goodwill primarily arose in connection with the Company’s February 15, 2002 acquisitions of Normandy and Franco-Nevada, and it represents the excess of the aggregate
purchase price over the fair value of the identifiable net assets of Normandy and Franco-Nevada. The Company’s approach to allocating goodwill was to identify those reporting units of the Company that the Company believed had contributed to
such excess purchase price. The Company then performed valuations to measure the incremental increases in the fair values of such reporting units that were attributable to the acquisitions, and that were not already captured in the fair values
assigned to such units’ identifiable net assets. In the case of the Merchant Banking and Exploration Segments, these valuations were based on each reporting unit’s potential for future growth, and in the case of the mine site reporting
units, the valuation was based on the synergies that were expected to be realized by each mine site reporting unit.

The Company evaluates, on at least an annual basis, the carrying amount of goodwill to determine whether current events and circumstances indicate that
such carrying amount may no longer be recoverable. To accomplish this, the Company compares the fair values of its reporting units to their carrying amounts. If the carrying value of a reporting unit were to exceed its fair value at the time of the
evaluation, the Company would compare the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill to its carrying amount and any shortfall would be charged to income. Assumptions underlying fair value estimates are subject to risks and
uncertainties. Newmont performed its annual impairment tests of goodwill during the fourth quarter of 2004 and determined that goodwill at one reporting unit, Pajingo, was impaired at December 31, 2004, as discussed below. To the extent the
assumptions used in the Company’s valuation models laid out below for such impairment tests are not achieved in the future, it is reasonably possible that the Company will record charges for impairment of goodwill in future periods. The
specific application of the Company’s goodwill impairment policy with respect to the Merchant Banking Segment, Exploration Segment and mine site reporting units is separately discussed below.

Merchant Banking Segment Goodwill

Newmont’s Merchant Banking Segment is comprised of an Equity Portfolio
sub-segment, focused on managing the Company’s portfolio of equity securities, a Royalty Portfolio sub-segment, a Value Realization sub-segment, providing in-house investment banking and advisory services to the Company, and a Downstream Gold
Refining sub-segment. The Merchant Banking Segment did not exist prior to the acquisitions of Normandy and Franco-Nevada in February 2002.

At December 31, 2004, the $1.6 billion carrying value of the Merchant Banking Segment goodwill represented approximately 65% of the carrying value of the
total assets of the Merchant Banking Segment. Based on a December 31, 2004 valuation of the Merchant Banking Segment, the Company concluded that the fair value of the Merchant Banking Segment was significantly in excess of its carrying value at
December 31, 2004. The December 31, 2004 discounted cash flow analysis for the Equity Portfolio sub-segment of the Merchant Banking Segment assumed: (i) a discount rate of 9%; (ii) a time horizon of ten years; (iii) pre-tax returns on investment
ranging from 35% starting in 2005 and gradually declining to 15% in 2012 through 2014; (iv) an initial equity portfolio investment of approximately $0.5 billion; (v) capital infusions of $50 million annually for the next three years; and (vi) a
terminal value of approximately $2.2 billion. The December 31, 2004 discounted cash flow



analysis for the Royalty Portfolio sub-segment of the Merchant Banking Segment assumed: (i) a discount rate of 9%; (ii) a time horizon of ten years; (iii) an
annual growth rate of 5% in the royalty portfolio; and (iv) a pre-tax rate of return on investment of 13%. The December 31, 2004 discounted cash flow analysis for the Value Realization sub-segment of the Merchant Banking Segment assumed: (i) a
discount rate of 9%; (ii) a time horizon of ten years; and (iii) a pre-tax advisory fee of 5% on approximately $500 million of transactions and value-added activities in 2005, with the dollar amount of such transactions and activities increasing by
5% annually thereafter. The December 31, 2004 discounted cash flow analysis for the Downstream Gold Refining sub-segment of the Merchant Banking Segment assumed: (i) a discount rate of 9%; (ii) a time horizon of ten years; and (iii) a pre-tax annual
return on investments of $4.2 million. The December 31, 2004 discounted cash flow analysis assumed a combined terminal value for the royalty portfolio, portfolio management and downstream gold refining sub-segments of approximately $0.7 billion.

For purposes of valuing the Merchant Banking Segment at future
fiscal year ends, the Company expects that the valuation model will continue to be reevaluated and enhanced to acknowledge the evolving activities and objectives of the Merchant Banking Segment. The key drivers of such future valuations are expected
to include (i) expected future long-term investment returns, adjusted for Company specific and market driven factors; (ii) expected economic value to be added by the Merchant Banking Segment in addition to such investment returns; (iii) the level of
capital accessible by the Merchant Banking Segment; and (iv) other relevant facts and circumstances. To determine the appropriate returns, investment levels and other assumptions for purposes of this analysis, the Company will (i) review the
expected or actual returns from transactions that were initiated and/or completed since the last impairment test; (ii) assess the actual economic values added by other Merchant Banking Segment activities since the last impairment test; and (iii)
assess the ongoing appropriateness of all assumptions impacting the valuation based on then current conditions and expectations. The Company believes that any model used to value the Merchant Banking Segment will need to take into account the
relatively long time horizon required to evaluate the investment returns and other economic value added activities of the Merchant Banking Segment. In the absence of any mitigating valuation factors or “triggering events” (events that
would give rise to a requirement to perform an impairment test), which are described below, the Company believes that a sustained period of approximately three years in which the Merchant Banking Segment’s actual investment levels, returns or
economic values added fall significantly below those levels necessary to support the carrying value of the Merchant Banking Segment would likely result in a reduction of the value assigned to the Merchant Banking Segment’s growth potential and,
in the absence of any offsetting increase in the aggregate fair value of the Merchant Banking Segment’s other net assets, an impairment of the Merchant Banking Segment goodwill.

A high degree of judgment is involved in determining the assumptions and estimates that are used to determine the fair value
of the Merchant Banking Segment. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that actual results will not differ significantly from the corresponding assumptions and estimates. If a triggering event were to occur that could reasonably be expected to
result in an impairment of the carrying value of the Merchant Banking Segment, the Company would be required to test the goodwill assigned to the Merchant Banking Segment as of the end of the reporting period in which any such event occurred. The
Company believes that triggering events with respect to the Merchant Banking Segment could include, but are not limited to: (i) the Company’s partial or complete withdrawal of financial support for the Merchant Banking Segment; (ii) a
significant reduction in management’s long-term expectation of the price of gold, given the adverse effect such a development could have on the fair values of the Merchant Banking Segment’s investment and royalty interest portfolios and
the Merchant Banking Segment’s prospects for future growth; (iii) the divestiture of a significant portion of the Merchant Banking Segment’s investment portfolio together with management’s determination not to fund the replenishment
of such portfolio for the foreseeable future; and (iv) any other event that might adversely affect the ability of the Merchant Banking Segment to consummate transactions that create value for the Company. The Company currently has no plans to
withdraw financial support for the Merchant Banking Segment. For a discussion of the results of operations of the Merchant Banking Segment, see Results of Operations, Merchant Banking Segment, below.



Exploration Segment Goodwill

The Exploration Segment is responsible for all activities, regardless of location, associated with the Company’s
efforts to discover new mineralized material that will advance into proven and probable reserves. Internally generated proven and probable reserve additions are attributed to the Exploration Segment to the extent that such additions are derived from
(i) a discovery made by the Company or Normandy; or (ii) a discovery made on previously acquired properties (whether acquired by the Company or by Normandy, prior to its acquisition by the Company) as a result of exploration efforts conducted
subsequent to the acquisition date. The assignment of goodwill to the Exploration Segment was based on the assumption that, following the acquisition of Normandy, the Exploration Segment would continue Normandy’s historical level of increasing
proven and probable reserves through new discoveries by combining Normandy’s exploration culture, philosophy, expertise and methodologies with those of Newmont.

At December 31, 2004, the $1.1 billion carrying value of the Exploration Segment goodwill represented approximately 98% of
the carrying value of the total assets of the Exploration Segment. Based on a December 31, 2004 valuation of the Exploration Segment, the Company concluded that the fair value of the Exploration Segment was significantly in excess of its
carrying value at December 31, 2004. Based on the review of historical additions to proven and probable reserves and on management’s expectation of the growth rate and levels of reserve additions that could be expected to continue in the
future, the discounted cash flow model developed to value the Exploration Segment at December 31, 2004 assumed that (i) the Exploration Segment would be responsible for 11.0 million ounces of additions to proven and probable reserves in
2005; (ii) such additions would increase by 5% annually; and (iii) approximately 9.1%, 8.7%, 8.3% and 7.9% of additions in years 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, would represent ounces that had previously been valued in the Normandy
purchase accounting. In addition, the discounted cash flow model for the Exploration Segment assumed, among other matters: (i) a 16-year time horizon, including a seven-year time lapse between additions to proven and probable reserves and the
initiation of production and a five-year production period; (ii) discount rate of 8%; (iii) a terminal value of approximately $5.8 billion; (iv) an average gold price of $375 per ounce during the time horizon; (v) total cash costs per ounce of $230;
and (vi) capital costs of $50 per ounce. The Company believes that any model used to value the Exploration Segment will need to take into account the relatively long time horizon required to evaluate the activities of the Exploration Segment.
As such, in the absence of any mitigating valuation factors, or triggering events which are described below, the Company believes that a sustained period of approximately three years in which additions to proven and probable reserves, or the values
associated therewith, fall short of those levels that reasonably could be expected to support the carrying value of the Exploration Segment would likely result in a reduction of the value assigned to the Exploration Segment’s growth potential
and, accordingly, in an impairment of the Exploration Segment goodwill. The Company believes that triggering events with respect to the Exploration Segment could include, but are not limited to: (i) the Company’s partial or complete withdrawal
of financial support for the Exploration Segment; (ii) a significant decrease in the Company’s long-term expectation of the price of gold; and (iii) a significant increase in long-term capital and operating cost estimates. The Company currently
has no plans to withdraw financial support for the Exploration Segment. For a discussion of the results of operations of the Exploration Segment, see Results of Operations, Exploration Segment, below.

The assignment of goodwill to mine site reporting units was based on
synergies that were expected to be achieved at each operation. Such synergies are expected to be incorporated into the Company’s operations and business plans over time. The amount of goodwill assigned to each segment or reporting unit was
based on discounted cash flow analyses that assumed risk-adjusted discount rates over the remaining lives of the applicable mining operations. The Company believes that triggering events with respect to the goodwill assigned to mine site reporting
units could include, but are not limited to: (i) a significant decrease in the Company’s long-term gold price assumption; (ii) a decrease in reserves; and (iii) any event that might otherwise adversely affect mine site production levels or
costs. The Company performed its annual impairment test of mine site goodwill as of December 31, 2004 and determined that, except in the case of its Pajingo reporting unit (Australia/New



Zealand Segment) the fair value of each mine site reporting unit was in excess of the relevant carrying value at December 31, 2004. At Pajingo, the Company
determined there was an impairment as of December 31, 2004 as a result of increased future operating costs and lower grade ore. For more information on the discounted cash flows used to value mine site reporting units, see Carrying Value of
Long-Lived Assets, below.

Depreciation, Depletion and
Amortization

Expenditures for new facilities or
equipment and expenditures that extend the useful lives of existing facilities or equipment are capitalized and depreciated using the straight-line method at rates sufficient to depreciate such costs over the estimated future lives of such
facilities or equipment. These lives do not exceed the estimated mine life based on proven and probable reserves as the useful lives of these assets are considered to be limited to the life of the relevant mine.

Costs incurred to develop new properties are capitalized as incurred, where
it has been determined that the property can be economically developed based on the existence of proven and probable reserves. At the Company’s surface mines, these costs include costs to further delineate the ore body and remove overburden to
initially expose the ore body. At the Company’s underground mines, these costs include the cost of building access ways, shaft sinking and access, lateral development, drift development, ramps and infrastructure development. All such costs are
amortized using the units-of-production (“UOP”) method over the estimated life of the ore body based on recoverable ounces to be mined from proven and probable reserves.

Major development costs incurred after the commencement of production are amortized using the UOP method based on estimated
recoverable ounces to be mined from proven and probable reserves. Depending upon whether the development is expected to benefit the entire remaining ore body, or specific ore blocks or areas only, the UOP basis is either the life of the entire ore
body, or the life of the specific ore block or area.

The
calculation of the UOP rate of amortization, and therefore the annual amortization charge to operations, could be materially impacted to the extent that actual production in the future is different from current forecasts of production based on
proven and probable reserves. This would generally occur to the extent that there were significant changes in any of the factors or assumptions used in determining reserves. These factors could include: (i) an expansion of proven and probable
reserves through exploration activities; (ii) differences between estimated and actual cash costs of mining, due to differences in grade, metal recovery rates and foreign currency exchange rates; and (iii) differences between actual commodity prices
and commodity price assumptions used in the estimation of reserves. Such changes in reserves could similarly impact the useful lives of assets depreciated on a straight-line basis, where those lives are limited to the life of the mine, which in turn
is limited to the life of the proven and probable reserves.

The expected useful lives used in depreciation, depletion and amortization calculations are determined based on applicable facts and circumstances, as described above. Significant judgment is involved in the determination of useful lives,
and no assurance can be given that actual useful lives will not differ significantly from the useful lives assumed for purpose of depreciation, depletion and amortization calculations.

Carrying Value of Long-Lived Assets

The Company reviews and evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the
related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. An asset impairment is considered to exist if the total estimated future cash flows on an undiscounted basis are less than the carrying amount of the asset, including goodwill, if any. An impairment
loss is measured and recorded based on discounted estimated future cash flows. Future cash flows are estimated based on estimated quantities of recoverable minerals, expected gold and other commodity prices (considering current and historical
prices, price trends and related factors), production levels and cash costs of production, capital and reclamation costs, all based on detailed life-of-mine engineering plans. The significant assumptions in determining the future discounted cash
flows for each mine site reporting unit at December 31, 2004, apart from production cost and capitalized expenditure



assumptions unique to each operation, included a long-term gold price of $375 per ounce and Australian and Canadian dollar exchange rates of $1.43 and $1.30,
respectively per U.S.$1.00. The term “recoverable minerals” refers to the estimated amount of gold or other commodities that will be obtained from proven and probable reserves and all related exploration stage mineral interests, except for
other mine-related exploration potential and greenfields exploration potential discussed separately below, after taking into account losses during ore processing and treatment. Estimates of recoverable minerals from such exploration stage mineral
interests are risk adjusted based on management’s relative confidence in such materials. In estimating future cash flows, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of future
cash flows from other asset groups. With the exception of other mine-related exploration potential and greenfields exploration potential, all assets at a particular operation are considered together for purposes of estimating future cash flows. In
the case of mineral interests associated with other mine-related exploration potential and greenfields exploration potential, cash flows and fair values are individually evaluated based primarily on recent exploration results and recent transactions
involving sales of similar properties.

As discussed above
under Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization, various factors could impact the Company’s ability to achieve its forecasted production schedules from proven and probable reserves. Additionally, commodity prices, capital expenditure
requirements and reclamation costs could differ from the assumptions used in the cash flow models used to assess impairment. The ability to achieve the estimated quantities of recoverable minerals from exploration stage mineral interests involves
further risks in addition to those factors applicable to mineral interests where proven and probable reserves have been identified, due to the lower level of confidence that the identified mineralized material can ultimately be mined economically.
Assets classified as other mine-related exploration potential and greenfields exploration potential have the highest level of risk that the carrying value of the asset can be ultimately realized, due to the still lower level of geological confidence
and economic modeling.

During the years ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002, write-downs of long-lived assets were $39.3 million, $35.3 million and $3.7 million, respectively. See Consolidated Financial Results below for further discussion. Material changes to any of these factors or assumptions
discussed above could result in future impairment charges.

Deferred Stripping Costs

In general,
mining costs are allocated to production costs, stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories, and are charged to

Costs applicable to sales

when gold or copper is sold. However, at certain open pit mines, which have diverse grades and
waste-to-ore ratios over the mine life, the Company defers and amortizes certain mining costs on a units-of-production basis over the life of the mine. These mining costs, which are commonly referred to as “deferred stripping” costs, are
incurred in mining activities that are normally associated with the removal of waste rock. The deferred stripping accounting method is generally accepted in the mining industry where mining operations have diverse grades and waste-to-ore ratios;
however, industry practice does vary. Deferred stripping matches the costs of production with the sale of such production at the Company’s operations where it is employed, by assigning each ounce of gold or pound of copper with an equivalent
amount of waste removal cost. If the Company were to expense stripping costs as incurred, there might be greater volatility in the Company’s period-to-period results of operations.

The Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) is discussing the accounting for deferred stripping costs but has not yet
reached a consensus. The EITF considered the recommendation that stripping costs incurred during production are a mine development cost that should be capitalized as an investment in the mine and attributed to the proven and probable reserves
benefited in a systematic and rational manner. However, the EITF directed the FASB staff to develop additional guidance about what constitutes a systematic and rational manner of attributing the capitalized costs to proven and probable reserves
benefited. The Company cannot predict whether the deliberations of the EITF will ultimately modify or otherwise result in new accounting standards or interpretations thereof that differ from the Company’s current practices.



Financial Instruments

All financial instruments that meet the definition of a derivative are recorded on the balance sheet at fair market value,
with the exception of contracts that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption. Changes in the fair market value of derivatives recorded on the balance sheet are recorded in the statements of consolidated operations, except for the
effective portion of the change in fair market value of derivatives that are designated as a cash flow hedge and qualify for cash flow hedge accounting. The Company’s portfolio of derivatives includes various complex instruments that are linked
to gold prices and other factors. Management applies significant judgment in estimating the fair value of instruments that are highly sensitive to assumptions regarding gold and other commodity prices, gold lease rates, market volatilities, foreign
currency exchange rates and interest rates. Variations in these factors could materially affect amounts credited or charged to operations to reflect the changes in fair market value of derivatives. In addition, certain derivative contracts are
accounted for as cash flow hedges, whereby the effective portion of changes in fair market value of these instruments are deferred in

Other comprehensive income

and will be recognized in the statements of consolidated operations when the
underlying production designated as the hedged item is sold. All derivative contracts qualifying for hedge accounting are designated against the applicable portion of future production from proven and probable reserves, where management believes the
forecasted transaction is probable of occurring. To the extent that management determines that such future production is no longer probable of occurring due to changes in the factors impacting the determination of reserves, as discussed above under

Depreciation, depletion and

amortization

, gains and losses deferred in

Other comprehensive income

would be reclassified to the statements of consolidated operations immediately.

Reclamation and Remediation Obligations (Asset Retirement Obligations)

The Company’s mining and exploration activities
are subject to various laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” which established a methodology for accounting for
estimated reclamation and abandonment costs. The statement was adopted January 1, 2003, when the Company recorded the estimated present value of reclamation liabilities and increased the carrying amount of the related asset, which resulted in a
charge to cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of $34.5 million. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The reclamation costs will be allocated to expense over the life of the related assets and will be adjusted
for changes resulting from the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or amount of the original present value estimate. Prior to adoption of SFAS No. 143, estimated future reclamation costs were based principally on legal and regulatory
requirements. Such costs related to active mines were accrued and charged over the expected operating lives of the mines using the UOP method based on proven and probable reserves.

Future remediation costs for inactive mines are accrued based on management’s best estimate at the end of each period
of the undiscounted costs expected to be incurred at a site. Such cost estimates include, where applicable, ongoing care, maintenance and monitoring costs. Changes in estimates are reflected in earnings in the period an estimate is revised.

Accounting for reclamation and remediation obligations
requires management to make estimates unique to each mining operation of the future costs the Company will incur to complete the reclamation and remediation work required to comply with existing laws and regulations. Actual costs incurred in future
periods could differ from amounts estimated. Additionally, future changes to environmental laws and regulations could increase the extent of reclamation and remediation work required to be performed by the Company. Any such increases in future costs
could materially impact the amounts charged to operations for reclamation and remediation.

Deferred Tax Assets

The Company recognizes the expected future tax benefit from deferred tax assets when the tax benefit is considered to be more likely than not of being realized. Assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets requires management to make
significant estimates related to expectations of future taxable income.



Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecasted cash flows and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction. Refer above under
Carrying Value of Long-Lived Assets for a discussion of the factors that could cause future cash flows to differ from estimates. To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Company
to realize deferred tax assets recorded at the balance date could be impacted. Additionally, future changes in tax laws in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates could limit the Company’s ability to obtain the future tax benefits
represented by its deferred tax assets recorded at the reporting date.

Consolidated Financial Results

Sales—gold

were $3.7 billion, $3.1 billion and $2.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The period-to-period changes were primarily due to an increase in the average realized gold price
and in 2004, the consolidation of Batu Hijau. The following analysis demonstrates the increase in consolidated gold revenue year over year:

Sales—base
metals, net

totaled $870.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, and included $785.9 million from copper sales at Batu Hijau and $55.3 million from copper sales and $29.4 million from zinc sales at Golden Grove in Australia, all net of
smelting and refining charges.

Sales—base metals, net

totaled $74.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, which included $53.0 million and $21.9 million from copper and zinc sales at Golden Grove, respectively, net of smelting
and refining charges.

Sales—base metals, net

totaled $55.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, and included $27.6 million from copper sales and $23.3 million from zinc sales at Golden Grove in Australia, all net of smelting and
refining charges, and $4.4 million from cobalt sales. The cobalt operation was sold in 2002. The following analysis reflects the increase in consolidated copper revenue year over year:



Total

Costs applicable to sales

were $2.3 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion for the years
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, as detailed in the table below.

The increase from 2003 to
2004 resulted primarily from the consolidation of Batu Hijau and increased costs in Nevada and Australia/New Zealand.

Costs applicable to sales—gold

, which includes total cash costs, accretion of reclamation and remediation liabilities
related to consolidated gold production and write-downs of stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories increased to $1.9 billion in 2004 from $1.7 billion in 2003 and $1.6 billion in 2002.

Costs applicable to sales—base metals

were
$367.4 million, $44.3 million and $36.0 million in the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

The increase from 2003 to 2004 resulted primarily from the consolidation of Batu Hijau. For a complete discussion regarding variations in operations, see Results of Operations below.

The following is a summary of

Costs applicable to sales

by operation:



Deferred stripping.

In general, mining costs are allocated to production
costs, stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories, and are charged to

Costs applicable to sales

when gold or copper is sold. However, at certain open pit mines that have diverse grades and waste-to-ore ratios over the mine life, the
Company defers and amortizes certain mining costs on a units-of-production basis over the life of the mine. These mining costs, which are commonly referred to as “deferred stripping” costs, are incurred in mining activities that are
normally associated with the removal of waste rock. The deferred stripping accounting method is generally accepted in the mining industry where mining operations have diverse grade and waste-to-ore rations; however, industry practice does vary.
Deferred stripping matches the costs of production with the sale of such production at the Company’s operations where it is employed, by assigning each ounce of gold with an equivalent amount of waste removal cost. If the Company were to
expense stripping costs as incurred, there might be greater volatility in the Company’s period-to-period results of operations. Details of deferred stripping with respect to certain of the Company’s open pit mines are as follows:



(1)

Total tons to be mined in future divided by total ounces of gold or total pounds of copper equivalent to be recovered in future, based on proven and probable
reserves. Pounds of copper equivalent equate to copper pounds plus gold ounces converted to copper pounds on an equivalent revenue basis.

(2)

Total tons mined divided by total ounces of gold recovered or total pounds of copper equivalent recovered.

(3)

Remaining mine life (years) is as of January 1

st

of the year being presented and is based on the then current life-of-mine plan.

(4)

The actual stripping ratio increased in 2004 from 2003 and is greater than life-of-mine due
to increased waste removal from Section 30 at Twin Creeks. The actual grade decreased in 2004 as lower grade ore zones are being mined at Twin Creeks and Carlin.

(5)

La Herradura is included in the Company’s Other North America reportable segment.

(6)

The life-of-mine stripping ratio increased during 2004 from 2003 due to changes in mine plans as production winds down. The actual stripping ratio decreased during
2004 from 2003 due to the completion of several low-grade remnant pits. The one-year mine life is for open pit only. Underground mine life is six years. Tanami is included in the Company’s Australia/New Zealand reportable segment.

(7)

The actual stripping ratio decreased in 2004 due to fewer waste tons being moved. Kalgoorlie is included in the Company’s Australia/New Zealand reportable
segment.

(8)

The actual life-of mine stripping ratio decreased in 2004 due to a positive grade reconciliation in 2003. Martha is included in the Company’s Australia/New
Zealand reportable segment.

(9)

The life-of-mine stripping ratio increased in 2004 due to a change in mining method for certain reserves from underground to open pit. The actual stripping ratio
increased significantly from 2003 due to accelerated waste removal required to maintain higher mill throughput. The life-of-mine grade increased as higher grade material will be mined due to change from underground to open pit. The actual grade
decreased as lower grade areas are still being mined. Ovacik is included in the Company’s Central Asia reportable segment.

(10)

The actual stripping ratio is significantly lower than the life-of-mine stripping ratio as a direct result of mining higher ore grade in 2004 than the life-of-mine
average.

Depreciation, depletion and
amortization

(DD&A) was $696.5 million, $564.5 million and $505.6 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in 2004 primarily resulted from the consolidation of Batu Hijau and significant capital
expenditures in recent years at Yanacocha. The increase in 2003 was attributable to a decrease in the estimated useful lives of certain assets (primarily in Nevada) and an increase in the depreciable base. DD&A expense fluctuates as capital
expenditures increase or decrease and as production levels increase or decrease. For a complete discussion, see Results of Operations, below. Newmont expects DD&A to be approximately $700 million to $730 million in 2005.



The following is a summary of

Depreciation, depletion and amortization

by operation:

Exploration,
research and development

was $192.4 million, $115.2 million and $88.9 million during 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The period-to-period increases reflect increased exploration and related activity in response to higher prevailing gold and
copper prices and increased spending on advanced projects, feasibility studies and exploration drilling at Martabe, Akyem, Minas Conga and Ahafo. Newmont expects

Exploration, research and development

expenses to be approximately $170 million
to $200 million in 2005.



General and administrative

was $115.8 million, $130.3 million and $115.3 million for the years
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The decrease in 2004 from 2003 resulted from an increase in the allocation of costs incurred by corporate to the individual operations in 2004, partially offset by an increase in consulting fees
and costs associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The increase in 2003 from 2002 was attributable to increased pension and other employee benefit-related expenses and increased compliance and corporate governance costs.

General and
administrative

expense as a percentage of revenues was 2.5% in 2004, compared to 4.1% in 2003 and 4.3% in 2002. Newmont expects

General and administrative

expenses to be approximately $115 million to $125 million in 2005.

Write-down of goodwill

of $51.8 million for the year ended December
31, 2004 was related to the Pajingo operation in Australia as a result of anticipated increased future operating costs and lower grade ore.

Write-down of long-lived assets

totaled $39.3 million, $35.3 million and $3.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. The 2004 write-down included $16.3 million related to the Ovacik mine in Turkey. In August 2004, the Ovacik mine temporarily suspended operations as a result of a court decision ordering the suspension of operating permits pending
completion of certain additional permitting requirements and the submission of an updated environmental impact assessment. On March 1, 2005, the Ovacik mine was sold to a subsidiary of Koza Davetiye, a Turkish conglomerate. The remainder of the
write-down for 2004 was primarily related to exploration tenements in Australia, reevaluation of future production and operating costs at Pajingo, and processing facilities at Yanacocha. The 2003 write-down primarily related to a $28.4 million
impairment charge at Golden Giant and the mobile fleet at Yanacocha. The impairment charge at Golden Giant resulted from a reevaluation of the life-of-mine plan that eliminated marginal stopes and reflected higher projected life-of-mine operating
costs due to a stronger Canadian dollar and higher power and labor costs, which led to reduced proven and probable reserves and increased life-of-mine operating costs. The 2002 write-down related to an impairment charge for exploration stage mineral
interests and fixed assets at Kori Kollo.

For a discussion of
the Company’s policy for assessing the carrying value of its goodwill and long-lived assets for impairment, see Critical Accounting Policies, above.

Other

expenses in 2004, 2003 and 2002 were $34.4 million, $49.5 million and $29.4 million, respectively. The 2004 expense related to the closure of
Minahasa, care and maintenance charges at Ovacik, engineering and permitting expenses for the power plant in Nevada and other miscellaneous expenses. The 2003 expense included additions to reclamation and remediation liabilities related to depleted
ore bodies, an accrual for certain environmental obligations, costs associated with the finalization of a de-watering agreement in Nevada, severance costs at the Kori Kollo project in Bolivia, and costs related to compliance and governance
implementation activities. The 2002 expenses primarily included integration costs relating to the acquisitions of Normandy and Franco-Nevada and costs associated with employee severance benefits.

Loss on investments, net

was $39.0 million in 2004 and was primarily
attributable to the impairment of our investment in Kinross for an other-than-temporary decline in market value in accordance with SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.”

Gain on
investments, net

was $83.2 million and $47.1 million for years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The 2003 gain was primarily related to the exchange of Echo Bay shares for Kinross shares. The 2002 gain was primarily related to
Newmont’s sale of its investment in Lihir Gold Limited.

Gain (loss) on derivative instruments, net,

representing non-cash, mark-to-market gains and losses recognized on ineffective and partially ineffective derivative instruments, was $2.4 million, $22.9 million and $(39.8) million for
the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 2004 involved a $0.7 million loss due to the ineffectiveness of gold put option cash flow hedges caused by rising gold prices and a $3.1 million gain due to undesignated interest rate
swap contracts and the ineffectiveness of interest rate swap



fair value hedges on Newmont bonds. The 2003 gain primarily related to the acquired Normandy gold hedge books and resulted predominantly from a strengthening
of the Australian dollar, partially offset by an increase in the U.S. dollar gold price. The loss in 2002 primarily related to the acquired Normandy gold hedge books and resulted from the increase in the U.S. dollar gold price, partially offset by
the appreciation of the Australian dollar. The Company substantially eliminated the acquired Normandy hedge books as of December 31, 2003.

Gain on extinguishment of NYOL liabilities, net

was $220.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. In 2003, Newmont acquired all of
NYOL’s outstanding 8


/


% Senior Notes due 2008 and all of NYOL’s gold hedge contracts from the
relevant counterparties.

Loss on extinguishment of
debt

was $0.2 million and $33.8 million for years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. During 2003, Newmont repurchased $148.0 million of its 8


/


% debentures, $52.3 million of its 8


/


% debentures, $80.5
million of Newmont Australia 7


/


% guaranteed notes, $30.9 million of Newmont Australia 7


/


% guaranteed notes and 100% of its 6% convertible subordinated debentures for total cash consideration of $445.6
million. See Liquidity and Capital Resources, Financing Activities

.

Royalty and dividend income

totaled $65.8 million, $56.3 million and $35.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. The increase from period-to-period was primarily attributable to higher gold and oil and gas prices. 2004 income also increased as a result of distributions received from the Company’s approximate 6.6% interest in Canadian Oil
Sands Trust, which was acquired during the second and third quarters of 2004.

Interest income, foreign currency exchange and other income

was $76.9 million, $102.2 million and $39.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

The increase in
interest income in 2004 from 2003 resulted from higher cash balances held in short-term investments.

As of December 31, 2003, the Company converted CDN$499 million of intercompany loans with a subsidiary whose functional currency is the Canadian dollar,
to long-term notes, as the Company does not intend to settle these loans in the foreseeable future. As a result, the Company no longer records foreign currency gains and losses in earnings with respect to the converted long-term notes. The year
ended December 31, 2003 foreign currency exchange gain included: (i) exchange gains, net of $58.9 million on the Canadian dollar-denominated intercompany loans reflecting a strengthening of the Canadian dollar during the period; (ii) a $27.4
million mark-to-market gain on ineffective foreign currency swaps; (iii) a $19.2 million foreign currency gain on the translation of Newmont Australia Limited’s financial statements to U.S. dollars; and (iv) other foreign currency losses of
$8.5 million.

The 2004 gain on sale of mining and exploration
properties primarily resulted from the sale of Perama, Midwest Uranium and Bronzewing. The 2003 gain resulted from the sale of Mesquite and Wiluna.



Newmont was the guarantor of an A$71.0 million (approximately $53.2 million) amortizing loan facility of
QMC Finance Pty Ltd. (“QMC”) which was collateralized by the assets of the Queensland Magnesium Project. Newmont reduced the amount accrued for this contingent obligation by the estimated fair value of the AMC assets that would be
subrogated to Newmont in the event the guarantee was called, which resulted in a $30.0 million loss during the fourth quarter of 2003. During the fourth quarter of 2004, Newmont Australia Limited (“NAL”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Newmont, entered into a transaction resulting in a loan from NAL to a subsidiary of QMC for A$30.0 million (approximately $23.2 million), the release of Newmont from its guarantee obligation and recognition of a $10.6 million gain resulting from the
release of all previously accrued contingent liabilities. An allowance was provided for 100% of the loan receivable from the QMC entity.

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized

was $97.6 million, $88.6 million and $129.6 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Capitalized
interest totaled $13.1 million, $8.9 million and $5.2 million in each year, respectively. Net interest increased during 2004 as compared to 2003 as a result of the consolidation of Batu Hijau. Net interest expense declined during 2003 from 2002
primarily due to a decrease in outstanding debt resulting from Newmont’s debt-reduction strategy.

Income tax expense

was $275.9 million in 2004, compared to $206.9 million and $19.9 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in income
tax expense in 2004, compared to 2003, was primarily attributable to $173.6 million higher

Pre-tax income before minority interest, equity income and impairments of affiliates and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle

(“pre-tax income”). The Company’s effective tax rates were 25.1%, 22.4%, and 9.2% in 2004, 2003 and 2002 based on pre-tax income of $1.1 billion, $925.4 million, and $216.3 million, respectively. The factors that most
significantly impact the Company’s effective tax rate are metal prices, percentage depletion and resource allowances, valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets, foreign earnings net of foreign tax credits, earnings attributable to
minority interests in subsidiaries and affiliated companies, foreign currency translation gains and losses, changes in tax laws and the impact of certain specific transactions. Most of these factors are sensitive to the average realized price of
gold and other metals.

Percentage depletion allowances (tax
deductions for depletion that may exceed the Company’s tax basis in its mineral reserves) are available to the Company under the income tax laws of the United States for operations conducted in the United States or through branches and
partnerships owned by U.S. subsidiaries included in the Company’s consolidated United States income tax return. The deductions are highly sensitive to the price of gold and other minerals produced by the Company. For 2004 and prior years,
similar types of deductions are available for mining operations in Canada and are referred to as resource allowances. The tax benefits from percentage depletion and resource allowances were $47.1 million, $21.5 million and $34.4 million in 2004,
2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in 2004 compared to the other periods resulted primarily from the inclusion of $13.8 million of additional tax savings from percentage depletion deductions realized when the Company filed its 2003
income tax return. Additional increases in percentage depletion allowances were also realized due to an increase in the Company’s average realized gold price.

On October 22, 2004, the President signed into law the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (“the Act”). The Act
provides a deduction for income from qualified domestic production activities, which will be phased in from 2005 through 2010. In return, the Act also provides for a two-year phase-out of the existing extra-territorial income exclusion (ETI) for
foreign sales. The Company expects the net effect of the phase out of the ETI and the phase in of this new deduction to result in a minimal change in the effective tax rate for the phase in years 2005 and 2006, based on current earnings levels. In
the longer term, the Company expects that the tax benefit therefrom will result in a decrease of the annual effective tax rate of less than 1 percentage point based on current earnings levels.

Under the guidance in FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109-1,

Application of
FASB Statement No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004,

the deduction will be treated as a “special deduction” as
described in FASB Statement No. 109. As such, the special deduction has no effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities existing at



the enactment date. Rather the impact of this deduction will be reported in the period in which the deduction is claimed.

The Company operates in various countries around the world that have tax
laws, tax incentives and tax rates that are significantly different than those of the United States. Many of these differences combine to move the Company’s overall effective tax rate higher or lower than the United States statutory rate. The
effect of these differences is shown in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements as either a rate differential or the effect of foreign earnings, net of credits. Differences in tax rates and other foreign income tax law variations make the
Company’s ability to fully utilize all of its available foreign income tax credits on a year-by-year basis highly dependent on the price of the gold and copper produced by the Company, since lower prices can result in the Company having
insufficient sources of taxable income in the United States to utilize all available foreign tax credits. Such credits have limited carryback and carryforward periods and can only be used to reduce the United States income tax imposed on the
Company’s foreign earnings included in its annual United States consolidated income tax return. The effects of foreign earnings, net of allowable credits, were an increase of income tax expense of $11.0 million in 2004, and reductions of income
tax expense of $27.8 million and $16.7 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. The Company separately stated in its effective income tax rate reconciliation under “Change in valuation allowance on deferred tax assets” a benefit of $49.1
million resulting from the utilization of foreign tax credit carryforwards for which a valuation allowance previously had been recorded. This utilization primarily was caused by the realization of higher sources of taxable income in the United
States resulting from the increase in the Company’s average realized gold price in 2004. The effect of different income tax rates in countries where earnings are indefinitely reinvested contributed to an increase in the Company’s income
tax expense of $16.3 million and $5.0 million in 2004 and 2002 respectively, and a decrease in income tax expense of $13.4 million in 2003.

The tax effect of changes in local country tax laws as set forth as a separate item in the Company’s effective tax reconciliation in Note 21 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, resulted in a net tax benefit of $51.4 million and $35.7 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. The net tax benefit is primarily related to a change in tax law in Australia that allows the Company to
consolidate wholly-owned subsidiaries in that country.

The
need to record valuation allowances related to the Company’s deferred tax assets (primarily attributable to net operating losses and tax credits) is principally dependent on the following factors: (i) the extent to which the net operating
losses and tax credits can be carried back and yield a tax benefit; (ii) the Company’s long-term estimate of future average realized minerals prices; and (iii) the degree to which many of the tax laws and income tax agreements imposed upon the
Company and its subsidiaries around the world tend to create significant tax deductions early in the mining process. These up-front deductions can give rise to net operating losses and credit carryforwards in circumstances where future sources of
taxable income may not coincide with available carryforward periods even after taking into account all available tax planning strategies. Furthermore, certain liabilities accrued for financial reporting purposes may not be deductible for tax
purposes until such liabilities are actually funded which could happen after mining operations have ceased, when sufficient sources of taxable income may not be available. Changes to valuation allowances decreased income tax expense by $58.6 million
and $85.2 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively, and increased income tax expense in 2002 by $2.5 million. As noted above, $49.1 million of the valuation allowance recorded in prior periods with respect to the Company’s foreign tax credits was
included in the total change in the valuation allowance for 2004. Partially offsetting these reductions in valuation allowances was the need to record valuation allowances for currently arising tax losses incurred by some of the Company’s
foreign subsidiaries.

The Company, for financial reporting
purposes, consolidates subsidiaries of which it does not own 100% of the outstanding equity. However, for tax purposes, the Company only is responsible for the income taxes on the portion of the taxable earnings attributable to its ownership
interest of each consolidated entity. Such minority interests contributed $7.3 million, $22.2 million and $11.5 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, as reductions in the Company’s income tax expense.

The Company’s effective tax in 2004 decreased by $12.7 million due to
changes in foreign currency exchange rates compared with an increase of $54.4 million in 2003. In 2004 and 2003, these amounts primarily relate to the Australian tax effect of realized and unrealized translation gains attributable to United States
dollar-denominated assets and liabilities and the gold derivatives positions at Newmont Australia Limited whose



functional currency is the United States dollar. Because Newmont intends to indefinitely reinvest earnings from Newmont Australia Limited, no offsetting
United States deferred income tax effect can be provided. The effect in 2004 differed from 2003 because of the significant strengthening of the Australian dollar against the United States dollar that took place primarily in 2003.

Based on the uncertainty and inherent unpredictability of the factors
influencing the Company’s effective tax rate and the sensitivity of such factors to gold and other metals prices as discussed above, Newmont’s effective tax rate is expected to be volatile in future periods.

Minority interest in income of subsidiaries

was $335.3 million, $173.2
million and $97.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The 2004 increase from 2003 resulted from the recording of the minority interest in Batu Hijau which was consolidated in 2004 (see Accounting Changes,
above), and increased earnings at Yanacocha due to increased gold price and ounces sold, partially offset by an increase in costs. The 2003 increase from 2002 was primarily a result of increased earnings at Yanacocha, due to higher gold prices,
increased gold sales and lower production costs (see Results of Operations, South American Operations).

Equity loss and impairment of Australian Magnesium Corporation

(“AMC”) was $119.5 million and $1.8 million for the years ended December
31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded losses of $119.5 million related to its investment in AMC composed of the following: (i) losses of $0.7 million representing Newmont’s proportionate
share of AMC’s 2003 losses; (ii) second quarter 2003 losses resulting from a restructuring agreement of (a) $72.7 million representing the book value of its investment at June 30, 2003; (b) $24.8 million related to a loan receivable from AMC;
(c) $10.0 million charge to settle Newmont’s guarantee of the obligation payable by AMC to Ford Motor Credit; (d) $6.6 million related to a contingent credit facility; and (e) $1.1 million related to various other items, offset by a $7.4
million income tax benefit; and (iii) a first quarter 2003 loss for an other-than-temporary decline in value of the investment of approximately $11.0 million. During December 2003, Newmont sold its interest in AMC.

Equity income of affiliates

was $2.6 million, $84.4 million and $53.2
million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The following table indicates equity income (loss) by affiliate:

The decrease in 2004
from 2003 primarily resulted from the consolidation of Batu Hijau effective January 1, 2004. See Accounting Changes, above, for more information. The 2003 increase from 2002 related to Batu Hijau resulted primarily from higher copper prices,
increased gold by-product credits and lower smelting and refining costs.

Newmont recorded charges (benefit) for the

Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax

of $47.1 million, $34.5 million and $(7.7) million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and
2002. The 2004 charge resulted from the consolidation of Batu Hijau to conform Batu Hijau’s accounting policies to Newmont’s accounting policies. The 2003 charge reflects the effect of the adoption of SFAS No. 143, “Accounting for
Asset Retirement Obligations,” that changed the method of accounting for the Company’s estimated mine reclamation and abandonment costs. The 2002 benefit related to a change in depreciation,



depletion and amortization of

Property, plant and mine development, net

to exclude future estimated development costs expected to be incurred for
certain underground operations. See Accounting Changes, above, for more information.

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax

in 2004 primarily included a $123.1 million gain in value of marketable equity securities and a $30.7 million gain on the translation of subsidiaries with non-U.S.
dollar functional currencies, offset by losses of $11.1 million related to a minimum pension liability adjustment and $18.9 million for unrealized losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges.

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of
tax

, in 2003, primarily included a $68.4 million gain on the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments classified as cash flow hedges and a $23.2 million gain on the translation of subsidiaries with non-U.S. dollar
functional currencies, partially offset by a loss of $5.0 million related to a decline in value of marketable equity securities.

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax

, in 2002, primarily included losses of $28.7 million related to a
minimum pension liability adjustment, $16.7 million for unrealized losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and $12.8 million related to a decline in value of marketable equity securities.

Results of Operations

(1)

Includes Batu Hijau in 2004 (consolidated as of January 1, 2004). Batu Hijau was accounted
for using the equity method in 2003 and 2002, and as a result was not included in the weighted-average total cash cost per ounce for such years.

Disclosure of total cash costs per ounce is intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacities of Newmont’s
mining operations. Newmont’s management uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring the performance of its gold mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP. This measure was developed in conjunction with gold mining companies
associated with the Gold Institute, a non-profit industry group no longer in existence, in an effort to provide a level of comparability; however, Newmont’s measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.

For all periods presented, total cash costs include charges
for mining ore and waste associated with current period gold and copper production, processing ore through milling and leaching facilities, by-product credits, production taxes, royalties and other cash costs. Certain gold mines produce silver as a
by-product. Proceeds from the sale of by-products are reflected as credits to total cash costs. With the exception of Yanacocha and Golden Grove, such by-product sales have not been significant to the economics or profitability of the Company’s
mining operations. All of these charges and by-product credits are included in

Costs applicable to sales.

Charges for reclamation are also included in

Costs applicable to sales,

but are not included in total cash costs. Reclamation
charges are included in total production costs, together with total cash costs and

Depreciation, depletion and amortization.

Total production costs provide an indication of earnings before interest expense and taxes for Newmont’s share
of gold mining properties, when taking into account the average realized price



received for gold sold, as this measure combines

Costs applicable to sales

plus

Depreciation, depletion and amortization,

net of minority
interest. A reconciliation of total cash costs and total production costs to

Costs applicable to sales

in total and by segment is provided in Item 2, Properties, Operating Statistics.

The Company expects that gold production will range between 6.6 million and
6.8 million equity ounces in 2005 and will range between 6.5 million and 7.0 million equity ounces per year through 2007.

North American Operations

(1)

Newmont sold Mesquite in November 2003.

North America sold 7% fewer equity ounces of gold in 2004 when compared to
2003 and 10% fewer equity ounces in 2003 compared to 2002, primarily because of lower sales from Nevada and Golden Giant and the sale of Mesquite in November 2003. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 19% due to the decrease in production
caused by lower grades in Nevada. In 2003, total cash costs per equity ounce increased 6% from 2002 primarily due to lower production.

Nevada

.    Gold equity ounces sold in 2004 decreased 3% from 2003 as sales from inventories partially offset a 9% production
decline. Production declines in 2004 were due to lower ore grade and recoveries, partially offset by increased mill throughput. The increase in throughput was due to the Gold Quarry expansion and a full year of production from Mill 5, which
recommenced operations in June 2003. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 18%, primarily due to the processing of lower-grade material, higher contract service costs from contracted ore haulage at Carlin, increased tonnage hauled to Twin
Creeks and higher diesel, electricity and mine equipment maintenance costs.

In 2003, gold equity ounces sold decreased 9% from 2002, primarily due to a decline in oxide mill production, timing of material placed on leach pads and a build up of inventory. Total cash costs per equity ounce
increased 4% over 2002, primarily due to the decrease in ounces sold and higher labor, mine maintenance, electricity, diesel and contract mining costs.

Nevada expects to sell approximately 2.6 million equity ounces of gold in 2005 at total cash costs of $285 per equity ounce.

Newmont is in the process of obtaining permits for construction and operation
of a 203-megawatt coal-fired power plant to be located near Carlin, Nevada. If all of the necessary permits and approvals are obtained and construction commences in 2005, the plant could begin commercial operations in late 2007 or early 2008.
Preliminary estimates of capital expenditures for the project are approximately $400 million - $450 million. Operation of the plant could result in savings of up to $20 in total cash costs per ounce of gold produced by the Nevada operations.

Non-governmental organizations have brought a series of
actions relating to the Nevada operations, as described in more detail in Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. While Newmont believes that the legal actions are without merit, unfavorable outcomes could result in additional conditions
being imposed on how the Company conducts operations, and such conditions could have a material adverse effect on Nevada’s results of operations or financial position.



Golden Giant, Canada

.    Gold equity ounces sold decreased 30% in 2004 from
2003, primarily due to reduced mining faces at this mature mine. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 31% in 2004 from 2003, primarily from lower production and appreciation of the Canadian dollar compared to the U.S. dollar (see Foreign
Currency Exchange Rates, below).

Gold equity ounces sold
decreased 18% in 2003 from 2002, primarily due to a 35% decrease in mill throughput as a result of reduced mining faces partially offset by a 35% higher ore grade. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 16% in 2003 from 2002, primarily from
lower production volume and appreciation of the Canadian dollar. During 2003, Golden Giant recorded an impairment charge of $28.4 million resulting from a reevaluation of the life-of-mine plan that reduced proven and probable reserves.

Gold sales for 2005 are expected to total approximately 160,000 equity
ounces at total cash costs of $305 per equity ounce. Based on the current mine plans, operations are expected to be completed in early 2006.

Holloway, Canada.

Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 18% in 2004 from 2003, resulting from higher costs associated
with increased manpower, steel, electricity and appreciation of the Canadian dollar compared to the U.S. dollar (see Foreign Currency Exchange Rates, below), partially offset by a 4% increase in gold equity ounces sold.

In 2003, gold equity ounces sold decreased 33% from 2002, primarily due to a
20% decline in mill ore grade compared to 2002. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 53% as a result of declining production and a strengthening Canadian dollar.

Holloway is expected to sell approximately 85,000 equity ounces in 2005 at total cash costs of $355 per equity ounce. Gold
sales are projected to remain at that level in 2006.

La
Herradura, Mexico

.    Gold equity ounces sold increased 1% in 2004 from 2003, primarily due a 3% increase in ore placed on the leach pads. In 2003, gold equity ounces sold increased 6% over 2002, primarily due to capital
investments that led to increased mining rates and ore placement on the leach pads.

La Herradura is expected to sell approximately 80,000 equity ounces in 2005 at total cash costs of $150 per equity ounce.

South American Operations

Yanacocha,
Peru

.    Gold equity ounces sold increased 6% in 2004 over 2003, primarily due to increased leach solution processing capacity including greater pumping capacity and additional carbon columns. Total cash costs per equity
ounce increased 13%, primarily due to an increase in workers’ participation payments resulting from higher taxable income, higher diesel fuel consumption and price, increased consumption of reagents and higher royalties due to increased gold
prices. The increases were partially offset by increased silver by-product credits. By-product credits for 2004, 2003 and 2002 were $24.4 million, $14.2 million and $9.0 million, respectively.

In 2003, gold equity ounces sold increased 25% from 2002, primarily due to
increased leach solution processing capacity and an 18% higher ore grade due to a planned mining sequence leading to higher ore grades at the La Quinua and Cerro Yanacocha pits. Total cash costs per equity ounce decreased 4%, primarily due to the



increase in production and increased silver by-product credits, partially offset by higher workers’ participation payments due to higher taxable income,
higher diesel fuel costs and higher royalties due to increased gold prices.

Yanacocha is expected to sell approximately 1.5 million equity ounces in 2005 at total cash costs of $135 per equity ounce. Gold equity ounces sold are expected to decline by approximately 10% in 2006, after which
gold equity ounces sold can be expected to decline significantly, unless additional oxide deposits are discovered and developed or feasibility studies to develop sulfide deposits are completed.

During 2004, Peru enacted legislation to establish a sliding scale mining
royalty of up to 3% based on the volume of mine production. The royalty is calculated on revenue from sales of product less certain refining and transportation expenses. While the Peruvian royalty became effective during the second quarter of 2004,
it does not apply to those projects that had tax stabilization agreements prior to the adoption of the royalty law. Virtually all of Yanacocha’s current production is derived from projects that were stabilized prior to the enactment of the
royalty legislation. However, pending amendment or successful legal challenges to the validity of the royalty legislation, future projects not covered by the tax stabilization agreements could be burdened by this royalty.

Cerro Quilish is one deposit within the Yanacocha complex. In July 2004,
Yanacocha received a drilling permit for the Cerro Quilish deposit and commenced drilling activities to further define the deposit. During September 2004, individuals from the Cajamarca region, where Cerro Quilish is located, conducted a sustained
blockade of the road between the City of Cajamarca and the mine site, in protest of these exploration activities. Yanacocha suspended all drilling activities at Cerro Quilish and the blockade was resolved. At the request of Yanacocha, the Cerro
Quilish drilling permit was revoked in November 2004. Yanacocha has reassessed the challenges involved in obtaining required permits for Cerro Quilish primarily related to increased community concerns. Based upon this reassessment, Yanacocha has
reclassified 3.9 million ounces (1.98 million equity ounces) of gold from proven and probable reserves to mineralized material not in reserve as of December 31, 2004.

Kori Kollo, Bolivia

.    Mining was completed and the mill was closed in October 2003. Production
has continued from residual leaching. Kori Kollo will begin processing oxide ores on leach pads from the Kori Chaca pit and reprocessing high-grade tailings on a new leach pad in 2005. These projects are expected to produce 85,000 equity ounces in
2005 at total cash costs of $150 per equity ounce.

Australia/New Zealand Operations

(1)

Ownership increased from 85.9% to 100% in April 2003.

(2)

Ownership increased from 92.28% to 100% in April 2003.

(3)

Gold sales are accounted for as a by-product and are not included in weighted average total
cash costs.



Australia/New Zealand operations for 2002 reflect activity from February 16, 2002 (Normandy acquisition
effective date of February 15, 2002) through December 31, 2002 with the exception of Pajingo, which reflects Newmont’s 50% ownership through February 15, 2002 and 100% ownership from February 16, 2002 forward.

Australia/New Zealand operations sold 5% fewer equity ounces of gold in 2004
compared to 2003 primarily because of lower production from Pajingo and Yandal due to the sale of Wiluna in December 2003 and Bronzewing in the third quarter of 2004. In 2003, gold equity ounces sold increased 11% compared to 2002, primarily due to
a full year of Newmont ownership in 2003 compared to ten and one-half months in 2002. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased in 2004 compared to 2003 and in 2003 compared to 2002 by 16% and 24%, respectively, due to appreciation of the
Australian and New Zealand dollars compared to the U.S. dollar (see Foreign Currency Exchange Rates, below) and the decrease in ounces sold in 2004.

Pajingo, Australia

.    Gold equity ounces sold decreased 24% in 2004 from 2003, primarily due to a 33% decline in ore grade and
a ground disturbance that delayed mill feed. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 78%, primarily due to the lower ore grade resulting in lower production, increased mine maintenance costs and appreciation of the Australian dollar. During the
fourth quarter of 2004, Pajingo recorded goodwill and long-lived assets impairment charges of $51.8 million and $5.8 million, respectively, as a result of anticipated increased future operating costs and lower grade ore.

In 2003, gold equity ounces sold increased 11% from 2002, primarily due to a
13% increase in ore grade and a full year of Newmont operations. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 36%, primarily due to the appreciation of the Australian dollar, increased development activity and increased overhead charges.

Gold sales for 2005 are expected to be approximately 205,000 ounces at
total cash costs of $250 per equity ounce. Based on current mine plans, gold equity ounces sold are expected to decline each year to approximately 55,000 ounces in 2008 as the project approaches the end of its life.

Yandal, Australia

.    Gold equity ounces sold
decreased 33% in 2004 from 2003, primarily due to a 46% decrease in mill throughput, partially offset by an 8% increase in mill ore grade. Jundee is the remaining active mine of the Yandal operations after the sale of the Wiluna operation in
December 2003 and the cessation of mining at Bronzewing during the first quarter of 2004. Newmont sold Bronzewing in the third quarter of 2004 (see Other Investing Activities, below). Total cash costs per equity ounce remained the same as the
appreciation of the Australian dollar was offset by production coming mainly from the lower cost Jundee operation.

Gold equity ounces sold decreased 7% in 2003 from 2002, primarily from a 7% decrease in mill ore grade driven by lower grades at all three sites,
partially offset by a full year of Newmont operations in 2003. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 27%, primarily due to higher operating costs related to increased underground activities at Jundee and Wiluna and the appreciation of the
Australian dollar.

Gold sales for 2005 are expected to be
approximately 325,000 ounces at total cash costs of $300 per ounce. Sales for 2005 through 2009 are expected to vary between 235,000 and 325,000 equity ounces per year.

Tanami, Australia

.    Gold equity ounces sold increased 12% in 2004 from 2003, primarily due to a
decrease in inventory and the increase in ownership from 85.9% to 100% in April 2003. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 17%, primarily due to the appreciation of the Australian dollar, higher royalties due to increased gold prices and
additional backfill costs underground.

In 2003, gold equity
ounces sold increased 30% over 2002, primarily due to a full year of Newmont operations, the April 2003 increase in ownership percentage and a 19% increase in mill throughput. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 17%, primarily due to the
appreciation of the Australian dollar, higher royalties due to higher gold prices, increases in milling costs and higher overhead charges.



Gold sales for 2005 are expected to be approximately 475,000 equity ounces at total cash costs of $295
per ounce.

Kalgoorlie,
Australia

.    Gold equity ounces sold increased 16% in 2004 from 2003, primarily due to a decrease in inventory. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 13%, primarily due to the appreciation of the Australian dollar,
higher amortization of deferred stripping costs, increased diesel fuel prices and higher processing consumables costs.

In 2003, gold equity ounces sold increased 25% from 2002, primarily due to a 15% increase in mill throughput and an 18% increase in mill ore grade, as
well as having a full year of Newmont operations. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 22%, primarily due to the appreciation of the Australian dollar, higher amortization of deferred stripping and an increase in underground mining activity
at Mt. Charlotte. The increased costs were partially offset by increased gold equity ounces sold.

Gold sales for 2005 are expected to be approximately 440,000 equity ounces at total cash costs of $335 per equity ounce.

Martha, New Zealand

.    Gold equity ounces sold
increased 20% in 2004 from 2003, primarily due to a 16% increase in mill ore grade and the increase in ownership from 92.28% to 100% in April 2003. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 7%, primarily due to the appreciation of the New Zealand
dollar.

Gold equity ounces sold in 2003 increased by only 1%
compared to 2002, despite the fact that 2002 included only ten and one-half months of production. This is attributable to a 13% decline in mill ore grade in 2003, partially offset by an 18% increase in mill throughput. Total cash costs per equity
ounce increased 28%, primarily due to the appreciation of the New Zealand dollar, increased milling costs from higher electricity rates, higher consumption of grinding media, an earlier than planned SAG mill liner replacement and higher cyanide and
lime consumption.

Gold sales for 2005 are expected to be
approximately 140,000 equity ounces at total cash costs of $225 per equity ounce. Gold equity ounces sold are expected to remain relatively constant until 2009.

Golden Grove, Australia

.    Copper sales decreased by 41% in 2004 from 2003, primarily due lower grade and higher inventory
sales in 2003. Zinc sales increased by 10%, primarily due to a 10% increase in ore processed and a decrease in inventory, partially offset by lower grade. Total cash costs per equity pound of copper and zinc increased 53% and 100%, respectively,
primarily from lower copper and zinc grades, higher ground support costs and the appreciation of the Australian dollar. In 2003, copper sales increased 66% over 2002, primarily due to the timing of concentrate shipments.

Lead, silver and gold by-product credits at Golden Grove totaled $15.7
million, $15.5 million and $16.0 million during 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. As Golden Grove has a poly-metallic ore body, such by-product credits are expected to continue in the future and to vary from period-to-period based on the portions
of the ore body being extracted at the time.

Golden Grove is
expected to sell approximately 40 to 50 million equity pounds of copper at total cash costs per equity pound of $1.00 to $1.05 and approximately 200 to 220 million equity pounds of zinc at total cash costs per equity pound of $0.30 to $0.35 in 2005.



Indonesian Operations

(1)

2003 and 2002 total cash costs for Batu Hijau reflect the pro forma change to co-product accounting effective January 1, 2004. Co-product accounting for copper and
gold includes production costs identifiable for each product (royalties, freight, smelting and refining) and allocates the remaining costs in proportion to the sales revenue generated by each product.

(2)

Newmont’s economic interest decreased to 52.875% from 56.25% on October 1, 2004.

(3)

Batu Hijau was accounted for using the equity method in 2003 and 2002, and was not included in the weighted-average total cash costs per ounce for such years.

Batu Hijau

.    During
2003 and 2002, Newmont accounted for its 56.25% economic interest (a 45% ownership interest) in Batu Hijau under the equity method of accounting (see Equity Investments, below). Upon adoption of FIN 46R, Newmont consolidated the operations of Batu
Hijau as of January 1, 2004 (see Overview, above). As of October 1, 2004, Batu Hijau’s cumulative losses had been recovered and Batu Hijau began to report positive retained earnings, allowing for the payment of dividends, 6% of which are paid
to the minority partner. Accordingly, Newmont began recognizing the minority interests in Batu Hijau at 47.125% (effective 52.875% Newmont share) of Batu Hijau’s earnings and will continue to do so until a loan to the minority interest partner
is fully repaid (including accrued interest). See Consolidated Financial Results above for more information.

Under the Batu Hijau Contract of Work, beginning in 2005 and continuing through 2010, a portion of the project must be offered for sale to the Indonesian
government or to Indonesian nationals, equal to the difference between the following percentages and the percentage of shares already owned by the Indonesian government or Indonesian nationals (if such number is positive): 15%, by the end of 2005;
23%, by the end of 2006; 30%, by the end of 2007; 37%, by the end of 2008; 44%, by the end of 2009; and 51%, by the end of 2010. The price at which such interest must be offered for sale to the Indonesian parties is the highest of the then-current
replacement cost, the price at which shares of the project company would be accepted for listing on the Jakarta Stock Exchange, or the fair market value of such interest in the project company as a going concern.

An Indonesian national currently owns a 20% interest in Batu Hijau, which
would require Newmont and Sumitomo to offer a 3% interest in Batu Hijau to the Indonesian government or to Indonesian nationals in 2006. Pursuant to this provision, it is possible that the ownership interest of the Newmont/Sumitomo partnership in
Batu Hijau could be reduced to 49% by the end of 2010.

Copper
and gold sales quantities increased 12% and 22% in 2004 from 2003, respectively. The increases were primarily attributable to higher mill throughput reflecting modifications to the crusher circuit in the second half of 2003 and higher ore grades
(copper 5%, gold 10%).

Beginning in 2004, Newmont began
utilizing co-product accounting for copper and gold whereby sales and costs applicable to sales are recognized for each product. During 2003 and 2002, Batu Hijau accounted for sales



of gold as a by-product credit to copper production costs. On a co-product basis, copper and gold total cash costs per equity pound of copper and ounce of
gold increased 30% and 6%, respectively in 2004, due to higher diesel fuel consumption and price, higher equipment maintenance costs, increased mill throughput and higher insurance costs. In addition, under co-product accounting, copper was
allocated a higher percentage of total costs during 2004, compared to 2003, as the average copper price increased (55%) more significantly than did the average gold price (13%) in 2004.

In 2003, equity copper pounds and gold ounces sold decreased 5% and 18%, respectively, from 2002. The decrease in copper
sales was primarily attributable to lower mill throughput. Gold equity ounces sold increased 22% due a 25% increase in the gold grade processed. Total equity cash costs on a co-product basis for copper and gold were similar in 2003 and 2002.

Sales for 2005 are expected to total approximately 330 to 360
million equity pounds of copper at total cash costs per equity pound of $0.58 to $0.64 and 430,000 equity ounces of gold at total cash costs per equity ounce of $145.

Minahasa

.    Gold equity ounces sold decreased 24% in 2004 from 2003, primarily reflecting lower
grade ore and the completion of milling on August 30, 2004 resulting in lower mill throughput. Mining activities at Minahasa ceased late in 2001. The remaining stockpiles were processed by August 30, 2004.

In 2003, gold equity ounces sold decreased 37% from 2002, primarily due to a
27% decrease in mill ore grade and a 3% decrease in mill throughput. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 14%, primarily due to the increased use of consumables, higher diesel fuel prices and a higher level of contracted services, partially
offset by lower administrative expenses. See Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding legal actions related to Minahasa.

Central Asia Operations

(1)

Joint venture between Newmont and two Uzbekistan government entities, the State Committee for Geology and Mineral Resources (the “State Committee”) and
Navoi Mining and Metallurgical Combinat (“Navoi”)

Zarafshan, Uzbekistan

.    Gold equity ounces sold decreased 4% in 2004 from 2003 as a result of a 3% decrease in ore grade and a 2% decrease in ore placed on the leach pads. The lower ore
grade is expected to continue during 2005. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 3% primarily a result of the decrease in gold ounces sold.

In 2003, gold equity ounces sold decreased 15% from 2002 due to a 19% decrease in ore grade processed, partially offset by a 3% increase in ore placed on
the leach pads. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 10%, primarily due to the decrease in gold equity ounces sold.

Zarafshan-Newmont is expected to sell approximately 150,000 equity ounces in 2005 at total cash costs of $215 per equity ounce. Based on current mine
plans, gold sales at Zarafshan-Newmont are expected to vary between 150,000 and 180,000 equity ounces per year during the four years after 2005.

Ovacik, Turkey

.    Gold ounces sold decreased 35% in 2004 from 2003, primarily due to a suspension of operations, discussed
below, partially offset by reducing ore stockpiles and exhausting circuit inventory. Total cash costs per equity ounce increased 50%, primarily due to the decline in production. In 2003, gold ounces sold increased 34% from 2002, primarily
attributable to a 48% increase in mill throughput resulting from a revised



mine plan that incorporated an open pit extension and increased mill efficiencies, partially offset by a 6% decrease in mill ore grade. Total cash costs per
equity ounce increased 6% in 2003 from 2002 as the positive impact of increased gold sales was offset by higher processing costs and higher administration costs.

In August 2004, the Ovacik mine suspended operations as a result of a court decision ordering suspension of operating
permits pending completion of certain additional permitting requirements and the submission of an updated environmental impact assessment. On March 1, 2005, the Ovacik mine was sold to a subsidiary of Koza Davetiye, a Turkish conglomerate.
Consideration for the mine included $20 million paid at closing and various contingent payments that could total as much as $24.5 million if all conditions precedent are met.

In the second quarter of 2004, the Company recognized a write-down of $16.3 million related to the long-lived assets at the
Ovacik mine. Proven and probable reserves and the carrying value of long-lived assets at December 31, 2004 were approximately 100,000 equity ounces and $26.4 million, respectively.

Other Operations

Information related to
TVX Newmont Americas and Echo Bay for 2003 reflects activity only from January 1, 2003 to January 31, 2003, when the investments were sold and exchanged as part of the Kinross transaction (see Other Investing Activities). Information for 2002
related to TVX Newmont Americas, which was acquired as a result of the Normandy acquisition on February 15, 2002, reflects activity from February 16, 2002 through December 31, 2002. Information related to Echo Bay for 2002 reflects activity from
April 3, 2002 (the date Newmont’s investment was converted from capital debt securities to common shares of Echo Bay) through December 31, 2002.

Merchant Banking

Merchant Banking is a “reportable segment” for financial reporting purposes. Merchant Banking, also referred to as Newmont Capital, manages a
Royalty Portfolio, an Equity Portfolio, and a Downstream Gold Refining business, and engages in Value Realization activities (managing interests in oil and gas, iron ore, and coal properties as well as providing in-house investment banking and
advisory services).

Merchant Banking manages a Royalty Portfolio which includes interests that were acquired as a result of the Franco-Nevada acquisition, as well as
royalties created by virtue of its land bank activities (through sale or farm-out). Royalty interests are generally in the form of a net smelter return (“NSR”) royalty that provides for the payment of a specified percentage of production,
less certain specified transportation and refining costs. In some cases, Newmont owns a net profit interest (“NPI”) entitling Newmont to a specified percentage of the net profits, as defined in each case, from a particular mining
operation. The majority of NSR royalty revenue and NPI revenue can be received in cash or in-kind at the option of Newmont. Merchant Banking’s royalty interests and investments generated $65.8 million, $56.3 million and $35.7 million of

Royalty and dividend income

in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase from period-to-period was primarily attributable to steady performance from the gold and platinum group metals royalties coupled with higher gold and oil and gas
prices. The 2004 increase also included distributions received from Canadian Oil Sands Trust.

As of December 31, 2004, Merchant Banking’s Equity Portfolio had a market value of approximately $0.5 billion compared to the 2003 value of approximately $147 million. In addition to a gain of approximately
$123.1



million during 2004, Merchant Banking purchased marketable equity securities of Canadian Oil Sands Trust and Gabriel Resources, Ltd. for approximately $199.6
million and $19.2 million, respectively. On January 31, 2003, Kinross Gold Corporation (“Kinross”), Echo Bay Mines Ltd. (“Echo Bay”) and TVX Gold Inc. (“TVX Gold”) were combined, and TVX Gold acquired Newmont’s
49.9% interest in the TVX Newmont Americas joint venture. Under the terms of the combination and acquisition and through the efforts of Merchant Banking, Newmont received a 13.8% interest in the restructured Kinross in exchange for its then 45.67%
interest in Echo Bay and $180 million for its interest in TVX Newmont Americas. Newmont recognized a pre-tax gain of $84.3 million on the transaction in

Gain on investments, net

during the first quarter of 2003. During the third quarter of
2003, Newmont sold a portion of its Kinross shares for total cash proceeds of $224.6 million and recorded a pre-tax loss on sale of $7.4 million. At June 30, 2004, Newmont recognized a $38.5 million impairment of its investment in Kinross for an
other-than-temporary decline in value in accordance with SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.” Merchant Banking sold its 9.74% equity holding in marketable securities of Lihir Gold during
2002 for approximately $84 million, resulting in the recognition of a pre-tax gain of approximately $47.3 million.

Merchant Banking also manages the Company’s interests in downstream gold refining and distribution businesses (40% interest in AGR Matthey Joint
Venture (“AGR”) and 50% interest in European Gold Refineries (“EGR”)). Merchant Banking earned $2.6 million, $0.7 million and $1.3 million in

Equity income of affiliates

through its investments in AGR and EGR in 2004, 2003
and 2002, respectively.

Merchant Banking’s Value
Realization activities include managing the reserve delineation program on its 100% owned heavy oil leases in Alberta, Canada, and advancing its other interests in coal, iron ore and natural gas.

Merchant Banking provides advisory services to Newmont to assist it in
managing its portfolio of operating and property interests. In 2004, Merchant Banking’s assistance was provided in the sale of non-core properties including Bronzewing in Australia, Perama in Greece and Midwest Uranium in Canada. In addition,
Merchant Banking participated in the restructuring of Australian Magnesium Corporation eliminating all remaining Newmont obligations (see Other Investing Activities below). In 2003, Merchant Banking advised Newmont on a variety of transactions
including the process of extinguishing the majority of the bond and derivative liabilities of NYOL. These transactions gave rise to a

Gain on extinguishment of NYOL liabilities, net

of $220.5 million net of transaction costs, for the year
ended December 31, 2003. Total cash payments to extinguish the NYOL bonds and the NYOL derivatives liabilities (including costs) were $202.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2003.

Exploration

Exploration, research and development expenditures were $192.4 million,
$115.2 million, and $88.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, of which approximately $112.2 million, $81.5 million and $71.3 million, respectively, related to exploration activities managed by the Exploration
Segment. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, approximately $53.9 million, $14.8 million, and $3.6 million, respectively, related to advanced projects (feasibility studies and exploration drilling at Martabe, Akyem, Minas Conga and
Ahafo), and approximately $26.3 million, $18.9 million and $14.0 million, respectively, related to research, development and other activities not managed by Newmont’s Exploration Segment.

Exploration expenditures in 2004 reflect higher funding of exploration and
related activities by Newmont in response to higher prevailing gold prices. During 2004, Newmont replaced approximately 11.3 million gold ounces of depletion and divestitures with 12.4 million ounces of additions to proven and probable reserves, of
which approximately 70% were attributable to Exploration. Exploration activities during 2004 primarily focused on the Minas Conga deposit in Peru and the Phoenix deposit in Nevada. Newmont added 4.5 million equity gold ounces at Minas Conga and 2.3
million equity gold ounces at Phoenix in 2004. Exploration also focused its activities on Newmont’s two projects in Ghana where reserves increased to 10.6 million equity gold ounces at



Ahafo and 5.4 million equity gold ounces at Akyem as of December 31, 2004, compared to 7.6 million equity gold ounces and 4.3 million equity gold ounces,
respectively, at December 31, 2003. Exploration activities during 2003 primarily focused on the Antonio and Corimayo deposits at Yanacocha, various deposits at the Company’s Nevada and Australian operations and the Ahafo and Akyem projects in
Ghana. Newmont anticipates it will spend between approximately $170 million and $200 million on exploration activities in 2005.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates

In addition to its domestic operations in the United States, Newmont has operations in Australia, New Zealand, Peru, Indonesia, Canada, Uzbekistan,
Bolivia and other foreign locations. The Company’s foreign operations sell their gold, copper and zinc production based on U.S. dollar metal prices.

Fluctuations in the local currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar can increase or decrease profit margins and total cash costs per ounce or
pound to the extent costs are paid in local currency at foreign operations. Such fluctuations have not had a material impact on the Company’s revenue since gold, copper and zinc are sold throughout the world principally in U.S. dollars.
Approximately 42%, 45% and 46% of Newmont’s total cash costs were paid in local currencies in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The Company’s total cash costs are most significantly impacted by variations in the Australian dollar/U.S.
dollar exchange rate. However, variations in the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate historically have been strongly correlated to variations in the U.S. dollar gold price over the long-term. Increases or decreases in costs at Australian
locations due to exchange rate changes have therefore tended to be mitigated by changes in sales reported in U.S. dollars at Australian locations in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. No assurance, however, can be given that the
Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate will continue to be strongly correlated to the U.S. dollar gold price in the future.

The following chart demonstrates the impacts on total cash costs and total cash costs per ounce or pound of variations in the local currency exchange
rates in relation to the U.S. dollar at Newmont’s foreign operations during each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004.

Year ended December 31, 2004:



Year ended December 31, 2003:

Year ended December
31, 2002

(1)

:

(1)

Includes impact from February 15, 2002, the date of the acquisition of Normandy, through December 31, 2002.



The following chart demonstrates the estimated sensitivity of projected total cash costs and cash costs
per ounce or pound to variations of the local currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar in 2005 assuming a 5% appreciation or devaluation of the local currency in relation to the U.S. dollar and assuming that foreign currency
denominated cash costs remain the same as 2004 as a percentage of total cash costs at each site:

In addition, the
Company’s

Equity income of affiliates

varied due to increases or decreases in costs from changes in the Indonesian Rupiah in relation to the U.S. dollar at Batu Hijau as follows:

Year ended December 31,

Percentage

change in

average local

currency

exchange

rate;

appreciation

(devaluation)

Additional

income (loss)

included in equity

income (loss)

in affiliates,
net

(000)


8%

$

(2,974

)


6%

$

(1,750

)

The Company does not
believe that foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar have had a material impact on its determination of proven and probable reserves in the past. However, in the event that a sustained weakening of the U.S. dollar in relation
to the Australian dollar, and/or to other foreign currencies that impact the Company’s cost structure, were not mitigated by offsetting increases in the U.S. dollar gold price or by other factors, the Company believes that the amount of proven
and probable reserves in the applicable foreign country could be reduced as certain proven and probable reserves may no longer be economic. The extent of any such reduction would be dependent on a variety of factors including the length of time of
any such weakening of the U.S. dollar, and management’s long-term view of the applicable exchange rate. Future reductions of proven and probable reserves would primarily result in reduced gold, copper or zinc sales and increased depreciation,
depletion and amortization calculated using the units-of-production method and, depending on the level of reduction, could also result in impairments of property, plant and mine development, mineral interests and/or goodwill.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment”, which revised SFAS No. 123 “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” and superseded APB Opinion 25 “Accounting for



Stock Issued to Employees” and its related implementation guidance. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement and recording to the financial
statements the costs of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award, recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for
such award. Newmont will adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 123R on July 1, 2005 using the modified prospective application. Accordingly, compensation expense will be recognized for all newly granted awards and awards modified, repurchased,
or cancelled after July 1, 2005. Compensation cost for the unvested portion of awards that are outstanding as of July 1, 2005 will be recognized ratably over the remaining vesting period. The compensation cost for the unvested portion of
awards will be based on the fair value at date of grant as calculated for our pro forma disclosure under SFAS No. 123. The effect on net income and earnings per share in the periods following adoption of SFAS No. 123R are
expected to be consistent with our pro forma disclosure under SFAS No. 123, except that estimated forfeitures will be considered in the calculation of compensation expense under SFAS No. 123R. Additionally, the actual effect on
net income and earnings per share will vary depending upon the number and fair value of options granted in 2005 compared to prior years.

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, “Inventory Costs-an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4,” which
clarifies the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material as current period costs. It also requires that allocations of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the
normal capacity of the production facilities. The Statement applies to inventory costs incurred in the first fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005. Newmont has not determined the impact, if any, on the Company’s financial position or
results from operations.

A committee of the Emerging Issues
Task Force (“EITF”) discussed the accounting for deferred stripping costs but did not reach a consensus in 2004. The Task Force considered the recommendation that stripping costs incurred during production are a mine development cost that
should be capitalized as an investment in the mine and attributed to the proven and probable reserves benefited in a systematic and rational manner. However, the Task Force directed the FASB staff to develop additional guidance about what
constitutes a systematic and rational manner of attributing the capitalized costs to proven and probable reserves benefited. The Company cannot predict whether the deliberations of the EITF will ultimately modify or otherwise result in new
accounting standards or interpretations thereof that differ from the Company’s current practices.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

For 2004,

Net cash provided by operating activities

was $1,556.8 million, compared to $684.4 million and $684.7 million for 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Net cash provided by operating activities

was significantly impacted by
the following key factors:

Cash flow from
operations during 2004 was impacted by the consolidation of Batu Hijau effective January 1, 2004, and higher gold and copper prices, partially offset by higher costs at virtually all operations and lower ounces sold in Nevada and Canada.
Additionally, cash was used in 2004 to reduce operating accounts payable and reclamation liabilities by $64.0 million and $50.7 million, respectively, partially offset by a decrease



in operating trade and accounts receivable of $50.1 million primarily related to copper concentrate sales. Cash used in 2003 for operating assets and
liabilities primarily related to $118.8 million used for early settlement of effective derivative instruments and a temporary build up of inventories at 2003 year end that reduced cash flow from operations by $72.8 million.

Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities

was $(1.4)
billion, $(380.0) million and $112.1 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Newmont’s primary investing activities are

Additions to property, plant and mine development,

which were $718.0 million, $504.5 million and $300.1 million
for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in capital expenditures during 2004 was primarily from development projects at Nevada and Ahafo as well as the consolidation of Batu Hijau. See

Additions to Property, plant and mine development

below for more information on capital expenditures. The Company also invested $1.7 billion in marketable debt and equity securities, primarily consisting of $1.5 billion for auction rate securities and $199.6 million for the Canadian Oil Sands
Trust investment. Additionally, cash proceeds from the sale of investments impacted investing cash flow by $899.1 million, primarily consisting of $894.3 million for auction rate securities sold as part of the auction process. Also impacting cash
flows from investing activities for 2004 was the recognition of $82.2 million of Batu Hijau’s cash balances in the Company’s balance sheet at January 1, 2004. In 2003 and 2002, the Company engaged in significant acquisition and disposition
activity related to the acquisitions of Normandy and Franco-Nevada and the subsequent disposition of investments acquired as part of those acquisitions. The year 2003 included $180.0 million in proceeds from the sale of TVX Newmont Americas and
$232.2 million from the sale of Kinross Gold Corporation and other marketable securities; partially offset by $189.4 million investments in marketable debt and equity securities, primarily related to auction rate securities and investments in
affiliates of $70.1 million. Additionally, during 2003, $57.6 million was used for the early settlement of ineffective derivative instruments and $11.2 million was used to acquire the Newmont NFM minority interests. Cash from investing activities in
2002 included $404.4 million of proceeds from the sale of marketable securities, $84.0 million of proceeds from the sale of investments and $50.8 million of proceeds from the settlement of cross currency swaps, offset by $90.3 million of net cash
consideration for the acquisitions of Normandy and Franco-Nevada. See Investing Activities, below.

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities

was $(475.2) million in 2004, compared to $400.7 million and $(558.9) million in 2003 and 2002,
respectively. Financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2004 primarily consisted of $253.7 million of debt repayments offset by proceeds from debt and stock issuances totaling $55.9 million and $77.5 million, respectively. The
Company also used $236.9 million to pay dividends to minority interests during 2004 compared to $146.0 million and $28.8 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in dividends paid to minority interests was due to the consolidation of
Batu Hijau, which had minority interest dividends of approximately $100.7 million during 2004. Additionally, $133.3 million was used to pay dividends to common stockholders during 2004, which increased to $0.30 per common share in 2004 from $0.17
per common share in 2003. The increase in cash from financing activities in 2003 was primarily related to approximately $1.0 billion in proceeds from the issuance of 25 million shares of the Company’s common stock, proceeds of $492.8 million
from borrowings under the Company’s credit facilities, $162.5 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock on the exercise of Franco-Nevada Class B warrants and $96.8 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock related to
stock compensation plans, partially offset by $1.2 billion of debt repayments and $70.8 million of cash paid for dividends on common and preferred stock. Financing activities in 2002 included repayments of approximately $1.0 billion of debt
partially offset by draw-downs on the Company’s credit facilities of $493.4 million. See Financing Activities, below.



Newmont’s contractual obligations at December 31, 2004 are summarized as follows:

(1)

Amounts represent principal and estimated interest payments assuming no early extinguishment.

(2)

Mining operations are subject to extensive environmental regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Pursuant to environmental regulations, the Company
is required to close its operations and reclaim and remediate the lands that operations have disturbed. The estimated undiscounted cash outflows of these remediation and reclamation obligations are reflected here. For more information regarding
remediation and reclamation liabilities, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(3)

Contractual obligations for

Other long-term liabilities

include employee related liabilities such as severance, pension funding and other benefit plans.
Pension plan funding beyond 2005 cannot be reasonably estimated given variable market conditions and actuarial assumptions and are not included. Payments related to derivative contracts cannot be reasonably estimated given variable market
conditions. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(4)

Purchase obligations are not recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Purchase obligations represent contractual obligations for purchase of power,
materials and supplies, consumables, inventories and capital projects.

(5)

Other contractual obligations that are not reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements include labor and service contracts.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company has the following off-balance sheet
arrangements: operating leases as disclosed in the above table and $357.2 million of outstanding letters of credit, surety bonds and bank guarantees (see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Newmont also provides an undrawn contingent
support line of credit to Batu Hijau of $65 million.

Batu
Hijau has sales agreements to sell copper concentrates as follows (in thousands of metric tons): 930 in 2005; 685 in 2006; 650 in 2007; 625 in 2008 and 2009; and 2,725 thereafter. For information regarding these copper sales agreements, see Item 7A,
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk-Hedging, Provisional Copper and Gold Sales, below.

Future Cash Flows

The Company expects to use cash for capital expenditures (see Investing Activities, below), to fund the Exploration and Merchant Banking Segments (see
Results of Operations, above) and to service debt. For information on the Company’s long-term debt, capital lease obligations and operating leases, see Note 11 to the



Consolidated Financial Statements. Newmont believes it will be able to fund all existing obligations from either

Net cash provided by operating
activities

or cash and marketable debt securities on hand. Subject to any significant adverse changes in the Company’s long-term view of gold and copper prices, the Company has both the ability and intention to fund from

Net cash
provided by operating activities,

the exploration expenditures and Merchant Banking investments that were assumed in the valuations performed to allocate goodwill to the Exploration and Merchant Banking Segments as part of the purchase
accounting for the acquisitions of Normandy and Franco-Nevada (see Critical Accounting Policies, above). The Company believes it will be able to raise funds as needed in the future as opportunities for expansion arise.

Newmont’s cash flows are expected to be impacted by variations in the
spot price of gold and copper. The Company has a series of price-capped gold sales contracts under which it will realize the lower of the spot price on the delivery date or the capped price ranging from $350 per ounce in 2005 to $392 per ounce in
2011. The Company also has copper collar contracts for 580.9 million pounds of copper under which it will realize a minimum and maximum price of $1.10 and $1.30 per pound, respectively, in 2005 through 2007. For information on the sensitivity of
Newmont’s

Net cash provided by operating activities

to metal prices, see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

Cash flows are also expected to be impacted by variations in foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar, particularly with respect to
the Australian dollar. For information concerning the sensitivity of the Company’s cash costs to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, see Results of Operations, Foreign Currency Exchange Rates, above. The Company has entered into
Australian dollar net zero-cost collar contracts under which it will purchase Australian dollars at a minimum average floor price of $0.568 and average maximum cap price of $0.783 per Australian dollar in 2005 and 2006. For information on the
sensitivity of Newmont’s

Net cash provided to operating activities

to foreign currency exchange rates, see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

Based on Newmont’s production profile for the next three years and proven and probable reserves at December 31, 2004,
without considering future additions to such reserves, Newmont expects that equity ounces sold in 2005, 2006 and 2007 will be between 6.5 and 7.0 million equity ounces. The Company does not anticipate that reasonably expected variations in gold or
copper sales alone will influence its ability to pay its debt and other obligations over that period.



Investing Activities

Additions to Property, Plant and Mine Development

Capital expenditures
for North American operations during 2004 primarily included $51.6 million for the development of the Leeville underground mine, $26.2 million for the development of the Phoenix Project and $20.9 million for the Mill 5 flotation plant expansion.
South American capital expenditures were primarily at Yanacocha, with approximately $79.4 million for mine and leach pad expansions at the La Quinua and Yanacocha pits, $33.4 million for environmental site and regional water management projects,
$46.0 million for mining equipment and $73.1 million related to other ongoing expansion work. Australia/New Zealand capital expenditures primarily included $54.0 million for mine development and reserve definition, $19.0 million for mining equipment
previously leased under an operating lease at Kalgoorlie, $10.1 million for facilities and $6.6 million for mobile equipment. Batu Hijau capital expenditures were primarily for mine and plant equipment.



Capital expenditures at Ahafo were primarily for the engineering, procurement and construction of the mine and processing facilities. Akyem capital
expenditures were for development activities. Corporate expenditures included $32.9 million primarily for improvements in information technology systems.

During 2003, capital expenditures for North American operations included $60.4 million for Leeville and $11.3 million for the development of the Deep Post
and Midas underground mines. South American capital expenditures were primarily at Yanacocha, with approximately $93.2 million for mine and leach pad development, $24.4 million for environmental site and regional water management projects, $30.3
million for mining equipment and $57.8 million related to other ongoing expansion work. Australia/New Zealand capital expenditures included approximately $50.8 million for mine development and reserve definition and $61.2 million for equipment.
Capital expenditures at Akyem and Ahafo were for developmental drilling and other development activities. Corporate expenditures included $15.1 million for improvements in information technology systems.

In 2002, capital expenditures in North America included deferred mine
development of $15.3 million, primarily for the Deep Post and Midas mines, $16.4 million for development of Leeville and optimization of the Phoenix project, $5.1 million for the Lone Tree Tailings Dam expansion and other replacement capital. South
America capital expenditures related primarily to Yanacocha for leach pad expansions of $69.2 million, mine development of $16.7 million, environmental expenditures of $14.3 million, carbon columns and refinery of $12.9 million and other replacement
capital. Australia/New Zealand capital expenditures included approximately $26.0 million for mine development and $3.6 million for haul truck purchases at Kalgoorlie.

Newmont expects to spend approximately $1.0 to $1.3 billion on capital expenditures during 2005, with approximately 37% for
North American operations, 21% for South American operations, 9% for Australia/New Zealand operations, 23% for the Ghanaian projects and the remainder at other locations. Approximately 36% of the capital budget is allocated to sustaining investments
and the remaining portion is allocated to financing new project development and business improvement initiatives. New projects are being developed in Nevada-Phoenix and Leeville. Phoenix is expected to commence gold production mid-2006 and as of the
2004 year-end had proven and probable gold reserves of 8.5 million equity ounces. Total capital expenditures for Phoenix are projected to be $236 million, of which $37.1 million had been expended as of December 31, 2004. Leeville is expected to
produce approximately 4.0 million ounces of gold commencing at the end of 2005. Total capital expenditures for Leeville are projected to be $220 million, of which $128.1 million had been expended as of December 31, 2004. Total capital expenditures
for the power plant are projected to be approximately $400-$450 million, of which approximately $90 million is expected in 2005.

In South America, Newmont expects to spend approximately $285 million on capital expenditures in 2005. Yanacocha is expected to spend approximately $265
million primarily on mine equipment, leach pad expansions and processing facilities. Kori Kollo is expected to spend approximately $20 million on leach pads and construction of the Kori Chaca project.

Newmont has two advanced projects in Ghana, the Ahafo and Akyem projects. The
Ahafo project is located in the Brong Ahafo Region of Ghana and is 100% owned by Newmont. Total development costs for Ahafo are estimated to be approximately $440 million of which approximately $100 million had been expended as of December 31, 2004.
Initial production of approximately 170,000 equity ounces is expected in 2006 and proven and probable gold reserves as of the 2004 year-end were 10.6 million equity ounces, an increase of approximately 40% from 2003. Newmont has an 85% interest in
the Akyem project located in the Eastern Region of Ghana. At year-end, the Akyem project had 5.4 million equity ounces of proven and probable gold reserves, an increase of approximately 25% from 2003. Newmont is currently updating and optimizing the
feasibility study for Akyem with a view to making a development decision in the middle of 2005.



Other Investing Activities

Marketable debt securities.

The Company had net purchases of $601.5 million and $183.0 million
of auction rate marketable debt securities during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company accounts for the investments as short-term available-for-sale marketable debt securities.

Marketable equity securities.

During the year
ended December 31, 2004, the Company purchased marketable equity securities of Canadian Oil Sands Trust and Gabriel Resources, Ltd. for approximately $199.6 million and $19.2 million, respectively. The Company accounts for the investments as
long-term available-for-sale marketable equity securities.

Sale of Ovacik.

On March 1, 2005, Newmont sold the Ovacik mine, located in western Turkey, to a subsidiary of Koza Davetiye, a listed Turkish conglomerate. Consideration for the mine included $20 million paid
at closing, and various contingent payments that could total as much as $24.5 million if all conditions precedent are met.

Sale of Bronzewing

.    During the third quarter of 2004, Newmont sold assets associated with the closed Bronzewing mine,
including certain mining tenements and plant and equipment. In exchange for the assets, the buyer has agreed to make installment payments through March 2005 totaling A$9 million (approximately $6.2 million), of which approximately A$4.0 million
($2.9 million) had been received as of December 31, 2004, and to assume all of the reclamation and closure liabilities. Under the agreement, Newmont is entitled to a 1% net smelter return royalty on all future metal production from the property.

Sale of Midwest Uranium.

In
December 2004, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newmont sold its 20.7% interest in the Midwest Uranium Joint Venture for proceeds of $10.3 million in cash and marketable equity securities valued at $2.1 million.

Perama.

In December 2004, two wholly-owned
subsidiaries of Newmont completed a sale of their combined 80% interest in Thracean Gold Mining S.A. (“TGM”), which owns the Perama Hill Project located in northeastern Greece to Frontier Pacific Mining Corporation (“Frontier”).
The remaining 20% of TGM was held by S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. (“S&B”), which also sold its interest to Frontier in the same transaction. On April 5, 2004, Frontier paid an initial non-refundable deposit of $1.0 million
(Newmont’s share was $0.8 million) and on December 16, 2004, the transaction closed and Frontier paid an additional $11.0 million (Newmont’s share was $8.8 million).

Martabe

.    Newmont acquired its 90% interest in P.T. Newmont Horas Nauli (“PTNHN”),
which owns the Martabe project, as part of the Normandy acquisition in February 2002. In March 2004, the Company signed an agreement to acquire the remaining 10% interest in PTNHN from P.T. Austindo Nusantara Jaya and South Seas Resources Pty., Ltd.
An initial 5% interest was acquired during the fourth quarter of 2004, and the remaining 5% interest is expected to be purchased on exercise of an option in 2005. The purchase price for the 10% interest is $7.5 million.

Australian Magnesium Corporation.

During 2004,
Newmont Australia Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newmont, entered into an agreement relating to a loan and loan guarantee involving Australian Magnesium Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries. The agreement resulted in the release of
Newmont from its guarantee obligation and the release of all previously accrued and contingent liabilities. This transaction resulted in a $10.6 million gain after providing a A$30.0 million (approximately $23.2 million) subordinated loan to a
subsidiary of QMC. An allowance was provided for 100% of the loan receivable from the QMC entity.

Pension Funding.

Newmont expects to fund approximately $10.0 million into its pension plans in 2005 from

Net cash
provided by operating activities

. For additional discussion see Item 7A, Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk, Pension and Other Benefit Plans, below, and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Financing Activities

Effective
January 1, 2004, the Company included Batu Hijau in its Consolidated Financial Statements, increasing debt by $848.6 million to approximately $1.9 billion. During 2004, the Company received proceeds from debt of $55.9 million and made $253.7 million
in repayments of debt.

In 2002, debt increased $913.7 million
related to debt assumed as part of the acquisition of Normandy, which was subsequently reduced through 2003 as the Company focused on an overall strategy to reduce debt. The Company reduced principal by approximately $700 million for early
extinguishments and $600 million for scheduled payments since December 31, 2001.

During November 2003, Newmont completed an equity offering for 25.0 million shares of its common stock and received proceeds of approximately $1.0 billion. This was the only public offering during the last three
years.

NYOL Debt and Derivatives Liability
Extinguishments

During May 2003, Newmont, through an
indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary, Yandal Bond Company Limited (“YBCL”), acquired all of NYOL’s outstanding 8


/


% Senior Notes due 2008 and all of NYOL’s gold hedge contracts from the relevant counterparties. This transaction gave rise to a

Gain on extinguishment of NYOL liabilities, net

of $220.5 million, net of transaction costs,
for the year ended December 31, 2003. Total cash payments to extinguish the NYOL liabilities (including costs) was $202.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2003.

Other Debt Extinguishments

During 2003, Newmont extinguished the following debt instruments: $148 million of its 8


/


% debentures resulting in a

Loss on extinguishment of debt

of $11.2 million; $52.3 million of its 8


/


% debentures resulting in a

Loss on extinguishment of debt

of $11.6 million; $30.9 million of its 7


/


% guaranteed notes resulting in a

Loss on extinguishment of debt

of $4.4 million; $80.5 million of its


/


% guaranteed notes resulting in a

Loss on extinguishment of debt

$6.4 million; and $100 million in
aggregate principal of its 6% convertible subordinated debentures resulting in a

Loss on extinguishment of debt

of $0.2 million.

Corporate Revolving Credit Facilities

Through July 29, 2004, the Company had three uncollateralized revolving credit facilities with a consortium of banks: a $200
million U.S. dollar-denominated revolving credit facility with an initial term of 364 days that was permitted to be extended annually to no later than October 2006; a $400 million multi-currency revolving credit facility that matured in October 2006
and provided for borrowing in U.S., Canadian and Australian dollars, and which also contained a letter of credit sub-facility; and a $150 million multi-currency revolving credit facility that was to mature in May 2005 and provided for borrowing in
U.S. and Australian dollars. Interest rates and facility fees varied based on the credit ratings of the Company’s senior, uncollateralized, long-term debt. Borrowings under the facilities bore interest at a rate per annum equal to either the
LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 0.45% to 1.25% or the greater of the federal funds rate plus 0.5% or the lead bank’s prime rate plus a margin ranging from 0% to 0.25%. Facility fees were accrued at a rate per annum ranging from 0.10% to 0.40%
of the commitment.

Effective July 30, 2004, the Company
entered into a new uncollateralized $1.25 billion revolving credit facility with a syndicate of commercial banks. This new revolving credit facility replaced the three existing revolving credit facilities which were cancelled upon the effectiveness
of the new facility. The new facility provides for borrowings in U.S. dollars and contains a letter of credit sub-facility. The new facility matures July 30, 2009. Interest rates and facility fees vary based on the credit ratings of the
Company’s senior,



uncollateralized, long-term debt. Borrowings under the facilities bear interest at a rate per annum equal to either LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 0.285%
to 1.150% or the greater of the federal funds rate plus 0.5% or the lead bank’s prime rate plus, in each case, a margin ranging from 0% to 0.150%. Facility fees accrue at a rate per annum ranging from 0.090% to 0.350% of the aggregate
commitments. The Company also pays a utilization fee of 0.125% on the amount of revolving credit loans and letters of credit outstanding under the facility for each day on which the sum of such loans and letters of credit exceed 50% of the
commitments under the facility. Letters of credit issued under the prior credit facilities’ letter of credit sub-facility were transferred to and remain outstanding under the new facility’s letter of credit sub-facility. At December 31,
2004, the facility fees were 0.125% of the commitment. There was $357.2 million outstanding under the letter of credit sub-facility as of December 31, 2004.

Prepaid Forward Sales Contract

In July 1999, the Company entered into a prepaid forward gold sales contract (the “Prepaid Forward”) and a forward gold purchase contract (the
“Forward Purchase”). Under the Prepaid Forward, the Company agreed to sell 483,333 ounces of gold, to be delivered in June of each of 2005, 2006 and 2007 in annual installments of 161,111 ounces (the “Annual Delivery
Requirements”). The Company also agreed under the Prepaid Forward to deliver semi-annually 17,951 ounces of gold, from June 2000 through June 2007 (the “Semi-Annual Delivery Requirements”) for a total gold delivery obligation over the
life of the Prepaid Forward of 752,598 ounces. At the time the Prepaid Forward was entered into, the Company received net proceeds of $137.2 million ($145.0 million of gross proceeds before transaction costs of $653,000 and the purchase of a $7.1
million surety bond to guarantee delivery of the Annual Delivery Requirements). The Company may also be entitled to receive additional proceeds in the future in connection with the annual deliveries of 161,111 ounces, to be determined at each
delivery date based on the excess, if any, of the then market price for gold (up to a maximum of $380 per ounce) over $300 per ounce.

At the time the Company entered into the Prepaid Forward, it also entered into the Forward Purchase, with the same counterparty, to hedge the price risk
with respect to the Semi-Annual Delivery Requirements. The Forward Purchase provides for semi-annual purchases of 17,951 ounces of gold on each semi-annual delivery date under the Prepaid Forward at prices increasing from $263 per ounce in 2000 to
$354 per ounce in 2007. On each semi-annual delivery date, the ounces purchased under the Forward Purchase are delivered in satisfaction of the Company’s delivery requirements under the Prepaid Forward. The transaction has been accounted for as
a single borrowing of $145 million, with interest accruing, based on an effective interest rate recognized over the full term of the borrowing. Scheduled repayments are $48.3 million in each of years 2005, 2006 and 2007. Using relevant future market
conditions and financial models, the estimated negative fair value of these contracts was approximately $204.5 million and $208.7 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Debt Covenants

Certain of Newmont’s current debt facilities contain various common public debt covenants and default provisions including payment defaults,
limitation on liens, limitation on sales and leaseback agreements and merger restrictions. These debt instruments include the medium-term notes, 8


/


% debentures, 8


/


% debentures and sale-leaseback of the
refractory ore treatment plant. None of the aforementioned public debt instruments contain financial ratio covenants or credit rating provisions that could create liquidity issues for the Company.

In addition to the covenants noted above, the Company’s new revolving
credit facility contains financial ratio covenants requiring the Company to maintain a net debt (total debt net of cash) to EBITDA (Earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization) ratio of less than or equal to 4.0 and
a net debt to total capitalization ratio (ratio of net debt to total capitalization, which includes owner’s equity retained earnings and fixed assets) of less than or equal to 62.5%. Furthermore, the revolving credit facility contains covenants
limiting the sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets and a negative pledge on certain assets.



Certain of the Company’s project debt facilities contain various common project debt covenants and
default provisions including limitations on dividends subject to certain debt service cover ratios, limitations on sales of assets, negative pledges on certain assets, change of control provisions and limitations of additional permitted debt.

At December 31, 2004, the Company and its subsidiaries were in
compliance with all debt covenants and default provisions in all material respects.

Scheduled Debt Payments

Scheduled minimum debt repayments are $285.5 million in 2005, $169.5 million in 2006, $162.4 million in 2007, $236.5 million in 2008, $122.4 million in 2009 and $620.4 million thereafter. Newmont expects to be able to fund maturities of its
debt from

Net cash provided by operating activities

and existing cash balances

.

Shelf Registration Statement

In January 2004, Newmont filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a new shelf registration statement on Form S-3 which enables it to issue debt and equity securities from time-to-time having an aggregate
offering price up to $1.0 billion. Newmont also filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-4 which enables it to issue, from time-to-time in connection with future acquisitions of businesses, properties or assets, common stock and common stock
warrants having an aggregate offering price of $200 million. These registration statements were declared effective on February 4, 2004.

Common Stock Offering

During November 2003, Newmont completed an equity offering for 25 million shares of its common stock under its existing shelf registration statement filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The proceeds of approximately $1.0 billion from this offering are being used for general corporate purposes.

Dividends

The Company paid dividends of $0.30 per common share during 2004, $0.17 per common share during 2003 and $0.12 per common share in 2002. On February 2,
2005, the Company declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share, payable March 24, 2005 to holders of record at the close of business on March 3, 2005.

Redemption of Convertible Preferred Convertible Stock

In April 2002, Newmont announced the redemption of all issued and
outstanding shares of its $3.25 cumulative convertible preferred stock as of May 15, 2002. Pursuant to the terms of the cumulative convertible preferred stock, Newmont paid a redemption price of $50.325 per share, plus $0.8125 per share for accrued
dividends at the redemption date. In settlement of the total redemption price of $51.1375 per preferred share, Newmont issued each holder of record 1.19187 shares of its common stock and cash for any remaining fractional interests. The Company paid
$3.7 million in preferred stock dividends in 2002.

Environmental

The
Company’s mining and exploration activities are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations are continually changing and are generally becoming more
restrictive. The Company conducts its operations so as to protect the public health and environment and believes its operations are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in all material respects. The Company has made, and expects to
make in the future, expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations, but cannot predict the full amount of such future expenditures. Estimated future



reclamation costs are based principally on legal and regulatory requirements. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, $410.3 million and $361.0 million, respectively,
were accrued for reclamation costs relating to currently producing mineral properties. The increase in 2004 is primarily attributable to the consolidation of Batu Hijau (see Accounting Changes above).

In addition, the Company is involved in several matters concerning
environmental obligations associated with former mining activities. Generally, these matters concern developing and implementing remediation plans at the various sites involved. The Company believes that the related environmental obligations
associated with these sites are similar in nature with respect to the development of remediation plans, their risk profile and the compliance required to meet general environmental standards. Based upon the Company’s best estimate of its
liability for these matters, $74.9 million and $58.6 million were accrued for such obligations at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Depending upon the ultimate resolution of these matters, the Company believes that it is reasonably possible
that the liability for these matters could be as much as 81% greater or 34% lower than the amount accrued at December 31, 2004. The amounts accrued for these matters are reviewed periodically based upon facts and circumstances available at the time.
Changes in estimates are charged to

Other

expenses in the period estimates are revised.

Newmont spent $19.6 million, $18.7 million, and $14.6 million in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively, for environmental obligations related to former, primarily historic, mining activities, and expects to spend between
$18 million and $20 million in 2005. Expenditures for 2004 related primarily to legacy Normandy properties in Australia, the McCoy/Cove property in central Nevada and the Dawn mill site near Ford, Washington. Expenditures for 2003 related primarily
to the Dawn mill site and the McCoy/Cove property. Expenditures for 2002 relate primarily to the Dawn mill site and the Resurrection site near Leadville, Colorado.

Included in capital expenditures were $43.1 million, $25.7 million and $14.3 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively,
to comply with environmental regulations. Expenditures of between $30 million and $35 million are anticipated in 2005. Ongoing costs to comply with environmental regulations have not been a significant component of cash operating costs.

For more information on the Company’s reclamation and remediation
liabilities, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Forward-Looking Statements

The
foregoing discussion and analysis, as well as certain information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report, contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created thereby. See the discussion in Forward-Looking Statements in Item 1, Business.

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Metal Price

Changes in the
market price of gold significantly affect Newmont’s profitability and cash flow. Gold prices can fluctuate widely due to numerous factors, such as demand; forward selling by producers; central bank sales, purchases and lending; investor
sentiment; the strength of the U.S. dollar and global mine production levels. Changes in the market price of copper also affect Newmont’s profitability and cash flow from its investment in the Batu Hijau mine in Indonesia and its Golden Grove
mine in Australia. Copper is traded on established international exchanges and copper prices generally reflect market supply and demand, but can also be influenced by speculative trading in the commodity or by currency exchange rates.



Foreign Currency

Changes in the
foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar may affect Newmont’s profitability and cash flow. Foreign currency exchange rates can fluctuate widely due to numerous factors, such as supply and demand for foreign and U.S.
currencies and U.S. and foreign country economic conditions. In addition to its operations in the United States, Newmont has operations in Australia, Peru, Indonesia, Canada, Uzbekistan, Bolivia, New Zealand and Mexico. The Company’s non-U.S.
operations sell their metal production based on a U.S. dollar gold price. Fluctuations in the local currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar can increase or decrease profit margins and total cash costs per ounce to the extent costs are
paid in local currency at foreign operations. Since the Company’s February 15, 2002 acquisition of Normandy, the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate has had the greatest impact on the Company’s total cash costs, as measured in U.S.
dollars. However, variations in the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate have historically been strongly correlated to variations in the U.S. dollar gold price over the long-term. Increases or decreases in costs at Australian gold operations
due to exchange rate changes have therefore tended to be mitigated by changes in sales reported in U.S. dollars for such locations. No assurance can be given that the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate will continue to be strongly
correlated to the U.S. dollar gold price in the future, or that short-term changes in the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate will not have an impact on the Company’s profitability and cash flow. Newmont does not believe that foreign
currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar have had a material impact on its determination of proven and probable reserves in the past. However, in the event that a sustained weakening of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Australian
dollar, and/or to other foreign currencies that impact the Company’s cost structure, were not mitigated by offsetting increases in the U.S. dollar gold price or by other factors, the Company believes that profitability, cash flows and the
amount of proven and probable reserves in the applicable foreign country could be reduced. The extent of any such reduction would be dependent on a variety of factors including the length of time of any such weakening of the U.S. dollar, and
management’s long-term view of the applicable exchange rate. For information concerning the sensitivity of the Company’s cash costs to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Consolidated Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Results of Operations—Foreign Currency Exchange Rates,” above.

Hedging

Newmont generally
avoids hedging. Newmont’s philosophy is to provide shareholders with leverage to changes to gold prices by selling its gold production at market prices. Newmont has, on a limited basis, entered into derivative contracts to protect the selling
price for certain anticipated gold and copper production and to manage risks associated with sales contracts, commodities, interest rates, and foreign currency. Newmont is not required to place collateral with respect to commodity instruments and
there are no margin calls associated with such contracts. During the year ended December 31, 2004, Newmont entered into copper option collar contracts, U.S.$/IDR forward purchase contracts and Australian dollar net zero-cost option collar contracts.
Approximately 459 million pounds of copper are hedged by the copper option collar contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted copper sales, and as such, changes in the fair value related to the effective portion of the
hedges have been recorded in

Accumulated other comprehensive income

. The remainder of the copper option collar contracts are currently undesignated and are accounted for on a mark-to-market basis currently through earnings. The U.S.$/IDR
forward purchase contracts and Australian dollar net zero-cost option collar contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges of future IDR and Australian dollar expenditures, respectively, and as such, changes in the market value have been
recorded in

Accumulated other comprehensive income

.

For
the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, a net gain of $2.3 million, $28.3 million and a net loss of $18.3 million, respectively, were included in

Net income

for the ineffective portion of derivative instruments designated as cash
flow hedges and a net loss of zero million, $5.4 million and a net loss of $21.5 million, respectively, for the change in fair value of gold commodity contracts that do not qualify as hedges (included in

Gain (loss) on derivative instruments,
net

). The amount to be reclassified from

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

,

net of tax

to income for derivative instruments during the next 12 months is a gain



of approximately $6 million. The maximum period over which hedged forecasted transactions are expected to occur is 7 years.

(1)

The fair value does not include amounts payable ($6.8 million on copper collars) or receivable ($0.2 million on diesel forwards) on derivative contracts that have
been closed out in December 2004 with the net settlement due in January 2005.

(2)

The Company had copper forward transactions as of December 31, 2003, which had a mark-to-market of negative $5.0 million.

Australian Dollar Forward Contracts

The Company had no Australian dollar forward contracts outstanding as of
December 31, 2004, although a position did exist as of December 31, 2003. These positions were closed during July 2004. The fair value of these contracts as of December 31, 2003 was positive $7.7 million.

Provisional Copper and Gold Sales

For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, Batu Hijau recorded
gross revenues, before smelting and refining charges, of $324.8 million, $95.7 million and $65.7 million for base metals, respectively, and $28.5 million, zero and zero for gold, respectively, which were subject to final pricing adjustments. The



average realized price adjustment for base metals was 13.77%, 5.07% and 1.98% for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and 0.86%,
1.13% and 0.83% for gold for the same periods.

Price-Capped Sales Contracts

In 2001,
Newmont entered into transactions that closed out certain call options. The options were replaced with a series of forward sales contracts requiring physical delivery of the same quantity of gold over slightly extended future periods. Under the
terms of the contracts, Newmont will realize the lower of the spot price on the delivery date or the capped price ranging from $350 per ounce in 2005 to $392 per ounce in 2011. The initial fair value of the forward sales contracts of $53.8 million
was recorded as

Deferred revenue from sale of future production

and will be included in sales revenue as delivery occurs in 2005 through 2011. As of December 31, 2004, the current portion of $7.0 million has been reclassified to

Other
current liabilities

. The forward sales contracts are accounted for as normal sales contracts under SFAS No. 133 “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” and SFAS No. 138 “Accounting for
Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities-an Amendment to SFAS No. 133.”

Newmont had the following price-capped forward sales contracts outstanding at December 31, 2004:

Interest Rate
Swap Contracts

In 2001, Newmont entered into
contracts to hedge the interest rate risk exposure on a portion of its $275 million 8


/


% debentures and its
$200 million 8


/


% debentures. The Company receives fixed-rate interest payments at 8.625% or 8.375% and pays
floating-rate interest amounts based on periodic London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) settings plus a spread, ranging from 2.60% to 4.25%. The notional principal amount of these transactions was $200 million at December 31, 2004.
Effective April 1, 2004, the Company redesignated $150 million of these contracts as new fair value hedges against portions of the 8


/


% notes and 8


/


% debentures. The remaining $50 million of these contracts have not
been designated and changes in their fair value are recorded currently in income. Half of these contracts expire in July 2005 and half expire in May 2011. These transactions resulted in a reduction in interest expense of $5.5 million, $6.9 million
and $5.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The fair value of the ineffective portions accounted for as derivative assets were $3.7 million and $5.2 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and
the fair value of the effective portions accounted for as fair value hedges were $5.0 million and $7.7 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Fixed Rate Debt

Newmont has
both fixed and variable rate debt. Without considering the specialized $145 million

Prepaid Forward Sales Obligation

, 48% and 94% of debt was fixed and 52% and 6% was variable at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company has
managed some of its fixed rate debt exposure by entering into interest rate swaps (see Interest Rate Swap Contracts above). The Company’s fixed rate debt exposure at December 31, 2004 and 2003 is summarized as follows:



(1)

Excludes specialized and hybrid debt instruments for which it is not practicable to estimate fair values and pro forma fair values or sensitivities. These
instruments include the Sale-Leaseback of the Refractory Ore Treatment Plant, Prepaid Forward Sales Obligation, PTNNT project financing facility, PTNNT partner loan and certain capital leases. The estimated fair value quoted above may or may not
reflect the actual trading value of these instruments.

(2)

The pro forma information assumes a +/–10 basis point change in market interest rates at December 31 of each year, and reflects the corresponding estimated
change in the fair value of fixed rate debt outstanding at that date under that assumption. Actual changes in the timing and amount of interest rate variations may differ from the above assumptions.

Pension and Other Benefit Plans

Pension and other benefit plan

costs can be impacted by actual results that differ from assumptions selected. These differences are reflected in financial results over future periods. Actual returns (losses) on pension assets were
$19.3 million, $29.4 million and $(11.1) million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, compared to expected returns of $13.5 million, $12.1 million and $14.4 million for the same periods. If the difference between expected returns and actual results
related to plan assets, combined with the gains or losses resulting from the projected benefit obligation, fall outside certain limits, the difference will be amortized into future earnings on a straight-line basis over the average remaining working
life of the participants (currently 13.8 years). The following table provides details of the pension plans asset mix at December 31, 2004:

The pension plan
employs three independent investment firms which invest the assets of the plan in certain approved funds that correspond to the specific asset classes and associated target allocations designated by the pension fund investment committee of the
Company. Depending upon actual sector performance, the assets in the plan are periodically rebalanced to match the established target levels for the asset classes. This rebalancing may be accomplished through actual transfer of funds between asset
classes and managers, or through targeted cash contributions and/or distributions. The goal of the pension fund investment program is to achieve expected rates of return consistent with the investment risk associated with the approved investment
portfolio. The investment performance of the plan and that of the individual investment firms is measured against recognized market indices. This performance is monitored by an investment committee comprised of members of the Company’s
management, which in turn, is advised by an independent investment consultant. The performance of the plan is reviewed annually with the audit committee of the Company’s board of directors. Contributions to the pension plans were $37.5 million,
$22.4 million and $12.3 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Funding in 2005 is expected to be approximately $10.0 million.

ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. The Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934 defines internal control over financial reporting in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the
company’s board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting



and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and
procedures that:

•

Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;

•

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and

•

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect
on the consolidated financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Company’s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004. In
making this assessment, the Company’s management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in

Internal Control-Integrated Framework

.

Based upon its assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31,
2004, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective based upon those criteria.

Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as at December 31, 2004 has been audited
by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Newmont Mining Corporation:

We have completed an integrated audit of Newmont Mining Corporation’s
2004 consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 and audits of its 2003 and 2002 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.

Consolidated

financial statements

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Newmont Mining Corporation
and its subsidiaries

at December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004

in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its methods of (i) accounting for an investment following the
adoption of FIN 46-R effective January 1, 2004; (ii) accounting for asset retirement obligations effective January 1, 2003; and (iii) accounting for depreciation, depletion and mine development, effective January 1, 2002.

Internal control over financial reporting

Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment, included in
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 8, that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 based on criteria established in

Internal
Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in
all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the COSO. The Company’s management is responsible
for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management’s assessment and on the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over
financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such
other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in



accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Denver, Colorado

March 15, 2005



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME

The accompanying notes
are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

The accompanying notes
are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

The accompanying notes
are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS

See Note 23 for supplemental cash flow information.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE
1    THE COMPANY

Newmont Mining
Corporation and its affiliates and subsidiaries (collectively, “Newmont” or the “Company”) predominantly operates in a single industry, namely, exploration for and production of gold and copper.

The Company’s sales result from operations in the United States,
Australia, Peru, Indonesia, Canada, Uzbekistan, Turkey, Bolivia, New Zealand and Mexico. The cash flow and profitability of the Company’s operations are significantly affected by the market price of gold and copper. These commodity prices can
fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company’s control.

References to “A$” refers to Australian currency, “CDN$” to Canadian currency, “CHF” to Swiss currency, “NZD$” to New Zealand currency, “IDR” to Indonesian currency,
and “$” or “U.S.$” to United States currency.

NOTE
2    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Use of Estimates

The Company’s
Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements requires the Company to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. The more significant areas requiring the use of management estimates and assumptions relate to mineral reserves that are the basis for future cash flow estimates and units-of-production depreciation, depletion
and amortization calculations; environmental, reclamation and closure obligations; estimates of recoverable gold and other minerals in stockpile and leach pad inventories; asset impairments (including impairments of goodwill, long-lived assets, and
investments); write-downs of inventory to net realizable value; post employment, post retirement and other employee benefit liabilities; valuation allowances for deferred tax assets; reserves for contingencies and litigation; and the fair value and
accounting treatment of financial instruments. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Accordingly, actual results may differ significantly
from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

Principles
of Consolidation

The Consolidated Financial Statements
include the accounts of Newmont Mining Corporation and more-than-50%-owned subsidiaries that it controls and entities over which control is achieved through means other than voting rights (see Note 3). The Company also includes its pro-rata share of
assets, liabilities and operations for unincorporated joint ventures in which it has an interest. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. The functional currency for the majority of the Company’s operations,
including the Australian operations, is the U.S. dollar. The functional currency of the Canadian operations is the Canadian dollar.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents consist of all cash balances and highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less. Because of the
short maturity of these investments, the carrying amounts



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

approximate their fair value. Cash and cash equivalents are invested in United States Treasury bills and high-quality commercial paper.

At December 31, 2004, the Company included restricted cash of $1.4 million
and $66.3 million in

Other current assets

and

Other long-term assets

, respectively, primarily related to the Batu Hijau project financing facility. At December 31, 2003, the Company included restricted cash of $16.7 million and $7.2
million in

Other current assets

and

Other long-term assets,

respectively, primarily relating to project financings for Yanacocha.

Investments

Management determines the appropriate classification of its investments in equity securities at the time of purchase and reevaluates such determinations
at each reporting date. Investments in incorporated entities in which the Company’s ownership is greater than 20% and less than 50%, or which the Company does not control through majority ownership or means other than voting rights, are
accounted for by the equity method and are included in long-term assets. The Company periodically reviews and accounts for its equity method investments in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.” Additional information concerning the Company’s equity method investments is included in Note 9.

The Company accounts for its investments in auction rate
securities in accordance with SFAS No. 115 and its policy regarding cash equivalents. Specifically, when the underlying security of an auction rate security has a stated or contractual maturity date in excess of 90 days, regardless of the
frequency of the interest rate reset date, the security is classified as an available-for-sale marketable debt security.

Stockpiles, Ore on Leach Pads and Inventories

As described below, costs that are incurred in or benefit the productive process are accumulated as stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories.
Stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories are carried at the lower of average cost or net realizable value. Net realizable value represents the estimated future sales price of the product based on prevailing and long-term metals prices, less the
estimated costs to complete production and bring the product to sale. Write-downs of stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories resulting from net realizable value impairments are reported as a component of

Costs applicable to sales

. The
current portion of stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories is determined based on the expected amounts to be processed within the next 12 months. Stockpiles, ore on leach pads and inventories not expected to be processed within the next 12
months are classified as long-term. The major classifications are as follows:

Stockpiles

Stockpiles represent ore that has been mined and is available for further processing. Stockpiles are measured by estimating the number of tons added and removed from the stockpile, the number of contained ounces or pounds (based on assay
data) and the estimated metallurgical recovery rates (based on the expected processing method). Stockpile ore tonnages are verified by periodic surveys. Costs are allocated to a stockpile based on relative values of material stockpiled and processed
using current mining costs incurred up to the point of stockpiling the ore, including applicable overhead, depreciation, depletion and amortization relating to mining operations, and removed at each stockpile’s average cost per recoverable
unit.

Ore on Leach Pads

The recovery of gold from certain oxide ores is achieved through the heap
leaching process. Under this method, ore is placed on leach pads where it is treated with a chemical solution, which dissolves the gold



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

contained in the ore. The resulting “pregnant” solution is further processed in a plant where the gold is recovered. For accounting purposes, costs
are added to ore on leach pads based on current mining costs, including applicable depreciation, depletion and amortization relating to mining operations. Costs are removed from ore on leach pads as ounces are recovered based on the average cost per
recoverable ounce of gold on the leach pad.

The estimates of
recoverable gold on the leach pads are calculated from the quantities of ore placed on the leach pads (measured tons added to the leach pads), the grade of ore placed on the leach pads (based on assay data) and a recovery percentage (based on ore
type). In general, leach pads recover approximately 50% to 95% of the recoverable ounces in the first year of leaching, declining each year thereafter until the leaching process is complete.

Although the quantities of recoverable gold placed on the leach pads are
reconciled by comparing the grades of ore placed on pads to the quantities of gold actually recovered (metallurgical balancing), the nature of the leaching process inherently limits the ability to precisely monitor inventory levels. As a result, the
metallurgical balancing process is constantly monitored and estimates are refined based on actual results over time. Historically, the Company’s operating results have not been materially impacted by variations between the estimated and actual
recoverable quantities of gold on its leach pads. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the weighted-average cost per recoverable ounce of gold on leach pads was $142 and $136 per ounce (unaudited), respectively. Variations between actual and estimated
quantities resulting from changes in assumptions and estimates that do not result in write-downs to net realizable value are accounted for on a prospective basis.

The ultimate recovery of gold from a leach pad will not be known until the leaching process is concluded. Based on current
mine plans, the Company expects to place the last ton of ore on its current leach pads at dates ranging from 2007 to 2021 (unaudited). Including the estimated time required for residual leaching, rinsing and reclamation activities, the Company
expects that its leaching operations will terminate within approximately six years (unaudited) following the date that the last ton of ore is placed on the leach pad.

The current portion of ore on leach pads is determined based on estimates of the quantities of gold at the balance sheet
date that is expected to be recovered during the next 12 months.

In-process Inventory

In-process
inventories represent materials that are currently in the process of being converted to a saleable product. Conversion processes vary depending on the nature of the ore and the specific mining operation, but include mill in-circuit, leach
in-circuit, flotation and column cells, and carbon in-pulp inventories. In-process material is measured based on assays of the material fed into the process and the projected recoveries of the respective plants. In-process inventories are valued at
the average cost of the material fed into the process attributable to the source material coming from the mines, stockpiles and/or leach pads plus the in-process conversion costs, including applicable depreciation relating to the process facilities
incurred to that point in the process.

Precious Metals
Inventory

Precious metals inventories include gold
doré and/or gold bullion. Precious metals that are received as in-kind payments of royalties are valued at fair value on the date title is transferred to the Company. Precious metals that result from the Company’s mining and processing
activities are valued at the average cost of the respective in-process inventories incurred prior to the refining process, plus applicable refining costs.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Concentrate Inventory

Concentrate inventories represent saleable copper, zinc and lead concentrate available for shipment. The Company values
concentrate inventory at the average cost, including an allocable portion of mill support costs and mill depreciation. Costs are added and removed to the concentrate inventory based on tons of concentrate.

Materials and Supplies

Materials and supplies are valued at the lower of average cost or net
realizable value. Cost includes applicable taxes and freight.

Property,
Plant and Mine Development

Expenditures for new
facilities or equipment and expenditures that extend the useful lives of existing facilities or equipment are capitalized and depreciated using the straight-line method at rates sufficient to depreciate such costs over the estimated productive
lives, which do not exceed the related estimated mine lives, of such facilities based on proven and probable reserves.

Mineral exploration costs are expensed as incurred. When it has been determined that a mineral property can be economically developed as a result of
establishing proven and probable reserves, costs incurred prospectively to develop the property are capitalized as incurred and are amortized using the units-of-production (“UOP”) method over the estimated life of the ore body based on
estimated recoverable ounces or pounds mined from proven and probable reserves. At the Company’s surface mines, these costs include costs to further delineate the ore body and remove overburden to initially expose the ore body. At the
Company’s underground mines, these costs include the cost of building access ways, shaft sinking and access, lateral development, drift development, ramps and infrastructure development.

Major development costs incurred after the commencement of production are
amortized using the UOP method based on estimated recoverable ounces or pounds mined from proven and probable reserves. To the extent that these costs benefit the entire ore body, they are amortized over the estimated life of the ore body. Costs
incurred to access specific ore blocks or areas that only provide benefit over the life of that area are amortized over the estimated life of that specific ore block or area.

Interest expense allocable to the cost of developing mining properties and to constructing new facilities is capitalized
until assets are ready for their intended use.

Mineral Interests

Mineral interests include acquired mineral rights and
royalty interests in production, development and exploration stage properties. The amount capitalized related to a mineral or royalty interest represents its fair value at the time it was acquired, either as an individual asset purchase or as a part
of a business combination.

Mineral Rights

Newmont’s mineral interests relate to
production, development or exploration stage properties. The value of such assets is primarily driven by the nature and amount of mineralized material believed to be contained in such properties. Production stage mineral interests represent
interests in operating properties that contain proven and probable reserves. Development stage mineral interests represent interests in properties under development that contain proven and probable reserves. Exploration stage mineral interests
represent interests in properties that are



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

believed to potentially contain mineralized material consisting of (i) other mineralized material such as inferred material within pits; measured, indicated
and inferred material with insufficient drill spacing to qualify as proven and probable reserves; and inferred material in close proximity to proven and probable reserves; (ii) around-mine exploration potential such as inferred material not
immediately adjacent to existing reserves and mineralization but located within the immediate mine area; (iii) other mine-related exploration potential that is not part of measured, indicated or inferred material and is comprised mainly of material
outside of the immediate mine area; or (iv) greenfields exploration potential that is not associated with any other production, development or exploration stage property, as described above. The Company’s mineral rights generally are
enforceable regardless of whether proven and probable reserves have been established. In certain limited situations, the nature of a mineral right changes from an exploration right to a mining right upon the establishment of proven and probable
reserves. The Company has the ability and intent to renew mineral rights where the existing term is not sufficient to recover all identified and valued proven and probable reserves and/or undeveloped mineralized material.

Royalty Interests

Newmont’s royalty interests are generally in the form of a net smelter
return (“NSR”) royalty, which provides for the payment either in cash or physical metal (“in-kind”) of a specified percentage of production less certain specified transportation and refining costs. In some cases, Newmont owns a
net profit interest (“NPI”) pursuant to which Newmont is entitled to a specified percentage of the net profits, as defined in each case, from a particular mining operation. The majority of NSR royalty revenue and NPI revenue can be
received in-kind (generally in the form of gold bullion) at the option of Newmont. As detailed further in Note 8, the Company owns royalty interests in production, development and exploration stage properties.

Asset Impairment

Long-lived Assets

The Company reviews and evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts
may not be recoverable. An impairment is considered to exist if the total estimated future cash flows on an undiscounted basis are less than the carrying amount of the assets, including goodwill, if any. An impairment loss is measured and recorded
based on discounted estimated future cash flows. Future cash flows are estimated based on quantities of recoverable minerals, expected gold and other commodity prices (considering current and historical prices, price trends and related factors),
production levels and cash costs of production and capital, all based on life-of-mine plans. The term “recoverable minerals” refers to the estimated amount of gold and other minerals that will be obtained from proven and probable reserves
and all related exploration stage mineral interests (except for other mine-related exploration potential and greenfields exploration potential discussed separately below) after taking into account losses during ore processing and treatment.
Estimates of recoverable minerals from such related exploration stage mineral interests will be risk adjusted based on management’s relative confidence in such materials. In estimating future cash flows, assets are grouped at the lowest level
for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of cash flows from other asset groups. With the exception of other mine-related exploration potential and greenfields exploration potential, all assets at an operating segment
are considered together for purposes of estimating future cash flows. In the case of mineral interests associated with other mine-related exploration potential and greenfields exploration potential, cash flows and fair values are individually
evaluated based primarily on recent exploration results and recent transactions involving sales of similar properties, if any. Assumptions underlying future cash flow estimates are subject to significant risks and uncertainties.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Goodwill

The Company evaluates, on at least an annual basis, the carrying amount of goodwill to determine whether current events and
circumstances indicate that such carrying amount may no longer be recoverable. To accomplish this, the Company compares the fair value of its reporting units to their carrying amounts. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair
value, the Company compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill to its carrying amount, and any excess of the carrying value over the fair value is charged to operations. Assumptions underlying fair value estimates are
subject to significant risks and uncertainties.

Revenue Recognition

Newmont recognizes revenue, net of smelting and refining
charges, from a sale when the price is determinable, the product has been delivered, the title has been transferred to the customer and collection of the sales price is reasonably assured. Revenues from silver and other by-product sales are credited
to

Costs applicable to sales

as a by-product credit. Royalty revenue received in-kind (generally in the form of gold bullion) is recognized based on the fair value on the date that title is transferred to the Company.

Concentrate sales are initially recorded based on 100% of the provisional
sales prices. Until final settlement occurs, adjustments to the provisional sales prices are made to take into account metal price changes, based upon the month-end spot price and metal quantities upon receipt of the final assay and weight
certificates, if different from the initial certificates. The Company marks to market its provisional sales based on the forward price for the estimated month of settlement. The principal risks associated with recognition of sales on a provisional
basis include metal price fluctuations between the date recorded and the date of final settlement. In the event of a significant decline in metal prices between the provisional pricing date and the final settlement-pricing period, it is reasonably
possible that the Company could be required to return a portion of the sales proceeds received based on the provisional invoice.

The Company’s sales based on a provisional sales price contain an embedded derivative that is required to be separated from the host contract for
accounting purposes. The host contract is the receivable from the sale of the concentrates at the forward London Metal Exchange price at the time of sale. The embedded derivative, which does not qualify for hedge accounting, is marked to market
through earnings each period prior to final settlement. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, the Company had consolidated embedded copper derivatives on 226 million pounds and 91.5 million pounds, recorded at an average price of $1.44 and
$1.04 per pound, respectively.

Deferred Stripping Costs

In general, mining costs are allocated to production costs, stockpiles, ore
on leach pads and inventories, and are charged to

Costs applicable to sales

when gold or copper is sold. However, at certain open pit mines with diverse grades and waste-to-ore ratios over the mine life, the Company defers and amortizes
certain mining costs on a UOP basis over the life of the mine. These mining costs, which are commonly referred to as “deferred stripping” costs, are incurred in mining activities that are normally associated with the removal of waste rock.
The deferred stripping accounting method is generally accepted in the mining industry where mining operations have diverse grades and waste-to-ore ratios; however, industry practice does vary. Deferred stripping matches the costs of production with
the sale of such production at the Company’s operations where it is employed, by assigning each ounce of gold or pound of copper with an equivalent amount of waste removal cost. If the Company were to expense stripping costs as incurred, there
could be greater volatility in the Company’s period-to-period results of operations.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Deferred stripping costs are charged to

Costs applicable to sales

as gold and copper is
produced and sold using the UOP method based on estimated recoverable ounces of proven and probable gold and copper reserves, using a stripping ratio calculated as the ratio of total tons to be moved to total proven and probable ore reserves, which
results in the recognition of the costs of waste removal activities over the life of the mine as gold and copper is produced (see Note 6). The application of the deferred stripping accounting method generally results in an asset on the

Consolidated Balance Sheets (Deferred stripping costs),

although a liability arises on the

Consolidated Balance Sheets (Advanced stripping costs)

if the actual stripping ratio incurred to date is less than the expected waste-to-ore
ratio over the life of the mine.

The average remaining life of
the open pit mine operations where the Company defers mining costs is between six and seven years, which represents the average time period over which the deferred stripping costs will be amortized. The amortization of deferred stripping costs is
reflected in the income statement over the remaining life of the open pit mine operations so that no unamortized balance remains at mine closure. The Company reviews and evaluates its deferred stripping costs for impairment when events or
circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable.

Reclamation and Remediation Costs (Asset Retirement Obligations)

In August 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” which established a uniform methodology for accounting
for estimated reclamation and abandonment costs. The statement was adopted January 1, 2003, when the Company recorded the estimated present value of reclamation liabilities and increased the carrying amount of the related asset, which resulted in a
net expense for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of $34.5 million (see Note 3). Reclamation costs are allocated to expense over the life of the related assets and are adjusted for changes resulting from the passage of
time and revisions to either the timing or amount of the original present value estimate.

Prior to adoption of SFAS No. 143, estimated future reclamation costs were based principally on legal and regulatory requirements. Such costs related to active mines are accrued and charged over the expected operating
lives of the mines using the UOP method based on proven and probable reserves.

Future remediation costs for inactive mines are accrued based on management’s best estimate at the end of each period of the undiscounted costs expected to be incurred at a site. Such cost estimates included,
where applicable, ongoing care, maintenance and monitoring costs. Changes in estimates at inactive mines are reflected in earnings in the period an estimate is revised.

Income and Mining Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes using the liability method, recognizing certain temporary differences between the financial reporting basis of the
Company’s liabilities and assets and the related income tax basis for such liabilities and assets. This method generates a net deferred income tax liability or net deferred income tax asset for the Company, as measured by the statutory tax
rates in effect. The Company derives its deferred income tax charge or benefit by recording the change in the net deferred income tax liability or net deferred income tax asset balance for the year. Mining taxes represent Canadian provincial taxes
levied on mining operations and are classified as income taxes, as such taxes are based on a percentage of mining profits. With respect to the earnings that the Company derives from the operations of its consolidated subsidiaries, in those
situations where the earnings are indefinitely reinvested, no deferred taxes have been provided on the unremitted earnings (including the excess of the carrying value of the net equity of such entities for financial reporting purposes over the tax
basis of such equity) of these consolidated companies.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The Company’s deferred income tax assets include certain future tax benefits. The Company
records a valuation allowance against any portion of those deferred income tax assets when it believes, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred income tax asset will not be
realized.

Foreign Currency

The functional currency for the majority of the Company’s operations,
including the Australian operations, is the U.S. dollar. All monetary assets and liabilities where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar are translated at current exchange rates and the resulting adjustments are included in

Interest income,
foreign currency exchange and other income

. The functional currency of the Canadian operations is the Canadian dollar. All assets and liabilities recorded in functional currencies other than U.S. dollars are translated at current exchange rates.
The resulting adjustments are charged or credited directly to

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

(“OCI”) in

Stockholders’ equity.

Revenues and expenses in foreign currencies are translated at the
weighted-average exchange rates for the period. All realized and unrealized transaction gains and losses are included in income in

Interest income, foreign currency exchange and other income.

Sales Contracts, Commodity and Derivative Instruments

Derivative contracts qualifying as normal purchases and sales are accounted
for under deferral accounting. Gains and losses arising from a change in the fair value of a contract before the contract’s designated delivery date are not recorded, and the contract price is recognized in

Sales

following settlement of
the contract by physical delivery of production to the counterparty at contract maturity.

The fair value of derivative contracts qualifying as cash flow hedges are reflected as assets or liabilities in the balance sheet. To the extent these hedges are effective in offsetting forecasted cash flows from the
sale of production or outflows related to by-product credits or production costs (the “effective portion”), changes in fair value are deferred in OCI. Amounts deferred in OCI are reclassified to

Sales

or to

Costs applicable to
sales

, as applicable, when the hedged transaction has occurred. The ineffective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivative is recorded in

Gain (loss) on derivative instruments, net

in each period.

When derivative contracts qualifying as cash flow hedges are settled,
accelerated or restructured before the maturity date of the contracts, the accumulated OCI at the settlement date is deferred and reclassified to

Sales

when the originally designated hedged transaction occurs.

The fair values of derivative contracts qualifying as fair value hedges are
reflected as assets or liabilities in the balance sheet. Changes in fair value are recorded in income in each period, consistent with recording changes to the mark-to-market value of the underlying hedged asset or liability in income. Changes in the
mark-to-market value of the effective portion of interest rate swaps utilized by the Company to reduce interest rate risks are recognized as a component of

Interest expense, net of capitalized interest

.

The fair value of all derivative contracts that do not qualify as hedges are
reflected as assets or liabilities, with the change in fair value recorded in

Gain (loss) on derivative instruments, net

, except for changes in fair value of foreign currency exchange contracts, which are recorded in

Interest income,
foreign currency exchange and other income

.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Stock Option Expense

The Company applies the intrinsic value method in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,” and related interpretations in accounting for stock options. Accordingly, because stock option exercise prices equal the market value on the date of grant, no compensation cost has been recognized for its stock options. Had
compensation cost for the options been determined based on market value at grant dates as prescribed by SFAS No. 123 “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (see Recent Accounting Pronouncements), the Company’s net income and net
income per common share would have been the pro forma amounts indicated below (unaudited, in millions, except per share).

For purposes of
determining the pro forma amounts, the fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of the grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively: weighted-average
risk-free interest rates of 3.4%, 3.7% and 3.4%; dividend yields of 0.8%, 0.5% and 0.5%; expected lives of four years, eight years and nine years; and volatility of 41%, 44% and 51%.

Earnings Per Common Share

Basic and diluted earnings per share are presented for

Net income

and, if applicable, for

Income before the cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle

. Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing

Net income

by the weighted-average number of outstanding common shares for the period, including the exchangeable shares (see Note 17). Diluted earnings per share
reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts that may require the issuance of common shares in the future were converted. Diluted earnings per share is computed by increasing the weighted-average number of
outstanding common shares to include the additional common shares that would be outstanding after conversion and adjusting net income for changes that would result from the conversion. Only those securities or other contracts that result in a
reduction in earnings per share are included in the calculation.

Comprehensive Income

In addition to

Net
income, Comprehensive income (loss)

includes all changes in equity during a period, such as adjustments to minimum pension liabilities, foreign currency translation adjustments, the effective portion of



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

changes in fair value of derivative instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges and cumulative unrecognized changes in fair value of marketable securities
available-for-sale or other investments, except those resulting from investments by and distributions to owners.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment”, which revised SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation” and superseded APB Opinion 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees” and its related implementation guidance. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement and recording to the financial statements of the costs of
employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award, recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide services in exchange for such award. Newmont will
adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 123R on July 1, 2005, using the modified prospective application. Accordingly, compensation expense will be recognized for all newly granted awards and awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after
July 1, 2005. Compensation cost for the unvested portion of awards that are outstanding as of July 1, 2005 will be recognized ratably over the remaining vesting period. The compensation cost for the unvested portion of awards will be based
on the fair value at date of grant as calculated for our pro forma disclosure under SFAS No. 123. The effect on net income and earnings per share in the periods following adoption of SFAS No. 123R are expected to be consistent with our pro forma
disclosure under SFAS No. 123, except that estimated forfeitures will be considered in the calculation of compensation expense under SFAS No. 123R. Additionally, the actual effect on net income and earnings per share will vary depending upon the
number and fair value of options granted in 2005 compared to prior years.

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, “Inventory Costs-an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4,” which clarifies the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling
costs and wasted material as current period costs. It also requires that allocations of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The Statement applies to inventory costs
incurred in the first fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005. Newmont has not determined the impact, if any, on the Company’s financial position or results from operations.

A committee of the Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) discussed the accounting for deferred stripping costs but
did not reach a consensus in 2004. The Task Force considered the recommendation that stripping costs incurred during production are a mine development cost that should be capitalized as an investment in the mine and attributed to the proven and
probable reserves benefited in a systematic and rational manner. However, the Task Force directed the FASB staff to develop additional guidance about what constitutes a systematic and rational manner of attributing the capitalized costs to proven
and probable reserves benefited. The Company cannot predict whether the deliberations of the EITF will ultimately modify or otherwise result in new accounting standards or interpretations thereof that differ from the Company’s current
practices.

Reclassifications

Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform to the 2004
presentation. The most significant reclassifications were as follows:

Auction Rate Securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows

As of December 31, 2003, the Company reclassified auction rate securities having a stated or contractual maturity date for the underlying security in
excess of 90 days in its Consolidated Balance Sheet to

Marketable securities and other short-term investments

from

Cash and cash equivalents

. The impact of this reclassification



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

was to increase

Marketable securities and other short-term investments

by $183.0 million and reduce

Cash and cash equivalents

by an equivalent
amount. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company reflected the purchases and sales of such securities in investing cash flows in its Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows, which increased

Net cash used in investing activities

by
$183.0 million. Previously, the Company had classified these types of securities as cash equivalents.

Deferred Income Taxes

Deferred income taxes in the balance sheet at December 31, 2003 have been reclassified to reflect netting current

Deferred income tax assets

against current

Deferred income tax liabilities

and netting non-current

Deferred
income tax assets

against non-current

Deferred income tax liabilities

within tax jurisdictions. The effects of the reclassifications were to reduce current and non-current

Deferred income tax assets

by $28.6 million and $348.4
million, respectively, and reduce the current and non-current

Deferred income tax liabilities

by $16.5 million and $360.5 million, respectively.

Dividends Paid to Minority Interests in the Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows

For the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company reclassified dividends paid to minority interests as a financing
activity. Previously, these dividends were recorded as a reduction of

Minority interest expense

, which is an adjustment to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities. The impact to the Statement of Consolidated Cash
Flows for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 was to increase

Net

c

ash provided by operating activities

by $146.0 million and $28.8 million, respectively, with a corresponding increase to

Net cash used in financing
activities

. This reclassification did not impact the amounts reported as cash and cash equivalents.

NOTE 3    ACCOUNTING CHANGES

In December 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46R, which provides guidance on the identification and reporting for entities over which control is achieved through means other than voting rights. FIN 46R defines such entities
as variable interest entities (“VIEs”). Application of this revised interpretation was required in financial statements for companies that have interests in VIEs or potential VIEs commonly referred to as special-purpose entities for
periods ending after December 31, 2003. Application for all other types of entities was required in financial statements for periods ending after March 15, 2004.

Newmont completed its evaluation of the impact of FIN 46R for VIEs in which the Company has an interest, which were created
before December 31, 2003 and that are not considered to be special-purpose entities. Newmont identified the Nusa Tenggara Partnership (“NTP”) and P.T. Newmont Nusa Tenggara (“PTNNT”) (collectively, “Batu Hijau”) as VIEs
because of certain capital structures and contractual relationships (primarily the sharing of the expected residual returns with a party that did not have an equity investment at risk that is considered significant to the total expected residual
returns, as well as indications of insufficient equity, as defined by FIN 46R). Newmont also determined that it is the primary beneficiary of Batu Hijau. Therefore, as of January 1, 2004, the Company has fully consolidated Batu Hijau in its
Consolidated Financial Statements. Previously, the Company accounted for its investment in Batu Hijau using the equity method of accounting.

Upon consolidation of Batu Hijau, effective January 1, 2004, certain adjustments were recorded to the opening balance sheet of PTNNT to conform to
Newmont’s accounting policies. These adjustments were recorded to change from units-of-production depreciation of processing plant and mining facilities to straight-line depreciation of such facilities and to change from allocating costs to
stockpile inventories based on mining costs per ton to allocating costs based on recoverable pounds of copper equivalent contained in the various categories



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

of stockpiles. The impact of these adjustments were charges of $15.1 million and $32.0 million, respectively, which have been recorded in

Cumulative
effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax

in the 2004 Statement of Consolidated Income.

Reclamation and Remediation (Asset Retirement Obligations)

In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, which established uniform methodology for accounting for estimated reclamation and abandonment costs. The
statement was adopted on January 1, 2003. See Note 15 for complete disclosure of the impact of adopting SFAS No. 143.

Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization

In 2002, Newmont changed its accounting policy with respect to

Depreciation, depletion and amortization

(“DD&A”) of

Property,
plant and mine development, net

to exclude future estimated development costs expected to be incurred for certain underground operations. In addition, the Company further revised its policy such that costs incurred to access specific ore blocks
or areas are depreciated, depleted or amortized over the reserves associated with the specific ore area. The cumulative effect of this change through December 31, 2001 increased net income for 2002 by $7.7 million, net of tax of $4.1 million and
increased net income by $0.02 per share.

NOTE
4    MARKETABLE SECURITIES AND OTHER SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

(Losses) gains on
investments for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 were as follows:

Marketable Debt Securities

Newmont has invested a portion of its available cash
balances in auction rate securities. The interest rates on these securities are reset periodically, and they trade as short-term, highly liquid investments. However, the



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

securities are not considered a cash equivalent due to their underlying “stated” or “contractual” long-term maturity. As of December 31,
2004 and 2003, Newmont had $784.5 million and $183.0 million, respectively, invested in auction rate securities, which approximated their market value. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company recorded interest income of $8.9
million and $0.1 million related to auction rate securities. The maturity dates for these securities range from 10 years to 40 years.

Marketable Securities of Kinross Gold Corporation

On January 31, 2003, Kinross Gold Corporation (“Kinross”), Echo Bay Mines Ltd. (“Echo Bay”) and TVX Gold Inc. (“TVX Gold”)
were combined, and TVX Gold acquired Newmont’s 49.9% interest in the TVX Newmont Americas joint venture. Under the terms of the combination and acquisition, Newmont received a 13.8% interest in the restructured Kinross in exchange for its then
45.67% interest in Echo Bay and cash proceeds of $180 million for its interest in TVX Newmont Americas. Newmont recognized a pre-tax gain of $84.3 million on the transaction in

Gain on investments, net

in the

Statement of Consolidated
Income

. During the third quarter of 2003, Newmont sold approximately 28 million Kinross shares representing approximately 66% of its investment in Kinross for total cash proceeds of $224.6 million and recorded a net loss of $7.4 million. At June
30, 2004, the fair value of the Kinross investment was $79.6 million and Newmont recognized a $38.5 million impairment of its investment in Kinross for an other-than-temporary decline in value in accordance with SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.” The remaining balance is classified as an available-for-sale marketable security at December 31, 2004.

Marketable Securities of Lihir Gold

On April 12, 2002, Newmont sold its equity holding in Lihir Gold for approximately $84 million.

NOTE 5    INVENTORIES

The Company recorded
aggregate write-downs of $19.8 million, $15.2 million and $8.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, to reduce the carrying value of inventories to net realizable value. Write-downs in 2004 were related to
Golden Grove, Tanami and Pajingo and in 2003 primarily related to Golden Grove, Yanacocha, Minahasa, Zarafshan and Martha. Write-downs in 2002 primarily related to Nevada and Minahasa. Inventory write-downs are classified as components of

Costs
applicable to sales

.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

NOTE 6    STOCKPILES AND ORE ON LEACH PADS

The Company recorded
aggregate write-downs of $10.4 million, $7.5 million and $33.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, to reduce the carrying value of stockpiles to net realizable value. The Company also recorded aggregate
write-downs of $2.6 million, $2.2 million and $3.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, to reduce the carrying value of ore on leach pads to net realizable value. Stockpile write-downs in 2004 were largely
related to Tanami and Ovacik. Stockpile write-downs in 2003 primarily related to Tanami, Yandal and Martha. The 2002 stockpile write-downs primarily related to Nevada. Ore on leach pads write-downs in 2004 were primarily for Kori Kollo and in 2003
and 2002 related to Nevada. Stockpile and ore on leach pads write-downs are classified as components of

Costs applicable to sales

.

NOTE 7    DEFERRED STRIPPING COSTS

Movements in the deferred stripping costs balance were as follows:



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The deferred and advanced stripping balances are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as
follows:

At some of the
Company’s mining operations, deferred stripping costs are charged to

Costs applicable to sales

as gold or copper is produced and sold using the units of production method based on estimated recoverable quantities of proven and probable
gold or copper reserves, using a stripping ratio calculated as the ratio of total tons to be moved to total proven and probable ore reserves, which results in the recognition of the costs of waste removal activities over the life of the mine as gold
or copper is produced. The application of the deferred stripping accounting method generally results in an asset on the Consolidated Balance Sheets (

Deferred stripping costs

), although a liability (

Advanced stripping costs

) will arise
if the actual stripping ratio incurred to date is less than the expected stripping ratio over the life of the mine. The

Advanced stripping costs

at December 31, 2004 pertain to Batu Hijau.

The EITF is discussing the accounting for deferred stripping costs incurred
during production but has not yet reached a consensus. The EITF considered the recommendation that stripping costs incurred during production are a mine development cost that should be capitalized as an investment in the mine and attributed to the
proven and probable reserves benefited in a systematic and rational manner. However, the EITF directed the FASB staff to develop additional guidance about what constitutes a systematic and rational manner of attributing the capitalized costs to
proven and probable reserves benefited.

See Notes 2 and 28 for
additional information concerning deferred stripping.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

NOTE 8    PROPERTY, PLANT AND MINE DEVELOPMENT

In 2004, the FASB
issued a FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) amending SFAS No. 141 and SFAS No. 142 to provide that certain mineral use rights are considered tangible assets and that mineral use rights should be accounted for based on their substance. As a
result, Newmont has reclassified all of its mineral, royalty and oil and gas interests from

Mineral interests and other intangible assets

to

Property, plant and mine development, net

in its balance sheets and ceased amortization on
exploration stage mineral interests prior to the commencement of production effective April 1, 2004.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

NOTE 9    INVESTMENTS AND EQUITY INCOME OF AFFILIATES

Investments:

Equity Loss and Impairment of
Australian Magnesium Corporation:

Equity Income of Affiliates:

Marketable Equity Securities

During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company
purchased marketable equity securities of Canadian Oil Sands Trust and Gabriel Resources, Ltd. for approximately $199.6 million and $19.2 million, respectively. The Company accounts for the investments as available-for-sale.

Batu Hijau

Effective January 1, 2004, Newmont consolidated Batu Hijau (see Note 3). For the years ended December 31, 2003 and
2002, the Company accounted for its investment in Batu Hijau using the equity method of accounting.

Equity income in Batu Hijau was $82.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 (based on 56.25% of Batu Hijau’s net income equal to $56.7
million, plus $6.8 million for the elimination of intercompany interest,



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

$9.7 million of intercompany management fees, the cumulative effect of $8.0 million related to the adoption of SFAS No. 143, and other adjustments of $1.7
million). The equity income in Batu Hijau was $42.1 million in 2002 (based on 56.25% of Batu Hijau’s net income equal to $19.3 million plus $8.5 million for the elimination of intercompany interest, $10.5 million for intercompany management
fees, and $3.8 million for other items).

Following is
summarized financial information for NTP based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The results of operations and assets and liabilities of NTP are not reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Financial
Statements. As described above, the Company accounted for NTP as an equity investment during 2003 and 2002.

(1)

Gross profit represents

Revenues, net of smelting and refining costs,

less

Production costs

and

Depreciation, depletion and amortization.

TVX Newmont Americas and Echo Bay
Mines Ltd.

On January 31, 2003, Kinross, Echo Bay and TVX
Gold were combined. Under the terms of the combination and acquisition, Newmont received a 13.8% interest in the restructured Kinross in exchange for its then 45.67% interest in Echo Bay and received cash proceeds of $180 million for its interest in
TVX Newmont Americas. Newmont recorded a pre-tax gain on the transactions of $84.3 million (see Note 4).

Australian Magnesium Corporation

At December 31, 2002, Newmont’s interest in Australian Magnesium Corporation (“AMC”) was composed of a 22.8% equity and voting interest and a loan receivable in the amount of A$38 million (approximately
$20.1 million) including interest.

During the year ended
December 31, 2003, the Company recorded losses of $119.5 million related to its investment in AMC composed of the following: (i) 2003 losses of $0.07 million representing Newmont’s proportionate share of AMC’s 2003 losses; (ii) second
quarter of 2003 losses resulting from a restructuring agreement of (a) $72.7 million representing the book value of its investment at June 30, 2003; (b) $24.8 million for a loan receivable from AMC; (c) $10 million charge to settle Newmont’s
guarantee of the obligation payable



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

by AMC to Ford Motor Credit; (d) $6.6 million related to a contingent credit facility; and (e) $1.1 million related to various other items, offset by a $7.4
million income tax benefit; and (iii) a first quarter of 2003 loss for an other-than-temporary decline in value of the investment of approximately $11.0 million.

During the fourth quarter of 2003, Newmont sold its entire interest in AMC for a nominal amount to Deutsche Bank AG
(“Deutsche Bank”) and to Magtrust Pty Ltd (“Magtrust”), a company owned and controlled by the directors of AMC. As a result of these transactions, Deutsche Bank and Magtrust acquired interests in AMC of approximately 6.8% and
19.9%, respectively. As part of the sales agreement, Deutsche Bank agreed to pay Newmont 90% of the sales proceeds received from any sale of the AMC shares. During the year ended December 31, 2004, Deutsche Bank sold all the shares of AMC subject to
the sales agreement, which resulted in A$2.8 million (approximately $2.0 million) in proceeds payable to Newmont, which was recorded in

Gain on investments, net

. See Note 20 for discussion regarding the release of Newmont from its guarantee
obligation.

European Gold Refineries

During December 2003, Newmont acquired a 50% interest in a joint venture,
European Gold Refineries SA (“EGR”), with unrelated Swiss residents holding the remaining 50%. Simultaneously, EGR purchased 100% of Valcambi SA (“Valcambi”), a gold refining business, and 66.65% of Finorafa SA
(“Finorafa”), a gold distribution business.

Valcambi
is a London Gold Delivery precious metals refiner and manufacturer of semi-finished products for the Swiss luxury watch industry, and Finorafa is the second largest distributor and financier of gold products in the Italian market.

The formation of EGR resulted in joint management by Newmont and the Swiss
residents and required approximately CHF30.0 million ($23.8 million) in funding, which was contributed pro-rata by each partner in equal portions of debt and equity, of which Newmont’s share was CHF15.0 million ($11.9 million). Newmont accounts
for its investment in EGR using the equity method of accounting. Newmont has no guarantees related to this investment.

AGR Matthey Joint Venture

Prior to the fourth quarter 2002, Newmont held a 50% interest in Australian Gold Refineries (“Old AGR”), a joint venture with the West
Australian Mint. In October 2002, Newmont and the West Australian Mint combined their respective interests in Old AGR with Johnson Matthey (Australia) Ltd. to create a new joint venture known as AGR Matthey Joint Venture (“AGR”), in which
Newmont now holds a 40% interest. Newmont has no guarantees related to this investment. Newmont received dividends of $1.7 million, $2.1 million and $0.9 million during 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, from its interests in AGR and Old AGR. See
also Note 22 for details of transactions between Newmont and AGR.

NOTE 10

ACQUISITIONS AND MERGERS

Turquoise Ridge

In December 2003, Newmont formed a joint venture with a subsidiary of Placer Dome Inc. (“Placer Dome”) under which Newmont acquired a 25%
interest in the Turquoise Ridge and Getchell mines, in return for providing up to 2,000 tons per day of milling capacity at Newmont’s Twin Creeks facility in Nevada and the extinguishment of the 2% Net Smelter Return royalty payable by Placer
Dome as it relates to the joint venture’s property. Placer Dome operates the joint venture. The carrying amount of the extinguished royalty was approximately $8.2 million at the date of closing.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Newmont NFM Limited Scheme of Arrangement

On April 2, 2003, the shareholders of Normandy NFM Limited (an Australian corporation trading at that time as “Newmont
NFM” on the Australian Stock Exchange or “ASX”) voted to approve a proposed scheme of arrangement under which Newmont NFM would become an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation, through the acquisition of the
remaining minority interest of Newmont NFM. Under the terms of the scheme, Newmont NFM shareholders could elect to receive 4.40 ASX listed Newmont Mining Corporation CHESS Depositary Interests (“CDIs”), with each CDI equivalent to 0.1
Newmont Mining Corporation share of common stock. As an alternative to receiving Newmont Mining Corporation CDIs, shareholders could sell their Newmont NFM shares back to Newmont NFM under a concurrent buy-back offer of A$16.50 per Newmont NFM
share. On April 29, 2003, Newmont Mining Corporation issued 4,437,506 shares of common stock to the CHESS Depository Nominees Pty Ltd, and in turn, 44,375,060 CDIs were issued to former Newmont NFM shareholders. The market value of the newly issued
Newmont Mining Corporation shares was approximately $105 million. The market value of the issued equity securities, together with the cash consideration paid to those shareholders who elected to accept the buy-back offer of approximately $10 million
(including transaction costs), resulted in a total purchase price of approximately $115 million. The transaction was accounted for as a purchase of minority interest in accordance with SFAS No. 141 in the second quarter of 2003 and gave rise to
goodwill of $93.3 million.

Normandy and Franco-Nevada

On February 16, 2002, pursuant to a Canadian Plan of Arrangement, Newmont
acquired 100% of Franco-Nevada Mining Corporation Limited (“Franco-Nevada”) in a stock-for-stock transaction in which Franco-Nevada common stockholders received 0.8 of a share of Newmont common stock, or 0.8 of a Canadian exchangeable
share (exchangeable for Newmont common shares), for each common share of Franco-Nevada. The exchangeable shares are substantially equivalent to Newmont common shares. On February 20, 2002, Newmont obtained control of Normandy Mining Limited
(“Normandy”) through a tender offer for all of the ordinary shares of Normandy. For accounting purposes, the effective date of the Normandy acquisition was the close of business on February 15, 2002, when Newmont received an irrevocable
tender from shareholders for more than 50% of the outstanding shares of Normandy. Accordingly, the results of operations of Normandy and Franco-Nevada have been included in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements from February 16, 2002
forward. On February 26, 2002, when the tender offer for Normandy expired, Newmont controlled more than 96% of Normandy’s outstanding shares. Newmont exercised its rights to acquire the remaining shares of Normandy in April 2002. Consideration
paid for Normandy included 3.85 shares of Newmont common stock for every 100 ordinary shares of Normandy (including ordinary shares represented by American depository receipts) plus A$0.50 per Normandy share, or the U.S. dollar equivalent of that
amount for Normandy stockholders outside Australia. Following the acquisitions, Normandy was renamed Newmont Australia Limited and Franco-Nevada was renamed Newmont Mining Corporation of Canada Limited.

The purchase price for these acquisitions totaled $4.3 billion, comprised of
197.0 million Newmont shares (or share equivalents), $461.7 million in cash and approximately $90.3 million of direct costs. The acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting whereby identifiable assets acquired and
liabilities assumed were recorded at their fair market values as of the date of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over such fair value was recorded as goodwill and, in accordance with SFAS No. 142, was assigned to specific reporting
units. The acquisitions resulted in approximately $3.0 billion of goodwill, primarily related to the merchant banking business, exploration programs and expertise, and expected synergies.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The carrying amount of goodwill by reporting unit as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 and changes in the
carrying amount of goodwill are summarized in the following table (in millions):

During the year ended
December 31, 2004, annual testing for impairment pursuant to SFAS No. 142 (comparison of implied goodwill value to carrying value) resulted in a charge against goodwill for the Pajingo operation (Australia/New Zealand segment) of $51.8 million. The
impairment resulted from a reevaluation of future production and operating costs that indicated lower grade material and higher future operating costs. The Company also adjusted valuation allowances, originally recorded as part of the purchase price
allocation for the acquisitions of Normandy and Franco-Nevada, for deferred tax assets related to capital loss carry-forwards in the Australia/New Zealand Segment for the Tanami operation and in the Merchant Banking Segment.

During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company allocated $45.8 million
and $47.5 million of goodwill arising from the Newmont NFM Scheme of Arrangement to the Tanami and Martha operations in the Australia/New Zealand Segment, respectively, based on synergies that were expected to be realized at each mine site reporting
unit. The Company also reversed valuation allowances for deferred tax assets related to capital loss carry-forwards in Australia due to capital gains generated by the sale of its interest in TVX Newmont Americas, the loss of tax attributes from the
extinguishment of NYOL bonds (Note 11), and tax benefits arising from the completion of the Newmont NFM Scheme of Arrangement. The valuation allowances were originally recorded as part of the purchase price allocation for the acquisitions of
Normandy and Franco-Nevada and were therefore reversed against goodwill. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company revised its estimate for probable loss relating to a pre-acquisition tax contingency accrual that was
originally recorded as part of the purchase price allocation for the acquisition of Normandy and Franco-Nevada.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

NOTE 11    DEBT

Scheduled minimum debt
repayments are $285.5 million in 2005, $169.5 million in 2006, $162.4 million in 2007, $236.5 million in 2008, $122.4 million in 2009, and $620.4 million thereafter.

Sale-Leaseback of the Refractory Ore Treatment Plant

In September 1994, the Company entered into a sale and leaseback agreement
for its refractory ore treatment plant located in Carlin, Nevada. The transaction was accounted for as debt and the cost of the refractory ore treatment plant was recorded as a depreciable asset. The lease term is 21 years and aggregate future
minimum lease payments, which include interest, were $400.6 million and $430.3 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Future minimum lease payments are $29.7 million in 2005, $35.5 million in 2006, $36.3 million in the years 2007
through 2009 and $226.1 million thereafter. The lease includes purchase options during and at the end of the lease at predetermined prices. The interest rate on this sale-leaseback transaction is 6.36%. In connection with this transaction, the
Company entered into certain interest rate hedging contracts that were settled for a gain of $11.0 million, which is recognized as a reduction of interest expense over the term of the lease. Including this gain, the effective interest rate on the
borrowing is 6.15%. The related asset is specialized, therefore it is not practicable to estimate the fair value of this debt.



/


%
Debentures

Uncollateralized debentures bearing
an annual interest rate of 8.375% Senior Debentures due 2005 in an aggregate principal amount of $200 million were outstanding at January 1, 2003. During the first quarter of 2003, the Company repurchased $23.0 million of these debentures resulting
in a

Loss on extinguishment of debt

of $2.6 million. Subsequently on October 10, 2003, Newmont announced that its wholly-owned subsidiary, Newmont USA Limited, had initiated a tender offer for any and all of its 8


/


% Debentures totaling $177.0 million of principal. The offer expired on November 7, 2003. The purchase price
for each $1,000 principal amount of the Senior Debentures was $1,103.8, plus accrued but unpaid interest up to, but not



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

including, the settlement date. Holders who validly tendered (and did not withdraw) their Senior Debentures on October 24, 2003 received an early tender fee
of $10.00 per $1,000 principal amount payable upon consummation of the offer included in the purchase price. Holders who validly tendered after the October 24, 2003 deadline but before the expiration date received the purchase price, but not the
$10.00 early tender fee, upon consummation of the offer. As of the expiration date, approximately $125.0 million of the $177.0 million of principal had been tendered resulting in a

Loss on extinguishment of debt

of $8.6 million. At December
31, 2003, $148.0 million of total principal had been repurchased. The calculation of the

Loss on extinguishment of debt

included the proportional write-off of capitalized debt issue costs, discounts and the mark-to-market of the underlying
debt resulting from fair value hedge accounting (see

Interest Rate Swaps

below). Interest on the remaining outstanding balance is payable semi-annually in January and July. The costs related to the issuance of the debentures were capitalized
and the remaining portion is amortized to interest expense over the term of the debentures. The interest rate swap discussed below is considered a fair value hedge applicable to this debt and is therefore marked-to-market. Using prevailing interest
rates on similar instruments, the estimated fair value of these debentures was approximately $51.8 million and $56.6 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The foregoing fair value estimate was prepared by an independent third party
and may or may not reflect the actual trading value of this instrument.



/


% Debentures

In May 2001, Newmont issued uncollateralized debentures with a principal amount of $275.0 million due May 2011 bearing an
annual interest rate of 8.625%. During the first quarter of 2003, the Company repurchased $52.3 million of these debentures resulting in a

Loss on extinguishment of debt

of $11.6 million. The calculation of the

Loss on extinguishment of
debt

included the proportional write-off of capitalized debt issue costs, discounts and the mark-to-market of the underlying debt resulting from fair value hedge accounting (see

Interest Rate Swaps

below). Interest on the remaining
outstanding balance is payable semi-annually in May and November and the debentures are redeemable prior to maturity under certain conditions. The costs related to the issuance of the debentures were capitalized and the remaining balance is
amortized to interest expense over the term of the debentures. The interest rate swap discussed below is considered a fair value hedge applicable to this debt and is therefore marked-to-market. Using prevailing interest rates on similar instruments,
the estimated fair value of these debentures was $271.5 million and $275.7 million at December 31, 2004, and 2003, respectively. The foregoing fair value estimate was prepared by an independent third party and may or may not reflect the actual
trading value of this instrument.

Newmont Australia


/


% Notes

In July 1998, Normandy Finance Limited (“NFL”) a subsidiary of Normandy Australia Limited, now Newmont Australia
Limited (“NAL”) issued $150.0 million of ten year 7


/


% notes guaranteed by NAL. In conjunction with
the Normandy acquisition, NFL and NAL were acquired by Newmont in February 2002. Interest on the notes is paid semi-annually in arrears in January and July. The notes were recorded at their fair values at February 15, 2002 as part of the purchase
accounting for the acquisition of Normandy. During the first quarter of 2003, the Company repurchased $30.9 million of these notes resulting in a

Loss on extinguishment of debt

of $4.4 million. The estimated fair value of these notes
approximates the carrying value at December 31, 2004 and was $137.3 million at December 31, 2003. The foregoing fair value estimate was prepared by an independent third party and may or may not reflect the actual trading value of this instrument.

Newmont Australia 7


/


% Notes

In July 1998, NFL issued $100.0 million of seven year 7


/


% notes guaranteed by NAL. The notes were recorded at their fair values at February 15, 2002 as part of the purchase accounting for the acquisition of Normandy. During 2003, the Company repurchased
$80.5 million of these notes resulting in a

Loss on



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

extinguishment of debt

of $6.4 million. Interest on the notes is paid semi-annually in arrears in January and July. The estimated fair value of these
notes approximated carrying value at December 31, 2004 and was $21.0 million at December 31, 2003.

Medium-Term Notes

Uncollateralized notes with a principal amount of $17.0 million maturing on various dates in 2004 were outstanding at December 31, 2003. The annual
weighted interest rate was 7.92% during the year ended December 31, 2003. Interest was payable semi-annually in March and September and the notes were not redeemable prior to maturity.

Newmont Australia Infrastructure Bonds

In June 1996, NP Finance Limited and GPS Finance Limited, wholly-owned
subsidiaries of NAL, issued A$111.9 million (approximately $83.9 million) and A$21.9 million (approximately $16.4 million), respectively, of 7.906%, fifteen-year bonds at a premium to fund certain gas pipeline and power station projects. The bonds
were issued at a premium due to unique tax-related benefits available to the bondholders and the issuer under Australian tax regulations. Interest was accrued and capitalized semi-annually in arrears in June and December of each year. Concurrently,
with the issue of the Infrastructure Bonds described above, GMK Investments Pty Ltd (“GMKI”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of NAL, entered into an offsetting transaction, making payments to Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft (“DBA”)
equal to the face value of the bonds in return for DBA agreeing to purchase the bonds from each holder of the bonds in June 2004 and to sell those bonds to GMKI for a nominal amount at that time. The receivable from DBA also accrued interest
receivable at 7.906% and such interest is capitalized semi-annually in arrears in June and December of each year. In June 2004, DBA purchased the infrastructure bonds issued by GPS Finance Limited and transferred such bonds to GMKI. The forward
purchase arrangement with DBA relating to the bonds issued by NP Finance was extended to June 2011 because certain tax-related benefits were still available to the bondholders. Subsequently, GMKI assigned its right to the forward purchase asset
relating to the bonds issued by NP Finance to Newmont Pipelines Pty Ltd (“Newmont Pipelines”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of NAL, which then sold both NP Finance and Newmont Pipelines to a third party for cash consideration of A$4.5
million. The June 2004 transactions described above resulted in the full extinguishment of both the infrastructure bonds obligation and asset, and Newmont recognized a gain on extinguishment of $4.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 in

Interest income, foreign currency exchange and other income

.

Prepaid Forward Transaction

In July
1999, the Company entered into a prepaid forward gold sales contract (the “Prepaid Forward”) and a forward gold purchase contract (the “Forward Purchase”). Under the Prepaid Forward, the Company agreed to sell 483,333 ounces of
gold, to be delivered in June of each of 2005, 2006 and 2007 in annual installments of 161,111 ounces (the “Annual Delivery Requirements”). The Company also agreed under the Prepaid Forward to deliver semi-annually 17,951 ounces of gold,
beginning June 2000 through June 2007 (the “Semi-Annual Delivery Requirements”) for a total gold delivery obligation over the life of the Prepaid Forward of 752,598 ounces. At the time the Prepaid Forward was entered into, the Company
received net proceeds of $137.2 million ($145.0 million of gross proceeds before transaction costs of $653,000 and the purchase of a $7.1 million surety bond to guarantee delivery of the Annual Delivery Requirements). The Company may also be
entitled to receive additional proceeds in the future in connection with the annual deliveries of 161,111 ounces, to be determined at each delivery date based on the excess, if any, of the then market price for gold (up to a maximum of $380 per
ounce) over $300 per ounce.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

At the time the Company entered into the Prepaid Forward, it also entered into the Forward Purchase,
with the same counterparty, to hedge the price risk with respect to the Semi-Annual Delivery Requirements. The Forward Purchase provides for semi-annual purchases of 17,951 ounces of gold on each semi-annual delivery date under the Prepaid Forward
at prices increasing from $263 per ounce in 2000 to $354 per ounce in 2007. On each semi-annual delivery date, the ounces purchased under the Forward Purchase were delivered in satisfaction of the Company’s delivery requirements under the
Prepaid Forward. The transaction has been accounted for as a single borrowing of $145 million, with interest accruing, based on an effective interest rate recognized over the full term of the borrowing. Scheduled repayments are $48.3 million in each
of the years 2005, 2006 and 2007. Using relevant future market conditions and financial models, the estimated negative fair value of these contracts was approximately $204.5 million and $208.7 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Interest Rate Swaps

During the last half of 2001, the Company entered into contracts to hedge
the interest rate risk exposure on portions of its $275.0 million 8


/


% debentures and its $200 million 8


/


% debentures. The Company receives fixed-rate interest payments at 8


/


% or 8


/


% and
pays floating-rate interest amounts based on periodic London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) settings plus a spread, ranging from 2.60% to 4.25%. The notional principal amount of these transactions was $200 million at December 31, 2004.
Effective April 1, 2004, the Company redesignated $150 million of these contracts as new fair value hedges against portions of the 8


/


% notes and the 8


/


% debentures. The remaining $50 million of these contracts have not
been designated and changes in their fair value are recorded currently in income. Half of these contracts expire in July 2005 and half expire in May 2011. See Note 16.

PTNNT Project Financing Facility

On May 9, 2002, P.T. Newmont Nusa Tenggara (“PTNNT”) completed a
restructuring of its project financing facility (Senior Debt), which is non-recourse to Newmont. The scheduled repayments of this debt are semi-annual installments of $43.4 through November 2010 and $22.1 million from May 2011 through November 2013.
PTNNT deferred $86.8 million of principal payments in 2002 as provided for by the restructured facility. The deferred principal was completely repaid during 2003 and all scheduled 2003 and 2004 payments were made. Amounts outstanding under the
project financing were $653.1 million at December 31, 2004.

The project financing facility is non-recourse to Newmont and substantially all of Batu Hijau’s assets are pledged as collateral. The carrying value of the property, plant and mine development was $1,518.6 million at December 31, 2004.
Under the terms of the project financing facility, PTNNT maintains an escrow account for the next interest and principal installment due. Such amount totaled $58.3 million at December 31, 2004 and was included in

Other long-term assets

. The
facility contains certain covenants that limit indebtedness and restricted payments to partners, among others. In addition, PTNNT must maintain certain financial ratios. At December 31, 2004, PTNNT was in compliance with these covenants.

The interest rate was based on blended fixed and floating rates, and at
current market rates on December 31, 2004, the weighted average interest rate approximated the London InterBank Offering Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 2.3%. The weighted average interest rates were 5.1%, 4.7% and 5.0% during 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively, and the interest rates were 5.2% and 4.7% at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The fair market value cannot be practicably determined due to the lack of available market information for this type of debt.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

PTNNT Partner Loans

PTNNT has shareholder subordinated loan agreements (“Sponsor Loans”) with Newmont Indonesia Limited
(“NIL”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newmont, and Nusa Tenggara Mining Corporation (“NTMC”) with substantially the same terms for each shareholder. Total principal outstanding under these Sponsor Loans was approximately $120.7
million and $248.6 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Of this amount, 43.75% or approximately $52.8 million and $108.8 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, was due to NTMC, an unrelated third-party, and is
non-recourse to Newmont, with the remainder payable to a subsidiary consolidated by Newmont. Payments of $56.0 million were made to NTMC during 2004. Borrowings under the Sponsor Loans are guaranteed by NTP and are payable on demand, subject to the
Senior Debt subordination terms. Through December 31, 2003, the interest rate was based on the annual Singapore InterBank Offering Rate (“SIBOR”) and the interest rate on any unpaid interest was based on the annual SIBOR rate plus 1%.
Effective January 1, 2004, the Sponsor Loans were amended such that the annual interest rates are based on SIBOR rate plus 3% for principal and SIBOR rate plus 4% for any unpaid accrued interest. The weighted average interest rate and the rate at
December 31, 2004 were 4.5% and 5.7%, respectively. The fair market value cannot be practicably determined due to the lack of available market information for this type of debt.

Newmont and its partner provide a contingent support line of credit to PTNNT. No funding was required in 2004. Available
additional support from NTP’s partners was $65.0 million, of which Newmont’s pro-rata share was $36.6 million, at December 31, 2004.

NYOL 8


/


%
Notes

During May 2003, Newmont, through an
indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary, Yandal Bond Company Limited (“YBCL”), made an offer to acquire all of NYOL’s outstanding 8


/


% Senior Notes due 2008. These Notes were subsequently extinguished in connection with the Voluntary Administration of NYOL.

This transaction gave rise to a

gain

of $114.0 million, net of transaction costs, for the year ended December 31,
2003. Total cash payments to extinguish the NYOL bonds (including costs) was $98.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2003.

Project Financings

Yanacocha

$100 million Credit Facility.

In December 1999, Yanacocha entered into a $100.0 million credit facility (a $20 million A
Tranche and an $80 million B Tranche) with the International Finance Corporation (“IFC”). At December 31, 2004, $30 million was outstanding in total with $10 million outstanding under the A Tranche and $20 million outstanding under the B
Tranche. The A Tranche had a five-year revolving availability period and converted into a five-year term loan in December 2004. The B Tranche had a three-year revolving availability period that converted to a four-year term loan in December 2002.
Initial drawdowns under the loan were used for development of the La Quinua project; however, the loan accommodated repayments during the revolving availability period and subsequent borrowings were used for other purposes. Interest applicable to
the A Tranche is based on LIBOR plus 2.375%. Interest applicable to the B Tranche is based on LIBOR plus 2.5%. Certain Yanacocha assets collaterize the loans.

The A Tranche interest rate was 4.9% and 3.5% at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The weighted-average rate was 3.8% and 4.3% for 2004 and
2003, respectively. The B Tranche interest rate was



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

5.0% and 3.4% at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The weighted-average rate was 4.0% and 3.7% for 2004 and 2003, respectively. The outstanding
amount under this credit line was $30.0 million and $40.0 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Using prevailing interest rates on similar instruments, the estimated fair value of this debt approximated the carrying value at December
31, 2004 and 2003.

$50 million Credit
Facility.

In June 2004, Yanacocha amended its $40 million line of credit with Banco de Credito del Peru to extend the term of the facility to June 2007, reduce the applicable interest rate and increase the facility to $50
million. The interest rate is LIBOR plus 0.65% through June 2005 and LIBOR plus 2% thereafter. The interest rate under the previous agreement was LIBOR plus 0.75% through June 2004. The weighted-average interest rate was 2.8% for 2002. During 2004,
Yanacocha borrowed $35.5 million and repaid $35.5 million of the total line of credit. There were no outstanding amounts under this credit line at December 31, 2004 and 2003.

Trust Certificates.

Yanacocha issued debt in 1999 through the sale of $100.0 million 8.4%
Series A Trust Certificates to various institutional investors. In June 2004, the Trust Certificates were paid in full. At December 31, 2003, $16.0 million was outstanding under the financing. Interest on the Certificates was fixed at 8.4% and
repayments occurred quarterly through June 2004. The Certificates were collateralized by certain of Yanacocha assets, certain restricted funds and also were specifically collateralized by future gold sales, through a trust agreement with the Bank of
New York.

$20 million Credit
Facility.

In June 2004, Yanacocha entered into a $20 million credit facility with BBV Banco Continental that expires in June 2005. The interest rate is LIBOR plus 0.7%. There was no outstanding balance at December 31,
2004. During the year no amounts were borrowed under this revolving line of credit.

All Yanacocha debt is non-recourse to the Company and the $100 million Credit Facility is collateralized by substantially all of Yanacocha’s operating property, plant and mine development; see above for specific
collateral on the Trust Certificates. The carrying value of the property, plant and mine development was $851.9 million and $762.7 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Under the terms of the Trust Certificates loan, Yanacocha
maintained an escrow account for the next interest and principal installment due. Such amount totaled $16.7 million as of December 31, 2003. The escrow account amount was included in

Other current

assets

.

Zarafshan-Newmont

In December 2000, Zarafshan-Newmont entered into a $30.0 million loan with
the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (“EBRD”), of which $15.0 million was Newmont’s share, primarily for capital expansion. Newmont’s portion of the outstanding amount on this loan was $11.0 million and $13.1
million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The interest rate is based on the three-month LIBOR plus 3.25%. The interest rate was 5.3% and 4.4% at December 31, 2004 and 2003 and the weighted-average interest rate was 4.6% and 4.7% for 2004
and 2003, respectively. Using prevailing interest rates on similar instruments, the estimated fair value of this debt approximated the carrying value at December 31, 2004 and 2003. In July 2004, Zarafshan-Newmont entered into a supplemental
agreement with the EBRD that provided for the loan facility to be repaid in 13 semi-annual payments, beginning July 2004 and ending July 2010, the first five to be made at $0.5 million and the remainder at $2.5 million. In addition, the minimum
balance of the escrow account requirement was increased to $3.75 million to ensure the timely payments of principal and interest.

The assets of Zarafshan-Newmont collateralized the loan (with carrying values of approximately $205.7 million and $193.7 million at December 31, 2004 and
2003, respectively). In addition, the Company has



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

guaranteed 50% of the loans and the Uzbek partners have guaranteed the other 50%. Under the terms of the EBRD facility, certain payments, including payment
of any distribution of capital or disbursement of funds not directly related to expenses of the project, are not permitted unless certain conditions and financial ratios are met.

Corporate Revolving Credit Facilities

Through July 29, 2004, the Company had three uncollateralized revolving credit facilities with a consortium of banks: a $200 million U.S.
dollar-denominated revolving credit facility with an initial term of 364 days that was permitted to be extended annually to no later than October 2006; a $400 million multi-currency revolving credit facility that matured in October 2006 and provided
for borrowing in U.S., Canadian and Australian dollars, and which also contained a letter of credit sub-facility; and a $150 million multi-currency revolving credit facility that was to mature in May 2005 and provided for borrowing in U.S. and
Australian dollars. Interest rates and facility fees varied based on the credit ratings of the Company’s senior, uncollateralized, long-term debt. Borrowings under the facilities bore interest at a rate per annum equal to either the LIBOR plus
a margin ranging from 0.45% to 1.25% or the greater of the federal funds rate plus 0.5% or the lead bank’s prime rate plus a margin ranging from 0% to 0.25%. Facility fees were accrued at a rate per annum ranging from 0.10% to 0.40% of the
commitment.

Effective July 30, 2004, the Company entered into
a new uncollateralized $1.25 billion revolving credit facility with a syndicate of commercial banks. This new revolving credit facility replaced the three existing revolving credit facilities which were cancelled upon the effectiveness of the new
facility. The new facility provides for borrowings in U.S. dollars and contains a letter of credit sub-facility. The new facility matures July 30, 2009. Interest rates and facility fees vary based on the credit ratings of the Company’s senior,
uncollateralized, long-term debt. Borrowings under the facilities bear interest at a rate per annum equal to either LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 0.285% to 1.150% or the greater of the federal funds rate plus 0.5% or the lead bank’s prime
rate plus, in each case, a margin ranging from 0% to 0.150%. Facility fees accrue at a rate per annum ranging from 0.090% to 0.350% of the aggregate commitments. The Company also pays a utilization fee of 0.125% on the amount of revolving credit
loans and letters of credit outstanding under the facility for each day on which the sum of such loans and letters of credit exceed 50% of the commitments under the facility. Letters of credit issued under the prior credit facilities’ letter of
credit sub-facility were transferred to and remain outstanding under the new facility’s letter of credit sub-facility. At December 31, 2004, the facility fees were 0.125% of the commitment. There was $187.1 million outstanding under the letter
of credit sub-facility as of December 31, 2004.

Debt Covenants

Certain of Newmont’s current debt facilities contain
various common public debt covenants and default provisions including payment defaults, limitation on liens, limitation on sales and leaseback agreements and merger restrictions. These debt instruments include the medium term notes, 8


/


% debentures, 8


/


% debentures and the sale-leaseback of the refractory ore treatment plant. None of the aforementioned public debt instruments contain financial ratio covenants or credit rating provisions that could be
anticipated to create liquidity issues for the Company.

In addition to the covenants noted above, the corporate revolving credit facility contains financial ratio covenants requiring the Company to maintain a net debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and
amortization) ratio of less than or equal to 4.0 and a net debt (total debt net of cash) to total capitalization ratio of less than or equal to 62.5%. Furthermore, the corporate revolving credit facility contains covenants limiting the sale of all
or substantially all of the Company’s assets, certain change of control provisions and a negative pledge on certain assets.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Certain of the Company’s project debt facilities contain various common project debt covenants
and default provisions including limitations on dividends subject to certain debt service cover ratios, limitations on sales of assets, negative pledges on certain assets, change of control provisions and limitations of additional permitted debt.

At December 31, 2004, the Company and its subsidiaries were in
compliance with all debt covenants and default provisions in all material respects.

NOTE 12    EMPLOYEE PENSION AND OTHER BENEFIT PLANS

Pension Plans

The
Company’s pension plans include: (1) two qualified non-contributory defined benefit plans (for salaried employees and substantially all domestic hourly union employees); (2) one non-qualified plan (for salaried employees whose benefits under
the qualified plan are limited by federal legislation); (3) two qualified plans for salaried and hourly Canadian employees and (4) a non-qualified international plan (for select employees who are not eligible to participate in the U.S.-based plans
because of citizenship). The vesting period for plans identified in (1) and (2) is five years of service. These plans’ benefit formulas are based on an employee’s years of credited service and either (i) such employee’s highest
consecutive five years average pay (salaried plan) or (ii) a flat dollar amount adjusted by a service-weighted multiplier (hourly plan). The Canadian plans are fully vested upon remittance and the benefit formula is based on a percentage of annual
pay. The international retirement plan’s basic and savings accounts have a graded vesting schedule and are fully vested after four years of service. The international retirement plan’s supplemental account is vested after attaining age 55
with 10 years of service or attaining age 62. The plan’s benefit formula is based on a percentage of compensation as defined in the plan document.

Pension costs are determined annually by independent actuaries and pension contributions to the qualified plans are made based on funding standards
established under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.

Other Benefit Plans

The Company provides
defined medical benefits to qualified retirees (and to their eligible dependents) who were salaried employees and defined life insurance benefits to qualified retirees who were salaried employees. In general, participants become eligible for these
benefits upon retirement directly from the Company if they are at least 55 years old and the combination of their age and years of service with the Company equals 75 or more. This benefit is no longer provided to employees who joined the Company
after January 1, 2003. The Company provides defined medical benefits to retirees (and their eligible dependents) who were Canadian salaried employees at the Golden Giant, Holloway and the closed Silidor mines, or Canadian hourly employees at the
Holloway and the closed Silidor mines, and defined benefit life insurance benefits to retirees who were Canadian salaried and hourly employees at the Golden Giant and Holloway mines. Employees become eligible for these benefits upon retirement from
the Company on or after age 55. Retirees receive medical benefits until they reach age 65.

Defined medical benefits cover most of the reasonable and customary charges for hospital, surgical, diagnostic and physician services and prescription drugs. Life insurance benefits are based on a percentage of final
base annual salary and decline over time after retirement commences.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The following tables provide a reconciliation of changes in the plans’ benefit obligations and
assets’ fair values for the two-year period ended December 31, 2004, and a statement of the funded status as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 (in thousands):

The Company’s
qualified pension plans are funded with cash contributions in compliance with Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) rules and regulations. The Company’s non-qualified and other benefit plans are not funded, but exist as general corporate
obligations. The information contained in the above tables indicates the combined funded status of qualified and non-qualified plans, in accordance with accounting pronouncements. Assumptions used for IRS purposes differ from those used for
accounting purposes. The funded status shown above compares the projected benefit obligation (“PBO”) of all plans, which is an actuarial present value of obligations that takes into account assumptions as to future compensation levels of
plan participants, to the fair value of the assets held in trust for the qualified plans. Accounting pronouncements also prescribe a computation for the plans’ accumulated benefit obligation (“ABO”), which is an actuarial present
value of benefits (whether vested or nonvested) attributed to employees based on employee service and compensation prior to the end of the period presented. The Company expects to contribute approximately $10.0 million during 2005.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The following plans have an ABO in excess of the market value of plan assets (in millions):

The following table
provides amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31:

In 2004, an adjustment
was required to reflect an increased liability of $3.3 million for the hourly pension plans. This was the result of a one-time, one-year increase to benefits applicable to participants with a specified combination of age and years of service. In
2004, an adjustment was required to reflect a decreased liability of $1.9 million for the non-qualified plans. This was the result of a change to the components of eligible compensation.

In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions,” an adjustment was
required to reflect a minimum liability for the non-qualified pension plan in 2003 and 2002, one of the qualified salary plans in 2003 and 2002, and one of the hourly pension plans and the international plan in 2003 and 2002. As a result of such
adjustment, an intangible asset was recorded, and (to the extent the minimum liability adjustment exceeded the unrecognized net transition liability), gains (losses) were recorded in

Other comprehensive income (loss)

,

net of tax

of
$0.4 million and $(28.7) million (net of related deferred income tax benefits) for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The following table provides components of net periodic pension benefit cost for the indicated fiscal
years:

For the pension plans,
prior-service costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of active participants. Gains and losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the benefit obligation or the market-related value of assets are
amortized over the average remaining service period of active participants. Pension and postretirement benefits are accrued during an employee’s service to the Company.

During 2003, amendments were made to the post-retirement medical plan resulting in a $10.2 million reduction to the
obligation at December 31, 2003. Newmont has adopted a five-year strategy that will increase retirees’ monthly contributions for Plan coverage. The goal is to provide a competitive and equitable Retiree Medical Plan in which Newmont will bear
the majority of the cost. To meet this objective, retirees must pay a higher percentage of the cost of their coverage than they currently do. However, the plan is to phase in this change over a period of five years so that retirees’ total
monthly contributions cover 25% of the Plan’s costs by the year 2008. In addition, the monthly contributions paid by future retirees who are salaried employees who were under age 50 on January 1, 2003 and who have an adjusted hire date before
January 1, 2003 will vary depending upon their years of service at the time of their retirement from Newmont. Employees hired after January 1, 2003 will no longer be eligible for post-retirement medical benefits.

Significant assumptions as of December 31 were as follows:



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

In 2003, Newmont made a decision to use 8% as the expected long-term return on plan assets for fiscal
year 2003 and continued to use 8% for 2004 and 2005. This decision was based on an analysis of the actual returns over multiple time horizons and review of assumptions used by other U.S. corporations with defined benefit plans of similar size and
investment strategy as Newmont. The average actual return on plan assets during the 16 years ended December 31, 2004 approximated 10%.

The pension plan employs two independent multi-product investment firms which invest the assets of the plan in certain approved funds that correspond to
the specific asset classes and associated target allocations designated by the board of directors of the Company. Depending upon actual sector performance, the assets in the plan are periodically rebalanced to match the established target levels for
the asset classes. This rebalancing may be accomplished through actual transfer of funds between asset classes and managers, or through targeted cash contributions and/or distributions. The goal of the pension fund investment program is to achieve
expected rates of return consistent with the investment risk associated with the approved investment portfolio. The investment performance of the plan and that of the individual investment firms is measured against recognized market indices. This
performance is monitored by an investment committee comprised of members of the Company’s management, which is advised by an independent investment consultant. The performance of the plan is reviewed annually with the Audit Committee of the
Company’s board of directors. The following is a summary of the target asset allocations for 2004 and the actual asset allocation for 2004.

Asset Allocation

Target

Actual at

December 31,


U.S. equity investments


%


%

International equity investments


%


%

Fixed income investments


%


%

The assumed health
care cost trend rate to measure the expected cost of benefits was 12% for 2005, 11% for 2006, 10% for 2007, 9% for 2008, 8% for 2009, 7% for 2010, 6% for 2011, and 5% each year thereafter. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant
effect on amounts reported for the health care plans. A 1% change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in thousands):

1%

Increase

1%

Decrease

Effect on total of service and interest cost components of net periodic postretirement health care benefit cost

$

1,900

$

(1,500

)

Effect on the health care component of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation

$

15,400

$

(12,000

)

Savings Plans

The Company has two qualified defined contribution savings plans, one that
covers salaried and non-union hourly employees and one that covers substantially all hourly union employees. In addition, the Company has one non-qualified supplemental savings plan for salaried employees whose benefits under the qualified plan are
limited by federal regulations. When an employee meets eligibility requirements, the Company matches 100% of employee contributions of up to 6% and 5% of base salary for the salaried (including non-union hourly employees) and hourly plans,
respectively. Matching contributions are made with Newmont stock; however, no holding restrictions are placed on such contributions, which totaled $8.7 million in 2004 and $8.2 million in 2003 and 2002.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Cash flows

The Company expects to contribute approximately $10 million to its pension plans in 2005. Benefit payments expected to be paid to plan participants are as
follows (in millions):

NOTE
13    STOCK OPTIONS

Employee Stock Options

The Company maintains stock option plans for executives
and eligible employees. Under the Company’s stock option plans, options to purchase shares of stock can be granted with exercise prices equal to or greater than the market value of the underlying stock at the date of grant. The options vest
over periods ranging from two to four years and are exercisable over periods of up to ten years. In addition, the Company has a non-employee directors stock plan (the “Directors Plan”) under which non-employee directors were, before 2003,
entitled to receive stock options in lieu of other compensation. At December 31, 2004, 12,737,736 shares were available for future grants under the Company’s employee stock plans and the Directors Plan. In conjunction with the Directors Plan,
5,592 options were issued and outstanding at December 31, 2004.

The following table summarizes annual activity for all stock options for each of the three years ended December 31:



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2004, with
exercise prices equal to the fair market value on the date of grant with no restrictions on exercisability after vesting:

The Company’s
U.S. income taxes payable have been reduced, and the deferred tax assets increased, for the tax benefits associated with the exercise of employee stock options. The Company is entitled to a deduction equal to the excess of the fair market value of
the stock issued at the date of exercise over the amount received from the employee (the option exercise price). These tax benefits were credited directly to shareholders’ equity as additional paid in capital and amounted to $19.6 million for
2004, $18.3 million for 2003, and zero for 2002.

Other Stock-Based
Compensation

The Company grants restricted stock to
certain employees. Shares of restricted stock are granted upon achievement of certain financial and operating thresholds at fair market value on the grant date. Prior to vesting, these shares of restricted stock are subject to certain restrictions
related to ownership and transferability. In 2004, 2003, and 2002, 285,155, 170,019, and 180,368 shares of restricted stock, respectively, were granted and issued, of which 351,944 and 242,116 shares remained unvested at December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. The weighted-average fair value of the stock grants were $42.04, $25.65, and $21.67 in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. Compensation expense recorded for these grants of restricted stock was $7.8 million, $13.1 million, and $6.0
million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. With the exception of shares granted in 2002, which vested in two equal increments over two years, the shares of restricted stock vest in three equal increments over three years.

Restricted stock units also are granted upon achievement of certain financial
and operating thresholds to employees in certain foreign jurisdictions. In 2004, the Company granted 18,788 restricted stock units at the weighted-average fair market value of $42.04 of the underlying shares of the Company’s common stock.
Compensation expense recorded for these grants of restricted stock units was $0.8 million in 2004. These restricted stock units vest in three equal increments over three years. Upon vesting, the employee is entitled to receive for each restricted
stock unit one share of the Company’s common stock.

The
Company grants deferred stock awards to certain other employees. The deferred stock awards vest after two years. In 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company granted deferred stock awards in respect of 158,219, 174,795, and 187,836 shares of the
Company’s common stock, respectively, at weighted-average fair market values of $42.99, $36.76, and $26.07 per share, respectively. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, 314,109, and 340,060



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

deferred stock awards, respectively, remained unvested. Compensation expense recorded for these grants of deferred stock awards was $6.0 million, $4.8
million, and $3.2 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Upon vesting, the employee is entitled to receive the number of shares of the Company’s common stock specified in the deferred stock award.

NOTE 14    OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES

NOTE
15    RECLAMATION AND REMEDIATION (ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS)

The Company’s mining and exploration activities are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations are continually changing and
are generally becoming more restrictive. The Company conducts its operations so as to protect the public health and environment and believes its operations are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in all material respects. The Company
has made, and expects to make in the future, expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations, but cannot predict the full amount of such future expenditures. Estimated future reclamation costs are based principally on legal and regulatory
requirements.

At December 31, 2004 and 2003, $410.3 million
and $361.0 million, respectively, were accrued for reclamation obligations relating to currently or recently producing mineral properties. In addition, the Company is involved in several matters concerning environmental obligations associated with
former, primarily historic, mining activities. Generally, these matters concern developing and implementing remediation plans at the various sites involved. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, $74.9 million and $58.6 million, respectively, were accrued
for such obligations. These amounts are also included in

Reclamation and remediation liabilities

.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The following is a reconciliation of the total liability for reclamation and remediation (in
thousands):

The current portions
of

Reclamation and remediation liabilities

of $53.7 million and $57.4 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are included in

Other current liabilities

.

The Company recorded $12.7 million, $19.2 million and $5.2 million of reclamation expense during the years ended December
31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, for non-operating properties.

On January 1, 2003, Newmont adopted SFAS No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” which established a uniform methodology for accounting for estimated reclamation and abandonment costs. As a result,

Reclamation
and remediation liabilities

increased by $120.7 million for the fair value of the estimated asset retirement obligations,

Other current liabilities

increased by $2.3 million,

Deferred income tax assets

increased by $11.2 million,

Property, plant and mine development, net

increased by $69.1 million, Minority interest in subsidiaries decreased by $16.2 million,

Investments

decreased by $8.0 million and a $34.5 million loss was recorded for the

Cumulative
effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax.

In 2002, the pro forma effect would have increased

Net income

by $0.2 million ($0.00 per common share, basic) had the accounting change been in effect during the period.

NOTE 16    SALES CONTRACTS, COMMODITY AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Newmont generally avoids gold hedging. Newmont’s
philosophy is to provide shareholders with leverage to gold prices by selling its gold production at market prices. Newmont has, on a limited basis, entered into derivative contracts to protect the selling price for certain anticipated gold and
copper production and to manage risks associated with sales contracts, commodities, interest rates, and foreign currency. Newmont is not required to place collateral with respect to commodity instruments and there are no margin calls associated with
such contracts. During the year ended December 31, 2004, Newmont entered into copper net zero-cost option collar contracts, U.S.$/IDR forward purchase contracts and Australian dollar net zero-cost option collar contracts. Approximately 459 million
pounds of copper are hedged by the copper option collar contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted copper sales, and as such, changes in the fair value related to the effective portion of the hedges have been recorded in

Accumulated other comprehensive income

. The remainder of the copper option collar contracts are currently undesignated and are accounted for on a mark-to-market basis currently through earnings. The U.S.$/IDR forward purchase contracts and
Australian dollar net zero-cost option collar contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges of future IDR and Australian dollar expenditures, respectively, and as such, changes in the market value have been recorded in

Accumulated other
comprehensive income

.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, net gains of $2.3 million and $28.3 million and
a net loss of $18.3 million, respectively, were included in

Net income (loss)

for the ineffective portion of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges and a net loss of $0.0 million, $5.4 million and $21.5 million, respectively,
for the change in fair value of gold commodity contracts that do not qualify as hedges (included in

Gain (loss) on derivative instruments, net

). The amount to be reclassified from

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

,

net
of tax

to income for derivative instruments during the next 12 months is a gain of approximately $6.0 million. The maximum period over which hedged forecasted transactions are expected to occur is 7 years.

At the time of Normandy’s acquisition, three of Normandy’s
affiliates had substantial derivative instrument positions. Normandy entered into gold forward sales contracts with fixed and floating gold lease rates, but did not enter into contracts that required margin calls and had no outstanding long-dated
sold call options. Following the acquisition, and in accordance with Newmont’s philosophy regarding gold hedging, the Normandy hedge positions were reduced by approximately 9.6 million ounces from February 16, 2002 to December 31, 2004. Gold
forward sales contracts and other “committed hedging obligations” were reduced by 7.5 million ounces by delivering production into the contracts or through early close-outs. Similarly, uncommitted contracts for 2.1 million ounces were
either delivered into, were allowed to lapse or were closed out early. Thus, as of December 31, 2004, the Normandy hedge positions have been reduced to 324,750 uncommitted ounces with a negative mark-to-market valuation of $9 million.

Certain of Normandy’s hedge positions were eliminated in
connection with the Voluntary Administration of Newmont Yandal Operations Pty Ltd. See Note 27 for discussion of legal matters.

This transaction gave rise to a gain of $106.5 million, net of transaction costs, for the year ended December 31, 2003. Total cash payments to
extinguish the derivatives liability (including costs) was $103.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2003.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(1)

The fair value does not include amounts payable ($6.8 million on copper collars) or receivable ($0.2 million on diesel forwards) on derivative contracts that have
been closed out in December 2004 with the net settlement due in January 2005.

(2)

The Company had copper forward transactions as of December 31, 2003, which had a mark-to-market of negative $5.0 million.

Australian Dollar Forward Contracts

The Company had no Australian dollar forward contracts outstanding as of
December 31, 2004, although a position did exist as of December 31, 2003. These positions were closed during July 2004. The fair value of these contracts as of December 31, 2003 was positive $7.7 million.

Provisional Copper and Gold Sales

For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, Batu Hijau recorded
gross revenues, before smelting and refining charges, of $324.8 million, $95.7 million and $65.7 million for base metals, respectively,



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

and $28.5 million, zero and zero for gold, respectively, which were subject to final pricing adjustments. The average realized price adjustment for base
metals was 13.77%, 5.07% and 1.98% for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and 0.86%, 1.13% and 0.83% for gold for the same periods.

Price-Capped Sales Contracts

In 2001, Newmont entered into transactions that closed out certain call options. The options were replaced with a series of
forward sales contracts requiring physical delivery of the same quantity of gold over slightly extended future periods. Under the terms of the contracts, Newmont will realize the lower of the spot price on the delivery date or the capped price
ranging from $350 per ounce in 2005 to $392 per ounce in 2011. The initial fair value of the forward sales contracts of $53.8 million was recorded as

Deferred revenue from sale of future production

and will be included in sales revenue as
delivery occurs in 2005 through 2011. As of December 31, 2004, the current portion of $7.0 million has been reclassified to

Other current liabilities

. The forward sales contracts are accounted for as normal sales contracts under SFAS No. 133
“Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” and SFAS No. 138 “Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities-an Amendment to SFAS No. 133.”

Newmont had the following price-capped forward sales contracts outstanding at
December 31, 2004:

Interest Rate
Swap Contracts

In 2001, Newmont entered into
contracts to hedge the interest rate risk exposure on a portion of its $275 million 8


/


% debentures and its
$200 million 8


/


% debentures (see Note 11). These transactions resulted in a reduction in interest expense of
$5.5 million, $6.9 million and $5.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The fair value of the ineffective portions accounted for as derivative assets were $3.7 million and $5.2 million at December 31, 2004 and
2003, respectively, and the fair value of the effective portions accounted for as fair value hedges were $5.0 million and $7.7 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

NOTE 17    STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND EARNINGS PER SHARE

Newmont Common Stock

In January 2004, Newmont filed a new shelf registration statement on Form
S-3 under which it can issue debt and equity securities from time-to-time having an aggregate offering price of up to $1.0 billion. Newmont also filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-4 under which it can issue, from time-to-time in
connection with future acquisitions of businesses, properties or assets, common stock and common stock warrants having an aggregate offering price of $200 million. These registration statements were declared effective on February 4, 2004.

During November 2003, Newmont completed an equity offering of
25 million shares of common stock under its existing shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The proceeds of approximately $1.0 billion from this offering are being used for general corporate purposes.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

During April and December 2003, Newmont issued approximately 4.4 million shares of common stock in
connection with the NFM Scheme of Arrangement and 0.8 million shares of common stock in connection with the acquisition of Moydow’s interest in the Ntotoroso property, respectively. During February 2002, Newmont issued 110.5 million shares of
common stock (or exchangeable shares) for the acquisition of Franco-Nevada and 86.5 million shares plus cash for the acquisition of Normandy.

The Company paid dividends of $0.30 per common share of Newmont stock during 2004, $0.17 per common share during 2003 and $0.12 per common share in 2002.

Treasury Shares

Treasury stock is acquired by the Company when certain restricted stock (see
Note 13) vests. At vesting, a participant has a tax liability and, pursuant to the participant’s award agreement, may elect withholding of restricted stock in full or partial satisfaction of such tax obligation, but only to the extent that such
restricted stock has become fully vested. The withheld stock is accounted for as treasury stock and carried at the par value of the related common stock.

Exchangeable Shares

In connection with the acquisition of Franco-Nevada in February 2002, certain holders of Franco-Nevada common stock received 0.8 of an exchangeable share
of Newmont Mining Corporation of Canada Limited (formerly Franco-Nevada) for each share of common stock held. These exchangeable shares are convertible, at the option of the holder, into shares of Newmont common stock on a one-for-one basis, and
entitled holders to dividends and other rights economically equivalent to holders of Newmont common stock. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the value of these no-par shares was included in

Additional paid-in capital

.

Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock

In April 2002, Newmont announced the redemption of all issued and
outstanding shares of its $3.25 cumulative preferred stock as of May 15, 2002. Pursuant to the terms of the cumulative convertible preferred stock, Newmont paid a redemption price of $50.325 per share, plus $0.8125 per share for accrued dividends at
the redemption date. In settlement of the total redemption price of $51.1375 per preferred share, Newmont issued each holder of record 1.19187 shares of its common stock and cash for any remaining fractional interests. The Company paid preferred
stock dividends during 2002 of $3.7 million. At December 31, 2004, 5 million shares were authorized with a $5.00 par value. There were no shares issued and outstanding.

Warrants

Newmont Mining Corporation of Canada Limited (“NMCCL”) had 2.2 million Class A warrants outstanding that expired during September 2003. Each
Class A warrant, plus CDN$200, was exchangeable for 3.2 shares of Newmont common stock. None of the Class A warrants were exercised before expiration. NMCCL also had 2.1 million Class B warrants with an expiration date in November 2003. Each Class B
warrant, plus CDN$100 per warrant, was exchangeable for 2.464 shares of Newmont common stock. Of the total Class B warrants, 99.9% were exercised before expiration.

Earnings per Share

The difference between the basic weighted-average common shares outstanding and the diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding for each of the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was due to



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

the assumed conversion of employee stock options. Employee stock options with exercise prices greater than the average market price were excluded from the
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 diluted weighted-average common shares because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.

NOTE 18    STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

During 2004, 2003 and
2002, the Company reclassified approximately $8.5 million, $16.9 million and $1.9 million of gains related to the cash flow hedge instruments from

Accumulated other comprehensive income

to

Revenues

to reflect maturities of such
instruments.

NOTE 19    WRITE-DOWN OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

Write-down of long-lived assets

totaled $39.3
million, $35.3 million and $3.7 million during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The 2004 write-down included $16.3 million related to the long-lived assets at the Ovacik mine in Turkey. In August 2004, the Ovacik mine
suspended operations as a result of a court decision ordering the suspension of operating permits pending completion of certain additional permitting requirements and the submission of an updated environmental impact assessment. On March 1, 2005,



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

the Ovacik mine was sold to a subsidiary of Koza Davetiye, a Turkish conglomerate. The remainder of the write-down recorded during 2004 was primarily related
to exploration tenements in Australia, long-lived asset impairment resulting from a reevaluation of future production and operating costs at Pajingo and processing facilities at Yanacocha. The 2003 write-down primarily related to a $28.4 million
impairment charge at Golden Giant and the mobile fleet at Yanacocha. The impairment charge at Golden Giant resulted from a reevaluation of the life-of-mine plan which eliminated marginal stopes and reflected higher projected life-of-mine operating
costs that led to reduced proven and probable reserves and increased life-of-mine operating costs. The 2002 write-down related to an impairment charge for exploration stage mineral interests and fixed assets at Kori Kollo.

NOTE 20    INTEREST INCOME, FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE AND OTHER INCOME

As of December 31,
2003, the Company converted CDN$499 million of the Canadian dollar-denominated intercompany loans to long-term notes, as the Company does not intend to settle these loans in the foreseeable future. As a result, the Company no longer records
foreign currency gains and losses in earnings with respect to the converted long-term notes.

Newmont was the guarantor of an A$71.0 million (approximately $50.7 million) amortizing loan facility of an AMC subsidiary, QMC Finance Pty Ltd (“QMC”). The QMC loan facility, which is collateralized by the
assets of AMC subsidiaries being used in the Queensland Magnesium (“QMAG”) project, expires in November 2006. During 2003, Newmont recorded a $30.0 million charge and established a corresponding reserve in

Other current liabilities

(Note 14)

,

for the expected loss associated with its guarantee of QMC’s debt. In 2004, Newmont Australia Limited (“NAL”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newmont, entered into a transaction resulting in a loan from NAL to a
subsidiary of QMC for A$30.0 million (approximately $23.2 million), the release of Newmont from its guarantee obligation and recognition of a $10.6 million gain resulting from the release of all previously accrued contingent liabilities. An
allowance was provided for 100% of the loan receivable from the QMC entity. See Note 9 for discussion regarding Newmont’s interest in AMC.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

NOTE 21    INCOME TAXES

The Company’s

Income tax expense

consisted of:

The Company’s

Pre-tax income before minority interest, equity income and impairment of affiliates and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle

consisted of:



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The Company’s income tax expense differed from the amounts computed by applying the United
States statutory corporate income tax rate for the following reasons:



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Components of the Company’s consolidated deferred income tax assets (liabilities) are as
follows:

Net deferred tax
assets consist of:

Newmont intends to
indefinitely reinvest earnings from certain foreign operations. Accordingly, U.S. and non-U.S. income and withholding taxes for which deferred taxes might otherwise be required, have not been provided on a cumulative amount of temporary differences
(including, for this purpose, any difference between the tax basis in the stock of a consolidated subsidiary and the amount of the subsidiary’s net equity determined for financial reporting purposes) related to investments in foreign
subsidiaries of approximately $819 million and $840 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The additional U.S. and non-U.S. income and



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

withholding tax that would arise on the reversal of the temporary differences could be offset in part, by tax credits. Because the determination of the
amount of available tax credits and the limitations imposed on the annual utilization of such credits are subject to a highly complex series of calculations and expense allocations, it is impractical to estimate the amount of net income and
withholding tax that might be payable.

On October 22, 2004,
the President signed the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (“the Act”). The Act creates a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85 percent dividends received deduction for
certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. The deduction is subject to number of limitations. The Company has not completed its evaluation of whether, and to what extent, we might repatriate foreign earnings that have not yet been
subject to U.S. income taxation. Based on our analysis to date, it is not reasonable to estimate what amount, if any, may be repatriated or the potential tax liabilities associated with these repatriations. The Company expects to be in a position to
finalize its assessment by September 2005.

As of December 31,
2004 and December 31, 2003, the Company had (i) $914.5 million and $889.5 million of net operating loss carryforwards respectively; and (ii) $155.6 million and $111.7 million of tax credit carryforwards respectively. Of the amounts of net operating
loss carryforwards, $100.9 million and $127.1 million, respectively, are attributable to acquired mining operations conducted in the United States and will begin expiring in 2013 if not utilized before then. As of December 31, 2004, another $608.1
million of net operating losses carryforwards are attributable to acquired mining operations in Australia for which current tax law provides no expiration period. The remaining net operating losses available are attributable to acquired entities and
have various temporal and other limitations that may restrict the ultimate realization of the tax benefits of such tax attributes.

Tax credit carryforwards for 2004 and 2003 of $120.9 million and $85.3 million consist of foreign tax credits available in the United States;
substantially all such credits not utilized in the interim period will expire at the end of 2011. Other credit carryforwards at the end of 2004 and 2003 in the amounts of $34.8 million and $26.4 million, respectively, represent alternative minimum
tax credits attributable to the Company’s U.S. operations for which the current tax law provides no period of expiration.

The Company increased the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets by $145.9 million during 2004. The increase resulted primarily from the
recording of additional capital losses in Australia now available to the Company as a result of the new consolidations regulations. The Company has placed a full valuation allowance on these capital losses because of a lack of sufficient evidence to
support the future realization of these deferred tax assets. This increase was partially offset by a reduction in the valuation allowance of $58.3 million resulting primarily from the reversal of valuation allowances associated with U.S. foreign tax
credits. The remaining valuation allowance is primarily attributable to foreign tax credits and tax losses at the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries, which are required due to the uncertainty of utilizing the credits during the prescribed
carryforward period from certain limitations under U.S. tax law and the lack of sufficient positive evidence concerning the ability of the non-U.S. subsidiaries to generate sufficient taxable income to realize the loss carryforwards, respectively.
Of the above valuation allowance recorded as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, $91.7 million and $81.3 million, respectively, is attributable to deferred tax assets for which any subsequently recognized tax benefits will be allocated to reduce goodwill
related to the acquisition of Normandy.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The breakdown of the Company’s net deferred tax assets between the United States and foreign
taxing jurisdictions is as follows:

NOTE
22    RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

During 2004, Newmont conducted business with AGR, in which Newmont holds a 40% interest. Gold sales to AGR totaled $31.7 million, $33.1 million and $47.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. See
Note 9 for a discussion of Newmont’s investment in AGR.

During 2003 and 2002, Newmont was entitled to a “Technology and Know-How” royalty from the Batu Hijau operation of $8.7 million and $9.1 million, respectively. The amount payable to Newmont as of December 31, 2003 was $64.5
million. Royalty payments could not be made during the deferral period of certain Batu Hijau third party debt. The deferred payments were fully paid in November 2003. Effective January 1, 2004, Newmont consolidated Batu Hijau (see Note 3).

NOTE 23    SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

Net cash provided by operating activities included the
following:

Capital Leases

In 2004, 2003 and 2002, Newmont entered into certain leases that resulted in
non-cash increases to

Property, plant and mine development, net

and

Long-term debt

of $7.0 million, $2.9 million and $6.1 million, respectively.

Change in Accounting Policy

Effective January 1, 2004 the Batu Hijau investment was fully consolidated (see Note 3). This resulted in the recognition of $82.2 million of Batu
Hijau’s cash balances in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.

Acquisitions

During 2003, the Company
completed the acquisition of the remaining minority interest of Newmont NFM. Newmont Mining Corporation issued 4,437,506 common shares to the CHESS Depository Nominees Pty Ltd,



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

and in turn, 44,375,060 CDIs were issued to former Newmont NFM shareholders with a value of approximately $105 million. The market value of the issued
shares, together with cash consideration of approximately $10 million (including transaction costs), gave rise to a total purchase price of approximately $115 million.

During 2002, the Company acquired 100% of Franco-Nevada and Normandy in exchange for 197 million shares of Newmont stock,
the assumption of $2,575.4 million in liabilities, including $913.7 million in debt, and other cash and equity consideration. The fair value of the assets acquired was $6,922.7 million, including goodwill of $3,024.6 million.

Compensation Plans

The Company issued shares of common stock under various employee compensation plans resulting in non-cash increases to
stockholders’ equity. See Notes 12 and 13 for additional information concerning compensation plans.

Newmont Australia Infrastructure Bonds

In June 2004, the Company extinguished the $124.1 million Newmont Australia infrastructure bonds obligation and asset (See Note 11).

NOTE 24    OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS

The Company leases certain assets such as equipment and facilities under operating leases expiring at various dates through
2011. Future minimum annual lease payments under these leases as of December 31, 2004 are as follows (in millions):

Rent expense for the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $12.5 million, $10.4 million and $9.1 million, respectively.

NOTE 25    SEGMENT AND RELATED INFORMATION

Newmont predominantly operates in a single industry, namely exploration for and production of gold and copper. Newmont’s major operations are in
North America, South America, Indonesia and Australia/New Zealand. Newmont also has an Exploration Segment and a Merchant Banking Segment.

The Exploration Segment is responsible for all activities, regardless of location, associated with the Company’s efforts to discover new mineralized
material that will advance into proven and probable reserves.

Merchant Banking activities include the development of value optimization strategies for operating and non- operating assets, managing the equity investment portfolio, business development activities related to potential



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

merger and acquisition analysis and negotiations, managing and building the royalty business, managing the investments in the down-stream gold refining and
distribution business, mobilizing and monetizing inactive exploration properties, capitalizing on Newmont’s proprietary technology know-how and acting as an internal resource for other corporate divisions to improve and maximize business
outcomes. For segment reporting purposes, the Merchant Banking Segment is considered to be a separate operating segment because it engages in activities from which it earns revenues and incurs expenses and its operating results are regularly and
separately reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker.

The
Company identifies its reportable segments as those consolidated mining operations or functional groups that represent more than 10% of the combined revenue, profit or loss or total assets of all reported operating segments. Consolidated mining
operations or functional groups not meeting this threshold are aggregated at the applicable geographic or corporate level for segment reporting purposes. Earnings from operations do not reflect general corporate expenses, interest (except
project-specific interest) or income taxes (except for equity investments). Intercompany revenue and expense amounts have been eliminated within each segment in order to report on the basis that management uses internally for evaluating segment
performance.

During the year ended December 31, 2004, Newmont
made certain reclassifications in its segment presentation for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 to conform to changes in presentation reflected in internal management reporting.

The primary reclassifications relate to grouping the operating segments into new regions and eliminating the presentation of
certain segments on a stand-alone basis as these segments no longer qualify as reportable segments per the requirements of SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.” Newmont’s segments have
been presented for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 as follows:

•

The new Australia/New Zealand reportable segment primarily includes the Pajingo, Yandal, Tanami and Kalgoorlie gold mining operations in Australia, the Martha gold mining operation
in New Zealand and the Golden Grove copper/zinc operation in Australia. The Pajingo gold operation no longer qualifies as a reportable segment.

•

Batu Hijau has been presented as a reportable segment due to Newmont consolidating the operation effective January 1, 2004.

•

The Other Indonesia reportable segment primarily includes the Minahasa gold operation and the Martabe gold property currently in the feasibility study stage.

•

The Central Asia reportable segment primarily includes the Zarafshan gold operation in Uzbekistan and the Ovacik gold operation in Turkey, which was sold in March 2005. The
Zarafshan gold operation no longer qualifies as a reportable segment.

•

The Africa operating segment includes the Ahafo and Akyem gold properties in Ghana. Ahafo is under development while Akyem is undergoing a feasibility study update in preparation
for a development decision.

•

The Nevada, Other North America, Yanacocha, Other South America, Exploration, Merchant Banking and Corporate and Other operating segments have been grouped consistently with the
original presentation at December 31, 2003.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Financial information relating to Newmont’s segments is as follows:

Year Ended December 31, 2004

(in millions)



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Year Ended December 31, 2003

(in millions)



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Year Ended December 31, 2002

(in millions)



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Revenues from export and domestic sales were as follows:

Long-lived assets,
excluding deferred tax assets, in the United States and other countries are as follows:

(1)

Goodwill allocated to Exploration and Merchant Banking (see Note 10) is global in nature and has been allocated to the United States, the Company’s
headquarters.

The Company is not economically
dependent on a limited number of customers for the sale of its product because gold can be sold through numerous gold market traders worldwide. In 2004, sales to two customers, Bank of Nova Scotia and Barclays, each totaled approximately $1.1
billion or 25% of total sales. In 2003 and 2002, sales to one customer, Bank of Nova Scotia, totaled approximately $1.5 billion and $1.2 billion or 46% of total sales.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

NOTE 26    CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following Consolidating Financial Statements are presented to satisfy
disclosure requirements of Rule 3-10(e) of Regulation S-X resulting from the inclusion of Newmont USA Limited (“Newmont USA”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation, as a co-registrant with Newmont Mining Corporation
on a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 filed under the Securities Act of 1933 under which securities of Newmont Mining Corporation (including debt securities which may be guaranteed by Newmont USA) may be issued from time to time (the
“Shelf Registration Statement”). To the extent Newmont Mining Corporation issues debt securities under the Shelf Registration Statement, it is expected that Newmont USA will provide a guarantee of that debt. In accordance with Rule 3-10(e)
of Regulation S-X, Newmont USA, as the subsidiary guarantor, is 100% owned by Newmont Mining Corporation, the guarantee will be full and unconditional, and it is not expected that any other subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation will guarantee any
security issued under the Shelf Registration Statement. There are no significant restrictions on the ability of Newmont USA to obtain funds from its subsidiaries by dividend or loan.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

NOTE 27    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

General

The Company follows SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies,” in determining its accruals and disclosures with
respect to loss contingencies. Accordingly, estimated losses from loss contingencies are accrued by a charge to income when information available prior to issuance of the financial statements indicates that it is probable that an asset had been
impaired or a liability had been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Legal expenses associated with the contingency are expensed as incurred. If a loss contingency is not probable or reasonably estimable, disclosure of
the loss contingency is made in the financial statements when it is at least reasonably possible that a material loss may be incurred.

Operating Segments

The Company’s operating segments are identified in Note 25. Except as noted in this paragraph, all of the Company’s commitments and
contingencies specifically described in this Note 27 relate to the Corporate and Other reportable segment. The Nevada Operations matters under Newmont USA Limited relate to the Nevada reportable segment. The PT Newmont Minahasa Raya matters relate
to the Other Indonesia reportable segment. The Yanacocha matters relate to the Yanacocha reportable segment. The Newmont Yandal Operations Pty Limited and the Newmont Australia Limited matters relate to the Australia/New Zealand reportable segment.

Environmental Matters

The Company’s mining and exploration activities are subject to various
laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations are continually changing and are generally becoming more restrictive. The Company conducts its operations so as to protect the public health and environment
and believes its operations are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in all material respects. The Company has made, and expects to make in the future, expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations, but cannot predict the full
amount of such future expenditures.

Estimated future
reclamation costs are based principally on legal and regulatory requirements. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, $410.3 million and $361.0 million, respectively, were accrued for reclamation costs relating to currently producing mineral properties in
accordance with SFAS No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.” See Note 15.

In addition, the Company is involved in several matters concerning environmental obligations associated with former mining activities. Generally, these
matters concern developing and implementing remediation plans at the various sites involved. The Company believes that the related environmental obligations associated with these sites are similar in nature with respect to the development of
remediation plans, their risk profile and the compliance required to meet general environmental standards. Based upon the Company’s best estimate of its liability for these matters, $74.9 million and $58.6 million were accrued for such
obligations at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These amounts are included in

Other current liabilities

and

Reclamation and remediation liabilities

. Depending upon the ultimate resolution of these matters, the Company believes
that it is reasonably possible that the liability for these matters could be as much as 81% greater or 34% lower than the amount accrued at December 31, 2004. The amounts accrued for these matters are reviewed periodically based upon facts and
circumstances available at the time. Changes in estimates are recorded in

Costs and expenses, Other

in the period estimates are revised.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Details about certain of the more significant matters involved are discussed below.

Dawn Mining Company LLC (“Dawn”)—51% Newmont Owned

Midnite Mine Site.

Dawn
previously leased an open pit uranium mine, currently inactive, on the Spokane Indian Reservation in the State of Washington. The mine site is subject to regulation by agencies of the U.S. Department of Interior (the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the
Bureau of Land Management), as well as the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”).

In 1991, Dawn’s mining lease at the mine was terminated. As a result, Dawn was required to file a formal mine closure and reclamation plan. The
Department of Interior commenced an analysis of Dawn’s proposed plan and alternate closure and reclamation plans for the mine. Work on this analysis has been suspended indefinitely. In mid-2000, the mine was included on the National Priorities
List under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”). In March 2003, the EPA notified Dawn and Newmont that it had thus far expended $11.5 million on the remedial investigation/feasibility study
under CERCLA.

On January 28, 2005, the EPA filed a lawsuit
against Dawn and Newmont under CERCLA in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Washington. The EPA has asserted that Dawn and Newmont are liable for reclamation or remediation work and costs at the mine. Dawn does not have sufficient
funds to pay for the reclamation plan it proposed or for any alternate plan, or for any additional remediation work or costs at the mine. Newmont intends to vigorously contest any claims as to its liability.

Newmont cannot reasonably predict the likelihood or outcome of this lawsuit
or any other action against Dawn or Newmont arising from this matter.

Dawn Mill Site.

Dawn also owns a uranium mill site facility, located on private land near Ford, Washington, which is subject to state and federal regulation. In late 1999, Dawn sought and later received state
approval for a revised mill closure plan that expedites the reclamation process at the mill. The currently approved plan for the mill is guaranteed by Newmont.

Idarado Mining Company (“Idarado”)—80.1% Newmont Owned

In July 1992, Newmont and Idarado signed a consent decree with the State of Colorado (“State”), which was agreed
to by the U.S. District Court of Colorado, to settle a lawsuit brought by the State under CERCLA.

Idarado agreed in the consent decree to undertake specified remediation work at its former mining site in the Telluride/Ouray area of Colorado.
Remediation work at this property is substantially complete. If the remediation does not achieve specific performance objectives defined in the consent decree, the State may require Idarado to implement supplemental activities at the site, also as
defined in the consent decree. Idarado and Newmont obtained a $5.8 million reclamation bond to secure their potential obligations under the consent decree. In addition, Idarado settled natural resources damages and past and future response costs,
and agreed to habitat enhancement work under the consent decree. All of this work is substantially complete.

Newmont Capital Limited—100% Newmont Owned

In February 1999, the EPA placed the Lava Cap mine site in Nevada County, California on the National Priorities List under CERCLA. The EPA then initiated
a remedial investigation/feasibility study under CERCLA to determine environmental conditions and remediation options at the site.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Newmont Capital, formerly known as Franco-Nevada Mining Corporation, Inc., owned the property for
approximately three years from 1984 to 1986 but never mined or conducted exploration at the site. The EPA asserts that Newmont Capital is responsible for clean up costs incurred at the site. Newmont Capital and the EPA have entered into an agreement
tolling the statute of limitations until December 31, 2005 to facilitate settlement negotiations with respect to potential claims under CERCLA. Based on Newmont Capital’s limited involvement at Lava Cap, it does not believe it has any liability
for environmental conditions at the site, and intends to vigorously defend any formal claims by the EPA. Newmont cannot reasonably predict the likelihood or outcome of any future action arising from this matter.

Newmont USA Limited—100% Newmont Owned

Pinal Creek.

Newmont is a defendant in a
lawsuit brought on November 5, 1991 in U.S. District Court in Arizona by the Pinal Creek Group, alleging that the company and others are responsible for some portion of costs incurred to address groundwater contamination emanating from copper mining
operations located in the area of Globe and Miami, Arizona. Two former subsidiaries of Newmont, Pinto Valley Copper Corporation and Magma Copper Company (now known as BHP Copper Inc.), owned some of the mines in the area between 1983 and 1987. The
court has dismissed plaintiffs’ claims seeking to hold Newmont liable for the acts or omissions of its former subsidiaries. Based on information presently available, Newmont believes it has strong defenses to plaintiffs’ remaining claims,
including, without limitation, that Newmont’s agents did not participate in any pollution causing activities; that Newmont’s liabilities, if any, were contractually transferred to one of the plaintiffs; that portions of plaintiffs’
claimed damages are not recoverable; and that Newmont’s equitable share of liability, if any, would be immaterial. While Newmont has denied liability and is vigorously defending these claims, we cannot reasonably predict the final outcome of
this lawsuit.

Nevada
Operations.

On November 19, 2002, Great Basin Mine Watch and the Mineral Policy Center (Appellants) filed suit in U.S. District Court in Nevada against the Department of the Interior and the Bureau of Land Management
(BLM), challenging and seeking to enjoin the BLM’s July 2002 Record of Decision approving the company’s amended Plan of Operations covering the Gold Quarry South Layback Project, and the BLM’s September 2002 Record of Decision
approving a new Plan of Operations for the Leeville Mine. Appellants sought a declaration that the BLM’s decisions were unlawful and an injunction prohibiting Newmont’s approved activities. Newmont intervened in this action on behalf of
the government defendants and filed an answer denying all of Appellants’ claims. In March 2004, the Court granted summary judgment in favor of the government and Newmont on all claims, thus ending the U.S. District Court proceedings. In June
2004, Appellants appealed the U.S. District Court’s decision to the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. While Newmont believes that this appeal is without merit, an unfavorable outcome could result in additional conditions on operations that
could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations.

On October 16, 2002, Great Basin Mine Watch filed an appeal with the Nevada State Environmental Commission, challenging the Nevada Division of
Environmental Protection’s (NDEP) renewal of the Clean Water Act discharge permit for Newmont’s Gold Quarry Mine. This permit governs the conditions under which Newmont may discharge mine-dewatering water in connection with its ongoing
mining operations. Great Basin Mine Watch alleges that the terms of the renewed permit violate the Clean Water Act and Nevada water quality laws. Newmont intervened in this action on behalf of the NDEP. A hearing before the Nevada State
Environmental Commission was held in June 2003 in Elko, Nevada. At the end of the hearing, the Commission ruled in favor of NDEP on all claims and affirmed NDEP’s renewal of the Clean Water Act discharge permit. Great Basin Mine Watch appealed
this decision in the Nevada District Court in Carson City, Nevada. In September 2004, the Nevada District Court ruled in favor of NDEP on most issues but ruled in favor of Great Basin Mine Watch with respect to certain proposed permit amendments.
Newmont and NDEP filed an appeal



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

with the Nevada Supreme Court, seeking to uphold these proposed amendments. The Nevada District Court stayed its decision pending this appeal and Gold Quarry
continues to operate under its renewed permit. While Newmont believes Great Basin Mine Watch’s position is without merit, it cannot reasonably predict the final outcome of this appeal, and an unfavorable outcome could result in additional
conditions on operations that could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial position or results of operations.

On December 4, 2002, Great Basin Mine Watch filed an appeal with the Nevada State Environmental Commission challenging NDEP’s November 2002 decision
renewing a water pollution control permit for Newmont’s Lone Tree Mine. This appeal alleges that NDEP’s renewal violated various procedural and substantive requirements under Nevada’s water quality laws. Newmont has intervened in this
appeal. A hearing before the Nevada State Environmental Commission was held in February 2003 in Carson City, Nevada. At the close of the hearing, the Commission ruled in favor of NDEP on all claims, and affirmed NDEP’s renewal of the permit.
Great Basin Mine Watch appealed this decision in the Nevada District Court in Carson City. At a hearing in June 2004, the judge ruled in favor of NDEP on all claims, and affirmed NDEP’s renewal of the permit. Great Basin Mine Watch filed an
appeal of this decision with the Nevada Supreme Court. While Newmont believes that this appeal is without merit, an unfavorable outcome could result in additional conditions on operations that could have a material adverse effect on the
company’s financial position or results of operations.

On
March 19, 2004, Great Basin Mine Watch and the Western Shoshone Defense Project (Appellants) filed an administrative appeal of the Record of Decision approving the Phoenix Project Plan of Operations. Appellants sought to vacate the Record of
Decision and have the BLM reconsider the decision. Newmont has intervened in support of the Record of Decision. An administrative ruling affirmed the Phoenix Record of Decision. The BLM updated the amounts it required Newmont to place in a
reclamation trust fund, and Newmont agreed to this amount.

Grass Valley

.    On February 3, 2004, the City of Grass Valley, California brought suit against Newmont under CERCLA in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. This matter involves an
abandoned mine adit on property previously owned by a predecessor of Newmont and currently owned by the City of Grass Valley. The complaint alleges that the adit is discharging metals-bearing water into a stream on the property, in concentrations in
excess of current EPA drinking water standards. Newmont cannot reasonably predict the likely outcome of this matter.

Gray Eagle Mine Site

.    By letter dated September 3, 2002, the EPA notified Newmont that the EPA had expended $2.6 million in
response costs to address environmental conditions associated with a historic tailings pile located at the Grey Eagle Mine site near Happy Camp, California, and requested that Newmont pay those costs. The EPA has identified four potentially
responsible parties, including Newmont. Newmont does not believe it has any liability for environmental conditions at the Grey Eagle Mine site, and intends to vigorously defend any formal claims by the EPA. Newmont cannot reasonably predict the
likelihood or outcome of any future action against it arising from this matter.

PT Newmont Minahasa Raya—80% Newmont Owned

In July 2004, a criminal complaint was filed against PT Newmont Minahasa Raya (“PTNMR”), the Newmont subsidiary that operated the Minahasa mine in Indonesia, alleging environmental pollution relating to
submarine tailings placement into nearby Buyat Bay. The Indonesian police detained five PTNMR employees during September and October of 2004. The police investigation and the detention of PTNMR’s employees was



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

declared illegal by the South Jakarta District Court in December 2004, and the police have appealed that decision to the Indonesian Supreme Court. A civil
lawsuit, which was filed by three residents of Buyat Pante, a village located near the Minahasa mine, was settled without payment to the plaintiffs in December 2004. In addition, on March 9, 2005, the Indonesian Ministry of the Environment
reportedly filed a civil lawsuit against PTNMR and its President Director in relation to these allegations, seeking substantial monetary damages.

Independent sampling and testing of Buyat Bay water and fish, as well as area residents, conducted by the World Health Organization and the Australian
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, confirm that PTNMR has not polluted the Buyat Bay environment, and, therefore, has not adversely affected the fish in the Bay or the health of nearby residents. The Company remains
steadfast that it has not caused pollution or health problems and will continue to vigorously defend itself against these allegations. However, Newmont cannot predict the outcome of these actions or whether additional legal actions may occur. Any of
these actions could adversely affect our ability to operate in Indonesia.

Resurrection Mining Company (“Resurrection”)—100% Newmont Owned

Newmont, Resurrection and other defendants were named in lawsuits filed by the State of Colorado under CERCLA in 1983, which were subsequently
consolidated with a lawsuit filed by EPA in 1986. These proceedings sought to compel the defendants to remediate the impacts of pre-existing, historic mining activities near Leadville, Colorado, which date back to the mid-1800s, and which the
government agencies claim were causing substantial environmental problems in the area.

In 1988 and 1989, the EPA issued administrative orders with respect to one area on the site and the defendants have collectively implemented those orders by constructing a water treatment plant, which was placed in
operation in early 1992. Remaining remedial work for this area consists of water treatment plant operation and continuing environmental monitoring and maintenance activities. Newmont and Resurrection are currently responsible for 50% of these costs,
but their share of such costs could increase in the event other defendants become unable to pay their share of such costs.

The parties also have entered into a consent decree with respect to the remaining areas at the site, which apportions liabilities and responsibilities for
these areas. The EPA has approved remedial actions for selected components of Resurrection’s portion of the site, which were initiated in 1995. The EPA has not yet selected the final remedy for the site. Accordingly, Newmont cannot yet
determine the full extent or cost of its share of the remedial action that will be required. The government agencies may also seek to recover for damages to natural resources. In March 1999, the parties entered into a Memorandum of Understanding
(“MOU”) to facilitate the settlement of natural resources damages claims under CERCLA for the upper Arkansas River Basin. In January 2004, an MOU report was issued that evaluated the extent of natural resource damages and possible
restoration activities that might be required, which Resurrection and other parties could potentially be required to fund. This report should provide a framework for resolving remaining issues at the site.

Other Legal Matters

Minera Yanacocha—51.35% Newmont Owned

Choropampa

.    In June 2000, a transport contractor of Yanacocha spilled approximately 151
kilograms of elemental mercury near the town of Choropampa, Peru, which is located 53 miles (85 kilometers) southwest of the Yanacocha mine. Elemental mercury is a by-product of gold mining and was sold to a Lima firm for use in medical instruments
and industrial applications. A comprehensive health and environmental remediation program was undertaken by Yanacocha in response to the incident. In August 2000, Yanacocha paid under protest a fine



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

of 1,740,000 soles (approximately $500,000) to the Peruvian government. Yanacocha has entered into settlement agreements with a number of individuals
impacted by the incident. In addition, it has entered into agreements with three of the communities impacted by this incident to provide a variety of public works as compensation for the disruption and inconvenience caused by the incident. As a
result of this incident, Yanacocha has incurred approximately $18.7 million of expenditures. Yanacocha cannot predict the likelihood of additional expenditures related to this matter.

Yanacocha, various wholly-owned subsidiaries of Newmont, and other defendants have been named in lawsuits filed by over
1,000 Peruvian citizens in Denver District Court for the State of Colorado. These actions seek compensatory and punitive damages based on claims associated with the elemental mercury spill incident. In February 2005, Yanacocha and the various
Newmont defendants answered the complaint in the Denver District Court.

Additional lawsuits relating to the Choropampa incident were filed against Yanacocha in two of the local courts of Cajamarca, Peru, in May 2002 by over 900 Peruvian citizens. A significant number of the plaintiffs in these lawsuits
previously have entered into settlement agreements with Yanacocha. In December 2003, the Superior Court in Cajamarca granted a resolution upholding the validity of certain challenged settlement agreements. This ruling has been appealed to the
Peruvian Supreme Court.

Neither Newmont nor Yanacocha can
reasonably predict the final outcome of any of the above-described lawsuits.

Cerro Quilish.

Yanacocha was involved in a dispute with the Provincial Municipality of Cajamarca regarding the authority of that governmental body to regulate the development of the Cerro
Quilish ore deposit. Cerro Quilish is located in the same watershed in which the City of Cajamaraca is located. The Municipality enacted an ordinance declaring Cerro Quilish and its watershed to be a reserve and naturally protected area. Yanacocha
challenged this ordinance on the grounds that, under Peruvian law, local governments lack authority to create such areas. The Peruvian Constitutional Tribunal heard the case in early 2003 and ruled on April 7, 2003. The ruling established that
Yanacocha’s rights were not impacted by the ordinance and Yanacocha should complete a full environmental impact study prior to initiating any development at Cerro Quilish, and adopt mitigation measures necessary to protect the quality and
quantity of the water supply of the City of Cajamarca. In July 2004, Yanacocha received a drilling permit authorizing additional exploration of the Cerro Quilish deposit. During September 2004, individuals from the Cajamarca region conducted a
sustained blockade of the road between the City of Cajamarca and the mine site, in protest of these exploration activities. Yanacocha suspended all drilling activities at Cerro Quilish and the blockade was resolved. In November 2004, in recognition
of community concerns, Yanacocha requested and received the revocation of its Cerro Quilish drilling permit.

Minas Conga.

Yanacocha is involved in a dispute with the Provincial Municipality of Celendin regarding the authority of that
governmental body to regulate the development of the Minas Conga ore deposit. In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Municipality of Celendin enacted a similar ordinance to that enacted by the



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Municipality of Cajamarca with regard to Cerro Quilish, as described above, declaring the area around Minas Conga to be a mining-free reserve and naturally
protected area. As in the Cerro Quilish case, Yanacocha has challenged this ordinance on the grounds that, under Peruvian law, local governments lack authority to create such areas and deny the rights granted by Yanacocha’s mining concessions.
Based on the precedent established by the Constitutional Tribunal’s treatment of the Quilish ordinance, it is reasonable to believe that a similar finding will be made as to the Celendin ordinance.

Newmont Australia Limited—100% Newmont Owned

In February 1999, Normandy Mining Limited (“Normandy,” now
known as Newmont Australia Limited) sold certain subsidiary companies in a transaction that resulted in net cash proceeds of A$663 million. The sale did not give rise to any tax liability to Normandy because of the tax basis that Normandy had in the
shares of the subsidiaries and the capital losses available to offset the net gain realized on the sale. This transaction is currently the subject of a review by the Australian Taxation Office (“ATO”). The ATO has sought documents from
Newmont Australia Limited, the buyer of the subsidiaries and other parties. In December 2003, the ATO issued two draft position papers with respect to its current view of certain proposed tax adjustments required for two of Newmont Australia
Limited’s wholly-owned Australian subsidiaries that participated in the transaction. The Company continues to believe that Normandy’s tax treatment was in accordance with the provisions of the relevant tax laws and intends to vigorously
defend its position. Newmont Australia Limited cannot reasonably predict what future action the ATO may take in relation to this matter.

Newmont USA Limited—100% Newmont Owned

On February 2, 2002, a French citizen filed a complaint against the Company and certain of its subsidiaries and former officers, Compañia de Minas
Buenaventura, S.A.A. (“Buenaventura”), one of Buenaventura’s subsidiaries, and other individuals, in U.S. District Court in Denver. The plaintiff alleges that he had an arrangement with Normandy, under which his fee was dependent on
the outcome of the Yanacocha shareholder dispute (which involved a lawsuit by Newmont and Buenaventura in Peru against the Bureau de Recherches Géologiques et Minières, the geological and mining bureau of the French government (the
“BRGM”) and Normandy to enforce preemptive rights under the Minera Yanacocha by-laws, after the BRGM announced its intention to transfer its shares in Yanacocha to a company controlled by Normandy; this shareholder dispute was resolved in
2000 pursuant to a comprehensive settlement agreement among the parties). The February 2002 lawsuit alleged that the defendants violated the federal Racketeer Influenced Corrupt Organization Act (“RICO”) by corrupting the Peruvian Supreme
Court in 1998 in order to prevail in the Yanacocha shareholder dispute. The suit seeks damages of not less than $25 million plus interest (which could be subject to trebling), as well as unspecified punitive damages. In January 2004, the court
granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss; the plaintiff appealed this decision in February 2004. During the summer of 2002, the Peruvian attorney general’s office commenced an inquiry into certain of the allegations made in the February
2002 lawsuit described above. In July 2003, the Peruvian attorney general’s office announced that its investigation had concluded without finding any evidence of improper conduct in relation to the outcome of the Yanacocha shareholder dispute.
Further, in February 2003, Newmont received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice requiring the production of documents related to Newmont’s activities relating to the shareholder dispute described above from 1994 through 1999. In
October 2004, Newmont was notified that the Department of Justice has closed its inquiry into this matter.

Newmont Yandal Operations Pty Ltd—100% Newmont Owned

On September 3, 2003, J. Aron & Co. commenced proceedings in the Supreme Court of New South Wales (Australia) against
Newmont Yandal Operations Pty Ltd (“NYOL”), its subsidiaries and the administrator in



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

relation to the completed voluntary administration of the NYOL group. J. Aron & Co., an NYOL creditor, initially sought injunctive relief that was denied
by the court on September 8, 2003. On October 30, 2003, J. Aron & Co. filed a statement of claim alleging various deficiencies in the implementation of the voluntary administration process and seeking damages and other relief against NYOL
and other parties. Newmont cannot reasonably predict the final outcome of this lawsuit.

Income Taxes

The Company operates in numerous
countries around the world and accordingly it is subject to, and pays annual income taxes under, the various income tax regimes in the countries in which it operates. Some of these tax regimes are defined by contractual agreements with the local
government, but others are defined by the general corporate income tax laws of the country. The Company has historically filed, and continues to file, all required income tax returns and to pay the taxes reasonably determined to be due. The tax
rules and regulations in many countries are highly complex and subject to interpretation. From time to time the Company is subject to a review of its historic income tax filings and in connection with such reviews, disputes can arise with the taxing
authorities over the interpretation or application of certain rules to the Company’s business conducted within the country involved. As of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, the Company has accrued income taxes (and related interest and
penalties, if applicable) in the amount of $305.6 million and $244.8 million, respectively, classified in

Other long-term liabilities.

This amount represents what the Company believes will be the probable outcome of such disputes for all tax
years for which additional income taxes can be assessed.

Other Commitments
and Contingencies

In a 1993 asset exchange, a
wholly-owned subsidiary transferred a coal lease under which the subsidiary had collected advance royalty payments totaling $484 million. From 1994 to 2018, remaining advance payments under the lease to the transferee total $390 million. In the
event of title failure as stated in the lease, this subsidiary has a primary obligation to refund previously collected payments and has a secondary obligation to refund any of the $390 million collected by the transferee, if the transferee fails to
meet its refund obligation. The subsidiary has title insurance on the leased coal deposits of $240 million covering the secondary obligation. The Company and the subsidiary regard the circumstances entitling the lessee to a refund as remote.

The Company has minimum royalty obligations on one of its
producing mines in Nevada for the life of the mine. Amounts paid as a minimum royalty (where production royalties are less than the minimum obligation) in any year are recoverable in future years when the minimum royalty obligation is exceeded.
Although the minimum royalty requirement may not be met in a particular year, the Company expects that over the mine life, gold production will be sufficient to meet the minimum royalty requirements. Minimum royalty payments payable are $9.0 million
for 2005, nil for 2006, $5.4 million for 2007 and $10.4 million thereafter.

As part of its ongoing business and operations, the Company and its affiliates are required to provide surety bonds, bank letters of credit and bank guarantees as financial support for various purposes, including
environmental reclamation, exploration permitting, workers compensation programs and other general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, there were $357.2 million and $202.9 million, respectively, of outstanding letters of
credit, surety bonds and bank guarantees (excluding the surety bond supporting the prepaid forward transaction described in Note 11). The surety bonds, letters of credit and bank guarantees reflect fair value as a condition of their underlying
purpose and are subject to fees competitively determined in the market place. The obligations associated with these instruments are generally related to performance requirements that the Company addresses through its ongoing operations. As the
specific



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

requirements are met, the beneficiary of the associated instrument cancels and/or returns the instrument to the issuing entity. Certain of these instruments
are associated with operating sites with long-lived assets and will remain outstanding until closure. Generally, bonding requirements associated with environmental regulation are becoming more restrictive. In addition, the surety markets for certain
types of environmental bonding used by the Company have become increasingly constrained. The Company, however, believes it is in compliance with all applicable bonding obligations and will be able to satisfy future bonding requirements, through
existing or alternative means, as they arise.

Under the Batu
Hijau Contract of Work with the Indonesian government, beginning in 2005, and continuing through 2010, a portion of each foreign shareholders’ equity interest in the project must be offered for sale to the Indonesian government or to Indonesian
nationals. The price at which such interest must be offered for sale to the Indonesian parties is the highest of the then-current replacement cost, the price at which shares of the project company would be accepted for listing on the Jakarta Stock
Exchange, or the fair market value of such interest in the project company as a going concern. An Indonesian national currently owns a 20% interest in Batu Hijau, which would require Newmont and Sumitomo, collectively, to offer a 3% interest to the
Indonesian government or to Indonesian nationals in 2006. Pursuant to this provision of the Batu Hijau Contract of Work, it is possible that the ownership interest of the Newmont/Sumitomo partnership in Batu Hijau could be reduced to 49% by the end
of 2010.

Newmont is from time to time involved in various
legal proceedings related to its business. Except in the above-described proceedings, management does not believe that adverse decisions in any pending or threatened proceeding or that amounts that may be required to be paid by reason thereof will
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.

NOTE 28    UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Deferred Stripping Costs

In general, mining costs are charged to

Costs applicable to sales

as incurred. However, at some open pit mines, which have diverse grades and waste-to-ore ratios over the mine life, the Company defers and amortizes certain mining
costs on a units-of-production basis over the life of the mine. These mining costs, which are commonly referred to as “deferred stripping” costs, are incurred in mining activities that are normally associated with the removal of waste
rock. The deferred stripping accounting method is generally accepted in the mining industry where mining operations have diverse grades and waste-to-ore ratios; however, industry practice does vary. Deferred stripping matches the costs of production
with the sale of such production at the Company’s operations where it is employed, by assigning each ounce of gold or pound of copper with an equivalent amount of waste removal cost. If the Company were to expense stripping costs as incurred,
there might be greater volatility in the Company’s period-to-period results of operations.

See Notes 2 and 7 for additional information concerning deferred stripping.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Details of deferred stripping with respect to certain of the Company’s open pit mines are as
follows (unaudited):

(1)

Total tons to be mined in future divided by total ounces of gold or total pounds of copper equivalent to be recovered in future, based on proven and probable
reserves. Pounds of copper equivalent equate to copper pounds plus gold ounces converted to copper pounds on an equivalent revenue basis.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(2)

Total tons mined divided by total ounces of gold recovered or total pounds of copper equivalent recovered.

(3)

Remaining mine life (years) is as of January 1

st

of the year being presented and is based on the then current life-of-mine plan.

(4)

The actual stripping ratio increased in 2004 from 2003 and is greater than life-of-mine due
to increased waste removal from Section 30 at Twin Creeks. The actual grade decreased in 2004 as lower grade ore zones are being mined at Twin Creeks and Carlin.

(5)

La Herradura is included in the Company’s Other Northern America reportable segment.

(6)

The life-of-mine stripping ratio increased during 2004 from 2003 due to changes in mine plans as production winds down. The actual stripping ratio decreased during
2004 from 2003 due to the completion of several low-grade remnant pits. The one-year mine life is for open pit only. Underground mine life is six years. Tanami is included in the Company’s Australia/New Zealand reportable segment.

(7)

The actual stripping ratio decreased in 2004 due to fewer waste tons being moved. Kalgoorlie is included in the Company’s Australia/New Zealand reportable
segment.

(8)

The actual life-of mine stripping ratio decreased in 2004 due to a positive grade reconciliation in 2003. Martha is included in the Company’s Australia/New
Zealand reportable segment.

(9)

The life-of-mine stripping ratio increased in 2004 due to a change in mining method for certain reserves from underground to open pit. The actual stripping ratio
increased significantly from 2003 due to accelerated waste removal required to maintain higher mill throughput. The life-of-mine grade increased as higher grade material will be mined due to change from underground to open pit. The actual grade
decreased as lower grade areas are still being mined. Ovacik is included in the Company’s Central Asia reportable segment.

(10)

The actual stripping ratio is significantly lower than the life-of-mine stripping ratio as a direct result of the higher average ore grade.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Quarterly Data

The following is a summary of selected quarterly financial information (unaudited and in millions, except per share amounts):

(1)

Revenues and gross profit for the period ended March 31, 2004 and 2003 have been restated to
conform with the 2004 classification.

(2)

Revenues less

Costs applicable to sales

, and

Depreciation, depletion, and amortization

.

The significant fourth quarter adjustments for 2004 were (i) $52 million
($0.12 per share, basic) after-tax goodwill impairment charge at Pajingo; (ii) a $9 million ($0.02 per share, basic) non-cash, after-tax writedown of long-lived assets; (iii) an $16 million ($0.04 per share, basic) non-cash, after-tax reclamation
estimate gain; (iv) a $3 million ($0.01 per share, basic) non-cash, after-tax net gain on the disposition of Perama and QMC; and (v) a $71 million ($0.16 per share, basic) net tax benefit resulting from the release of tax valuation allowances, tax
true-ups and the filing of a consolidated tax return in Australia. Significant fourth quarter adjustments for 2003 were (i) $30 million ($0.07 per share, basic) after-tax loss on a guarantee of QMC debt; (ii) $18 million ($0.04 per share, basic)
after-tax impairment charge at Golden Giant in Canada; and (iii) $72 million ($0.17 per share, basic) tax benefit from the release of valuation allowances.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

NOTE 29    SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

On March 1, 2005, Newmont sold the Ovacik mine, located in western Turkey,
to a subsidiary of Koza Davetiye, a listed Turkish conglomerate. Consideration for the mine included $20 million paid at closing, and various contingent payments that could total as much as $24.5 million if all conditions precedent are met.

On March 3, 2005, Newmont Mining Corporation of Canada Limited
agreed to purchase 9.9% of Shore Gold Inc., a company trading on the Toronto Venture Exchange as SGF. The purchase price is expected to be in the range of CDN $49-51 million. Closing is expected to occur on or about March 22, 2005.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None

ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

During the fiscal period covered by this report, the Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, carried out an evaluation of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)). Based on such
evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the required time periods.

There has been no change in the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting during the most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or that is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting is
included in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION

None.



PART III

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information concerning Newmont’s directors, Audit Committee Financial Experts, Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act and Code of Ethics
is contained in Newmont’s definitive Proxy Statement, filed pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference. Information
concerning Newmont’s executive officers is set forth under Item 4A of this report.

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information concerning this item is contained in Newmont’s definitive Proxy Statement, filed pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the 2005 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Information concerning this item is contained in Newmont’s definitive Proxy Statement, filed pursuant to Regulation 14A
promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information concerning this item is contained in Newmont’s definitive Proxy Statement, filed pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

Information concerning this item is contained in Newmont’s definitive Proxy Statement, filed pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

The following documents are filed as a part of this report:

Financial Statements

The
Consolidated Financial Statements, together with the report thereon of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated March 15, 2005, are included as part of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, commencing on page 95 above.

Financial
Statement Schedules

Exhibits

Reference is made to the

Exhibit Index

beginning on page E-1 hereof.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and the Partners of Nusa Tenggara Partnership V.O.F.:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related statements of consolidated operations and comprehensive income (loss),
changes in partners’ equity and of cash flows, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Nusa Tenggara Partnership V.O.F. (a Dutch General Partnership) and its subsidiary at December 31, 2003 and 2002 and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility
of the Partnership’s management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
States of America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

As explained in Notes 2 and 11 to the
consolidated financial statements, the Partnership changed its method of accounting for asset retirement obligations on January 1, 2003.

As explained in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Partnership changed its method of accounting for derivative instruments and hedging
activities on January 1, 2001.

/s/    P

RICEWATERHOUSE

C

OOPERS

LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP

Denver, Colorado

February 27, 2004

NT-1


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

(Amounts in thousands of United States dollars)

NT-2


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(Amounts in thousands of United States dollars)

The accompanying notes
are an integral part of these financial statements.

NT-3


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED CHANGES IN PARTNERS’ EQUITY

(Amounts in thousands of United States dollars)

The accompanying notes
are an integral part of these financial statements.

NT-4


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW

(Amounts in thousands of United States dollars)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

NT-5


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE
1    GENERAL

Nusa Tenggara
Partnership V.O.F. (“NTP” or the “Partnership”) is a general partnership organized under the laws of The Netherlands. Newmont Indonesia Limited (“NIL”), a Delaware, U.S.A. corporation and subsidiary of Newmont Mining
Corporation (“Newmont”), also a Delaware, U.S.A. corporation, has a 56.25% economic interest in NTP, and Nusa Tenggara Mining Corporation (“NTMC”), a Japanese corporation jointly owned by Sumitomo Corporation
(“Sumitomo”) (74.3%), Sumitomo Metal Mining Co., Ltd. (14.3%), Mitsubishi Materials Corporation (7.1%) and Furukawa Co., Ltd. (4.3%) has a 43.75% economic interest in NTP. Both Newmont and Sumitomo have significant participating rights in
the NTP business and unanimous approval is needed for various NTP decisions. NTP maintains its accounting records in U.S. dollars (“USD” or “U.S.$”).

NTP was formed to develop and mine the Batu Hijau copper/gold deposit located in Sumbawa, Nusa Tenggara Barat, Indonesia.
Proven and probable reserves totaled 11.9 billion (unaudited) and 11.0 billion (unaudited) pounds of copper and 13.4 million (unaudited) and 12.3 million (unaudited) ounces of gold, at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Operations commenced
in the fourth quarter of 1999, with initial sales of concentrate in December 1999. Copper sales totaled 610.4 million and 644.0 million pounds and gold sales totaled 584,672 ounces and 494,214 ounces for 2003 and 2002, respectively. The cost for the
initial development of the open pit mine, mill and infrastructure, including employee housing, a port, electrical generation facilities, interest during construction and working capital was approximately U.S.$1.83 billion. Based on proven and
probable reserves, mining will be completed in approximately 14 years and processing of stockpiles will be completed in approximately 27 years.

NTP holds an 80% interest in P.T. Newmont Nusa Tenggara (“PTNNT”), an Indonesian corporation that holds the Contract of Work (“COW”)
issued by the Indonesian government, granting PTNNT sole rights to develop the Batu Hijau mine. The remaining 20% interest in PTNNT is held by P.T. Pukuafu Indah (“PTPI”), an unrelated Indonesian company. PTPI’s interest is a
“carried interest” such that at the request of PTPI, NTP funds PTPI’s share of capital contributions to PTNNT. Contributions made on behalf of PTPI are recoverable by NTP from 70% of PTPI’s share of future dividends from PTNNT
(see Note 12).

Exploration work is being performed on other
parts of the COW that are outside the Batu Hijau mine area.

Under the COW, a portion of PTNNT not already owned by Indonesian nationals must be offered for sale to the Indonesian government or to Indonesian nationals at the higher of replacement cost value, Jakarta stock exchange share value or fair
market value as a going concern. Based on the current holding of PTNNT shares by an Indonesian national, the first year in which such an offer of shares would need to be made is 2006. The effect of this provision could potentially reduce NIL and
NTMC ownership to 49% by 2010.

Substantially all Partnership
transactions relate to its 80% interest in PTNNT. Certain NTP and PTNNT actions and transactions require unanimous approval of NTP partners.

Copper and gold mining requires the use of specialized facilities and technology. PTNNT relies heavily on such facilities to reach and maintain its
production levels. Also, the cash flow and profitability of PTNNT’s operations are significantly affected by market prices of copper and gold. Such commodity prices fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond PTNNT’s
control.

Over the past seven years, Indonesia has experienced
significant fluctuations of its currency, the Rupiah. The country also faces political and social challenges. NTP’s cost and debt structure is primarily U.S. dollar-denominated. To the extent that there are fluctuations in the Rupiah, its
devaluation is generally economically neutral or beneficial to NTP since local salaries and supply contracts will decrease against the U.S. dollar. Excluding certain tax receivables described in Note 2, PTNNT activities have not been materially
affected by the economic, social and political situation in Indonesia, primarily because they are located in a remote location.

NT-6


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

NOTE 2    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Use of Estimates

NTP’s Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America. The preparation of the NTP’s Consolidated Financial Statements requires NTP to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the related disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The most significant areas requiring the use of management estimates and assumptions relate to
mineral reserves that are the basis for future cash flow estimates and units-of-production (“UOP”) depreciation, depletion and amortization calculations; environmental, reclamation and closure obligations; estimates of recoverable copper
and gold in stockpiles; asset impairments (including impairments of long-lived assets); write-downs of inventory to net realizable value; post-employment, postretirement and other employee benefit liabilities; valuation allowances for deferred tax
assets; reserves for contingencies and litigation; and the fair value and accounting treatment of financial instruments. NTP bases its estimates on NTP’s historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable
under the circumstances. Accordingly, actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

Principles of Consolidation

The financial statements reflect the consolidated financial position and the results of operations of NTP and PTNNT. To date, PTNNT has recorded
cumulative losses. Therefore, NTP has recorded 100% of PTNNT’s income and losses. NTP loaned PTPI the funds required to purchase its original 20% interest in PTNNT. In accordance with the PTPI loan agreement, PTPI has pledged 70% of its 20%
share of future PTNNT dividends to repay its loan to NTP, including dividends. Once PTNNT’s cumulative losses are recovered, which is expected to occur in 2004, NTP will recognize its 80% share of PTNNT’s earnings plus 70% of PTPI earnings
for an effective 94% share of PTNNT’s earnings until the PTPI loan is repaid. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.

As described in Note 1, PTPI owns a 20% carried interest in PTNNT. PTNNT’s total paid-in capital was U.S.$683.4 million at December 31, 2003 and
2002. PTPI’s share of such capital was funded with loans from NIL and NTMC, through NTP, and totaled U.S.$136.7 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002. These loans are subject to interest at the six-month SIBOR rate plus 2%. PTPI agreed to
assign 70% of its rights to dividends from PTNNT to repay such loans, including interest, pursuant to an Acknowledgement of Indebtedness and Assignment of Dividends agreement with NIL. Interest accrued under these loans is fully covered by an
allowance until recoverability of such interest is determined.

In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46 (“FIN 46”), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,” which provides guidance on the identification and reporting for entities over which control is
achieved through means other than voting rights. FIN 46 defines such entities as variable interest entities (“VIEs”). A FASB Staff Position issued in October 2003 deferred the effective date of FIN 46 to the first interim or annual period
ending after December 15, 2003 for entities created before February 1, 2003 if certain criteria are met. Subsequently, during December 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46R which replaces the original interpretation. Application of this revised
interpretation is required in financial statements for companies that have interests in VIEs or potential VIEs commonly referred to as special-purpose entities for periods ending after December 15, 2003. Application for all other types of entities
is required in financial statements for periods ending after March 15, 2004.

As of December 31, 2003, NTP did not have an interest in any special purpose entity.

NT-7


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

NTP is currently evaluating the impact FIN 46R will have on its financial statements for any VIE
created before December 31, 2003. NTP has identified PTNNT as a VIE because of certain capital structures and contractual relationships. In addition, NTP has identified Newmont as the primary beneficiary of PTNNT. As a result, effective January 1,
2004 on adoption of FIN 46R, NTP will no longer consolidate PTNNT and will account for its interest in PTNNT using the equity method.

Foreign Currency Transactions and Balances

The USD is the functional currency of NTP. Transactions in other currencies are recorded in USD based on exchange rates prevailing at the time of such
transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies are translated into USD at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet dates, and any resulting gains or losses are reflected in current earnings.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents consist of all cash balances and highly liquid
investments with an original maturity of three months or less. Because of the short maturity of these investments, the carrying amounts approximate their fair value. Cash and cash equivalents are primarily invested in money market accounts.

Taxes Receivable

Value added taxes (“VAT”) are paid on the PTNNT’s purchases
of goods and services. VAT paid during each month is fully refundable without restriction. VAT payments and refunds are local currency transactions and consequently, are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the local currency and the
USD. Provisions are made to adjust the value of the VAT receivable to its estimated recoverable value as of the balance sheet date.

Stockpiles and inventories

In general, costs that are incurred in or benefit the productive process are inventoried. Stockpiles and inventories are carried at the lower of average
cost or net realizable value. The current portion of stockpiles and inventories are determined based on the expected amounts to be processed within the next 12 months. Stockpiles and inventories not expected to be processed within the next twelve
months are classified as long-term. The major classifications are as follows:

Stockpiles and Ore at Crusher

Stockpiles represent coarse ore that has been extracted from the mine and is available for further processing. Stockpiles are measured by estimating the number of tons (via truck counts and/or in-pit surveys of the
ore before stockpiling) added and removed from the stockpile, the number of contained pounds of copper equivalent (based on assay data) and the recovery percentage (based on estimated mill recovery). Stockpile tonnages are verified by periodic
surveys. Stockpiles are valued based on mining costs incurred up to the point of stockpiling the ore, including applicable depreciation and amortization relating to mining operations. Costs are added to a stockpile based on the current mining cost
per ton including applicable depreciation and removed at the average cost per recoverable pound of copper equivalent in the stockpile.

Concentrate Inventory

Concentrate inventories represent saleable copper concentrate available for shipment. PTNNT values concentrate inventory at the average cost, including an
allocable portion of mill support costs and mill depreciation. Costs are added and removed to the concentrate inventory based on tons of concentrate.

NT-8


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Materials and Supplies

Materials and supplies are valued the lower of average cost or net realizable value. Cost includes applicable taxes and
freight.

Property, Plant and Mine Development

Property, plant and mine development are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation, depletion and amortization. Expenditures for new facilities or expenditures that extend the useful lives of existing facilities are capitalized and depreciated over the estimated productive lives of the facilities. Depreciation for
mining and milling life-of-mine assets is determined using the UOP method based on proven and probable reserves. Other assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated productive lives, ranging from 3 to 20 years, but do not exceed
mine life based on proven and probable reserves.

Mineral
exploration costs are expensed as incurred. When it has been determined that a mineral property can be economically developed as a result of establishing proven and probable reserves, costs incurred prospectively to develop the property are
capitalized as incurred and are amortized using the UOP depreciation method based on the estimated recoverable pounds of copper equivalent mined from proven and probable reserves. These costs include costs to further delineate the ore body and
remove overburden to initially expose the ore body during the development stage of the project. To the extent that these costs benefit the entire ore body, they are depreciated on a UOP basis over the estimated life of the ore body based on proven
and probable reserves. Costs incurred to access specific ore blocks or areas that only provide benefit of access to that area are depreciated over the proven and probable reserves of the specific ore area.

Interest expense allocated to the cost of developing mining properties and to
constructing new facilities is capitalized until assets are ready for their intended use.

Gains or losses from normal sales or retirements of assets are included in other income.

Intangible Mineral Interests

The excess of the agreed fair value of the assets contributed to NTP when it was initially funded over the historical cost basis was recorded as mineral
interests (previously classified as “deferred mineral rights”). Such costs are amortized by the UOP method based on proven and probable reserves.

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. Upon adoption as required on January 1, 2002, NTP reclassified $202.8 million, net of mineral interests from Property, plant and mine development to a separate line item,

Intangible mineral
interests, net

on the

Consolidated Balance Sheets

.

The Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) formed a committee to evaluate certain mining industry accounting issues, including issues arising from the application of SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations” and SFAS No. 142 to
business combinations within the mining industry, accounting for goodwill and other intangibles and the capitalization of costs after the commencement of production, including deferred stripping. The issues to be discussed also include whether
mineral interests conveyed by leases represent tangible or intangible assets and the amortization of such assets. NTP believes that its accounting for its mineral interests conveyed by leases is in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. However, NTP cannot predict whether the deliberations of the EITF will ultimately modify or otherwise result in new accounting standards or interpretations thereof that differ from NTP’s current practices.

NT-9


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Asset Impairment

NTP reviews and evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not
be recoverable. An impairment is considered to exist if the total estimated future cash flows on an undiscounted basis are less than the carrying amount of the asset. An impairment loss is measured and recorded based on discounted estimated future
cash flows. Future cash flows are estimated based on quantities of recoverable minerals, expected copper and gold commodity prices (considering current and historical prices, price trends and related factors), production levels, cash costs of
production and capital, all based on detailed engineering life-of-mine plans. The term “recoverable minerals” refers to the estimated amount of copper and gold that will be obtained from proven and probable reserves after taking into
account losses during ore processing and treatment. In estimating future cash flows, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of cash flows from other asset groups. All assets at
an operating segment are considered together for purposes of estimating future cash flows. Assumptions underlying future cash flow estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Debt Issuance Costs

Costs incurred to arrange and refinance the third party debt for development of PTNNT’s Batu Hijau mine, including financial advisory fees, legal
fees, loan origination and commitment fees, and accounting and tax advisory services, among others, were capitalized as deferred debt issuance costs. Such costs are amortized over the term of the loan which started at the beginning of commercial
production using the effective interest method. Amortization of debt issuance costs is included as a component of interest expense.

Revenue Recognition

The Batu Hijau operation produces a metal concentrate, which contains payable copper and gold and minor values of payable silver. PTNNT has entered into
long-term contracts for the sale of these metal concentrates with highly reputable refiners in Japan, Korea (“Non-European Refiners”) and Europe (“European Refiners”). In accordance with the contracts, title to the concentrates
and the risk of loss are passed to the buyer when the concentrates are moved over the vessel’s rail at the port (loading port for Non-European Refiners and unloading port for European Refiners). The contract terms provide that 90% of a
provisional sales price, which is calculated in accordance with terms specified in the individual contracts based on an initial assay and weight certificate, is collected within three business days after the concentrates arrive at the smelter
(“final delivery”). Factors entering into the calculation of the provisional sales price are (i) metals prices, pursuant to the terms of related contracts, calculated using quoted London Metals Exchange (“LME”) prices for the
second calendar week prior to shipment; and (ii) treatment and refining charges. The balance of the sales price is received at final settlement and is based on final assays and weights, and final metal prices during the respective metal quotational
periods. For the majority of shipments, the quotational period for copper is the average LME price in the third month following the month of final delivery and the quotational period for gold and silver is the average LME price in the month of
shipment. Final delivery to Non-European and European refiners takes approximately 14 days and 30 days, respectively. The majority of the Batu Hijau concentrates are shipped to Non-European refiners. Accordingly, the time between initial recording
of revenue and final settlement averages approximately three and one-half months but could be as long as four months.

In accordance with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (“SAB 101”), certain conditions must be met prior
to recognizing revenue. These conditions are: persuasive evidence of a contract exists; delivery has occurred; the price is fixed or determinable; and collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured. In accordance with SAB 101, PTNNT
recognizes metal sales revenues following: (i) the passage of title after the loading or unloading of the concentrates; (ii) issuance of an initial assay and weight

NT-10


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

certificate; and (iii) issuance of a provisional invoice. At this point in time, the sales price is determinable since it is based on defined contract terms,
initial assays are available, and it can be reasonably estimated by reference to published price indices on actively and freely traded commodity exchanges. Additionally, there is no significant uncertainty as to collectability given that all of the
refiners are of high-credit quality and that 90% of the provisional price is paid within three business days of final delivery at the refiner.

Concentrate sales are initially recorded based on 100% of the provisional sales prices. Until final settlement occurs, adjustments to the provisional
sales prices are made to take into account metal price changes, based upon the month-end spot price and metal quantities upon receipt of the final assay and weight certificates, if different from the initial certificate. Effective January 1, 2002,
PTNNT changed its methodology to mark-to-market its provisional sales based on the forward price for the estimated month of settlement. The principal risks associated with recognition of sales on a provisional basis include metal price fluctuations
between the date recorded and the date of final settlement. In addition, in the event of a significant decline in metal prices between the provisional pricing date and the final settlement-pricing period, it is reasonably possible that PTNNT would
be required to return a portion of the sales proceeds received based on the provisional invoice. For the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, PTNNT had recorded revenues of U.S.$95.7 million and U.S.$65.7 million, respectively, which were subject
to final pricing adjustments. The average price adjustment for copper was 5.07% and 1.98% for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The average price adjustment for gold was 1.13% and 0.83% for the years ended December 31, 2003
and 2002, respectively.

PTNNT’s sales based on a
provisional sales price contain an embedded derivative which is required to be separated from the host contract for accounting purposes. The host contract is the receivable from the sale of the concentrates at the forward LME price at the time of
sale. The embedded derivative, which does not qualify for hedge accounting, is marked to market through earnings each period prior to final settlement. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, PTNNT had consolidated embedded copper derivatives on 91.5 million
and 93.5 million pounds recorded at an average price of U.S.$1.04 and U.S.$0.70 per pound, respectively. A one-cent movement in the average price used for these derivatives would have an approximate U.S.$0.6 million impact on PTNNT’s net income
for each of the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002.

Sales
of gold and silver by-products for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were U.S.$217.3 million and U.S.$159.2 million, respectively. Revenue from the sale of gold and silver is credited to production costs in the determination of net income
for each period presented. These by-product commodities represented 51% and 44% of revenues and reduced production costs by 76% and 58% for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Gold and silver revenues, which are recorded as
by-product credits, are significant to the economics of the Batu Hijau operation.

Deferred Stripping

In general, mining costs
are charged to

Production costs

as incurred. However, PTNNT defers and amortizes certain mining costs on a UOP basis over the life of the mine. These mining costs, which are commonly referred to as “deferred stripping” costs, are
incurred in mining activities that are normally associated with the removal of waste rock. The deferred stripping accounting method is generally accepted in the mining industry where mining operations have diverse grades and waste-to-ore ratios;
however, industry practice does vary. Deferred stripping matches the costs of production with the sale of such production by assigning each recoverable pound of copper equivalent with an equivalent amount of waste removal cost. If PTNNT were to
expense stripping costs as incurred, there may be greater volatility in NTP’s period-to-period results of operations.

NT-11


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Deferred stripping costs are charged to

Production costs

as copper concentrate is produced and
sold using the UOP method based on estimated proven and probable reserves. NTP uses a stripping ratio based on total tons to be moved to equivalent pound of copper expected to be recovered over the life of the mine. Deferred stripping results in the
recognition of the costs of waste removal activities over the life of the mine as copper concentrate is produced. The application of the accounting for deferred stripping costs and the resulting differences in timing between costs deferred and
amortization generally results in an asset on the

Consolidated Balance Sheets

(

Deferred stripping costs

), although a liability will arise if the actual stripping ratio incurred to date is less than the expected waste to ore ratio over
the life of the mine. PTNNT’s deferred stripping balance is currently in a liability position.

The estimated remaining life as of December 31, 2003, of the Batu Hijau pit is 14 years, which represents the time period over which the deferred
stripping cost balance will be amortized. The amortization of deferred stripping costs is reflected in the income statement over the remaining life of the operations so that no unamortized balance remains at mine closure. PTNNT’s cash flows are
reviewed regularly, and at least annually, for the purpose of assessing whether any write-downs to the deferred stripping cost balances are required.

NTP has classified these costs as

Deferred stripping costs

on the

Consolidated Balance Sheets

. The total deferred stripping liability as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002 was U.S.$69.9 million and U.S.$66.7 million, respectively. Additions (deductions) to deferred stripping costs are included as a component of

Movement of deferred stripping costs, net

in

Operating activities

in the

Statements of Consolidated Cash Flow

. Net additions (deductions) to deferred stripping costs liability for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were U.S.$3.2 million and U.S.$(8.6) million, respectively.

Reclamation Costs (Asset Retirement Obligations)

In August 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 143 “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” which established a uniform methodology for accounting for estimated reclamation and abandonment costs. The statement was adopted January 1, 2003, when NTP recorded
the estimated present value of reclamation liabilities (“asset retirement obligation “ or “ARO”) and increased the carrying amount of the related asset (“asset retirement cost” or “ARC”), which resulted in a
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of U.S.$14.2 million. See Note 11. The ARC will be allocated to expense over the life of the related assets and will be adjusted for changes resulting from the passage of time and revisions to
either the timing or amount of the original present value estimate.

Prior to adoption of SFAS No. 143, estimated future reclamation costs were based principally on legal and regulatory requirements. Such costs were accrued and charged over the expected operating life of the Batu Hijau operations using the
UOP method based on proven and probable reserves.

Income Taxes

PTNNT accounts for income taxes using the liability
method, recognizing certain temporary differences between the financial reporting basis of its assets and liabilities and the related income tax basis of such assets and liabilities. This method generates a net deferred income tax asset or net
deferred income tax liability as of the end of the year, as measured by the statutory tax rates in effect as enacted. PTNNT derives its deferred income tax benefit or charge by recording the change in the net deferred income tax asset or net
deferred income tax liability balance for the year.

PTNNT’s deferred income tax assets include certain future tax benefits. PTNNT records a valuation allowance against any portion of those deferred income tax assets that it believes, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more
likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred income tax asset will not be realized.

NT-12


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

NTP is not subject to income taxes. The taxable income or loss of the Partnership, which may vary
substantially from income or loss reported for financial reporting purposes, is passed through to NTP partners. NTP is subject to withholding taxes on certain payments made from Indonesia. Such withholding taxes are included in

Income tax
expense.

Derivative Instruments

PTNNT does not acquire, hold or issue financial instruments for trading or
speculative purposes. Financial instruments are used to manage certain market risks resulting from fluctuations in commodity prices (mainly copper and diesel fuel) and foreign currency exchange rates. Copper is an internationally traded commodity,
and its prices are effectively determined by the LME. On a limited basis, PTNNT hedges sales commitments by entering into copper swap contracts. Swap contracts are settled at the LME average monthly price in accordance with the terms of the
contracts. PTNNT has also put in place derivative instruments with respect to a portion of its planned future diesel purchases and the Indonesia Rupiah.

Comprehensive (Loss) Income

In addition to net income, comprehensive (loss) income includes all changes in equity during a period, except those resulting from investments by and
distributions to owners. The U.S.$3.5 million

Other comprehensive loss

in 2003 and the U.S.$3.0 million

Other comprehensive income

in 2002 represents the change in the fair value of derivative instruments that qualify as cash flow
hedges.

NOTE 3    INITIAL FUNDING OF THE PARTNERSHIP

The Partnership agreement, executed on July 2, 1996,
provided for initial contributions from its partners. The date of such contributions (referred to as the “Initial Funding Date”) was June 10, 1997. NIL contributed its 80% interest in PTNNT in exchange for a 56.25% interest in NTP. NIL
also contributed rights to its shareholder loan receivable of U.S.$77.2 million and a PTPI loan receivable of U.S.$2.2 million. The agreed upon value of NIL’s initial contributions was U.S.$306.2 million. NTMC contributed approximately
U.S.$239.3 million of subsequent cash contributions, as defined in the Partnership agreement, in exchange for a 43.75% interest in NTP. NTMC and NIL have contributed proportionately 43.75% and 56.25%, respectively, after NTMC’s cash
contributions of U.S.$239.3 million.

PTNNT’s losses up to
the Initial Funding Date of U.S.$41.4 million were allocated to the capital accounts of NIL and NTMC in proportion to their respective Partnership interests.

NOTE 4    STOCKPILES AND INVENTORIES

NT-13


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Non-current stockpiles increased from U.S.$196.8 million at December 31, 2002 to U.S.$287.2 million
at December 31, 2003. The increase in non-current stockpiles relates to ore tons that were mined in 2003 and were placed in stockpiles for future processing. At Batu Hijau, the mining rate in 2003 exceeded the processing rate during the period. The
resulting ore stockpiles are expected to be processed in future years in accordance with the life-of-mine plan.

NOTE 5    PROPERTY, PLANT AND MINE DEVELOPMENT

NOTE
6    INTANGIBLE MINERAL INTERESTS

These intangible
mineral interests are amortized over proven and probable reserves, have no residual value and a weighted average life of 27 years. Total amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 was U.S.$11.9 million and U.S.$14.5 million,
respectively. The estimated aggregate amortization expenses through 2008 are as follows (based on the current mine plan):

NT-14


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

NOTE 7    DEFERRED STRIPPING

Movements in the deferred stripping costs liability balance were as follows:

NOTE
8    ACCOUNTS PAYABLE—AFFILIATES

Details of accounts payable—affiliates were as follows:

Following repayment of
principal amounts previously deferred under the Senior Debt (see Note 10) during 2003, the accounts payable-affiliates amounts were reclassified from long-term to short-term.

NOTE 9    INCOME TAXES

NTP’s Indonesian income tax expense consisted of:

NT-15


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

NTP’s income tax expense differed from the amounts computed by applying the COW corporate income
tax statutory rate for PTNNT for the following reasons:

Other comprehensive
income (loss)

for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 is net of U.S.$(1.9) million benefit and U.S.$1.6 million expense, respectively, of deferred income taxes which is not reflected above.

Components of NTP’s net deferred income tax assets (liabilities) are as
follows:

NT-16


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Primarily based on estimates of future sources of taxable income, NTP believes that it, more likely
than not, will utilize U.S.$306.2 million of the U.S.$309.4 million of deferred income tax assets at December 31, 2003.

The net operating
fiscal loss (income) carry-forward amount and the expiration year are as follows:

NOTE 10    DEBT

Senior Debt

On July 30, 1997, PTNNT entered into a U.S.$1.0 billion project financing
facility for the Batu Hijau project (“Senior Debt”) which falls under the Common Security Agreement (“CSA”) between the senior lenders and PTNNT. U.S.$739.8 million and U.S.$913.3 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2003
and 2002, respectively. The Senior Debt is comprised of commitments from three export-credit agencies. The completion tests associated with this debt were satisfied during the fourth quarter of 2000 making the Senior Debt non-recourse to Newmont and
Sumitomo. The assets of PTNNT are pledged for the debt. The fair market value cannot be practicably determined due to the lack of available market information for this type of debt.

Repayments of borrowings under the Senior Debt are in semi-annual installments from May 2001 through November 2013. The
facility as amended in May 2002 provided PTNNT with the ability to defer up to U.S.$173.5 million in principal payments scheduled for 2002 and 2003. Installments due in 2002 amounting to U.S.$86.8 million were deferred at December 31, 2002. Certain
restrictions on paying Restricted Payments and Technology and Know-How fees applied while deferred amounts were outstanding. As a result of improved commodity prices and lower costs, the deferred principal was completely repaid and brought up to
date in 2003. The amounts repaid were U.S.$130.2 million and U.S.$43.4 million in May 2003 and November 2003, respectively.

The interest rate is based on blended fixed and floating rates, and at current market rates on December 31, 2003, the weighted average interest rate would
approximate the London InterBank Offering Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 3.47%. The weighted average interest rates were 4.7% and 5.0% during 2003 and 2002, respectively, and the interest rates were 4.7% and 4.7% at December 31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.

NT-17


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

The Chase Manhattan Bank (“Chase”) portion of the Senior Debt was refinanced in May 2001.
U.S.$403.75 million was borrowed from Export-Import Bank of the United States (“US Exim”) and the Chase tranche of the Senior Debt was repaid in full.

Scheduled minimum annual long-term third party debt repayments are U.S.$86.7million, through 2008 each year. U.S.$306.1 million is due thereafter.

Debt Covenants

Senior Debt covenants, conditions, warranties and representations include
among others:

Limitation on Indebtedness

—PTNNT
shall not incur any indebtedness, other than the U.S.$1 billion Senior Debt, except for “Permitted Indebtedness,” which includes the unsecured debt from a commercial bank loan facility (see below), subordinated debt from NTP, sponsor loans
and second sponsor loans discussed below, unsecured working capital debt with maturity not in excess of one year and not exceeding U.S.$35.0 million, and other indebtedness with aggregate principal not to exceed U.S.$5.0 million at any one time.

Restricted Payments

—Restricted Payments include
dividends or return of capital and payment of principal and interest on subordinated loans to NTP, its partners or their affiliates. Restricted Payments can be made provided certain conditions, financial covenants and financial ratios are met, which
are as follows: Senior Debt reserve fully funded for next payment; no event of default; funding for 30 days operating costs in collateral accounts; and no event of political force majeure.

Restricted payments in the amount of U.S.$60.5 million were made in fourth
quarter 2003 to repay the Commercial Bank Loan (see Commercial Bank Loan below) of U.S.$22.5 million, U.S.$36.6 million of Subordinated loan interest and U.S.$1.4 million, of exploration expense.

Commercial Bank Loan

On May 14, 2001, PTNNT borrowed U.S.$22.5 million from a commercial bank to fund a credit financing fee for the Senior Debt
transaction with US Exim as described above. This borrowing is unsecured and was due in May 2005. The interest rate was based on the semi-annual LIBOR rate, and the weighted average interest rate was approximately LIBOR plus 2%. The weighted average
interest rates were 2.9% and 4.0% during 2003 and 2002, respectively and at December 31, 2002, the interest rate was 3.4%. The loan was repaid in November 2003.

Loans and Accrued Interest To Partners

In 1999, PTNNT entered into separate shareholder subordinated loan agreements with NIL and NTMC (“Sponsor Loans”) under which U.S.$195.6 million
of principal was outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002. U.S.$9.5 million and U.S.$8.9 million of accrued interest related to the Sponsor Loans was outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. U.S.$20.8 million of the accrued interest
was converted to Partners’ equity during 2001. Borrowings under Sponsor Loans are guaranteed by NTP and are payable on demand, subject to Senior Debt subordination terms. The interest rate is based on the annual Singapore InterBank Offering
Rate (“SIBOR”) and the interest rate on any unpaid interest is based on the annual SIBOR rate plus 1%. The weighted average interest rates during 2003 and 2002 were 1.4% and 2.1%, respectively, and at December 31, 2003 and 2002 were 1.3%
and 1.5%, respectively. Payments of Sponsor Loan principal and interest are Restricted Payments under provisions of the Senior Debt.

NT-18


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

On January 5, 2000, PTNNT entered into separate shareholder subordinated loan agreements
(“Second Sponsor Loans”) with NIL and NTMC under which U.S.$53 million of principal was outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002. U.S.$0.1 million and U.S.$2.3 million interest related to the Second Sponsor Loans was outstanding at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. U.S.$4.5 million of the accrued interest was converted to Partners’ equity during 2001. The terms of the Second Sponsor Loans are similar to the Sponsor Loans described above where (i) borrowings are
guaranteed by NTP and are payable on demand, subject to Senior Debt subordination terms; (ii) interest rates are based on the annual SIBOR rate for principal and the annual SIBOR rate plus 1% for unpaid accrued interest; and (iii) loan repayments
and interest are Restricted Payments under provisions of the Senior Debt. The weighted-average interest rates during 2003 and 2002 were 1.4% and 2.1%, and at December 31, 2003 and 2002, the interest rates were 1.3% and 1.5%, respectively.

Effective January 1, 2004, PTNNT entered into Amendments 1 and
2 (“Amendments”) to the shareholder subordinated loan agreements (Sponsor Loans and Second Sponsor Loans) with NIL and NTMC. Under the terms of the Amendments annual interest rates are to be based on SIBOR rate plus 3% for principal and
SIBOR rate plus 4% for any unpaid accrued interest.

On July
15, 2002, PTNNT entered into a working capital loan agreement with Newmont and Sumitomo Corporation Capital Asia Pty Ltd. The U.S.$35 million loan facility is available through July 14, 2005. Repayments of principal and interest are not considered
Restricted Payments under the terms of the Senior Debt discussed above. The loan is available for one-, two-, or three-month periods at the option of PTNNT. The interest rate is based on the three-month SIBOR plus 2%. However, if any principal
amount is not paid by the due date, the interest rate is based on the three-month SIBOR plus 4%. The loan balance at December 31, 2003 and 2002 was zero.

NOTE 11    RECLAMATION AND REMEDIATION (ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS)

NTP’s mining and exploration activities are subject to various Indonesian laws and regulations governing the protection
of the environment. These laws and regulations are continually changing and are generally becoming more restrictive. NTP conducts its operations so as to protect the public health and environment and believes its operations are in compliance with
all applicable laws and regulations. NTP has made, and expects to make in the future, expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations, but cannot predict the amount of such future expenditures. Estimated future reclamation costs are based
principally on legal and regulatory requirements.

The
following is a reconciliation of the total liability for asset retirement obligations (in thousands of U.S.$):

The asset retirement
obligation was adjusted for a study of the final Batu Hijau reclamation cost estimate (“2003 study”), which was completed during the fourth quarter of 2003. The major change in the 2003 Study from prior estimates of Batu Hijau reclamation
estimates was the optimization of the cost estimate related to the treatment of water at the site after completion of operations.

NT-19


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

On a pro forma basis, the liabilities for asset retirement obligations would have been U.S.$79.7
million and U.S.$86.2 million at January 1, 2002 and December 31, 2002, respectively, if SFAS No. 143 had been applied at the beginning of 2002.

The table below presents the impact of the accounting change for year ended December 31, 2003 and the pro forma effect for the years ended December 31,
2002 as if the change had been in effect for those periods (in thousands of U.S.$):

The table below
presents pro forma income (loss) before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle for years ended December 31, 2002 as if the Company had adopted the SFAS No. 143 as of January 1 (in thousands of U.S.$):

NOTE
12    STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

NT-20


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

NOTE 13    MAJOR CUSTOMERS AND EXPORT SALES

PTNNT sells its concentrates primarily pursuant to long-term sales
agreements. As a percentage of concentrate sales (copper sales net of smelting and refining charges), 96% of concentrate sales were pursuant to such contracts during 2003. Three of these agreements each accounted for more than 10% of sales in 2003
at U.S.$60.3 million, U.S.$55.3 million and U.S.$53.2 million, respectively, and together accounted for 39% of concentrate sales. As a percentage of concentrate sales, 97% were pursuant to such long-term sales agreements during 2002, of which three
agreements each accounted for more than 10% of sales in 2002 at U.S.$55.5 million, U.S.$51.8 million and U.S.$50.9 million, respectively, and together accounted for 44% of concentrate sales. Concentrate sales were made to three related parties
during 2003 and 2002 and the associated metal sales receivables at December 31, 2003 and 2002 as follows:

NOTE
14    SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

Excluded from the consolidated statements of cash flows were the effects of non-cash transactions wherein PTNNT purchases spare parts inventory, but defers payment until such inventory is used. The amount so purchased was U.S.$26.3 million
at December 31, 2003 and U.S.$30.3 million at December 31, 2002.

Third party interest paid totaled U.S.$40.6 million and U.S.$47.4 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively.

U.S.$5.0 million of interest was paid to NIL and NTMC in 2003.

Taxes paid, consisting of withholding taxes on interest earned, were U.S.$0.8 million and U.S.$2.0 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively.

In December 2003, cash distributions of $17.9 million and $13.9 million were
made to NIL and NTMC, respectively.

NT-21


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

NOTE 15    OTHER SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS

Technology and Know-How Agreements

On July 2, 1996, PTNNT entered into a Technology and Know-How Agreement with
Newmont Technologies Limited (“NTL”), a subsidiary of Newmont, whereby NTL agreed to provide proprietary information, technology, know-how and related intellectual property rights. Under the terms of this agreement, PTNNT pays NTL a
royalty of 1.6875% of the preceding month’s aggregate capital expenditures determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and U.S.$3.9375 per ounce of gold equivalent produced by PTNNT.

A similar Technology and Know-How Agreement was executed with Sumitomo Corporation on the same date, providing a royalty of
1.3125% of aggregate capital expenditures and U.S.$3.0625 per ounce of gold equivalent produced.

Charges under these agreements totaled U.S.$15.5 million and U.S.$16.2 million during 2003 and 2002, respectively. The associated liabilities at December
31, 2003 and 2002 were U.S.$114.6 million and U.S.$99.1 million, respectively, and were included in

Accounts payable—affiliates

(Note 8).

Consulting Services Agreements

In July 1996, PTNNT entered into a Consulting Services Agreement with Newmont International Services Limited (“NISL”), a subsidiary of Newmont,
whereby NISL agreed to provide certain support; advisory and consulting services related to general project engineering, control and development; procurement advice and implementation; contract negotiation support; general construction advice and
support; operations management support; tax and legal planning; general and administrative services; and management and business support services. NISL provides these services primarily outside of the Republic of Indonesia. Under the terms of this
agreement, PTNNT reimburses NISL for its actual payroll costs, including related employee benefits, incurred to provide these services, other out-of-pocket costs, and an administrative fee. Charges totaled U.S.$11.7 million in 2003 and U.S.$3.8
million in 2002, and

Accounts payable—affiliates

included U.S.$0.3 million and U.S.$2.7 million at December 31, 2003, and 2002, respectively (see Note 8).

PTNNT has a similar Consulting Services Agreement with NTMC. Pursuant to this agreement, charges totaled U.S.$0.7 million in
2003 and U.S.$0.6 million in 2002. There were no

Accounts payable—affiliates

at December 31, 2003 and 2002.

In June 1999, PTNNT entered into a Consulting Services Agreement with Newmont Pacific Nusantara (“NPN”), a subsidiary of Newmont, whereby NPN
agreed to provide legal, tax, government relations and public relations support. NPN provides these services primarily in the Republic of Indonesia. Under the terms of this agreement, PTNNT reimburses NPN for its actual payroll costs, including
related employee benefits, incurred to provide these services, other out-of-pocket costs, and an administrative fee. Charges totaled U.S.$2.0 million and U.S.$2.4 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Accounts payable—affiliates

included U.S.$0 million and U.S.$0.3 million at December 31, 2003, and 2002, respectively for this agreement (see Note 8).

Payroll Agency Agreements

PTNNT entered into Payroll Agency Agreements with Newmont Indonesia Investment Limited (“NIIL”) and Newmont Global Employment Limited
Partnership (“NGELP”), wholly-owned subsidiaries of Newmont, whereby NIIL and NGELP agreed to act as agents of PTNNT to handle personnel, payroll and benefits management of non-Indonesian employees assigned to work for PTNNT in Indonesia.
NIIL manages expatriates from the U.S. and NGELP manages expatriates from countries other than the U.S.

NT-22


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

Under the terms of these agreements, PTNNT reimburses the agents for salaries, related employee
benefits and other reasonable expenses and pays a fee of U.S.$20 for each salary payment made. Agency payments totaled U.S.$11.9 million in 2003 and U.S.$12.9 million in 2002, and

Accounts payable—affiliates

included U.S.$0.6 million and
U.S.$0.7 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively (see Note 8).

Maintenance and Repair Cost Agreements

During
1999, PTNNT entered into a long-term Maintenance and Repair Cost agreements (“MARC”) with P.T. Trakindo Utama (“Trakindo”), an unrelated Indonesian company, to provide maintenance on PTNNT’s Caterpillar equipment at a fixed
cost per operating hour. Under the terms of the MARC agreements, Trakindo will provide all normal “wear and tear” parts and labor necessary to perform maintenance and repairs on such equipment. Inception-to-date contract expenditures
charged for such services were U.S.$119.6 million with the future value of the contracts amounting to U.S.$190.7 million. The contracts are effective through December 31, 2007. Either party can cancel the contracts with one year’s written
notice.

NOTE 16    HEDGING PROGRAMS

PTNNT entered into a series of copper hedging transactions which have been
classified as cash flow hedges. The contracts comprise a forward sale at a fixed price and a spot purchase at the average spot price for the delivery month. The physical commodity is sold at the average spot price for the delivery month.

PTNNT had the following copper forward sales contracts outstanding at
December 31, 2003:

PTNNT also entered
into diesel hedging contracts which have been designated as cash flow hedges. The contracts comprise a forward purchase at a fixed price and a spot sale at the average spot price for the delivery month.

PTNNT had the following diesel forward purchase contracts outstanding at
December 31, 2003:

PTNNT also entered
into Indonesian Rupiah hedging contracts which have been designated as cash flow hedges. The contracts comprise a forward purchase at a fixed price and a spot sale at the average price for the delivery month.

NT-23


NUSA TENGGARA PARTNERSHIP V.O.F.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

PTNNT had the following Indonesian Rupiah forward purchase contracts outstanding at December 31,
2003:

The outstanding
hedging contracts are valued at current market value at the end of each period. The resulting income (loss) from these contracts at December 31, 2003 and 2002 was tax effected at 35% and the net amount is recorded in

Other comprehensive income
(loss).

The

Other Comprehensive income (loss)

will be transferred to

Net income (loss)

as these contracts are settled.

NOTE 17    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

NTP is from time to time involved in various legal proceedings of a character normally incident to its business. It does not believe that adverse
decisions in any pending or threatened proceedings or that any amounts it may be required to pay by reason thereof will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.

NOTE 18    UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

In general, mining costs are charged to

Production costs

as incurred.
However, PTNNT defers and amortizes certain mining costs on a UOP basis over the life of the mine. These mining costs, which are commonly referred to as “deferred stripping” costs are incurred in mining activities that are normally
associated with the removal of waste rock. The deferred stripping accounting method is generally accepted in the mining industry where mining operations have diverse grades and waste to ore ratios; however, industry practice does vary. Deferred
stripping matches the costs of production with the sale of such production by assigning each recoverable pound of copper equivalent with an equivalent amount of waste removal cost. If PTNNT were to expense stripping costs as incurred, there might be
greater volatility in NTP’s period-to-period results of operations. See additional discussion of deferred stripping in Note 2 to NTP’s financial statements.

Details of deferred stripping with respect to Batu Hijau are as follows (unaudited):

(1)

Ratio based on total tons to be mined in future to total pounds of copper and ounces of gold to be recovered in future.

(2)

Ratio based on total tons mined to total pounds of copper and ounces of gold recovered.

NT-24


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Annual Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

March 15, 2005

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on March 15, 2005.

By:

/s/    B

RITT

D. B

ANKS

Britt D. Banks

Attorney-in-Fact

S-1


EXHIBIT INDEX

E-1


E-2


E-3


E-4


(1)

In reliance upon Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, various instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Newmont Mining Corporation are not being filed
herewith because the total of securities authorized under each such instrument does not exceed 10% of the total assets of Newmont Mining Corporation. Newmont Mining Corporation hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the Commission
upon request.

E-5