Item 1.Business

General

United Technologies Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1934. UTC provides high technology products and services to the building systems and aerospace industries worldwide. Growth is attributable primarily to the internal development of our existing businesses and to acquisitions. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2013 Annual Report, including the information contained therein under the heading “Business Overview.”

On September 23, 2013, we announced the formation of UTC Building & Industrial Systems, a new organizational structure consisting of the Otis and UTC Climate, Controls & Security segments.  This new organizational structure is expected to enhance our ability to deliver more integrated solutions to our customers and accelerate innovation in smart building technologies and sustainable designs.  Otis and UTC Climate, Controls & Security each continue to report their financial and operational results as separate segments, which is consistent with how we allocate resources and measure the financial performance of these businesses.

On July 26, 2012, UTC acquired Goodrich Corporation (Goodrich) pursuant to a merger agreement dated September 21, 2011.  As a result of the acquisition, Goodrich became a wholly-owned subsidiary of UTC.  The acquired Goodrich business and the legacy Hamilton Sundstrand business were combined to form a new segment named UTC Aerospace Systems.

As previously reported, in 2012 we created the UTC Propulsion & Aerospace Systems organizational structure, consisting of the Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems segments. We continue to report the financial and operational results of Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems separately, which is consistent with how we allocate resources and measure the financial performance of these businesses.

Our operating units include businesses with operations throughout the world. Otis and UTC Climate, Controls & Security (collectively referred to as the “commercial businesses”) serve customers in the commercial, governmental and residential property sectors worldwide.  UTC Climate, Controls & Security also serves industrial, transport refrigeration and food service equipment customers. Pratt & Whitney, UTC Aerospace Systems, and Sikorsky (collectively referred to as the “aerospace businesses”) primarily serve commercial and government customers in both the original equipment and aftermarket parts and services markets of the aerospace industry.  Pratt & Whitney also serves customers in certain industrial markets.  For 2013, our commercial and industrial sales (generated principally by our commercial businesses) were approximately 47 percent of our consolidated sales, and our commercial aerospace sales and military aerospace sales (generated exclusively by our aerospace businesses) were approximately 34 percent and 19 percent, respectively, of our consolidated sales. Consolidated international sales for 2013, including U.S. export sales, were 62 percent of our consolidated sales.

This Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our Internet website (http://www.utc.com) under the heading “SEC Filings” as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are also available for reading and copying at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov)









containing reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Description of Business by Segment

Our operations for the periods presented herein are classified into five principal segments: Otis, UTC Climate, Controls & Security, Pratt & Whitney, UTC Aerospace Systems, and Sikorsky. Each segment groups similar operating companies and the management organization of each segment has general operating autonomy over a range of products and services. The principal products and services of each segment are as follows:

Otis—elevators, escalators, moving walkways and service.

UTC Climate, Controls & Security—heating, ventilating, air conditioning (HVAC) and refrigeration systems, controls, services and energy-efficient products for residential, commercial, industrial and transportation applications, fire and special hazard detection and suppression systems, firefighting equipment, security and monitoring and rapid response systems and service.

Pratt & Whitney—commercial, military, business jet and general aviation aircraft engines, auxiliary power units, and parts and services.

UTC Aerospace Systems—aerospace products and aftermarket services, including electric power generation, management and distribution systems, flight control systems, engine control systems, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems, engine components, environmental control systems, fire protection and detection systems, propeller systems, aircraft nacelles, and interior, actuation, landing and electronic systems.

Sikorsky—military and commercial helicopters, helicopter and aircraft aftermarket parts and services.

Segment financial data for the years 2011 through 2013, including financial information about foreign and domestic operations and export sales, appears in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2013 Annual Report. Segment sales as discussed below include intercompany sales, which are ultimately eliminated within the “Eliminations and other” category as reflected in the segment financial data in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2013 Annual Report. Similarly, total segment backlog as discussed below includes fully-funded government and intercompany backlog.

Otis

Otis is the world’s largest elevator and escalator manufacturing, installation and service company. Otis designs, manufactures, sells and installs a wide range of passenger and freight elevators for low-, medium- and high-speed applications, as well as a broad line of escalators and moving walkways. In addition to new equipment, Otis provides modernization products to upgrade elevators and escalators as well as maintenance and repair services for both its products and those of other manufacturers. Otis serves customers in the commercial and residential property industries around the world. Otis sells directly to the end customer and through sales representatives and distributors.

Sales generated by Otis’ international operations were 82 percent of total Otis segment sales in both 2013 and 2012.  At December 31, 2013, Otis’ backlog was $15.4 billion as compared to $14.8 billion at December 31, 2012. Of the total Otis backlog at December 31, 2013, approximately $8.6 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2014.

UTC Climate, Controls & Security

UTC Climate, Controls & Security is the leading provider of HVAC and refrigeration solutions, including controls for residential, commercial, industrial and transportation applications. These products and services are sold under the Carrier name and other brand names to building contractors and owners, homeowners, transportation companies, retail stores and food service companies. UTC Climate, Controls & Security is also a global provider of security and fire safety products and services. UTC Climate, Controls & Security provides electronic security products such as intruder alarms, access control systems and video surveillance systems and designs and manufactures a wide range of fire safety products including specialty hazard detection and fixed suppression products, portable fire extinguishers, fire detection and life safety systems, and other firefighting equipment. Services provided to the electronic security and fire safety industries include systems integration, video surveillance, installation, maintenance, and inspection services. In certain markets, UTC Climate, Controls & Security also provides monitoring and response services, to complement its electronic security and fire safety businesses. Through its venture with Watsco, Inc., UTC Climate, Controls & Security distributes Carrier, Bryant, Payne and Totaline residential and light commercial HVAC products in the U.S. and selected territories in the Caribbean and Latin America. UTC Climate, Controls &









Security sells directly to end customers and through manufacturers’ representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Certain of UTC Climate, Controls & Security’s HVAC businesses are seasonal and can be impacted by weather. UTC Climate, Controls & Security customarily offers its customers incentives to purchase products to ensure an adequate supply of its products in the distribution channels. The principal incentive program provides reimbursements to distributors for offering promotional pricing on UTC Climate, Controls & Security products. UTC Climate, Controls & Security products and services are used by governments, financial institutions, architects, building owners and developers, security and fire consultants, homeowners and other end-users requiring a high level of security and fire protection for their businesses and residences. UTC Climate, Controls & Security provides its security and fire safety products and services under Chubb, Kidde and other brand names and sells directly to customers as well as through manufacturer representatives, distributors, dealers and U.S. retail distribution.

In 2010, we completed the acquisition of the GE Security business from General Electric Company, strengthening UTC Climate, Controls & Security's portfolio of security and fire safety technologies for commercial and residential applications, including fire detection and life safety systems, intrusion alarms, video surveillance and access control systems.  From 2008 through 2012, UTC Climate, Controls & Security continued to execute the Carrier portfolio transformation strategy it began in 2008 by completing divestitures of several non-core businesses and taking non-controlling equity interests in various ventures.   In 2012 and 2013, UTC Climate, Controls & Security completed a number of transactions related to its fire and security portfolio transformation, including the divestiture of a controlling stake in its U.S.-based fire and security branch operations and the sale of businesses in Hong Kong and Australia.

Sales generated by UTC Climate, Controls & Security’s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 61 percent and 62 percent of total UTC Climate, Controls & Security segment sales in 2013 and 2012, respectively.  At December 31, 2013, UTC Climate, Controls & Security’s backlog was $3.1 billion as compared to $3.0 billion at December 31, 2012. Substantially all of the backlog at December 31, 2013 is expected to be realized as sales in 2014.

Pratt & Whitney

Pratt & Whitney is among the world’s leading suppliers of aircraft engines for the commercial, military, business jet and general aviation markets. Pratt & Whitney provides maintenance, repair and overhaul services, including the sale of spare parts, as well as fleet management services for large commercial engines. Pratt & Whitney produces families of engines for wide- and narrow-body and large regional aircraft in the commercial market and for fighter and transport aircraft in the military market. Pratt & Whitney Canada (P&WC) is a world leader in the production of engines powering general and business aviation, as well as regional airline, utility and military, airplanes and helicopters, and provides related maintenance, repair and overhaul services, including the sale of spare parts, as well as fleet management services.

In view of the risks and costs associated with developing new engines, Pratt & Whitney has entered into collaboration arrangements in which sales, costs and risks are shared. At December 31, 2013, the interests of third party participants in Pratt & Whitney-directed commercial jet engine programs ranged from 2 percent to 49 percent. In addition, Pratt & Whitney has interests in other engine programs, including a 50 percent ownership interest in the Engine Alliance (EA), a joint venture with GE Aviation, which markets and manufactures the GP7000 engine for the Airbus A380 aircraft. Pratt & Whitney has entered into risk and revenue sharing arrangements with third parties for 40 percent of the products and services that Pratt & Whitney is responsible for providing to the EA. Pratt & Whitney accounts for its interests in the EA joint venture under the equity method of accounting. Pratt & Whitney continues to pursue additional collaboration partners.









decision, an additional collaboration intangible asset payment was made to Rolls-Royce in accordance with the underlying agreement.

Pratt & Whitney’s products are sold principally to aircraft manufacturers, airlines and other aircraft operators, aircraft leasing companies and the U.S. and foreign governments. Pratt & Whitney’s products and services must adhere to strict regulatory and market-driven safety and performance standards. The frequently changing nature of these standards, along with the long duration of aircraft engine development, production and support programs, creates uncertainty regarding engine program profitability. The vast majority of sales are made directly to the end customer and, to a limited extent, through independent distributors and foreign sales representatives. Sales to Airbus (Pratt & Whitney’s largest non-governmental customer by sales) were 35 percent and 25 percent of total Pratt & Whitney segment sales in 2013 and 2012, respectively, before taking into account discounts or financial incentives offered to customers. Sales to the U.S. Government were 25 percent and 27 percent of total Pratt & Whitney segment sales in 2013 and 2012, respectively.

Sales generated by Pratt & Whitney’s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 64 percent and 57 percent of total Pratt & Whitney segment sales in 2013 and 2012, respectively. At December 31, 2013, Pratt & Whitney’s backlog was $38.5 billion, including $3.6 billion of U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2012, these amounts were $43.6 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively.  Of the total Pratt & Whitney backlog at December 31, 2013, approximately $8.8 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2014. Pratt & Whitney’s backlog includes certain contracts for which actual costs may ultimately exceed total sales. Pratt & Whitney’s backlog excludes orders for new commercial engines that have not yet achieved full aviation authority certification. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2013 Annual Report for a description of our accounting for long-term contracts.

UTC Aerospace Systems

UTC Aerospace Systems is a leading global provider of technologically advanced aerospace products and aftermarket service solutions for aircraft manufacturers, airlines, regional, business and general aviation markets, military, space and undersea operations. UTC Aerospace Systems’ product portfolio includes electric power generation, power management and distribution systems, flight guidance and flight management systems, engine systems accessories, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems, engine components, environmental control systems, fire protection and detection systems, propeller systems, aircraft aerostructures including engine nacelles, thrust reversers, and mounting pylons, interior and exterior aircraft lighting, aircraft seating and cargo systems, actuation systems, landing systems including landing gears, and wheels and brakes, and space products and subsystems. Aftermarket services include spare parts, overhaul and repair, engineering and technical









support and fleet management solutions. UTC Aerospace Systems sells aerospace products to airframe manufacturers, the U.S. and foreign governments, aircraft operators, maintenance, repair and overhaul providers, and independent distributors. UTC Aerospace Systems’ largest non-governmental customers are Boeing and Airbus with, in the aggregate, 32 percent and 33 percent of total OEM sales in 2013 and 2012, respectively, and represent a combined 20 percent of total UTC Aerospace Systems segment sales in both 2013 and 2012. Sales to the U.S. Government were 21 percent and 24 percent of total UTC Aerospace Systems segment sales in 2013 and 2012, respectively.



UTC Aerospace Systems is a supplier of several systems, including the propellers, for the Airbus A400M aircraft that entered service in August of 2013.  In addition, UTC Aerospace Systems produced product placements supporting first flights in 2013 of the Airbus A350, Bombardier CSeries and Boeing 787-9 platforms.



Significant development activity continues in the commercial and military markets for the Airbus A320neo and A350 aircraft, Boeing 787-10 aircraft, the Bombardier CSeries and Global 7000/8000 business jet, the Cessna Citation Latitude business jet, the COMAC C919 aircraft, the Dassault Falcon 5X business jet, the Embraer E-Jet E2 family of aircraft, the Irkut MC-21 aircraft, the Learjet 85 business jet, the Mitsubishi Regional Jet, the Sikorsky CH-53K next generation heavy lift helicopter for the U.S. Marine Corps and the Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II military aircraft. UTC Aerospace Systems is also the operations support prime contractor for NASA’s space suit/life support system and produces environmental monitoring and control, life support, mechanical systems, power generation, power management and distribution, and thermal control systems for the International Space Station and the Orion crew exploration vehicle.



Sales generated by UTC Aerospace Systems’ international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 55 percent and 49 percent of total UTC Aerospace Systems segment sales in 2013 and  2012, respectively.  At December 31,  2013, UTC Aerospace Systems’ backlog was $10.2 billion, including $2.5 billion of U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31,  2012, these amounts were $10.1 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively. Of the total UTC Aerospace Systems backlog at December 31,  2013, approximately $7.2 billion is expected to be realized as sales in  2014.

Sikorsky

Sikorsky is one of the world’s largest helicopter companies. Sikorsky manufactures military and commercial helicopters and also provides aftermarket helicopter and aircraft parts and services.

Sikorsky’s aftermarket business includes spare parts sales, mission equipment, overhaul and repair services, maintenance contracts and logistics support programs for helicopters and other aircraft. Sales are principally made to the U.S. and foreign governments, and commercial helicopter operators. Sikorsky is increasingly engaging in logistics support programs and partnering with its government and commercial customers to manage and provide logistics, maintenance and repair services.

Sales to the U.S. Government were 58 percent and 66 percent of total Sikorsky segment sales in 2013 and 2012, respectively. Sales generated by Sikorsky’s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 30 percent and 32 percent









of total Sikorsky segment sales in 2013 and 2012, respectively. At December 31, 2013, Sikorsky’s backlog was $14.9 billion, including $5.4 billion of U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2012, these amounts were $14.4 billion and $6.4 billion, respectively.  Of the total Sikorsky backlog at December 31, 2013, approximately $5.1 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2014.

Other

On March 14, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a plan for the divestiture of a number of our non-core businesses. Cash generated from these divestitures was used to repay the debt incurred to finance the Goodrich acquisition. These non-core businesses include the legacy Hamilton Sundstrand Industrial businesses, which manufacture air compressors, metering pumps and heavy duty process pumps for industries involved with chemical and hydrocarbon processing, oil and gas production, water and wastewater treatment, and construction, Clipper Windpower plc (Clipper), a California-based wind turbine manufacturer, Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne, a leader in the design, development and manufacture of sophisticated space propulsion systems for military and commercial applications, and Pratt & Whitney Power Systems, which sells aero-derivative engines for industrial applications. The divestitures of Clipper and the legacy Hamilton Sundstrand Industrial businesses were completed in 2012. The divestitures of Pratt & Whitney Power Systems and substantially all of the operations of Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne were completed in the second quarter of 2013.

On June 29, 2012, management of the Company approved a plan for the divestiture of UTC Power, a world leader in the application of fuel cell technology for stationary and transportation applications, which was completed in the first quarter of 2013.

The results of operations for the remaining divestitures of Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne and UTC Power, including the net gains/losses expected on disposition, and the related cash flows which result from these non-core businesses have been reclassified to “Discontinued Operations” in our Consolidated Statement of Operations and our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for all periods presented. The sale of Pratt & Whitney Power Systems was not reclassified to “Discontinued Operations” due to our level of continuing involvement in supplying certain engineering and development services under agreements with the divested business post disposition.

Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole

Competition and Other Factors Affecting Our Businesses

As worldwide businesses, our operations can be affected by a variety of economic, industry and other factors, including those described in this section, in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our 2013 Annual Report, in Item 1, “Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results,” and in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K. Each business unit is subject to significant competition from a large number of companies in the U.S. and other countries, and each competes on the basis of price, delivery schedule, product performance and service.

Research and Development

Because changes in technology can have a significant impact on our operations and competitive position, we spend substantial amounts of our own funds on research and development. These expenditures, which are charged to expense as









incurred, were $2.5 billion or 4.0 percent of total sales in 2013, as compared with $2.4 billion or 4.1 percent of total sales in 2012 and $2.0 billion or 3.5 percent of total sales in 2011. We also perform research and development work under contracts funded by the U.S. Government and other customers. This contract research and development, which is performed in our aerospace businesses, amounted to $2.2 billion in 2013, as compared to $1.7 billion in 2012 and $1.5 billion in 2011. These contract research and development costs include amounts that are expensed as incurred, through cost of products sold, and amounts that are capitalized into inventory to be subsequently recovered through production shipments. Of the total contract research and development costs, $2.1 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion were expensed in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The remaining costs have been capitalized.

U.S. Government Contracts

Contracting with the U.S. Government entails certain unique risks. U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for default as a result of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. In the case of a termination for convenience, we would normally be entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. If terminated by the government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and any other damages it suffers. Most of our U.S. Government sales are made under fixed-price type contracts, while approximately $2.1 billion or 3.3 percent of our total sales for 2013 were made under cost-reimbursement type contracts.

Our contracts with the U.S. Government are also subject to audits. Like many defense contractors, we have received audit reports from the U.S. Government that recommend that we reduce certain contract prices because cost or pricing data we submitted in negotiation of the contract prices or cost accounting practices may not have conformed to government regulations. Some of these audit reports have recommended substantial reductions. We have made voluntary refunds in those cases we believe appropriate, have settled some allegations and continue to litigate certain cases. For further discussion of risks related to government contracting, see the discussion in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” in this Form 10-K and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2013 Annual Report for further discussion.

Compliance with Environmental and Other Government Regulations

Our operations are subject to and affected by environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. We have incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various government statutes for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. We do not anticipate that compliance with current provisions relating to the protection of the environment or that any payments we may be required to make for cleanup liabilities will have a material adverse effect upon our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. Environmental matters are further addressed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 1 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2013 Annual Report.

Most of the U.S. laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. If we were convicted of a violation of the federal Clean Air Act or Clean Water Act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation would be ineligible to be used in performing any U.S. Government contract we are awarded until the Environmental Protection Agency thereafter certifies that the condition giving rise to the violation had been corrected.

In addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change. Changes in climate change concerns, or in the regulation of such concerns, including greenhouse gas emissions, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, including compliance costs and increased energy and raw materials costs.

We conduct our businesses through subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. Changes in legislation or government policies can affect our worldwide operations. For example, governmental regulation of refrigerants and energy efficiency standards and fire safety regulations are important to our UTC Climate, Controls & Security businesses, and elevator safety codes are important to the businesses of Otis, while government safety and performance regulations, restrictions on aircraft engine noise and emissions and government procurement practices can impact our aerospace businesses.

U.S. laws, regulations, orders, and other measures concerning the export or re-export of products, software, services and technology to, and other trade-related activities involving, non-U.S. countries and parties affect the operations of UTC and its affiliates. These measures include U.S. economic sanctions targeting Iran.









Intellectual Property and Raw Materials and Supplies

We maintain a portfolio of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, licenses and franchises related to our businesses. While we believe we have taken reasonable measures to protect this portfolio, our efforts may not be sufficient.  See Item 1A "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K for further discussion of intellectual property matters.

Employees and Employee Relations

At December 31, 2013, our total number of employees was approximately 212,000, approximately 64 percent of which represents employees based outside the U.S. During 2013, we negotiated or concluded 11 domestic collective bargaining agreements, the largest of which covered certain workers at Sikorsky's manufacturing facilities in Connecticut and Florida. In 2014, numerous collective bargaining agreements are subject to renegotiation, the largest of which covers certain workers at UTC Climate, Controls & Security's Carrier facility in Indianapolis. Although some previous contract renegotiations have had a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations, we do not anticipate that the renegotiation of these contracts in 2014 will have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. For discussion of the effects of our restructuring actions on employment, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors”  in this Form 10-K and under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2013 Annual Report.

For a discussion of other matters which may affect our competitive position, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations, including the risks of our international operations, see the further discussion under the headings “General” and “Description of Business by Segment” in this section, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K, and under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2013 Annual Report.













Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results

This Form 10-K contains statements which, to the extent they are not statements of historical or present fact, constitute “forward-looking statements” under the securities laws. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public. These forward-looking statements are intended to provide management’s current expectations or plans for our future operating and financial performance, based on assumptions currently believed to be valid. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as “believe,” “expect,” “expectations,” “plans,” “strategy,” “prospects,” “estimate,” “project,” “target,” “anticipate,” “will,” “should,” “see,” “guidance,” “confident” and other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. Forward-looking statements may include, among other things, statements relating to future sales, earnings, cash flow, results of operations, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance. All forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, without limitation:

•the effect of economic conditions in the industries and markets in which we operate in the U.S. and globally and any changes therein, including financial market conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, levels of end market demand in construction and in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry, levels of air travel, financial difficulties (including bankruptcy) of commercial airlines, the impact of weather conditions and natural disasters and the financial condition of our customers and suppliers;

•our ability to realize the intended benefits of recently announced organizational changes;

•future levels of indebtedness and capital spending and research and development spending;

•future availability of credit and factors that may affect such availability, including credit market conditions and our capital structure;

•delays and disruption in delivery of materials and services from suppliers;

•new business opportunities;

•customer and Company directed cost reduction efforts and restructuring costs and savings and other consequences thereof;

•the scope, nature or impact of other acquisition and divestiture activity, including among other things integration of acquired businesses into our existing businesses and realization of synergies and opportunities for growth and innovation;

•the development, production, delivery, support, performance and anticipated benefits of advanced technologies and new products and services;

•the anticipated benefits of diversification and balance of operations across product lines, regions and industries;

•the impact of the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements and labor disputes;

•the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies;

•future repurchases of our common stock;

•pension plan assumptions and future contributions; and

•the effect of changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations or political conditions in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate.

In addition, this Form 10-K includes important information as to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. See the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” under the heading “Note 17: Contingent Liabilities,” the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the headings “Business Overview,”  “Results of Operations,” “Liquidity and Financial Condition,” and "Critical Accounting Estimates," and the section titled “Risk Factors.” This Form 10-K also includes important information as to these factors in the “Business” section under the headings “General,”











“Description of Business by Segment” and “Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole,” and in the “Legal Proceedings” section. Additional important information as to these factors is included in our 2013 Annual Report in the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the headings  “Restructuring Costs,” “Environmental Matters” and “Governmental Matters.” The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Additional information as to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements is disclosed from time to time in our other filings with the SEC.





