Item 1.Business

General

United Technologies Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1934. UTC provides high technology products and services to the building systems and
aerospace industries worldwide. Growth is attributable to acquisitions and the internal development of our existing businesses. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2009 Annual Report, especially the information contained therein under the heading “Business Overview.”

Our operating units include businesses with operations throughout the world. Otis, Carrier and UTC Fire & Security (collectively referred to
as the commercial businesses) serve customers in the commercial and residential property industries worldwide. Carrier also serves commercial, industrial, transport refrigeration and food service equipment customers. Pratt & Whitney,
Hamilton Sundstrand and Sikorsky (collectively referred to as the aerospace businesses) primarily serve commercial and government customers in both the original equipment and aftermarket parts and services markets of the aerospace industry. Hamilton
Sundstrand and Pratt & Whitney also serve customers in certain industrial markets. For 2009, our commercial and industrial revenues (generated principally by our commercial businesses) were approximately 58 percent of our consolidated
revenues, and commercial aerospace and military aerospace revenues were approximately 21 percent and 21 percent, respectively, of our consolidated revenues. Revenues for 2009 from outside the United States, including U.S. export sales, were 59
percent of our total segment revenues.

This Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all
amendments to those reports are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our Internet website (http://www.utc.com) under the heading “SEC Filings” as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are
electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are also available for reading and copying at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) containing reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Description of Business by Segment

We conduct our business through six principal segments: Otis, Carrier, UTC Fire & Security, Pratt & Whitney, Hamilton Sundstrand and
Sikorsky. Each segment groups similar operating companies and the management organization of each segment has general operating autonomy over a range of products and services. The principal products and services of each segment are as follows:

Otis —elevators, escalators, moving walkways and service.

Carrier—heating, ventilating, air conditioning (HVAC) and refrigeration systems, controls, services and energy efficient products for residential, commercial, industrial and transportation applications.

UTC Fire & Security—fire and special hazard detection and suppression systems and firefighting equipment, security, monitoring and rapid response
systems and service and security personnel services.

Pratt & Whitney —commercial, military, business jet and general aviation aircraft
engines, parts and services, industrial gas turbines, geothermal power systems and space propulsion.







Hamilton Sundstrand—aerospace products and aftermarket services, including power generation, management and
distribution systems, flight systems, engine control systems, environmental control systems, fire protection and detection systems, auxiliary power units, propeller systems and industrial products, including air compressors, metering pumps and fluid
handling equipment.

Sikorsky—military and commercial helicopters, aftermarket helicopter and aircraft parts and services.

Segment financial data for the years 2007 through 2009, including financial information about foreign and domestic operations and export sales,
appears in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Annual Report. Segment revenues as discussed below include intercompany sales, which are ultimately eliminated within the “Eliminations and other” category as
reflected in the segment financial data in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Annual Report.

Otis

Otis is the world’s largest elevator and escalator manufacturing, installation and service company. Otis designs, manufactures, sells and installs
a wide range of passenger and freight elevators for low-, medium- and high-speed applications, as well as a broad line of escalators and moving walkways. In addition to new equipment, Otis provides modernization products to upgrade elevators and
escalators as well as maintenance services for both its products and those of other manufacturers. Otis serves customers in the commercial and residential property industries around the world. Otis sells directly to the end customer and, to a
limited extent, through sales representatives and distributors.

Revenues generated by Otis’ international operations were 80
percent of total Otis segment revenues in 2009 and 2008. At December 31, 2009, Otis’ backlog was $14,550 million as compared to $15,025 million at December 31, 2008. Of the total Otis backlog at December 31, 2009, approximately
$8,036 million is expected to be realized as sales in 2010.

Carrier

Revenues
generated by Carrier’s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 55 percent and 60 percent of total Carrier segment revenues in 2009 and 2008, respectively. At December 31, 2009, Carrier’s business backlog was $2,199
million as compared to $1,996 million at December 31, 2008. Substantially all the business backlog at December 31, 2009 is expected to be realized as sales in 2010.

UTC Fire & Security







Security’s geographic diversity with GE Security’s strong North American presence and increased product and technology offerings. UTC Fire & Security products and services are
used by governments, financial institutions, architects, building owners and developers, security and fire consultants and other end-users requiring a high level of security and fire protection for their businesses and residences. In 2009, we also
completed the acquisition of GST Holdings Limited (GST), a fire alarm provider in China. With the acquisition of the remaining 71% of the outstanding shares of GST, UTC Fire & Security further strengthened its presence in the Chinese fire
safety industry.

UTC Fire & Security provides its products and services under Chubb, Kidde and other brand names and sells
directly to the customer as well as through manufacturer representatives, distributors, dealers and U.S. retail distribution. Revenues generated by UTC Fire & Security’s international operations were 82 percent and 83 percent of total
UTC Fire & Security segment revenues in 2009 and 2008, respectively. At December 31, 2009, UTC Fire & Security’s business backlog was $898 million as compared to $1,064 million at December 31, 2008. Substantially all
the business backlog at December 31, 2009 is expected to be realized as sales in 2010.

Pratt & Whitney

Pratt & Whitney is among the world’s leading suppliers of aircraft engines for the commercial, military, business jet and general
aviation markets. Pratt & Whitney Global Services provides maintenance, repair and overhaul services, including the sale of spare parts, as well as fleet management services for large commercial engines. Pratt & Whitney produces
families of engines for wide and narrow body aircraft in the commercial and military markets. Pratt & Whitney Power Systems also sells engines for industrial applications. In 2009, UTC completed the transition of UTC Power’s geothermal
power systems business to Pratt & Whitney Power Systems. Pratt & Whitney Canada (P&WC) is a world leader in the production of engines powering business, regional, light jet, utility and military aircraft and helicopters.
Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne (PWR) is a leader in the design, development and manufacture of sophisticated aerospace propulsion systems for military and commercial applications, including the U.S. space shuttle program.

In view of the risks and costs associated with developing new engines, Pratt & Whitney has entered into collaboration arrangements in which
revenues, costs and risks are shared. At December 31, 2009, the interests of participants in Pratt & Whitney-directed commercial jet engine programs ranged from 14 percent to 48 percent. In addition, Pratt & Whitney has
interests in other engine programs, including a 33 percent interest in the International Aero Engines (IAE) collaboration, which sells and supports V2500 engines for the Airbus A320 family of aircraft. At December 31, 2009, a portion of
Pratt & Whitney’s interests in IAE (equivalent to 4 percent of the overall IAE collaboration) were held by Pratt & Whitney sub-partners. Pratt & Whitney also has a 50 percent interest in the Engine Alliance (EA), a
joint venture with GE Aviation, which markets and manufactures the GP7000 engine for the Airbus A380 aircraft. At December 31, 2009, 40 percent of Pratt & Whitney’s 50 percent interest in the EA was held by other participants.
Pratt & Whitney is also pursuing additional collaboration partners.


Pratt &
Whitney continues to enhance its programs through performance improvement measures and product base expansion.





1CFM56 is a trademark of CFM International.







Pratt & Whitney’s products are sold principally to aircraft manufacturers, airlines and
other aircraft operators, aircraft leasing companies, space launch vehicle providers and the U.S. and foreign governments. Pratt & Whitney’s products and services must adhere to strict regulatory and market-driven safety and
performance standards. The frequently changing nature of these standards, along with the long duration of aircraft engine programs, creates uncertainty regarding engine program profitability. The vast majority of sales are made directly to the end
customer and, to a limited extent, through independent distributors and foreign sales representatives. Sales to Airbus were 11 percent of total Pratt & Whitney revenues in 2009, before taking into account discounts or financial incentives
offered to customers. Sales to the U.S. government were 31 percent of total Pratt & Whitney segment revenues in 2009, as compared with 27 percent in 2008.

Revenues from Pratt & Whitney’s international operations, including U.S. exports, were 51 percent and 54 percent of total Pratt & Whitney segment revenues in 2009 and 2008, respectively. At
December 31, 2009, Pratt & Whitney’s business backlog was $22,614 million, including $4,577 million of U.S. government-funded contracts and subcontracts, as compared to $25,982 million and $5,892 million, respectively, at
December 31, 2008. Of the total Pratt & Whitney backlog at December 31, 2009, approximately $7,113 million is expected to be realized as sales in 2010. Pratt & Whitney’s backlog includes certain contracts for which
actual costs may ultimately exceed total revenues from these contracts. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Annual Report for a description of our accounting for long-term contracts.

Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted the provisions of the Collaborative Arrangements Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board
Accounting Standards Codification (FASB ASC). This topic requires that participants in a collaborative arrangement report costs incurred and revenues generated from such transactions on a gross basis and in the appropriate line items in each
company’s financial statements. As required, we have applied the provisions of the Collaborative Arrangements Topic retrospectively for all periods presented. As a result, the collaborators’ share of revenues, including its impact on
business backlog (approximately $2.4 billion), which was previously reported on a net basis, is now reported on a gross basis. Prior to the adoption of the provisions of the Collaborative Arrangements Topic of the FASB ASC, Pratt &
Whitney’s business backlog as of December 31, 2008 was $23,570 million, including $5,871 million of U.S. government-funded contracts and subcontracts.

Hamilton Sundstrand

Hamilton Sundstrand is among the world’s leading suppliers of technologically advanced
aerospace and industrial products and aftermarket services for diversified industries worldwide. Hamilton Sundstrand’s aerospace products, such as power generation, management and distribution systems, flight systems, engine control systems,
environmental control systems, fire protection and detection systems, auxiliary power units and propeller systems, serve commercial, military, regional, business and general aviation, as well as military ground vehicle, space and undersea
applications. In 2009, UTC completed the transition of the program management of UTC Power’s space and defense fuel cell power plant business to Hamilton Sundstrand’s energy, space and defense business. Aftermarket services include spare
parts, overhaul and repair, engineering and technical support and fleet maintenance programs. Hamilton Sundstrand sells aerospace products to airframe manufacturers, the U.S. and foreign governments, aircraft operators and independent distributors.
Sales to the U.S. government were 26 percent of total Hamilton Sundstrand segment revenues in 2009, as compared with 20 percent in 2008.

Hamilton Sundstrand is engaged in development programs for the Boeing 787 aircraft, the new Bombardier CSeries aircraft, the new Mitsubishi Regional Jet, the Airbus A350 aircraft, the Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II military aircraft and
the Airbus A400M military aircraft. Hamilton Sundstrand is also the prime contractor for NASA’s space suit/life support system and produces environmental monitoring and control, life support, mechanical systems and thermal control systems for
the U.S. space shuttle program, the international space station and the Orion crew exploration vehicle.

Hamilton Sundstrand’s
principal industrial products, such as air compressors, metering pumps and fluid handling equipment, serve industries involved with chemical and hydrocarbon processing, oil and gas production, water and wastewater treatment and construction.
Hamilton Sundstrand sells these products under the Sullair, Sundyne, Milton Roy and other brand names directly to end users, and through manufacturer representatives and distributors.

Revenues generated by Hamilton Sundstrand’s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 50 percent and 51 percent of total
Hamilton Sundstrand segment revenues in 2009 and 2008, respectively. At December 31, 2009, Hamilton Sundstrand’s business backlog was $5,077 million, including $835 million under U.S. government-funded contracts and subcontracts, as
compared to $5,226 million and $913 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008. Of the total Hamilton Sundstrand backlog at December 31, 2009, approximately $2,245 million is expected to be realized as sales in 2010.

Sikorsky

Sikorsky is one of the world’s
largest manufacturers of military and commercial helicopters and also provides aftermarket helicopter and aircraft parts and services.







Sikorsky’s aftermarket business includes spare parts sales, overhaul and repair services, maintenance contracts and logistics support programs for helicopters and other aircraft. Sales are made directly by
Sikorsky and by its subsidiaries and joint ventures. Sikorsky is increasingly engaging in logistics support programs and partnering with its government and commercial customers to manage and provide maintenance and repair services.

Sales to the U.S. government were 63% in 2009, as compared with 57% in 2008. Revenues generated by Sikorsky’s international operations, including
U.S. export sales, were 33 percent and 36 percent of total Sikorsky revenues in 2009 and in 2008, respectively. At December 31, 2009, Sikorsky’s business backlog was $10,329 million, including $4,957 million under U.S. government-funded
contracts and subcontracts, as compared to $13,167 million and $6,725 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008. Of the total Sikorsky backlog at December 31, 2009, approximately $5,142 million is expected to be realized as sales in
2010.

Other

UTC Power is a
world leader in the application of fuel cell technology to stationary and transportation applications. In the application of stationary fuel cell power, UTC has delivered more than 260 200kW phosphoric acid fuel cell power plants since 1992. UTC
Power ceased production of the 200kW unit in 2009 and began deliveries of its 400kW phosphoric acid fuel cell. This new fuel cell is expected to have greater durability than any other large stationary fuel cell currently available in the market. UTC
Power’s automotive and bus transportation fuel cell power plants are based on proton exchange membrane (PEM) technology, including its PureMotion 120 power plant, which is currently used in revenue service in transit bus applications in
Connecticut, California and Europe. UTC Power is currently developing PEM fuel cells for submarine applications. In addition, UTC Power is the maker of alkaline-based fuel cells used to provide electricity and drinking water to the U.S. space
shuttle.

Although fuel cells are believed to be superior to conventional power generation technologies in terms of total system
efficiency and environmental characteristics, the technology is still in either early commercialization or development. Continued technology advancement and cost reduction are required to achieve wide-scale market acceptance. Government support is
needed to fully commercialize fuel cell technology. There is still significant uncertainty as to whether and when commercially viable fuel cells will be produced.

In 2009, we completed the transition of UTC Power’s micro-turbine-based combined cooling, heating and power systems business to Carrier’s businesses, its geothermal power systems business to
Pratt & Whitney’s Power Systems business, and program management of its space and defense fuel cell power plant business to Hamilton Sundstrand’s energy, space and defense business. The results of UTC Power are included in the
“Eliminations and other” category in the segment financial data in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Annual Report.

In December 2009, we agreed to acquire a 49.5% equity stake in Clipper Windpower Plc (Clipper), a California-based wind turbine manufacturer that trades on the AIM London Stock Exchange. We completed the
acquisition on January 12, 2010. Pursuant to our agreement with Clipper, we are prohibited from acquiring additional shares of Clipper within two years of the closing date that would result in an equity stake in excess of 49.9% without the
prior approval of Clipper. The investment is intended to expand our power generation portfolio and allow us to enter the wind power segment by leveraging our expertise in blade technology, turbines and gearbox design.







Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole

Competition and Other Factors Affecting Our Businesses

As worldwide businesses, our operations can be affected by a variety of economic and other factors, including those described in this section, in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” included in our 2009 Annual Report, in Item 1, “Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results,” and in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K. Each business unit is subject to
significant competition from a large number of companies in the United States and other countries, and each competes on the basis of price, delivery schedule, product performance and service.

Research and Development

Since changes in
technology can have a significant impact on our operations and competitive position, we spend substantial amounts of our own funds on research and development. These expenditures, which are charged to expense as incurred, were $1,558 million or 3.0
percent of total sales in 2009, as compared with $1,771 million or 3.0 percent of total sales in 2008 and $1,678 million or 3.1 percent of total sales in 2007. We also perform research and development work under contracts funded by the U.S.
government and other customers. This contract research and development, which is performed principally in the Pratt & Whitney segment and to a lesser extent in the Hamilton Sundstrand and Sikorsky segments, amounted to $2,124 million in
2009, as compared to $2,101 million in 2008 and $2,123 million in 2007. These contract research and development costs include amounts that are expensed as incurred, through cost of products sold, and amounts that are capitalized into inventory to be
subsequently recovered through production aircraft shipments. Of the totals, $2,095 million, $2,008 million and $1,872 million were expensed in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The remaining costs have been capitalized.

U.S. Government Contracts

U.S. government
contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for default as a result of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. In the case of a termination for convenience, we would normally
be entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. If terminated by the government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the government incurs in acquiring
undelivered goods or services from another source and any other damages it suffers. Most of our U.S. government sales are made under fixed-price type contracts, while approximately $2,874 million or 5.5 percent of our total sales for 2009 were made
under cost-reimbursement type contracts.

Our contracts with the U.S. government are also subject to audits. Like many defense
contractors, we have received audit reports from the U.S. government which recommend that we reduce certain contract prices because cost or pricing data we submitted in negotiation of the contract prices or cost accounting practices may not have
conformed to government regulations. Some of these audit reports have involved substantial reductions. We have made voluntary refunds in those cases we believe appropriate, have settled some allegations and continue to litigate certain cases. For
further discussion of risks related to government contracting, see the discussion in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” in this Form 10-K and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our
2009 Annual Report for further discussion.

Compliance with Environmental and Other Government Regulations

Our operations are subject to and affected by environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the United States and regulatory
authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. We have incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various government statutes for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. We do not anticipate
that compliance with current provisions relating to the protection of the environment or that any payments we may be required to make for cleanup liabilities will have a material adverse effect upon our cash flows, competitive position, financial
condition or results of operations. Environmental matters are further addressed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 1 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
our 2009 Annual Report.







Most of the U.S. laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. If we were
convicted of a violation of the federal Clean Air Act or Clean Water Act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation would be ineligible to be used in performing any U.S. government contract we are awarded until the Environmental
Protection Agency certified that the condition giving rise to the violation had been corrected.

We conduct our businesses through
subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. Changes in legislation or government policies can affect our worldwide operations. For example, governmental regulation of refrigerants and energy efficiency standards, elevator safety codes and fire safety
regulations are important to the businesses of Carrier, Otis and UTC Fire & Security respectively, while government safety and performance regulations, restrictions on aircraft engine noise and emissions and government procurement practices
can impact our aerospace businesses.

Intellectual Property and Raw Materials

We maintain a portfolio of patents, trademarks, licenses and franchises related to our businesses. While this portfolio is cumulatively important to
our business, we do not believe that the loss of any one or group of related patents, trademarks, licenses or franchises would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our operating segments.

Employees and Employee Relations

At
December 31, 2009, our total employment was approximately 206,700, approximately 65 percent of which represents employees based outside the United States. During 2009, we renegotiated twelve domestic multi-year collective bargaining agreements,
the largest of which covered certain workers at Sikorsky, Otis and Carrier. In 2010, numerous collective bargaining agreements are subject to renegotiation, the largest of which cover certain workers at Pratt & Whitney, Carrier and Hamilton
Sundstrand. Although some previous contract renegotiations have had a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations, particularly at Sikorsky, we do not anticipate such problems in the renegotiation of the above contracts
that would either individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For discussion of the effects of our restructuring actions on employment, see Item 3, “Legal
Proceedings” in this Form 10-K and under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Annual Report.

For a discussion of other matters which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, including the risks of our
international operations, see the further discussion under the headings “General” and “Description of Business by Segment” in this section, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K, and under
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2009 Annual Report.

Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results

This Form 10-K contains statements which, to the extent they
are not statements of historical or present fact, constitute “forward-looking statements” under the securities laws. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the
public. These forward-looking statements are intended to provide management’s current expectations or plans for our future operating and financial performance, based on assumptions currently believed to be valid. Forward-looking statements can
be identified by the use of words such as “believe,” “expect,” “plans,” “strategy,” “prospects,” “estimate,” “project,” “target,” “anticipate,”
“guidance” and other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. These include, among others, statements relating to:



•future revenues, earnings, cash flow, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance;







•the effect of economic conditions in the United States and globally, including the financial condition of our customers and suppliers;



•new business opportunities;



•restructuring costs and savings;



•the scope, nature or impact of acquisition and divestiture activity, including integration of acquired businesses into our existing businesses;



•the development, production and support of advanced technologies and new products and services;



•the anticipated benefits of diversification and balance of operations across product lines, regions and industries;



•the impact of the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements;



•the outcome of contingencies;



•future repurchases of common stock;



•future levels of indebtedness and capital spending;



•future availability of and access to credit markets;



•pension plan assumptions and future contributions; and



•the effect of changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations in the United States and other countries in which we operate.



