Item 1.Business

General

United Technologies Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1934. UTC provides high technology products and services to the building systems and aerospace industries worldwide. Growth is attributable primarily to the internal development of our existing businesses and to acquisitions. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our2014Annual Report, including the information contained therein under the heading “Business Overview.”

Our financial reporting segments include businesses with operations throughout the world. UTC Building & Industrial Systems, comprised of the financial reporting segments of Otis and UTC Climate, Controls & Security, is the world’s largest provider of building technologies.  Its elevator, escalator, fire-safety, security, building automations, heating, ventilating, air-condition and refrigeration systems and services promote integrated, high-performance buildings that are safer, smarter and sustainable. Pratt & Whitney, UTC Aerospace Systems, and Sikorsky (collectively referred to as the “aerospace businesses”) primarily serve commercial and government customers in both the original equipment and aftermarket parts and services markets of the aerospace industry. Pratt & Whitney also provides products to certain industrial markets. In January 2015, UTC announced that it is streamlining its aerospace operations by eliminating the UTC Propulsion & Aerospace Systems organization, which had consisted of the Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems segments. Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems will continue as stand-alone businesses. For 2014, our commercial and industrial sales (generated principally by UTC Building & Industrial Systems businesses) were approximately


percent of our consolidated sales, and our commercial aerospace sales and military aerospace sales (generated exclusively by our aerospace businesses) were approximately


percent and


percent, respectively, of our consolidated sales. International sales for 2014, including U.S. export sales, were


percent of our total segment sales.

This Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our Internet website (http://www.utc.com) under the heading “SEC Filings” as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are also available for reading and copying at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) containing reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Description of Business by Segment

Our operations for the periods presented herein are classified into five segments: Otis, UTC Climate, Controls & Security, Pratt & Whitney, UTC Aerospace Systems, and Sikorsky, with each segment comprised of groups of similar operating companies.  References to each segment include the various operating companies established worldwide through which the operations for each segment are conducted. Each segment's business, including its principal products and services and other material developments and information, is described below.









Segment financial data for the years 2012 through 2014, including financial information about foreign and domestic operations and export sales, appears in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our2014Annual Report. Segment sales as discussed below include intercompany sales, which are ultimately eliminated within the “Eliminations and other” category as reflected in the segment financial data in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our2014Annual Report.  Similarly, total segment backlog as discussed below includes fully-funded government and intercompany backlog.

Otis

Otis is the world’s largest elevator and escalator manufacturing, installation and service company. Otis designs, manufactures, sells and installs passenger and freight elevators for low-, medium- and high-speed applications, as well as a broad line of escalators and moving walkways. In addition to new equipment, Otis provides modernization products to upgrade elevators and escalators as well as maintenance and repair services for both its products and those of other manufacturers. Otis serves customers in the commercial and residential property industries around the world. Otis sells directly to the end customer and through sales representatives and distributors.

Sales generated by Otis’ international operations were 81 percent and 82 percent of total Otis segment sales in 2014 and 2013, respectively.  At December 31,2014, Otis’ backlog was $15.3 billion as compared to $15.4 billion at December 31, 2013. Of the total Otis backlog at December 31,2014, approximately $8.4 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2015.

UTC Climate, Controls & Security

Sales generated by UTC Climate, Controls & Security’s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 59 percent and 61 percent of total UTC Climate, Controls & Security segment sales in 2014 and 2013, respectively.  At December 31, 2014, UTC Climate, Controls & Security’s backlog was $3.4 billion as compared to $3.1 billion at December 31, 2013. Substantially all of the backlog at December 31, 2014 is expected to be realized as sales in 2015.

Pratt & Whitney

Pratt & Whitney is among the world’s leading suppliers of aircraft engines for the commercial, military, business jet and general aviation markets. Pratt & Whitney also provides fleet management services and aftermarket maintenance, repair and overhaul services, including the sale of spare parts, auxiliary power units and industrial gas generators. Pratt & Whitney produces families of large engines for wide- and narrow-body and large regional aircraft in the commercial market and for fighter and transport aircraft in the military market. Pratt & Whitney Canada (P&WC) is a world leader in the production of engines powering general and business aviation, as well as regional airline, utility and military, airplanes and helicopters.









In view of the risks and costs associated with developing new engines, Pratt & Whitney has entered into collaboration arrangements in which sales, costs and risks are shared. At December 31, 2014, the interests of third party participants in Pratt & Whitney-directed commercial jet engine programs ranged from approximately 14 percent to 49 percent.  See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our2014Annual Report for a description of our accounting for collaborative arrangements.  In addition, Pratt & Whitney has interests in other engine programs, including a 50 percent ownership interest in the Engine Alliance (EA), a joint venture with GE Aviation, which markets and manufactures the GP7000 engine for the Airbus A380 aircraft. Pratt & Whitney has entered into risk and revenue sharing arrangements with third parties for 40 percent of the products and services that Pratt & Whitney is responsible for providing to the EA. Pratt & Whitney accounts for its interests in the EA joint venture under the equity method of accounting. Pratt & Whitney continues to pursue additional collaboration partners.

Pratt & Whitney holds a net 61 percent program share interest in the IAE International Aero Engines AG (IAE) collaboration with MTU Aero Engines AG and Japanese Aero Engines Corporation. As previously reported in June 2012, Rolls-Royce sold its collaboration interest in IAE to Pratt & Whitney, while also entering into an agreement to license its V2500 intellectual property to Pratt & Whitney. Rolls-Royce continues to support the program as a strategic supplier for the V2500 engine and continues to manufacture parts and assemble engines.

The development of new engines and improvements to current production engines present important growth opportunities. Pratt & Whitney is under contract with the U.S. Government's F-35 Joint Program Office to develop, produce, and sustain the F135 engine, a derivative of Pratt & Whitney’s F119 engine, to power the single-engine F-35 Lightning II aircraft (commonly known as the Joint Strike Fighter) being developed by Lockheed Martin. The two F135 propulsion system configurations for the F-35A/F-35C and F-35B jets are certified for production and in use by the U.S. Air Force and the U.S. Marine Corps. F135 engines are also used on F-35 aircraft purchased by Joint Strike Fighter partner countries and are expected to be used by foreign military sales countries that purchase F-35 aircraft in the future.

Pratt & Whitney’s products are sold principally to aircraft manufacturers, airlines and other aircraft operators, aircraft leasing companies and the U.S. and foreign governments. Pratt & Whitney’s products and services must adhere to strict regulatory and market-driven safety and performance standards. The frequently changing nature of these standards, along with the long duration of aircraft engine development, production and support programs, creates uncertainty regarding engine program profitability. Sales to Airbus (Pratt & Whitney’s largest customer by sales) were 41 percent and 35 percent of total Pratt & Whitney segment sales in 2014 and 2013, respectively, before taking into account discounts or financial incentives offered to customers. Sales to the U.S. Government were 22 percent and 25 percent of total Pratt & Whitney segment sales in 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Sales generated by Pratt & Whitney’s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 62 percent and 64 percent of total Pratt & Whitney segment sales in 2014 and 2013, respectively. At December 31, 2014, Pratt & Whitney’s backlog was $50.2 billion, including $4.2 billion of U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2013, these amounts were $38.5 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively.  Of the total Pratt & Whitney backlog at December 31, 2014, approximately $8.6 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2015. Pratt & Whitney’s backlog includes certain contracts for which actual costs may ultimately exceed total sales. Pratt & Whitney’s backlog excludes orders for new commercial engines that have not yet received aviation authority engine certification. On December 19, 2014, the PurePower PW1100G-JM engine completed Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) certification for the Airbus A320neo platform and remains on









schedule to enter into service in the fourth quarter of 2015. The increase in Pratt & Whitney's backlog in 2014, as compared with 2013, is a result of this FAA certification and the recognition of Airbus orders of geared turbofan engines for the A320neo platform. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our2014Annual Report for a description of our accounting for long-term contracts.

UTC Aerospace Systems

UTC Aerospace Systems had product placements supporting first flight in 2014 of the Airbus A320neo, certification of the Airbus A350 platform, and entry into service of the Boeing 787-9 platform.

Significant development activity continues in the commercial and military markets for the Airbus A320neo and A350 aircraft, Boeing 787-10 and 777X aircraft, the Bombardier CSeries and Global 7000/8000 business jet, the COMAC C919 aircraft,  the Embraer E-Jet E2 family of aircraft and KC-390 aircraft, the Irkut MC-21 aircraft, SYERS-2 multispectral sensors, the Mitsubishi Regional Jet, and the Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II military aircraft. UTC Aerospace Systems is also the operations support prime contractor for NASA’s space suit/life support system and produces environmental monitoring and control, life support, mechanical systems, power generation, power management and distribution, and thermal control systems for the International Space Station and the Orion crew exploration vehicle.

Sales generated by UTC Aerospace Systems’ international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 54 percent and 55 percent of total UTC Aerospace Systems segment sales in 2014 and 2013, respectively.  At December 31, 2014, UTC Aerospace Systems’ backlog was $11.1 billion, including $2.3 billion of U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2013, these amounts were $10.2 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively. Of the total UTC Aerospace Systems backlog at December 31, 2014, approximately $6.8 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2015.

Sikorsky

Sikorsky is one of the world’s largest helicopter companies. Sikorsky manufactures military and commercial helicopters and also provides aftermarket helicopter and aircraft parts and services.









foreign currency exchange rates.  For further information regarding the financial impact of the amended contracts, see our2014Annual Report under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Sikorsky’s aftermarket business includes spare parts sales, mission equipment, overhaul and repair services, maintenance contracts and logistics support programs for helicopters and other aircraft. Sales are principally made to the U.S. and foreign governments, and commercial helicopter operators. Sikorsky also engages in logistics support programs and partners with its government and commercial customers to manage and provide logistics, maintenance and repair services.

Sales to the U.S. Government were 52 percent and 58 percent of total Sikorsky segment sales in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Sales generated by Sikorsky’s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 48 percent and 30 percent of total Sikorsky segment sales in 2014 and 2013, respectively. At December 31, 2014, Sikorsky’s backlog was $15.8 billion, including $5.2 billion of U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2013, these amounts were $14.9 billion and $5.4 billion, respectively.  Of the total Sikorsky backlog at December 31, 2014, approximately $5.0 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2015.

Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole

Competition and Other Factors Affecting Our Businesses

As worldwide businesses, our operations can be affected by a variety of economic, industry and other factors, including those described in this section, in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our2014Annual Report, in Item 1, “Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results,” and in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K. Each business unit is subject to significant competition from a large number of companies in the U.S. and other countries, and each competes on the basis of price, delivery schedule, product performance and service.

Our aerospace businesses are subject to substantial competition from domestic manufacturers, foreign manufacturers (whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies and other assistance for certain of their commercial products) and companies that obtain regulatory agency approval to manufacture spare parts. In particular, Pratt & Whitney experiences intense competition for new commercial airframe/engine combinations. Engine suppliers may offer substantial discounts and other financial incentives, performance and operating cost guarantees, and participation in financing arrangements, in an effort to compete for the aftermarket associated with these engines. For information regarding customer financing commitments, participation in guarantees of customer financing arrangements and performance and operating cost guarantees, primarily related to Pratt & Whitney, see Notes 5 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our


Annual Report. Customer selections of engines and components can also have a significant impact on later sales of parts and services. In addition, the U.S. Government’s and other governments’ policies of purchasing parts from suppliers other than the original equipment manufacturer affect military spare parts sales. Significant elements of our aerospace businesses, such as spare parts sales for engines and aircraft in service, have short lead times. Therefore, backlog information may not be indicative of future demand. Pratt & Whitney’s major competitors in the sale of engines are GE Aviation, Rolls-Royce, Honeywell, Turbomeca, and CFM International.

Research and Development

Because changes in technology can have a significant impact on our operations and competitive position, we spend substantial amounts of our own funds on research and development. These expenditures, which are charged to expense as incurred, were $2.6 billion or 4.0 percent of total sales in 2014, as compared with $2.5 billion or 4.0 percent of total sales in 2013 and $2.4 billion or 4.1 percent of total sales in 2012. We also perform research and development work under contracts funded by the U.S. Government and other customers. This contract research and development, which is performed in our aerospace businesses, amounted to $2.3 billion in 2014, as compared to $2.2 billion in 2013 and $1.7 billion in 2012. These contract research and development costs include amounts that are expensed as incurred, through cost of products sold, and amounts that are capitalized into inventory to be subsequently recovered through production shipments. Of the total contract research and development costs, $2.4 billion, $2.1 billion and $1.7 billion were expensed in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The remaining costs have been capitalized.

U.S. Government Contracts

Contracting with the U.S. Government entails certain unique risks. U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for default in the event of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. In the case of a termination for convenience, we would normally be entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. If terminated by the government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another









source and any other damages it suffers. Most of our U.S. Government sales are made under fixed-price type contracts, while approximately $1.9 billion or 3 percent of our total sales for 2014 were made under cost-reimbursement type contracts.

Our contracts with the U.S. Government are also subject to audits. Like many defense contractors, we have received audit reports from the U.S. Government that recommend that we reduce certain contract prices because cost or pricing data we submitted in negotiation of the contract prices or cost accounting practices may not have conformed to government regulations. Some of these audit reports have recommended substantial reductions. We have made voluntary refunds in those cases we believe appropriate, have settled some allegations and continue to litigate certain cases. For further discussion of risks related to government contracting, see the discussion in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” in this Form 10-K and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our2014Annual Report for further discussion.

Compliance with Environmental and Other Government Regulations

Our operations are subject to and affected by environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. We have incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various government statutes for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. We do not anticipate that compliance with current provisions relating to the protection of the environment or that any payments we may be required to make for cleanup liabilities will have a material adverse effect upon our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. Environmental matters are further addressed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 1 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our2014Annual Report.

Most of the U.S. laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. If we were convicted of a violation of the federal Clean Air Act or Clean Water Act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation would be ineligible to be used in performing any U.S. Government contract we are awarded until the Environmental Protection Agency thereafter certifies that the condition giving rise to the violation had been corrected.

In addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change. Changes in climate change concerns, or in the regulation of such concerns, including greenhouse gas emissions, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, including compliance costs and increased energy and raw materials costs.

We conduct our businesses through subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. Changes in legislation or government policies can affect our worldwide operations. For example, governmental regulation of refrigerants and energy efficiency standards and fire safety regulations are important to our UTC Climate, Controls & Security businesses, and elevator safety codes are important to the businesses of Otis, while government safety and performance regulations, restrictions on aircraft engine noise and emissions and government procurement practices can impact our aerospace businesses.

U.S. laws, regulations, orders, and other measures concerning the export or re-export of products, software, services and technology to, and other trade-related activities involving, non-U.S. countries and parties affect the operations of UTC and its affiliates. These measures include U.S. economic sanctions targeting Iran.

Intellectual Property and Raw Materials and Supplies

We maintain a portfolio of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, licenses and franchises related to our businesses. While we believe we have taken reasonable measures to protect this portfolio, our efforts may not be sufficient.  See Item 1A “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K for further discussion of intellectual property matters.









Employees and Employee Relations

At December 31, 2014, our total number of employees was approximately 211,000, approximately 64 percent of which represents employees based outside the U.S. During 2014, we negotiated or concluded 18 domestic collective bargaining agreements, the largest of which covered certain workers at UTC Climate, Controls & Security's Carrier manufacturing facility in Indianapolis, Indiana. In 2015, numerous collective bargaining agreements are subject to renegotiation, the largest of which covers certain workers at UTC Climate, Controls & Security's Carrier facility in Collierville, Tennessee. Although some previous contract renegotiations have had a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations, we do not anticipate that the renegotiation of these contracts in 2015 will have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. For discussion of the effects of our restructuring actions on employment, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K and under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our2014Annual Report.

For a discussion of other matters which may affect our competitive position, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations, including the risks of our international operations, see the further discussion under the headings “General” and “Description of Business by Segment” in this section, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K, and under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our2014Annual Report.













Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results

This Form 10-K contains statements which, to the extent they are not statements of historical or present fact, constitute “forward-looking statements” under the securities laws. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public. These forward-looking statements are intended to provide management’s current expectations or plans for our future operating and financial performance, based on assumptions currently believed to be valid. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as “believe,” “expect,” “expectations,” “plans,” “strategy,” “prospects,” “estimate,” “project,” “target,” “anticipate,” “will,” “should,” “see,” “guidance,” “confident” and other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. Forward-looking statements may include, among other things, statements relating to future sales, earnings, cash flow, results of operations, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance. All forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, without limitation:

•the effect of economic conditions in the industries and markets in which we operate in the U.S. and globally and any changes therein, including financial market conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, levels of end market demand in construction and in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry, levels of air travel, financial condition of commercial airlines, the impact of weather conditions and natural disasters and the financial condition of our customers and suppliers;

•the scope, nature, impact or timing of acquisition and divestiture activity, including among other things integration of acquired businesses into our existing businesses and realization of synergies and opportunities for growth and innovation;

•challenges in the development, production, delivery, support, performance and realization of the anticipated benefits of advanced technologies and new products and services;

•future levels of indebtedness and capital spending and research and development spending;

•future availability of credit and factors that may affect such availability, including credit market conditions and our capital structure;

•delays and disruption in delivery of materials and services from suppliers;

•customer and Company directed cost reduction efforts and restructuring costs and savings and other consequences thereof;

•new business opportunities;

•our ability to realize the intended benefits of organizational changes;

•the anticipated benefits of diversification and balance of operations across product lines, regions and industries;

•future repurchases of our common stock;

•the outcome of legal proceedings, investigations and other contingencies;

•pension plan assumptions and future contributions;

•the impact of the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements and labor disputes;

•the effect of changes in political conditions in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate; and

•the effect of changes in tax, environmental, regulatory (including among other things import/export) and other laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate.

In addition, this Form 10-K includes important information as to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. See the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” under the heading “Note 17: Contingent Liabilities,” the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the headings “Business Overview,”  “Results of Operations,” “Liquidity and Financial Condition,” and “Critical Accounting Estimates,” and the section titled “Risk Factors.”











This Form 10-K also includes important information as to these factors in the “Business” section under the headings “General,” “Description of Business by Segment” and “Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole,” and in the “Legal Proceedings” section. Additional important information as to these factors is included in our2014Annual Report in the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the headings  “Restructuring Costs,” “Environmental Matters” and “Governmental Matters.” The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Additional information as to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements is disclosed from time to time in our other filings with the SEC.





