Item 1.Business

General

United Technologies Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1934. UTC provides high technology products and services to the building systems
and aerospace industries worldwide. Growth is attributable primarily to the internal development of our existing businesses and to acquisitions. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2012 Annual Report, including the information contained therein under the heading “Business Overview.”

In 2012, we implemented a new organizational structure that allows us to better serve customers, drive growth and achieve further efficiencies
through greater integration across certain product lines. As part of this new structure, effective January 1, 2012, we formed the UTC Climate, Controls & Security segment, which is composed of the former Carrier and UTC Fire &
Security segments.

On July 26, 2012, we acquired Goodrich Corporation (Goodrich) pursuant to a merger agreement dated
September 21, 2011. As a result of the acquisition, Goodrich became a wholly-owned subsidiary of UTC and we combined the acquired Goodrich business and the legacy Hamilton Sundstrand business to form a new segment named UTC Aerospace Systems.

As part of our new organizational structure implemented in 2012, we also created UTC Propulsion & Aerospace Systems, a new
organization consisting of the Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems segments. We continue to report the financial and operational results of Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems separately.

Our operating units include businesses with operations throughout the world. Otis and UTC Climate, Controls & Security (collectively
referred to as the “commercial businesses”) serve customers in the commercial, government infrastructure and residential property sectors worldwide. UTC Climate, Controls & Security also serves industrial, transport refrigeration
and food service equipment customers. Pratt & Whitney, UTC Aerospace Systems, and Sikorsky (collectively referred to as the “aerospace businesses”) primarily serve commercial and government customers in both the original equipment
and aftermarket parts and services markets of the aerospace industry. Pratt & Whitney also serves customers in certain industrial markets. For 2012, our commercial and industrial sales (generated principally by our commercial businesses)
were approximately 51 percent of our consolidated sales, and commercial aerospace and military aerospace sales (generated exclusively by our aerospace businesses) were approximately 28 percent and 21 percent, respectively, of our consolidated sales.
Consolidated international sales for 2012, including U.S. export sales, were 60 percent of our consolidated sales.

This Form 10-K and
our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our Internet website (http://www.utc.com) under the heading “SEC
Filings” as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are also available for reading and copying at the SEC’s Public
Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov)
containing reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.







Description of Business by Segment

Our operations for the periods presented herein are classified into five principal segments: Otis, UTC Climate, Controls & Security,
Pratt & Whitney, UTC Aerospace Systems, and Sikorsky. Each segment groups similar operating companies and the management organization of each segment has general operating autonomy over a range of products and services. The principal
products and services of each segment are as follows:

Otis—elevators, escalators, moving walkways and service.

UTC Climate, Controls & Security—heating, ventilating, air conditioning (HVAC) and refrigeration systems, controls, services and
energy-efficient products for residential, commercial, industrial and transportation applications, fire and special hazard detection and suppression systems, firefighting equipment, security, monitoring and rapid response systems and service, and
security personnel services.

Pratt & Whitney—commercial, military, business jet and general aviation aircraft engines, auxiliary
power units, and parts and services.

UTC Aerospace Systems—aerospace products and aftermarket services, including electric power
generation, management and distribution systems, flight control systems, engine control systems, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems, engine components, environmental control systems, fire protection and detection systems,
propeller systems, aircraft nacelles, and interior, actuation, landing and electronic systems.

Sikorsky—military and commercial
helicopters, helicopter and aircraft aftermarket parts and services.

Segment financial data for the years 2010 through 2012, including
financial information about foreign and domestic operations and export sales, appears in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2012 Annual Report. Segment sales as discussed below include intercompany sales, which are ultimately
eliminated within the “Eliminations and other” category as reflected in the segment financial data in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2012 Annual Report. Similarly, total segment backlog as discussed below includes
fully-funded government and intercompany backlog.

Otis

Otis is the world’s largest elevator and escalator manufacturing, installation and service company. Otis designs, manufactures, sells and installs a wide range of passenger and freight elevators for low-,
medium- and high-speed applications, as well as a broad line of escalators and moving walkways. In addition to new equipment, Otis provides modernization products to upgrade elevators and escalators as well as maintenance and repair services for
both its products and those of other manufacturers. Otis serves customers in the commercial and residential property industries around the world. Otis sells directly to the end customer and through sales representatives and distributors.

Sales generated by Otis’ international operations were 82 percent and 83 percent of total Otis segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively.
At December 31, 2012, Otis’ backlog was $14.8 billion as compared to $14.3 billion at December 31, 2011. Of the total Otis backlog at December 31, 2012, approximately $8.2 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2013.

UTC Climate, Controls & Security

As described above, in 2012, we implemented a new organizational structure that allows us to better serve customers, drive growth and achieve further efficiencies through greater integration across certain product
lines. As part of this new structure, effective January 1, 2012, we formed the UTC Climate, Controls & Security segment, which is composed of the former Carrier and UTC Fire & Security segments.







Security sells directly to end customers and through manufacturers’ representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Certain of UTC Climate, Controls &
Security’s HVAC businesses are seasonal and can be impacted by weather. UTC Climate, Controls & Security customarily offers its customers incentives to purchase products to ensure an adequate supply of its products in the distribution
channels. The principal incentive program provides reimbursements to distributors for offering promotional pricing on UTC Climate, Controls & Security products. UTC Climate, Controls & Security products and services are used by
governments, financial institutions, architects, building owners and developers, security and fire consultants, homeowners and other end-users requiring a high level of security and fire protection for their businesses and residences. UTC Climate,
Controls & Security provides its security and fire safety products and services under Chubb, Kidde and other brand names and sells directly to customers as well as through manufacturer representatives, distributors, dealers and U.S. retail
distribution.

In 2010, we completed the acquisition of the GE Security business from General Electric Company, strengthening UTC
Climate, Controls & Security’s portfolio of security and fire safety technologies for commercial and residential applications, including fire detection and life safety systems, intrusion alarms, video surveillance and access control
systems. In 2012, UTC Climate, Controls & Security continued to execute the portfolio transformation strategy it began in 2008 by completing divestitures of several non-core businesses and taking non-controlling equity interests in various
ventures. This included the sale of a controlling interest in a Carrier manufacturing and distribution joint venture in Asia and the sale of a controlling interest in the Carrier Canadian distribution business. These 2012 actions marked the
completion of the Carrier portfolio transformation. In 2012, UTC Climate, Controls & Security also completed a number of transactions related to its ongoing fire and security portfolio transformation, including the divestiture of a
controlling stake in its U.S.-based fire and security branch operations.

Sales generated by UTC Climate, Controls &
Security’s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 62 percent and 65 percent of total UTC Climate, Controls & Security segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively. At December 31, 2012, UTC Climate,
Controls & Security’s backlog was $3.0 billion as compared to $3.4 billion at December 31, 2011. Substantially all of the backlog at December 31, 2012 is expected to be realized as sales in 2013.

Pratt & Whitney

Pratt &
Whitney is among the world’s leading suppliers of aircraft engines for the commercial, military, business jet and general aviation markets. Pratt & Whitney Commercial Engines provides maintenance, repair and overhaul services,
including the sale of spare parts, as well as fleet management services for large commercial engines. Pratt & Whitney produces families of engines for wide- and narrow-body and large regional aircraft in the commercial market and for
fighter and transport aircraft in the military market. Pratt & Whitney Canada (P&WC) is a world leader in the production of engines powering general and business aviation, as well as regional airline, utility and military, airplanes and
helicopters, and provides related maintenance, repair and overhaul services, including the sale of spare parts, as well as fleet management services.

In view of the risks and costs associated with developing new engines, Pratt & Whitney has entered into collaboration arrangements in which sales, costs and risks are shared. At December 31, 2012, the
interests of third party participants in Pratt & Whitney-directed commercial jet engine programs ranged from 14 percent to 48 percent. In addition, Pratt & Whitney has interests in other engine programs, including a 50 percent
ownership interest in the Engine Alliance (EA), a joint venture with GE Aviation, which markets and manufactures the GP7000 engine for the Airbus A380 aircraft. Pratt & Whitney has entered into risk and revenue sharing arrangements with
third parties for 40 percent of the products and services that Pratt & Whitney is responsible for providing to the EA. Pratt & Whitney accounts for its interests in the EA joint venture under the equity method of accounting.
Pratt & Whitney continues to pursue additional collaboration partners.







Pratt & Whitney’s products are sold principally to aircraft manufacturers, airlines and other aircraft operators, aircraft leasing companies and the U.S. and foreign governments. Pratt &
Whitney’s products and services must adhere to strict regulatory and market-driven safety and performance standards. The frequently changing nature of these standards, along with the long duration of aircraft engine development, production and
support programs, creates uncertainty regarding engine program profitability. The vast majority of sales are made directly to the end customer and, to a limited extent, through independent distributors and foreign sales representatives. Sales to
Airbus (Pratt & Whitney’s largest non-governmental customer by sales) were 25 percent and 16 percent of total Pratt & Whitney segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively, before taking into account discounts or financial
incentives offered to customers. Sales to the U.S. Government were 27 percent and 24 percent of total Pratt & Whitney segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Sales generated by Pratt & Whitney’s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 57 percent of total Pratt & Whitney segment sales in 2012 and 2011. At December 31, 2012,
Pratt & Whitney’s backlog was $43.6 billion, including $4.3 billion of U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2011, these amounts were $21.3 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively. This backlog increase
is primarily due to the consolidation of IAE and the incorporation of certain fleet maintenance aftermarket agreements in Pratt & Whitney’s backlog. Of the total Pratt & Whitney backlog at December 31, 2012, approximately
$5.4 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2013. Pratt & Whitney’s backlog includes certain contracts for which actual costs may ultimately exceed total sales. Pratt & Whitney’s backlog excludes orders for new
commercial engines that have not yet achieved full aviation authority certification. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2012 Annual Report for a description of our accounting for long-term contracts.

As described above, in 2012 we implemented a new organizational structure that allows us to better serve customers, drive growth and achieve
further efficiencies through greater integration across certain product lines. As part of this new structure, we created UTC Propulsion & Aerospace Systems, a new organization consisting of Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace
Systems. We continue to report the financial and operational results of Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems separately.

UTC Aerospace
Systems

As described above, on July 26, 2012, we acquired Goodrich pursuant to a merger agreement dated September 21,
2011. As a result of the acquisition, Goodrich became a wholly-owned subsidiary of UTC and we combined the acquired Goodrich business and the legacy Hamilton Sundstrand business to form a new segment named UTC Aerospace Systems. UTC Aerospace
Systems is also part of UTC Propulsion & Aerospace Systems, a new organization consisting of the Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems segments. We continue to report the financial and operational results of Pratt &
Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems separately.

UTC Aerospace Systems is among the world’s leading suppliers of technologically
advanced aerospace products and aftermarket services for diversified industries worldwide. UTC Aerospace Systems’ aerospace products include electric power generation, management and distribution systems, flight control systems, engine control
systems, intelligence, surveillance and







reconnaissance systems, engine components, environmental control systems, fire protection and detection systems, propeller systems, aircraft nacelles, and interior, actuation, landing and
electronic systems. UTC Aerospace Systems products serve commercial, military, regional, business and general aviation, as well as military ground vehicle, space and undersea applications. Aftermarket services include spare parts, overhaul and
repair, engineering and technical support and fleet maintenance programs. UTC Aerospace Systems sells aerospace products to airframe manufacturers, the U.S. and foreign governments, aircraft operators, maintenance, repair and overhaul providers, and
independent distributors. Sales to Boeing (UTC Aerospace Systems’ largest non-governmental customer by sales) were 13 percent and 14 percent of total UTC Aerospace Systems segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Sales to the U.S.
Government were 24 percent and 25 percent of total UTC Aerospace Systems segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively.

UTC Aerospace
Systems is engaged in numerous commercial and military development programs including the Boeing 787 aircraft, the Bombardier CSeries aircraft, the Mitsubishi Regional Jet, the Airbus A350 and A320neo aircraft, the Irkut MC-21 aircraft, the COMAC
C919 aircraft, the CH-53K next generation heavy lift helicopter for the U.S. Marine Corps and the Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II military aircraft and the Airbus A400M military aircraft. UTC Aerospace Systems is also the operations support prime
contractor for NASA’s space suit/life support system and produces environmental monitoring and control, life support, mechanical systems, power generation, management, and distribution and thermal control systems for the International Space
Station and the Orion crew exploration vehicle.

Sales generated by UTC Aerospace Systems’ international operations, including U.S.
export sales, were 49 percent and 44 percent of total UTC Aerospace Systems segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively. At December 31, 2012, UTC Aerospace Systems’ backlog was $10.1 billion, including $2.5 billion of U.S.
Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2011, these amounts were $4.9 billion and $846 million, respectively. This backlog increase is primarily due to additional backlog incorporated as a result of the Goodrich
acquisition. Of the total UTC Aerospace Systems backlog at December 31, 2012, approximately $7.1 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2013. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2012 Annual Report for a
description of our accounting for long-term contracts.

Sikorsky

Sikorsky is one of the world’s largest helicopter companies. Sikorsky manufactures military and commercial helicopters and also provides aftermarket helicopter and aircraft parts and services.

Sikorsky’s aftermarket business includes spare parts sales, mission equipment, overhaul and repair services,
maintenance contracts and logistics support programs for helicopters and other aircraft. Sales are principally made to the U.S. and foreign governments, and commercial helicopter operators. Sikorsky is increasingly engaging in logistics support
programs and partnering with its government and commercial customers to manage and provide logistics, maintenance and repair services.

Sales to the U.S. Government were 66 percent and 68 percent of total Sikorsky segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Sales generated by
Sikorsky’s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 32 percent and 34 percent of total Sikorsky segment sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively. At December 31, 2012, Sikorsky’s backlog was $14.4 billion, including
$6.4 billion of U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2011, these amounts were $9.4 billion and $4.1 billion,







respectively. This backlog increase is primarily due to increased firm commitments resulting from the five-year multi-service contract with the U.S. Government for UH-60M helicopters referenced
above. Of the total Sikorsky backlog at December 31, 2012, approximately $5.5 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2013.

Other

On March 14, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a plan for the divestiture of a number of our non-core
businesses. Cash generated from these divestitures has been and will be used to repay the debt issued to finance the Goodrich acquisition. These non-core businesses include the legacy Hamilton Sundstrand industrial businesses, which manufacture air
compressors, metering pumps and heavy duty process pumps for industries involved with chemical and hydrocarbon processing, oil and gas production, water and wastewater treatment, and construction, Clipper Windpower plc (Clipper), a California-based
wind turbine manufacturer, Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne, a leader in the design, development and manufacture of sophisticated space propulsion systems for military and commercial applications, and Pratt & Whitney Power Systems, which
sells aero-derivative engines for industrial applications. The sale of Clipper was completed in the third quarter of 2012 and the sale of the legacy Hamilton Sundstrand industrial businesses was completed in the fourth quarter of 2012. On
July 23, 2012, we announced an agreement to sell Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne to GenCorp Inc. for $550 million, and on December 12, 2012 we announced an agreement to sell Pratt & Whitney Power Systems to Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries. The closings of the Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne and Pratt & Whitney Power Systems transactions are subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals.

On June 29, 2012, management of the Company approved a plan for the divestiture of UTC Power, a world leader in the application of fuel cell
technology for stationary and transportation applications. On December 22, 2012, we announced an agreement to sell our UTC Power unit to ClearEdge Power, subject to customary closing conditions.

The results of operations for the remaining divestitures of Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne and UTC Power, including the net gains/losses
expected on disposition, and the related cash flows which result from these non-core businesses have been reclassified to “Discontinued Operations” in our Consolidated Statement of Operations and our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for all periods presented. The sale of Pratt & Whitney Power Systems was not reclassified to “Discontinued Operations” due to our expected level of continuing involvement in the business post disposition. The remaining assets and
liabilities of Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne, UTC Power and Pratt & Whitney Power Systems have been reclassified to “Assets held for sale” and “Liabilities held for sale” in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of
December 31, 2012.

Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole

Competition and Other Factors Affecting Our Businesses

As worldwide businesses, our operations can be affected by a variety of economic, industry and other factors, including those described in this section, in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our 2012 Annual Report, in Item 1, “Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results,” and in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K.
Each business unit is subject to significant competition from a large number of companies in the U.S. and other countries, and each competes on the basis of price, delivery schedule, product performance and service.

Research and Development

Because changes in
technology can have a significant impact on our operations and competitive position, we spend substantial amounts of our own funds on research and development. These expenditures, which are charged to expense as incurred, were $2.4 billion or 4.1
percent of total sales in 2012, as compared with $2.0 billion or 3.5 percent of total sales in 2011 and $1.7 billion or 3.2 percent of total sales in 2010. We also perform research and development work under contracts funded by the U.S. Government
and other customers. This contract research and development, which is performed in our aerospace businesses, amounted







to $1.7 billion in 2012, as compared to $1.5 billion in 2011 and $1.5 billion in 2010. These contract research and development costs include amounts that are expensed as incurred, through cost of
products sold, and amounts that are capitalized into inventory to be subsequently recovered through production shipments. Of the total contract research and development costs, $1.7 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion were expensed in 2012, 2011
and 2010, respectively. The remaining costs have been capitalized.

U.S. Government Contracts

Contracting with the U.S. Government entails certain unique risks. U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either
for the convenience of the government or for default as a result of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. In the case of a termination for convenience, we would normally be entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred,
plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. If terminated by the government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and any other
damages it suffers. Most of our U.S. Government sales are made under fixed-price type contracts, while approximately $1.8 billion or 3.2 percent of our total sales for 2012 were made under cost-reimbursement type contracts.

Our contracts with the U.S. Government are also subject to audits. Like many defense contractors, we have received audit reports from the U.S.
Government that recommend that we reduce certain contract prices because cost or pricing data we submitted in negotiation of the contract prices or cost accounting practices may not have conformed to government regulations. Some of these audit
reports have recommended substantial reductions. We have made voluntary refunds in those cases we believe appropriate, have settled some allegations and continue to litigate certain cases. For further discussion of risks related to government
contracting, see the discussion in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” in this Form 10-K and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2012 Annual Report for further discussion.

Compliance with Environmental and Other Government Regulations

Our operations are subject to and affected by environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. We have incurred
and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various government statutes for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. We do not anticipate that compliance with current provisions relating to the protection of the
environment or that any payments we may be required to make for cleanup liabilities will have a material adverse effect upon our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. Environmental matters are further
addressed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 1 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2012 Annual Report.

Most of the U.S. laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. If we were convicted of a violation of the federal Clean Air Act
or Clean Water Act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation would be ineligible to be used in performing any U.S. Government contract we are awarded until the Environmental Protection Agency thereafter certifies that the condition
giving rise to the violation had been corrected.

In addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations imposed in response to
concerns over climate change. Changes in climate change concerns, or in the regulation of such concerns, including greenhouse gas emissions, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, including compliance costs and increased energy and
raw materials costs.

We conduct our businesses through subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. Changes in legislation or government
policies can affect our worldwide operations. For example, governmental regulation of refrigerants and energy efficiency standards and fire safety regulations are important to our UTC Climate, Controls & Security businesses, and elevator
safety codes are important to the businesses of Otis, while government safety and performance regulations, restrictions on aircraft engine noise and emissions and government procurement practices can impact our aerospace businesses.

U.S. laws, regulations, orders, and other measures concerning the export or re-export of products, software, services and technology to, and other
trade-related activities involving, non-U.S. countries and parties affect the operations of UTC and its affiliates. These measures include U.S. economic sanctions targeting Iran.

Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (ITRA) added a new subsection (r) to section 13 of the
Exchange Act, requiring a public reporting issuer to disclose in its annual or quarterly reports whether it or any of its affiliates have knowingly engaged in specified activities or transactions relating to Iran, including activities not prohibited
by U.S. law and conducted outside the U.S. by non-U.S. affiliates in compliance with local law. Issuers must also file a notice with the SEC if any disclosable activities under ITRA have been included in the annual or quarterly report. Upon
receiving such a notice, the SEC is required under ITRA to transmit the notice to the President, the House Committees on Foreign Affairs and Financial Services and the Senate Committees on Foreign Relations and Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs and
is required to make these separate notices publicly available on its website.







The following activities are disclosed as required by Section 13(r)(1)(D)(iii) of the Exchange
Act as transactions or dealings with the government of Iran that have not been specifically authorized by a U.S. federal department or agency:

UTC Climate, Controls & Security.In 2009, UTC adopted a corporate policy prohibiting new business in or with Iran. In 2012, two of our non-U.S. affiliates engaged in activities related to the
orderly winding down of legacy business involving the sale of fire safety equipment through procurement agents to entities owned by the government of Iran. This business was pursuant to contracts entered into by Simtronics AS (Simtronics), a
Norwegian company and its subsidiary Water Mist Engineering AS (WME) prior to UTC Climate, Controls & Security’s acquisition of these two entities in April 2011. Both companies were acquired following the adoption by UTC in 2009 of the
corporate policy prohibiting all new business in or with Iran, and both companies became subject to that policy upon acquisition.

During 2012 and pursuant to five legacy contracts, Simtronics and WME received payments and provided certain fire detection and fire suppression
equipment for end-use by the Pars Oil & Gas Company, which has been designated by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) as an entity owned or controlled by the government of Iran. These legacy contracts
were not prohibited by applicable law when they were executed, nor was the wind down of these contractual arrangements prohibited by UTC’s policy at the time of acquisition. Simtronics and WME have halted all fulfillment activities related to
these legacy contracts, but may seek clearance from OFAC in order to resolve a dispute over termination of a third-party agency agreement associated with these contracts and to complete certain remaining wind-down activities. Simtronics and WME do
not otherwise intend to continue or enter into any Iran-related activity. The fire suppression products WME supplied incorporated a small amount of U.S.-origin springs, which are non-critical components, and an appropriate disclosure has been filed
with OFAC.

The gross revenue and net profits attributable to these activities in 2012 for Simtronics were $960,000 and $70,000,
respectively, and for WME were $2,550,000 and $560,000, respectively.

Otis. In 2012, non-U.S. affiliates of Otis conducted
service, maintenance and/or modernization activities on elevators previously installed at Iranian diplomatic premises in France, Kuwait and Hungary under pre-existing contracts. The Hungarian contract was undertaken with a local construction company
(not the Iranian Government). All of the contracts in question have been terminated by these Otis affiliates.

The following activities
are disclosed as required by Section 13(r)(1)(D)(i) and (ii) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended by ITRA, as transactions or dealings with certain designated parties:

One of the payments received in 2012 by the French affiliate of Otis for work at the Iranian embassy in Paris was drawn on a local office of Bank
Melli of Iran, which was previously designated as subject to sanctions under Executive Order 13382. In 2012, an Otis affiliate in Germany performed elevator maintenance and repair services to support the Frankfurt premises of Bank Saderat of Iran,
which was designated as subject to sanctions in October 2007 under Executive Order 13224.

All of these elevator service and
modernization contracts were permissible under applicable law when they were executed. These Otis affiliates have ceased performance under these contracts and do not intend to continue or enter into any new Iran-related activity. An Otis employee
who is a U.S. person (for OFAC purposes) stationed outside the U.S. provided unauthorized advice to the Otis affiliate in Kuwait with respect to ending its contract for services at Iranian diplomatic premises in Kuwait, and an appropriate disclosure
has been filed with OFAC.

The gross revenues and net profits attributable to the activities of these Otis affiliates in 2012 with
respect to the Iranian diplomatic premises in France, Kuwait and Hungary were approximately $70,000 (including the single payment of approximately $1,500 drawn on Bank Melli) and $4,000, respectively, and were $4,500 and $1,500, respectively, with
respect to Bank Saderat.

Intellectual Property and Raw Materials and Supplies

We maintain a portfolio of patents, trademarks, licenses and franchises related to our businesses. While this portfolio is cumulatively important to
our business, we do not believe that the loss of any one or group of related patents, trademarks, licenses or franchises would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations.







would have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. For further discussion of the possible effects of the cost and
availability of raw materials on our business, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K.

Employees and Employee Relations

At December 31, 2012, our total number of employees was approximately 218,000, approximately 62 percent of which represents
employees based outside the U.S. During 2012, we negotiated or concluded 18 domestic collective bargaining agreements, the largest of which covered certain workers at Otis and UTC Climate, Controls & Security. In 2013, numerous collective
bargaining agreements are subject to renegotiation, the largest of which cover certain workers at UTC Aerospace Systems and Pratt & Whitney. Although some previous contract renegotiations have had a significant impact on our financial
condition or results of operations, particularly at Sikorsky, we do not anticipate that the renegotiation of these contracts in 2013 will have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of
operations. For discussion of the effects of our restructuring actions on employment, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in this Form 10-K and under “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2012 Annual Report.

For a discussion of other matters which may affect our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations, including the risks of our international operations, see the further discussion
under the headings “General” and “Description of Business by Segment” in this section, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K, and under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” in our 2012 Annual Report.

Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect
Future Results

This Form 10-K contains statements which, to the extent they are not statements of historical or present fact,
constitute “forward-looking statements” under the securities laws. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public. These forward-looking statements are intended
to provide management’s current expectations or plans for our future operating and financial performance, based on assumptions currently believed to be valid. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as
“believe,” “expect,” “expectations,” “plans,” “strategy,” “prospects,” “estimate,” “project,” “target,” “anticipate,” “will,”
“should,” “see,” “guidance,” “confident” and other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. Forward-looking statements may include, among other
things, statements relating to future sales, earnings, cash flow, results of operations, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance. All forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual
results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995.Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, without limitation:



•the effect of economic conditions in the industries and markets in which we operate in the U.S. and globally and any changes therein, including financial market
conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, levels of end market demand in construction and in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry, levels of air travel, financial
difficulties (including bankruptcy) of commercial airlines, the impact of weather conditions and natural disasters and the financial condition of our customers and suppliers;



•our ability to integrate the acquired Goodrich operations and to realize synergies and opportunities for growth and innovation;



•our ability to realize the intended benefits of recently announced organizational changes;



•future levels of indebtedness and capital spending and research and development spending;



•future availability of credit and factors that may affect such availability, including credit market conditions and our capital structure;



•delays and disruption in delivery of materials and services from suppliers;



•new business opportunities;



•cost reduction efforts and restructuring costs and savings and other consequences thereof;



•the scope, nature or impact of other acquisition and divestiture activity, including integration of acquired businesses into our existing businesses;



•the development, production, delivery, support, performance and anticipated benefits of advanced technologies and new products and services;



•the anticipated benefits of diversification and balance of operations across product lines, regions and industries;



•the impact of the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements and labor disputes;







•the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies;



•future repurchases of our common stock;



•pension plan assumptions and future contributions; and



•the effect of changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations or political conditions in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate.

