Item 1.Business

General

United Technologies Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1934. UTC provides high technology products and services to the building systems
and aerospace industries worldwide. Growth is attributable primarily to the internal development of our existing businesses and to acquisitions. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2011 Annual Report, especially the information contained therein under the heading “Business Overview.”

Our operating units include businesses with operations throughout the world. Otis, Carrier and UTC Fire & Security (collectively referred
to as the commercial businesses) serve customers in the commercial, government infrastructure and residential property sectors worldwide. Carrier also serves commercial, industrial, transport refrigeration and food service equipment customers.
Pratt & Whitney, Hamilton Sundstrand and Sikorsky (collectively referred to as the aerospace businesses) primarily serve commercial and government customers in both the original equipment and aftermarket parts and services markets of the
aerospace industry. Hamilton Sundstrand, Pratt & Whitney and UTC Fire & Security also serve customers in certain industrial markets. For 2011, our commercial and industrial sales (generated principally by our commercial businesses)
were approximately 58 percent of our consolidated net sales, and commercial aerospace and military aerospace sales were approximately 22 percent and 20 percent, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. Sales for 2011 from outside the United
States, including U.S. export sales, were 61 percent of our total segment sales.

On September 28, 2011, we announced a new
organizational structure to better serve customers and to drive growth and achieve efficiencies through greater integration across certain product lines. This new structure combines Carrier and UTC Fire & Security into a new segment called
UTC Climate, Controls & Security. Beginning with the first quarter of 2012, Carrier and UTC Fire & Security will report combined financial and operational results as part of this new segment. As part of this new organizational
structure, we also created UTC Propulsion & Aerospace Systems, a new organization consisting of Pratt & Whitney and Hamilton Sundstrand. We will continue to report the financial and operational results of Pratt & Whitney
and Hamilton Sundstrand separately, consistent with the manner in which we will allocate resources and measure financial performance for these segments. Further, we have reported our financial and operational results for the periods presented herein
under the six principal segments noted above, consistent with how we have reviewed our business operations for decision-making purposes, resource allocation and performance assessment.

This Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge
through the Investor Relations section of our Internet website (http://www.utc.com) under the heading “SEC Filings” as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are also available for reading and copying at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by
calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) containing reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Description of Business by Segment

As noted above, our operations for the periods presented herein are classified into six principal segments: Otis, Carrier, UTC Fire & Security, Pratt & Whitney, Hamilton Sundstrand and Sikorsky.
Each segment groups similar operating companies and the management organization of each segment has general operating autonomy over a range of products and services. The principal products and services of each segment are as follows:







Otis—elevators, escalators, moving walkways and service.

Carrier—heating, ventilating, air conditioning (HVAC) and refrigeration systems, controls, services and energy-efficient products for residential, commercial,
industrial and transportation applications.

UTC Fire & Security—fire and special hazard detection and suppression systems, firefighting
equipment, security, monitoring and rapid response systems and service, and security personnel services.

Pratt & Whitney—commercial,
military, business jet and general aviation aircraft engines, parts and services, industrial gas turbines and space propulsion.

Hamilton
Sundstrand—aerospace products and aftermarket services, including power generation, management and distribution systems, flight control systems, engine control systems, environmental control systems, fire protection and detection systems,
auxiliary power units, propeller systems and industrial products, including air compressors, metering pumps and heavy duty process pumps.

Sikorsky—military and commercial helicopters, helicopter and aircraft aftermarket parts and services.

Segment financial data for the years 2009 through 2011, including financial information about foreign and domestic operations and export sales,
appears in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2011 Annual Report. Segment sales as discussed below include intercompany sales, which are ultimately eliminated within the “Eliminations and other” category as reflected
in the segment financial data in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2011 Annual Report. Similarly, total segment backlog as discussed below includes fully-funded government and intercompany backlog.

Otis

Otis is the world’s largest
elevator and escalator manufacturing, installation and service company. Otis designs, manufactures, sells and installs a wide range of passenger and freight elevators for low-, medium- and high-speed applications, as well as a broad line of
escalators and moving walkways. In addition to new equipment, Otis provides modernization products to upgrade elevators and escalators as well as maintenance and repair services for both its products and those of other manufacturers. Otis serves
customers in the commercial and residential property industries around the world. Otis sells directly to the end customer and through sales representatives and distributors.

Sales generated by Otis’ international operations were 83 percent and 82 percent of total Otis segment sales in 2011 and 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2011, Otis’ backlog was $14.3 billion as
compared to $13.9 billion at December 31, 2010. Of the total Otis backlog at December 31, 2011, approximately $8.0 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2012.

Carrier

Sales generated by Carrier’s international
operations, including U.S. export sales, were 58 percent and 56 percent of total Carrier segment sales in 2011 and 2010, respectively. At both December 31, 2011 and 2010, Carrier’s backlog was $2.2 billion. Substantially all of the backlog
at December 31, 2011 is expected to be realized as sales in 2012.

As described above, to better serve customers and to drive
growth and achieve greater efficiencies through greater integration across certain product lines, we announced a new organizational structure in September 2011, which combines Carrier with UTC Fire & Security into a new segment called UTC
Climate, Controls & Security. We will report combined financial and operational results for this new segment beginning with the first quarter of 2012.







UTC Fire & Security

Sales generated by UTC Fire & Security’s
international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 77 percent and 78 percent of total UTC Fire & Security segment sales in 2011 and 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2011, UTC Fire & Security’s backlog was $1.3
billion as compared to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010. Substantially all of the backlog at December 31, 2011 is expected to be realized as sales in 2012.

As described above, in September 2011, to better serve customers and to drive growth and achieve greater efficiencies through greater integration across certain product lines, we announced a new organizational
structure which combines UTC Fire & Security with Carrier into a new segment called UTC Climate, Controls & Security. We will report combined financial and operational results for this new segment beginning with the first quarter
of 2012.

Pratt & Whitney

Pratt & Whitney is among the world’s leading suppliers of aircraft engines for the commercial, military, business jet and general
aviation markets. Pratt & Whitney Global Services provides maintenance, repair and overhaul services, including the sale of spare parts, as well as fleet management services for large commercial engines. Pratt & Whitney produces
families of engines for wide- and narrow-body aircraft in the commercial market and for fighter and transport aircraft in the military market. Pratt & Whitney Canada (P&WC) is a world leader in the production of engines powering
business, regional, light jet, utility and military airplanes and helicopters and provides related maintenance, repair and overhaul services, including the sale of spare parts, as well as fleet management services. Pratt & Whitney
Rocketdyne (PWR) is a leader in the design, development and manufacture of sophisticated space propulsion systems for military and commercial applications. Pratt & Whitney Power Systems sells aero-derivative engines for industrial
applications.







Pratt & Whitney’s products are sold principally to aircraft
manufacturers, airlines and other aircraft operators, aircraft leasing companies, space launch vehicle providers and the U.S. and foreign governments. Pratt & Whitney’s products and services must adhere to strict regulatory and
market-driven safety and performance standards. The frequently changing nature of these standards, along with the long duration of aircraft engine development, production and support programs, creates uncertainty regarding engine program
profitability. The vast majority of sales are made directly to the end customer and, to a limited extent, through independent distributors and foreign sales representatives. Sales to Airbus were 16 percent and 12 percent of total Pratt &
Whitney segment sales in 2011 and 2010, respectively, before taking into account discounts or financial incentives offered to customers. Sales to the U.S. government were 28 percent and 32 percent of total Pratt & Whitney segment sales in
2011 and 2010, respectively.

Sales generated by Pratt & Whitney’s international operations, including U.S. export sales,
were 54 percent and 52 percent of total Pratt & Whitney segment sales in 2011 and 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2011, Pratt & Whitney’s backlog was $22.4 billion, including $5.3 billion of U.S. government-funded
contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2010, these amounts were $23.5 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively. Of the total Pratt & Whitney backlog at December 31, 2011, approximately $4.6 billion is expected to be realized as
sales in 2012. Pratt & Whitney’s backlog includes certain contracts for which actual costs may ultimately exceed total sales. Pratt & Whitney’s backlog excludes orders for new commercial engines that have not yet achieved
full aviation authority certification. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2011 Annual Report for a description of our accounting for long-term contracts.

As described above, to better serve customers and to drive growth and achieve efficiencies through greater integration across certain product
lines, we announced a new organizational structure in September 2011. As part of this new structure, we created UTC Propulsion & Aerospace Systems, a new organization consisting of Pratt & Whitney and Hamilton Sundstrand. We will
continue to report the financial and operational results of Pratt & Whitney and Hamilton Sundstrand separately.

Hamilton Sundstrand

Hamilton Sundstrand is among the world’s leading suppliers of technologically advanced aerospace and industrial products and
aftermarket services for diversified industries worldwide. Hamilton Sundstrand’s aerospace products, such as power generation, management and distribution systems, flight control systems, engine control systems, environmental control systems,
fire protection







and detection systems, auxiliary power units and propeller systems, serve commercial, military, regional, business and general aviation, as well as military ground vehicle, space and undersea
applications. Aftermarket services include spare parts, overhaul and repair, engineering and technical support and fleet maintenance programs. Hamilton Sundstrand sells aerospace products to airframe manufacturers, the U.S. and foreign governments,
aircraft operators and independent distributors. Sales to Boeing were 11 percent and 9 percent of total Hamilton Sundstrand segment sales in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Sales to the U.S. government were 20 percent and 24 percent of total Hamilton
Sundstrand segment sales in 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Hamilton Sundstrand is engaged in development programs for the Boeing 787
aircraft, the Bombardier CSeries aircraft, the Mitsubishi Regional Jet, the Airbus A350 aircraft, the Irkut MC-21 aircraft, the COMAC C919 aircraft, the CH-53K next generation heavy lift helicopter for the U.S. Marine Corps and the Lockheed Martin
F-35 Lightning II military aircraft and the Airbus A400M military aircraft. Hamilton Sundstrand is also the operations support prime contractor for NASA’s space suit/life support system and produces environmental monitoring and control, life
support, mechanical systems, power generation, management, and distribution and thermal control systems for the International Space Station and the Orion crew exploration vehicle.

Hamilton Sundstrand’s principal industrial products, such as air compressors, metering pumps and heavy duty process pumps, serve industries
involved with chemical and hydrocarbon processing, oil and gas production, water and wastewater treatment and construction. Hamilton Sundstrand sells these products under the Sullair, Sundyne, Milton Roy and other brand names directly to end users,
and through manufacturer representatives and distributors.

Sales generated by Hamilton Sundstrand’s international operations,
including U.S. export sales, were 49 percent of total Hamilton Sundstrand segment sales in both 2011 and 2010. At December 31, 2011, Hamilton Sundstrand’s backlog was $5.4 billion, including $901 million of U.S. government-funded contracts
and subcontracts. At December 31, 2010, these amounts were $5.1 billion and $719 million, respectively. Of the total Hamilton Sundstrand backlog at December 31, 2011, approximately $2.8 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2012.
See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2011 Annual Report for a description of our accounting for long-term contracts.

As described above, to better serve customers and to drive growth and achieve efficiencies through greater integration across certain product lines, we announced a new organizational structure in September 2011. As
part of this new structure, we created UTC Propulsion & Aerospace Systems, a new organization consisting of Hamilton Sundstrand and Pratt & Whitney. We will continue to report the financial and operational results of Hamilton
Sundstrand and Pratt & Whitney separately.

On September 21, 2011 we announced an agreement to acquire Goodrich
Corporation (Goodrich), a global supplier of systems and services to the aerospace and defense industry with 2010 sales of $7 billion. Under the terms of the agreement, Goodrich shareholders will receive $127.50 in cash for each share of Goodrich
common stock they own at the time of the closing of the transaction. This equates to a total current enterprise value of $18.4 billion, including $1.9 billion in net debt to be assumed. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions,
including regulatory approvals and Goodrich shareholder approval. We expect that this acquisition will close in mid-2012. Goodrich products include aircraft nacelles and interior systems, actuation and landing systems, and electronic systems. Once
the acquisition is complete, Goodrich and Hamilton Sundstrand will be combined to form a new segment named UTC Aerospace Systems. We expect that the increased scale, financial strength and complementary products of the new combined business will
strengthen our position in the aerospace and defense industry. Further, we expect that this acquisition will enhance our ability to support our customers with more integrated systems.

Sikorsky

Sikorsky is one of the world’s largest helicopter companies. Sikorsky
manufactures military and commercial helicopters and also provides aftermarket helicopter and aircraft parts and services.







contract specifications, and established the requirements for the first six interim aircraft to enable initial operational test and evaluation activities. The amendments also included
modifications to the liquidated damages schedule, readjustment of payment schedules, resolution of open disputes and other program enhancements. Sikorsky recognized revenue in 2011 upon completing a significant milestone for work related to four
interim configuration helicopters. Delivery of the final configuration aircraft is scheduled to begin in 2012. These aircraft will require further software testing and upgrades before full mission capability can be achieved. Sikorsky is in
discussions with the Canadian government concerning the need for additional interim aircraft, schedules to complete remaining work, and the resolution of open disputes.

Sikorsky’s aftermarket business includes spare parts sales, overhaul and repair services, maintenance contracts and logistics support programs for helicopters and other aircraft. Sales are principally made to
the U.S. and foreign governments, and commercial helicopter operators. Sikorsky is increasingly engaging in logistics support programs and partnering with its government and commercial customers to manage and provide logistics, maintenance and
repair services.

Sales to the U.S. government were 68 percent of total Sikorsky segment sales in both 2011 and 2010. Sales generated by
Sikorsky’s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 34 percent and 33 percent of total Sikorsky segment sales in 2011 and 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2011, Sikorsky’s backlog was $9.4 billion, including $4.1
billion of U.S. government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2010, these amounts were $9.3 billion and $4.2 billion, respectively. Of the total Sikorsky backlog at December 31, 2011, approximately $4.9 billion is expected
to be realized as sales in 2012.

Other

UTC Power is a world leader in the application of fuel cell technology for stationary and transportation applications. UTC Power delivered more than 280 of its 200kW phosphoric acid fuel cell power plants for
stationary installations since 1992 before ceasing production of this model. In 2009, UTC Power began delivery of its newly-designed 400kW phosphoric acid fuel cell. To date, UTC Power has delivered more than 50 of these 400kW units to customers
worldwide. This new fuel cell is expected to have greater durability than any other large stationary fuel cell currently available in the market. UTC Power’s automotive and bus transportation fuel cell power plants are based on proton exchange
membrane (PEM) technology. PureMotion 120 power plants are currently used in revenue service in transit bus applications in Connecticut, California and Europe. UTC Power is currently developing PEM fuel cells for submarine applications.

Although fuel cells are generally believed to be superior to conventional power generation technologies in terms of total system efficiency and
environmental characteristics, the technology is still in either early commercialization or the development stage. Continued technology advancement and cost reduction are required to achieve wide-scale market acceptance. Government support is needed
to fully commercialize fuel cell technology. There is still significant uncertainty as to whether and when commercially viable fuel cells will be produced.

In December 2010, we completed the acquisition of Clipper Windpower Plc (Clipper), a California-based wind turbine manufacturer. This investment is intended to expand our power generation portfolio and allow us to
participate in the wind power business by leveraging our expertise in blade technology, turbines and gearbox design.

The results of UTC
Power and Clipper are included in the “Eliminations and other” category in the segment financial data in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2011 Annual Report.

Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole

Competition and Other Factors Affecting Our Businesses

As worldwide businesses, our operations
can be affected by a variety of economic, industry and other factors, including those described in this section, in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our 2011 Annual
Report, in Item 1, “Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results,” and in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K. Each business unit is subject to significant competition from a large number of
companies in the United States and other countries, and each competes on the basis of price, delivery schedule, product performance and service.

Our aerospace businesses are subject to substantial competition from domestic manufacturers, foreign manufacturers (whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies and
other assistance for certain of their commercial products) and companies that obtain regulatory agency approval to manufacture spare parts. In particular, Pratt & Whitney experiences intense competition for new commercial airframe/engine
combinations. Engine suppliers may offer substantial discounts and other financial incentives, performance and operating cost guarantees, participation in financing arrangements and maintenance agreements. For information regarding customer
financing commitments, participation in guarantees of customer financing arrangements and performance and operating cost guarantees of Pratt & Whitney, see Notes 4, 14 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2011 Annual
Report. Customer selections of engines and components can also have a







significant impact on later sales of parts and services. In addition, the U.S. government’s and other governments’ policies of purchasing parts from suppliers other than the original
equipment manufacturer affect military spare parts sales. Significant elements of our aerospace businesses, such as spare parts sales for engines and aircraft in service, have short lead times. Therefore, backlog information may not be indicative of
future demand. Pratt & Whitney’s major competitors in the sale of engines are GE Aviation, Rolls-Royce, Honeywell and Turbomeca.

Research and Development

Because changes in
technology can have a significant impact on our operations and competitive position, we spend substantial amounts of our own funds on research and development. These expenditures, which are charged to expense as incurred, were $2.1 billion or 3.5
percent of total sales in 2011, as compared with $1.7 billion or 3.2 percent of total sales in 2010 and $1.6 billion or 3.0 percent of total sales in 2009. We also perform research and development work under contracts funded by the U.S. government
and other customers. This contract research and development, which is performed in our aerospace businesses, amounted to $1.9 billion in 2011, as compared to $2.0 billion in 2010 and $2.1 billion in 2009. These contract research and development
costs include amounts that are expensed as incurred, through cost of products sold, and amounts that are capitalized into inventory to be subsequently recovered through production shipments. Of the total contract research and development costs, $1.8
billion, $1.9 billion and $2.1 billion were expensed in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The remaining costs have been capitalized.

U.S.
Government Contracts

U.S. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the
government or for default as a result of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. In the case of a termination for convenience, we would normally be entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and
a reasonable profit. If terminated by the government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and any other damages it suffers. Most of
our U.S. government sales are made under fixed-price type contracts, while approximately $2.6 billion or 4.5 percent of our total sales for 2011 were made under cost-reimbursement type contracts.

Our contracts with the U.S. government are also subject to audits. Like many defense contractors, we have received audit reports from the U.S.
government which recommend that we reduce certain contract prices because cost or pricing data we submitted in negotiation of the contract prices or cost accounting practices may not have conformed to government regulations. Some of these audit
reports have recommended substantial reductions. We have made voluntary refunds in those cases we believe appropriate, have settled some allegations and continue to litigate certain cases. For further discussion of risks related to government
contracting, see the discussion in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” in this Form 10-K and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2011 Annual Report for further discussion.

Compliance with Environmental and Other Government Regulations

Our operations are subject to and affected by environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the United States and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. We have
incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various government statutes for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. We do not anticipate that compliance with current provisions relating to the protection
of the environment or that any payments we may be required to make for cleanup liabilities will have a material adverse effect upon our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. Environmental matters are further
addressed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 1 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2011 Annual Report.

Most of the U.S. laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. If we were convicted of a violation of the federal Clean Air Act
or Clean Water Act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation would be ineligible to be used in performing any U.S. government contract we are awarded until the Environmental Protection Agency thereafter certifies that the condition
giving rise to the violation had been corrected.

In addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations imposed in response to
concerns over climate change. Changes in climate change concerns, or in the regulation of such concerns, including greenhouse gas emissions, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, including compliance costs and increased energy and
raw materials costs.

We conduct our businesses through subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. Changes in legislation or government
policies can affect our worldwide operations. For example, governmental regulation of refrigerants and energy efficiency standards, elevator safety codes and fire safety regulations are important to the businesses of Carrier, Otis and UTC
Fire & Security, respectively, while government safety and performance regulations, restrictions on aircraft engine noise and emissions and government procurement practices can impact our aerospace businesses.







Intellectual Property and Raw Materials and Supplies

We maintain a portfolio of patents, trademarks, licenses and franchises related to our businesses. While this portfolio is cumulatively important to
our business, we do not believe that the loss of any one or group of related patents, trademarks, licenses or franchises would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations.

Employees and Employee Relations

At December 31, 2011, our total number of employees was approximately 199,900, approximately 65 percent of which represents employees based
outside the United States. During 2011, we negotiated or concluded 31 domestic collective bargaining agreements, the largest of which covered certain workers at Carrier. In 2012, numerous collective bargaining agreements are subject to
renegotiation, the largest of which cover certain workers at Carrier and Otis. Although some previous contract renegotiations have had a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations, particularly at Sikorsky, we do not
anticipate that the renegotiation of these contracts will have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. For discussion of the effects of our restructuring actions on employment,
see Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in this Form 10-K and under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 12 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2011 Annual Report.

For a discussion of other matters which may affect our cash flows,
competitive position, financial condition or results of operations, including the risks of our international operations, see the further discussion under the headings “General” and “Description of Business by Segment” in this
section, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K, and under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2011 Annual Report.

Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results

This Form 10-K contains statements which, to the extent they are not statements of historical or present fact, constitute “forward-looking
statements” under the securities laws. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public. These forward-looking statements are intended to provide management’s
current expectations or plans for our future operating and financial performance, based on assumptions currently believed to be valid. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as “believe,” “expect,”
“expectations,” “plans,” “strategy,” “prospects,” “estimate,” “project,” “target,” “anticipate,” “will,” “should,” “see,”
“guidance,” “confident” and other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. Forward-looking statements may include, among other things, statements relating to future
sales, earnings, cash flow, results of operations, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance. All forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, without limitation:



•the effect of economic conditions in the markets in which we operate in the United States and globally and any changes therein, including financial market
conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, levels of end market demand in construction and in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry, levels of air travel, financial
difficulties (including bankruptcy) of commercial airlines, the impact of weather conditions and natural disasters and the financial condition of our customers and suppliers;



•in respect of our recently announced agreement to acquire Goodrich and Pratt & Whitney’s recently announced transactions with Rolls-Royce, the
satisfaction of conditions precedent to, and consummation of, the proposed transactions, the timing of consummation of the proposed transactions, the timing and consummation of proposed financing in connection with the proposed transactions, and the
ability of the parties to secure regulatory approvals, and in the case of the Goodrich transaction, the approval of Goodrich’s shareholders, in a timely manner;







•in respect of our recently announced agreement to acquire Goodrich, our ability to integrate the acquired operations and to realize synergies and opportunities
for growth and innovation;



•our ability to realize the intended benefits of recently announced organizational changes;



•future levels of indebtedness and capital spending and research and development spending;



•future availability of credit and factors that may affect such availability, including credit market conditions and our capital structure;



•delays and disruption in delivery of materials and services from suppliers;



•new business opportunities;



•cost reduction efforts and restructuring costs and savings and other consequences thereof;



•the scope, nature or impact of other acquisition and divestiture activity, including integration of acquired businesses into our existing businesses;



•the development, production, delivery, support, performance and anticipated benefits of advanced technologies and new products and services;



•the anticipated benefits of diversification and balance of operations across product lines, regions and industries;



•the impact of the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements and labor disputes;



•the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies;



•future repurchases of our common stock;



•pension plan assumptions and future contributions; and



•the effect of changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations or political conditions in the United States and other countries in which we operate.

