10-K


l01352ae10vk.htm

PAYCHEX, INC.             10-K

Paychex, Inc.             10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended May 31,

Commission file number 0-11330

Paychex, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

(585) 385-6666

(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)

Securities registered pursuant to section
12(b) of the act: None

Securities registered pursuant to section
12(g) of the act:

COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that
the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act)     Yes

þ

No

o

.

As of November 30, 2002, shares held by
non-affiliates of the registrant had an aggregate market value
of $9,623,243,000.

As of June 30, 2003, 376,751,198 shares of
the registrant’s common stock, $.01 par value, were
outstanding.

Documents Incorporated By Reference

Portions of the Registrant’s Definitive
Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting to be held on
October 2, 2003, are incorporated herein by reference
thereto in response to Part III, Items 10 through 13, inclusive.

PART I

“SAFE HARBOR” STATEMENT UNDER THE
PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995

Certain written and oral statements made by
Paychex, Inc. (the “Company”) management may
constitute “forward-looking statements” as defined in
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are identified by such words and
phrases as “we expect,” “expected to,”
“estimates,” “we look forward to,”
“would equate to,” “projects,”
“projected to be,” “anticipates,” “we
believe,” “could be,” and other similar phrases.
All statements addressing operating performance, events, or
developments that the Company expects or anticipates will occur
in the future, including statements relating to revenue growth,
earnings, earnings per share growth, or similar projections, are
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act.
Because they are forward-looking, they should be evaluated in
light of important risk factors. These risk factors include, but
are not limited to, the following and those which are described
in the “Risk Factors Section” of Item 1 of this
Form 10-K: general market and economic conditions,
including demand for the Company’s products and services,
competition, price levels, availability of internal and external
resources, executing expansion plans, and effective integration
of acquisitions; changes in the laws regulating collection and
payment of payroll taxes, professional employer organizations,
and employee benefits, including 401(k) plans, workers’
compensation, state unemployment, and section 125 plans; delays
in the development, timing of the introduction, and marketing of
new products and services; changes in technology, including use
of the Internet; the possibility of catastrophic events that
could impact the Company’s operating facilities, computer
systems, and communication systems; the possibility of
third-party service providers failing to perform their
functions; the possibility of penalties and losses resulting
from errors and omissions in performing services; potential
damage to the Company’s business reputation due to these
and other operational risks; the possible inability of clients
to meet payroll obligations; stock volatility; and changes in
short and long-term interest rates, changes in the market value
of available-for-sale securities, and the credit rating of cash,
cash equivalents, and securities held in the Company’s
investment portfolios, all of which could cause actual results
to differ materially from anticipated results. The information
provided in this document is based upon the facts and
circumstances known at this time.

Item 1.

Business

Paychex, Inc. (the “Company” or
“Paychex”), is a leading, national provider of
comprehensive payroll and integrated human resource and employee
benefit outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized
businesses. Paychex, a Delaware corporation, was formed in 1979
through the consolidation of 17 corporations engaged in
providing computerized payroll accounting services. As of the
end of fiscal 2003, the Company serviced approximately 490,000
clients and had approximately 8,850 employees. The Company has
its corporate headquarters in Rochester, New York, and more than
100 offices nationwide. The Company’s fiscal year ends
May 31st.

Information about the Company’s products and
services, shareholder information, press releases, and filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) can be found
on the Company’s Web site at

www.paychex.com.

The
Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
other SEC filings, and any amendments to such reports, are made
available as soon as reasonably practical after such material is
filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge, on the
investor relations section of this Web site.

Company Strategy

As part of its continuing growth strategy,
Paychex is focused on the following:

•

Achieving strong financial performance while
    providing high-quality, timely, accurate, and affordable payroll
    processing services and value-added, comprehensive ancillary
    services to meet the human resource and employee benefit needs
    of the Company’s client base.


During fiscal 2003, Paychex supplemented its
growth strategy by acquiring two comprehensive payroll service
providers servicing small- to medium-sized businesses. Advantage
Payroll Services, Inc. (“Advantage”) was acquired
September 20, 2002 for $314 million in cash including
the redemption of preferred stock and repayment of outstanding
debt of Advantage. InterPay, Inc. (“InterPay”), a
wholly owned subsidiary of FleetBoston Financial Corporation
(“Fleet®”), was acquired April 1, 2003 for
$182 million in cash. These acquisitions provided Paychex
with over 82,000 new clients. In addition, these acquisitions
allow Paychex to expand into geographic areas not previously
served by the Company, and the opportunity to achieve economies
of scale in providing services to its clients.

The integration of Advantage and InterPay is in
process. By the end of fiscal 2003, the sales forces of these
companies were combined with the Paychex sales force, and the
responsibility for their operations and corporate support had
been integrated into the management structure of Paychex. In
addition, certain branch operations were combined into existing
Paychex locations, with more consolidation expected to occur in
fiscal year 2004. The Company’s focus has been on client
service and retention. Approximately 2,000 Advantage clients
have been converted to Paychex software platforms since the
acquisition. The majority of these clients were not using
Advantage’s core payroll system. The Advantage core payroll
system will be retained to service clients affiliated with the
independently owned associate offices and Advantage co-branded
products. For InterPay, it is anticipated that clients will be
converted to the Paychex software platforms by the end of
November 2004.

Market Opportunities

The outsourcing of business processes is a
growing trend within the United States. Outsourcing of the
payroll and human resource functions allows small- to
medium-sized businesses to minimize the compliance risks
associated with increasingly complex and changing administrative
requirements and federal, state, and local tax regulations. By
utilizing the expertise of outsourcing service providers,
businesses are able to reduce processing costs and
administrative burdens while, at the same time, adding
competitive benefits for their employees. The technical
capabilities, knowledge, and operational expertise that Paychex
has built, along with the broad portfolio of ancillary services
it offers its clients, have enabled the Company to capitalize on
this outsourcing trend.

There are approximately 7.2 million
employers in the markets that Paychex currently serves within
the United States. Of those employers, 99% have fewer than 100
employees and are the Company’s primary customers and
target market. Based on industry data, the Company estimates
that all payroll processors combined serve somewhere between 15%
to 20% of the potential businesses, with much of the
unpenetrated market in businesses with 10 or fewer employees.
Paychex remains focused on servicing small- to medium-sized
businesses due to the growth potential that exists in this
market segment.

Clients

Paychex serves a diverse base of small- to
medium-sized clients operating in a broad range of industries
located throughout the continental United States. At
May 31, 2003, the Company serviced approximately 490,000
clients. The Company utilizes service agreements and
arrangements with clients that are terminable by the client at
any time. No single client has a material impact on total
service revenue or results of operations.


The composition of the market and the client base
serviced by the Company by employee size is as follows:

Products and Services

Paychex offers a comprehensive portfolio of
payroll, payroll-related, and human resource products to meet
the diverse needs of its client base. These include payroll
processing, tax filing and payment, employee payment, retirement
services administration, employee benefits administration,
regulatory compliance (new- hire reporting and garnishment
processing), workers’ compensation insurance, and
comprehensive bundled human resource administrative services. By
offering ancillary services that leverage the information
gathered in the base payroll processing service, Paychex is able
to provide comprehensive outsourcing services that allow
employers to expand their employee benefit offerings at an
affordable cost.

Payroll Processing:

Payroll processing is the backbone
of the Paychex product portfolio. The Paychex Payroll service
includes the calculation, preparation, and delivery of employee
payroll checks, production of internal accounting records and
management reports, and the preparation of federal, state, and
local payroll tax returns. Payroll processing clients are
charged a base fee each period that payroll is processed, plus a
fee per employee check processed.

The Core Payroll product is generally targeted
for clients with 1 to 49 employees, although many clients with
50 or more employees utilize this service. The Company’s
average Core Payroll client employs approximately 14 people and
processes approximately 31 payrolls each year. Core Payroll
clients communicate their payroll information, including hours
worked by each employee and any personnel or compensation
changes, usually by telephone or fax, to their assigned payroll
specialist. Upon receiving the information from the client, the
Paychex payroll specialist enters it into the payroll system.
Paychex trains these specialists in all facets of payroll
preparation and applicable tax regulations and continually
updates this training. Clients can also transfer data from their
personal computer by using the Paychex Paylink® software or
via the Internet. Clients receive payroll checks and reports
from either a delivery service, the U.S. Postal Service, or by
picking them up at the local Paychex branch.

Paychex also offers Core Payroll services to its
clients and their accountants via Paychex Online. This secure
Internet site offers clients a suite of interactive,
self-service products and services twenty-four hours a day,
seven days a week. These include Paychex Online
Payroll

SM

, Internet Time Sheet, Internet Report
Service, and General Ledger Reporting Service. Clients can
communicate payroll information via Internet Time Sheet or use
the Online Payroll service, as well as access current and
historical payroll information using the Paychex Internet Report
Service. The General Ledger Reporting Service transfers payroll
information calculated by Paychex to the client’s general
ledger accounting software, eliminating manual entries and
improving the accuracy of bookkeeping. Over 80,000 clients are
currently enrolled in some type of online service.

The Company’s Major Market Services
(MMS) Payroll product primarily targets companies that have
outgrown the Company’s Core Payroll service or new clients
that have 50 or more employees or more complex payroll and
benefits needs. Expansion efforts for MMS continue and, as of
May 31, 2003, this product was offered in all significant
markets serviced by the Company. Approximately one-third of new
MMS clients are conversions from the Company’s Core Payroll
product.

Most MMS clients communicate their payroll
information to Paychex using the Company’s Preview®
software. The Preview software provides clients
“in-house” control of payroll and human resource
information


because the software and the payroll and human
resource database reside on the client’s personal computer
or personal computer network. Clients can produce reports and
checks at their convenience. Paychex handles the software
maintenance and provides the client ancillary services as
requested.

Ancillary Products and Services:

Paychex provides its clients with
a portfolio of ancillary products and services that have been
developed and refined over many years. Ancillary products
provide the Company with additional recurring revenue streams
and increased service efficiencies as these products are
integrated with payroll processing services. Paychex offers the
following ancillary products and services:

Tax Filing and Payment Services:

As of May 31, 2003, 87% of
the Company’s clients utilized its tax filing and payment
services (including Taxpay®), which provide accurate
preparation and timely filing of quarterly and year-end tax
returns, as well as the electronic transfer of funds to the
appropriate agencies (federal, state, and local). More than 90%
of new clients purchase the Company’s tax filing and
payment services. The Company believes that the client
utilization percentage of these services is near maturity. In
connection with these services, the Company electronically
collects payroll taxes from clients’ bank accounts,
typically on payday, files the applicable tax returns, and pays
taxes to the appropriate taxing authorities on the respective
due dates. These taxes are typically paid between 1 and
30 days after receipt of collections from clients, with
some items extending to 90 days. The Company handles all
regulatory correspondence, amendments, and penalty and interest
disputes, and is subject to cash penalties imposed by tax
authorities for late filings and late or underpayments of taxes.
Clients utilizing the tax filing and payment services are
charged a base fee each period that payroll is processed. In
addition to fees paid by clients, the Company earns interest on
client funds that are collected before due dates and invested
until remittance to the appropriate taxing authority.

Employee Payment Services:

As of May 31, 2003, 60% of
the Company’s clients utilized its employee payment
services, which provide the employer the option of paying their
employees by Direct Deposit, Paychex Access Visa® Card, a
check drawn on a Paychex account (Readychex®), or a check
drawn on the employer’s account. More than 70% of new
clients purchase some form of employee payment services. For the
first three methods, Paychex electronically collects net payroll
from the client’s bank account typically one day before
payroll and provides payment to the employee on payday. The
Company offers a Flexible Pay Package, which provides a
cost-effective bundle of payment options that offers the benefit
of convenient, one-step payroll account reconciliation for
employers. Clients utilizing employee payment services are
charged a base fee for each period that payroll is processed and
a fee per transaction or per employee depending on the service
provided. In addition to fees paid by the client, the Company
earns interest on client funds that are collected before pay
dates and invested until remittance to clients’ employees.

The tax filing and payment services and employee
payment services are integrated with the Company’s Payroll
processing service. Interest earned on funds held for clients is
included in total revenues on the Consolidated Statements of
Income because the collection, holding, and remittance of these
funds are critical components of providing these services.

Regulatory Compliance Services:

Paychex offers New-Hire Reporting
services, which enable clients to comply with federal and state
requirements to report information on newly hired employees, to
aid the government in enforcing child support orders, and to
minimize fraudulent unemployment and workers’ compensation
insurance claims. The Company’s Garnishment Processing
service provides deductions from employees’ pay, forwards
payments to the third-party agency, including those that require
electronic payments, and tracks the obligation to fulfillment.
These services enable employers to comply with legal
requirements and reduce the risk of penalties.

Comprehensive Administrative Services:

The Paychex Administrative
Services (PAS) product provides businesses a full-service
approach to the outsourcing of employer and employee
administrative needs. PAS offers businesses a package of
services that includes payroll, employer compliance, human
resource and employee benefits administration, and employee risk
management. This comprehensive bundle of services is designed to
make it easier for small businesses to manage their payroll and
benefits costs while providing a benefits package equal to that
of larger companies. The Company also operates a Professional
Employer Organization (PEO), which provides businesses with the
same combined package of services as the PAS


product, but with Paychex acting as a co-employer
of the client’s employees. The Company’s PEO is
operated primarily in Florida and Georgia, where PEOs are more
prevalent. Paychex offers its PEO product through its
subsidiary, Paychex Business Solutions. As of May 31, 2003, the
PAS and PEO products combined serviced over 103,000 client
employees.

Retirement Services:

The Company’s Retirement
Services product line offers a variety of options to clients,
including 401(k) plans, 401(k) SIMPLE, SIMPLE IRA, 401(k) plans
with Safe Harbor provision, profit sharing, and money purchase
plans. This service provides plan implementation, ongoing
compliance with government regulations, employee and employer
reporting, participant access online, electronic funds transfer,
and other administrative services. Selling efforts for these
products are focused primarily on the Company’s existing
payroll client base, as the processed payroll information allows
for data integration necessary to provide these services
efficiently. Retirement Services products were utilized by over
26,000 clients at May 31, 2003. This demonstrates the
continuing interest of small- to medium-sized businesses in
providing retirement savings benefits to their employees.
Paychex is now one of the largest 401(k) recordkeepers for small
businesses in the United States. Clients utilizing this service
are charged a monthly fee and a fee per employee. Client
employee 401(k) funds externally managed totaled approximately
$2.7 billion at May 31, 2003. The Company earns a fee
approximating 30 basis points from the external managers based
on the total of client employee 401(k) funds.

Workers’ Compensation Services:

Most employers are required to
carry workers’ compensation insurance, which provides
payments to employees who are unable to work because of
job-related injuries. Paychex provides Workers’
Compensation Insurance Administration services by serving, via
its licensed insurance agency, as a general agent providing
qualified workers’ compensation insurance through a variety
of insurance carriers who are underwriters. The
Pay-As-You-Go

SM

program uses rate and job
classification information to enable clients to pay
workers’ compensation premiums in regular monthly amounts
rather than with large up-front payments, which stabilizes their
cash flow and minimizes year-end adjustments. As of May 31,
2003, approximately 32,000 clients utilized the Workers’
Compensation product.

Section 125 Plans:

The Company offers the outsourcing
of plan administration under section 125 of the Internal Revenue
Code. The Premium Only Plan allows employees to pay for certain
health insurance benefits with pre-tax dollars, which can result
in a reduction in payroll taxes for employers and employees. The
Flexible Spending Account Plan allows a client’s employees
to pay, with pre-tax dollars, health and dependent care expenses
not covered by insurance. All required implementation,
administration, compliance, claims processing and reimbursement,
and coverage tests are provided with these services.

Other Human Resource Products:

Group health benefits are offered
in selected geographic areas, as are state unemployment
insurance services, which provide clients with prompt processing
for all claims, appeals, determinations, change statements, and
requests for separation documents. Other Human Resource and
Benefits products include employee handbooks, management
manuals, and personnel forms. These products are designed to
simplify clients’ office processes and enhance their
employee benefits programs.

Sales and Marketing

The Company markets its services primarily
through its direct sales force based in major metropolitan
markets serviced by the Company. The Company’s sales
representatives specialize in Core Payroll, Major Market
Services Payroll, or Human Resource and Benefits product lines.
For fiscal 2004, the Company’s sales force is expected to
total approximately 1,480, with 985 focused on Core Payroll, 150
focused on Major Market Services Payroll, 305 focused on various
Human Resource and Benefits products, and 40 licensed agents
selling Workers’ Compensation Insurance services. In
addition to its direct selling and marketing efforts, the
Company utilizes relationships with existing clients, certified
public accountants, and banks for new client referrals.
Approximately two-thirds of the Company’s new clients
(excluding acquisitions) come from these referral sources. The
sales force for Human Resource and Benefits products is
primarily focused on selling products and services to existing
payroll clients since their processed payroll information
provides the data integration necessary to provide these
services.


The acquisitions of Advantage and InterPay
provided Paychex with additional sales channels. Advantage has
license agreements with 15 independently owned associate
offices, which are responsible for selling and marketing
Advantage’s services and performing certain operational
functions, while Advantage provides all centralized back-office
payroll processing and tax filing services. In addition,
Advantage has a relationship with NEBS® (“New England
Business Service, Inc.”) whereby Advantage performs all
client functions other than sales and marketing. As part of the
InterPay acquisition, Fleet entered into a referral relationship
with Paychex.

The Company’s Web site at www.paychex.com,
which includes online payroll sales presentations and product
information, is a cost-efficient tool that serves as a source of
leads and new sales while complementing the efforts of the field
sales force. This online tool allows Paychex to market to
clients in more geographically remote areas. The Company’s
sales representatives are also supported by marketing,
advertising, public relations, and telemarketing programs. The
Company has grown and expects to continue to grow its direct
sales force. In recent years, the Company has increased its
emphasis on the selling of ancillary services to both new
clients and its existing client base.

Competition

The market for payroll processing services is
highly fragmented. The Company believes its primary national
competitor, ADP® (“Automatic Data Processing”),
is the largest U.S. third-party provider of payroll processing
in terms of revenue. Paychex competes with other national,
regional, local, and online service providers, all of which have
significantly smaller client bases.

In addition to traditional payroll processing
service providers, the Company competes with in-house payroll
and human resource systems and departments. Payroll and human
resource systems are sold by many vendors. The Company’s
Human Resource and Benefits products also compete with a variety
of providers of unbundled human resource services such as
insurance companies, retirement services companies, and human
resource consulting firms.

Competition in the payroll processing industry is
primarily based on service responsiveness, product quality and
reputation, breadth of product offering, and price. Paychex
believes it is competitive in each of these areas.

Software Maintenance and Product
Development

The ever-changing mandates of federal, state, and
local taxing authorities require Paychex to update the
proprietary software utilized by the Company to provide Payroll
and Human Resource and Benefits services to its clients. The
Company is continually engaged in developing enhancements and
maintenance to its various software platforms to meet the
changing requirements of its clients and the marketplace.
Research and development expenses are not significant to the
Company’s overall results of operations.

Employees

As of May 31, 2003, the Company employed
approximately 8,850 people. None of the employees are covered by
collective bargaining agreements.

Trademarks

As of May 31, 2003, the Company and its
subsidiaries had a number of trademarks and service marks filed
for registration or registered with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office, including the names Paychex, Taxpay, Paylink,
Preview, Readychex, Pay-As-You-Go, Paychex Online Payroll, Rapid
Payroll, Advantage, Advantage Payroll Services, Advantage
Payroll, Instant Payroll, HR Counselor, Advantage Check,
InterPay, and ExactPay. The Company believes these trademarks
and service marks are important to its business.


Seasonality

There is no significant seasonality to the
Company’s business. However, during the Company’s
third fiscal quarter, the number of new payroll clients,
Retirement Services clients, and new PAS and PEO worksite
employees tends to be higher than in the rest of the fiscal year
primarily because a majority of new clients start using services
in the beginning of a calendar year. In addition, calendar
year-end transaction processing and client funds activity are
traditionally higher during the third fiscal quarter due to
clients paying year-end bonuses and requesting additional
year-end services. As a result of these factors, historically
the Company’s total revenue has been slightly higher in the
third and fourth fiscal quarters with greater sales commission
expenses reported in the third quarter, which ends in February.

Risk Factors

The Company’s future results of operations
are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. These risks
and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ
materially from historical and current results and from Company
projections. Important factors known to us that could cause such
differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed
below and those contained in the “Safe Harbor”
statement at the beginning of this Form 10-K.

The Company may make errors and omissions in
providing services:

Processing,
tracking, collecting, and remitting client funds to the various
taxing authorities and client employees is complex. Errors have
occurred in the past and are likely to occur in the future.
These errors could include late filing with tax agencies and
underpayment of taxes, which could result in significant
penalties that would adversely affect the Company’s results
of operations. The Company could also transfer funds in error to
an incorrect party or for the wrong amount, and may be unable to
correct the error or recover the funds, resulting in a loss to
the Company.

Changes in government policies could adversely
impact the business:

Many of the
Company’s services, particularly tax filing and payment
services and benefit plan administration services, are designed
according to government regulations that continue to change.
Changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of
benefits employers are required to or may choose to provide
employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and
employees are required to pay. Such changes could reduce or
eliminate the need for some of the Company’s services and
substantially decrease its revenue. Added requirements could
also increase the cost of doing business. Failure by the Company
to modify its services in response to regulatory changes in a
timely fashion could have adverse effects on the Company’s
results of operations.

Failure of third-party service providers to
perform their functions could harm the business:

As part of providing services to
clients, Paychex relies on a number of third-party service
providers. These providers include, but are not limited to,
couriers used to deliver client payroll checks, and banks, which
electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees.
Failure by these providers, for any reason, to deliver their
services in a timely manner could result in significant
penalties for late tax payments and impact client relations.

Failure of the Company’s Business
Continuity Plan in the event of a catastrophe could result in
the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations:

The Company’s operations are
dependent on its ability to protect its infrastructure against
damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, security breach,
power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or
similar event. The Company has a Business Continuity Plan in
place in the event of system failure due to any of these events.
If the Business Continuity Plan was unsuccessful in a disaster
recovery scenario, the Company could potentially lose client
data or experience material adverse interruptions to its
operations.

Integration of acquisitions:

The effective integration of acquired
companies may be difficult to achieve. It is also possible that
the Company may not realize any or all expected benefits from
recent acquisitions or achieve benefits from acquisitions in a
timely manner. In addition, the Company may incur significant
costs and impact existing internal resources in connection with
the integration of acquisitions. Failure to effectively
integrate recent and future acquisitions could affect the
Company’s results of operations.


Any of the above risk factors could cause damage
to the Company’s business reputation, which is important to
the Company’s ability to attract new clients and retain
existing clients.

Paychex clients could have insufficient funds
to cover payments the Company has made on their behalf to taxing
authorities and employees:

As part of
the payroll processing service, Paychex is authorized by its
clients to transfer money from their bank accounts to fund
amounts owed to their employees and various taxing authorities.
It is possible that the Company would be held liable for such
amounts in the event the client has insufficient funds to cover
them. The Company has in the past, and may in the future, make
payments on its clients’ behalf for which it is not
reimbursed, resulting in a loss to the Company.

Interest earned on funds held for clients
could be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating
the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance:

The Company receives interest income
from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to
taxing authorities or to client employees. Interest on these
funds is a substantial part of total revenue. A change in
regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld
or allowing less time to remit taxes to government authorities
would adversely impact this interest income.

Stock price volatility:

The market price of the Company’s
common stock may be influenced by factors such as quarterly
variations in operating results, announcements of new services
or technological innovations by the Company or its competitors,
market conditions in the business process outsourcing industry,
changes in ratings or financial estimates by securities
analysts, general economic conditions, fluctuations in the stock
market that are not directly related to the Company’s
operating performance, and other factors and events which are
beyond the Company’s control. These and other factors can
lead to fluctuations in the price of the Company’s stock.

Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about
market risk:

Refer to Item 7A of
this Form 10-K for discussion on Market Risk Factors.

Item 2.

Properties

The Company’s headquarters are located at
911 Panorama Trail South, Rochester, New York 14625 in a
140,000-square-foot building complex owned by the Company. In
addition, within the Rochester area, the Company owns four
facilities, which account for a combined total of 435,000 square
feet, and leases approximately 87,000 square feet, in several
office complexes. These facilities house various administrative
and technology functions, certain ancillary service functions,
and a telemarketing unit. The Company receives incentives for
certain of its owned facilities under arrangements with
government agencies.

The Company leases approximately 1,809,000 square
feet of space for its regional, branch, and sales offices, and
data processing centers at various locations throughout the
United States, concentrating on major metropolitan areas. The
Company owns branch facilities located in Syracuse, New York;
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Auburn, Maine; and Rock Hill, South
Carolina, which together account for approximately 105,000
square feet. The Company believes that adequate, suitable lease
space will continue to be available for its needs.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

The Company is subject to various claims and
legal matters that arise in the normal course of business.

The Company and its wholly owned subsidiary,
Rapid Payroll, Inc., are defendants in 27 pending lawsuits
brought by licensees of payroll processing software licensed by
Rapid Payroll, Inc. under various written agreements. The
licensees assert breach of contract and related tort and
punitive damage claims seeking unspecified money damages and
injunctive relief against Rapid Payroll, Inc. and the Company,
as well as certain of its officers. The Company and Rapid
Payroll are vigorously defending these actions, which are in the
early stages.


The range of financial risk to the Company
associated with the resolution of the above legal matters cannot
be reasonably determined at this time. The Company’s
management believes resolution of these matters will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position
or results of operations.

There are inherent uncertainties related to legal
matters. The assessment of the potential impact on the
Company’s financial position or results of operations for
the above legal matters could change in the future.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders

No matter was submitted to a vote of security
holders, through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise,
during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended May 31, 2003.

PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity
    and Related Stockholder Matters

The Company’s common stock trades on The
NASDAQ Stock Market® under the symbol “PAYX.”
Dividends have historically been paid in August, November,
February, and May. The level and continuation of future
dividends are dependent on the Company’s future earnings
and cash flows, and are subject to the discretion of the Board
of Directors.

On June 30, 2003, there were 18,355 holders
of record of the Company’s common stock, which includes
registered holders and participants in the Paychex, Inc.
Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. There were also
7,685 participants in the Paychex, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase
Plan and 5,760 participants in the Paychex, Inc. Employee Stock
Ownership Plan.

The high and low sale prices for the
Company’s common stock for the two fiscal years ended
May 31, 2003 and 2002 as reported on The NASDAQ Stock
Market are as follows:

The Company maintains equity compensation plans
in the form of stock option incentive plans, all of which have
been approved by the shareholders of the corporation. Currently,
stock options are granted to employees in the form of
non-qualified or incentive stock options (broad-based grants
only) from the Paychex, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the
“2002 Plan”). The 2002 Plan was adopted on
July 11, 2002 by the Board of Directors of the Company and
became effective upon stockholder approval at the Company’s
Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on October 17, 2002.
There are previously granted options to purchase shares under
the 1998, 1995, and 1992 Stock Incentive Plans that remain
outstanding at May 31, 2003. There will not be any new
grants under these expired plans. Refer to Note G —
Stock Option Plans in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for
more information on the Company’s stock option plans.


The following table details information on
securities authorized for issuance under the Company’s
Stock Incentive Plans:

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations reviews the
Company’s operating results for each of the three fiscal
years in the period ended May 31, 2003 (fiscal 2003, 2002,
and 2001), and its financial condition at May 31, 2003.
This review should be read in conjunction with the accompanying
Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of
this Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements in this review
are qualified by the cautionary statement under the heading
“Safe Harbor” Statement under the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 contained at the beginning of this
Form 10-K.

Critical Accounting Policies

Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K discusses the
significant accounting policies of Paychex, Inc. The
Company’s discussion and analysis of its financial
condition and results of operations are based upon its
Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. The preparation of these financial statements
requires the Company’s management to make estimates,
judgments, and assumptions that affect reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. On an ongoing
basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those
related to revenue recognition, investments, fixed assets,
goodwill and intangible assets, potential losses resulting from
its clients’ inability to meet their payroll obligations,
allowance for doubtful accounts, income taxes, and
contingencies. The Company bases its estimates and assumptions
on historical experience and assumptions believed to be
reasonable under the


circumstances. Actual amounts and results could
differ from these estimates. Certain accounting policies that
are deemed critical to the Company’s results of operations
or financial position are discussed below.

Revenue Recognition:

Service revenues are recognized in
the period services are rendered and earned under service
arrangements with clients where service fees are fixed or
determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Certain
processing services are provided under annual service
arrangements with revenue recognized ratably over the annual
service period. Professional Employer Organization
(PEO) revenues are included in service revenues and are
reported net of direct costs billed and incurred, which include
wages, taxes, benefit premiums, and claims of PEO worksite
employees. Direct costs billed and incurred for PEO worksite
employees were $1,460.7 million, $1,056.9 million, and
$865.7 million for fiscal 2003, 2002, and 2001,
respectively. Paychex provides delivery service for the
distribution of certain client payroll checks and reports. The
revenue earned from delivery service is included in service
revenues and the costs for delivery are included in operating
costs on the Consolidated Statements of Income.

Interest on funds held for clients is earned
primarily on funds that are collected before due dates from
clients for payroll tax filing and payment services and employee
payment services and invested (funds held for clients) until
remittance to the applicable tax agencies or client employees.
These collections from clients are typically remitted between 1
and 30 days after receipt, with some items extending to
90 days. The interest earned on these funds is included in
total revenues on the Consolidated Statements of Income because
the collection, holding, and remittance of these funds are
critical components of providing these services. Interest on
funds held for clients also includes net realized gains and
losses from the sale of available-for-sale securities.

Valuation of Investments:

The Company’s investments in
debt securities are reported at fair value. Unrealized gains
related to increases in the fair value of investments and
unrealized losses related to decreases in the fair value are
included in comprehensive income as reported on the
Company’s Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
Equity. However, changes in the fair value of investments
impacts the Company’s net income only when such investments
are sold or permanent impairment is recognized. Realized gains
and losses on the sale of securities are determined by specific
identification of the security’s cost basis. Realized gains
and losses from funds held for clients are included in interest
on funds held for clients whereas realized gains and losses from
corporate investments are included in investment income, net.
The Company is exposed to credit risk in connection with these
investments through the possible inability of the borrowers to
meet the terms of the bonds. The Company periodically reviews
its investment portfolio for potential write-down due to changes
in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns.

Goodwill:

During fiscal 2003, Paychex
acquired Advantage Payroll Services, Inc.
(“Advantage”) and InterPay, Inc.
(“InterPay”). As a result of these purchases, the
Company has recorded $393.7 million of goodwill on its
Consolidated Balance Sheet at May 31, 2003. The value of
this goodwill is based on an allocation of the purchase prices
to assets acquired and liabilities assumed according to
estimated fair values. Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard (SFAS) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,” requires that goodwill not be
amortized, but instead tested for impairment on an annual basis
and at interim periods if an event occurs or circumstances
change in a way to indicate that there has been a potential
decline in the fair value of the reporting unit. Impairment is
determined by comparing the estimated fair value of the
reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. Since
the Company’s business is largely homogeneous, the Company
has determined it will be evaluated as a single reporting unit
for goodwill impairment testing.

Intangible Assets:

The Company’s intangible
assets are primarily comprised of client list acquisitions and
license agreements with independently owned associate offices.
Intangible assets are amortized over periods ranging from 7 to
12 years using accelerated or straight-line methods. The
Company periodically reviews its intangible assets for potential
impairment.

Fixed Assets:

The carrying value of fixed
assets, including costs for software developed for internal use,
reflects estimates, assumptions, and judgments relative to
capitalized costs, useful lives, utilization, and salvage value.
For software developed for internal use, all external direct
costs for materials and services and certain payroll and related
fringe costs are capitalized in accordance with Statement of
Position (SOP) 98-1,


“Accounting for the Costs of Computer
Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.” The
Company reviews the carrying value of fixed assets for
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable.

Accrual for Client Fund Losses:

The Company maintains an accrual
for estimated losses associated with its clients’ inability
to meet their payroll obligations. As part of providing payroll,
tax filing and payment services, and employee payment services,
Paychex is authorized by the client to initiate money transfers
from the client’s account for the amount of tax obligations
and employees’ direct deposits. Electronic money funds
transfers from client bank accounts are subject to potential
risk of losses resulting from clients’ insufficient funds
to cover such transfers. The Company evaluates uncollected
amounts on a specific basis and analyzes historical experience
for amounts not specifically reviewed to determine the
likelihood of recovery from the clients.

Results of Operations

For fiscal 2003, the Company completed its
thirteenth consecutive year of record total revenues and net
income and now services approximately 490,000 clients. The
Company’s financial growth continues to be adversely
impacted by the effect of lower interest rates on its funds held
for clients and corporate investment portfolios and difficult
economic conditions.

In response to economic conditions, the Federal
Reserve lowered the Federal Funds rate twelve times from January
2001 through May 2003 to 1.25%, for a cumulative 525-basis-point
reduction. In addition to the effects of interest rates, the
difficult economic conditions have resulted in a lower number of
checks per client as existing clients reduce their work forces.
The Company experienced a .5% year-over-year decline in checks
per client (excluding Advantage and InterPay) in fiscal 2003
compared with a year-over-year decline of 3.0% in fiscal 2002.

The Company’s results of operations for
fiscal 2003 were impacted by the acquisitions of two
comprehensive payroll service providers servicing small- to
medium-sized businesses in the United States. On
September 20, 2002, Paychex acquired Advantage for
$314 million in cash including the redemption of preferred
stock and the repayment of outstanding debt of Advantage. On
April 1, 2003, Paychex acquired InterPay for $182 million
in cash. These two acquisitions provided Paychex with over
82,000 new clients.

The integration of Advantage and InterPay is in
process. By the end of fiscal 2003, the sales forces of these
companies were combined with the Paychex sales force, and the
responsibility for their operations and corporate support had
been integrated into the management structure of Paychex. In
addition, certain branch operations were combined into existing
Paychex locations, with more consolidation expected to occur in
fiscal year 2004. The Company’s focus has been on client
service and retention. Approximately 2,000 Advantage clients
have been converted to Paychex software platforms since the
acquisition. The majority of these clients were not using
Advantage’s core payroll system. The Advantage core system
will be retained to service clients affiliated with
independently owned associate offices and Advantage co-branded
products. For InterPay, it is anticipated that clients will be
converted to the Paychex software platforms by the end of
November 2004.

The results of operations for fiscal 2003, which
are summarized in the following table, include the results of
Advantage and InterPay since their respective dates of
acquisition. The two acquisitions contributed $61.9 million in
revenues in fiscal 2003, including $58.0 million of service
revenues and $3.9 million of interest on funds held for
clients. Operating, selling, general, and administrative
expenses for Advantage and InterPay totaled $55.2 million,
including $6.7 million for amortization of intangible
assets. In the second quarter of fiscal 2003, the Company
realized approximately $7.0 million of gains from the sale
of corporate investments


to fund the acquisition of Advantage. In the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, approximately $3.5 million
of gains were realized from the sale of corporate investments to
fund the acquisition of InterPay.

Summary of Results of Operations for the
Fiscal Years Ended May 31:


Details regarding the Company’s combined
funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios are
as follows:

Total service revenues are comprised of revenues
from the Payroll and Human Resource and Benefits product lines.
Payroll service revenues are earned primarily from payroll
processing, tax filing and payment services, employee payment
services, and other ancillary services. Human Resource and
Benefits service revenues are earned primarily from Retirement
Services, Workers’ Compensation Insurance Administration,
Section 125 Plan Administration, and Paychex Administrative
Services and Professional Employer Organization bundled services.

The increase in Payroll service revenues in
fiscal 2003 compared with fiscal 2002 is due to the acquisitions
of Advantage and InterPay, organic client base growth, increased
utilization of ancillary services by both new and existing
clients, and price increases. The increase in Payroll service
revenues in fiscal 2002 compared with fiscal 2001 is
attributable to organic client base growth, increased
utilization of ancillary services by both new and existing
clients, and price increases. Organic client growth was slightly
less than 5% in fiscal 2003 and slightly less than 4% in fiscal
2002. Payroll service revenues continue to be impacted by
year-over-year


changes in checks per client. The year-over-year
changes in checks per client (excluding Advantage and InterPay)
are as follows:

As of May 31, 2003, 87% of all clients
utilized the Company’s tax filing and payment services,
compared with 85% at the end of 2002 and 83% at the end of 2001.
The Company believes the client utilization percentage of the
tax filing and payment services is near maturity. The
Company’s employee payment services were utilized by 60% of
its clients at May 31, 2003 compared with 57% at the end of
2002 and 53% at the end of 2001. More than 90% of new clients
purchase the Company’s tax filing and payment services and
more than 70% of new clients purchase employee payment services.
Major Market Services revenues totaled $101.7 million,
$71.7 million, and $47.4 million for fiscal years
2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. This represents
year-over-year revenue growth of 42% for fiscal 2003 and 51% for
fiscal 2002. Approximately one-third of new Major Market
Services clients are conversions from the Company’s Core
Payroll service.

The increases in Human Resource and Benefits
service revenues in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002 are primarily
related to increases in the number of clients utilizing
Retirement Services products and increases in Paychex
Administrative Services (PAS) and Professional Employer
Organization (PEO) client employees serviced. The increase
in Retirement Services clients reflects the continuing interest
of small- to medium-sized businesses in offering retirement
savings benefits to their employees. Retirement Services
revenues totaled $66.7 million, $56.5 million, and
$43.3 million in fiscal 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively.
This represents year-over-year revenue growth of 18% for fiscal
2003 and 30% for fiscal 2002. The Company serviced over 26,000
and over 23,000 Retirement Services clients at May 31, 2003
and 2002, respectively.

The Paychex Administrative Services
(PAS) product is a combined package of payroll, employer
compliance, employee benefit administration, and risk management
outsourcing services designed to make it easier for small
businesses to manage their payroll and benefit costs. The
Company’s PEO product provides primarily the same bundled
services as the PAS product, but with Paychex acting as a
co-employer of the client’s employees. The PEO service is
available primarily in the states of Florida and Georgia, where
PEOs are more prevalent. Sales of the PAS and PEO products have
been strong, with administrative fee revenues from these
products increasing 40% and 41% for fiscal 2003 and 2002,
respectively. The PAS and PEO products serviced over 103,000 and
over 80,000 client employees as of May 31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.

The decline in interest on funds held for clients
in fiscal 2003 compared with fiscal 2002 is the result of lower
average interest rates earned and a decrease in net realized
gains on the sale of available-for-sale securities, offset
somewhat by higher average portfolio balances. In fiscal 2002,
interest on funds held for clients declined when compared to
fiscal 2001 due to lower average interest rates earned offset by
higher net realized gains and higher average portfolio balances.
The higher average portfolio balances were driven by the
acquisitions of Advantage and InterPay in fiscal 2003 and from
the growth in the utilization of the Company’s tax filing
and payment services and employee payment services in both
fiscal 2003 and 2002.

The increase in consolidated operating, selling,
general, and administrative expenses in fiscal 2003 is due in
part to the acquisitions of Advantage and InterPay. The
remaining increase in fiscal 2003 and the increase in fiscal
2002 are due to investments in personnel, information
technology, and facility costs to support the organic growth of
the Company. At May 31, 2003, the Company had approximately
8,850 employees compared with approximately 7,400 at the end of
fiscal 2002.

Investment income, net primarily represents
earnings from the Company’s cash and cash equivalents and
investments in available-for-sale investment securities.
Investment income does not include interest on funds held for
clients, which is included in total revenues. The decrease in
investment income in fiscal 2003


compared with fiscal 2002 is primarily due to a
decrease in average daily invested balances and lower average
interest rates earned, offset by higher net realized gains on
sales of available-for-sale securities. The increase in
investment income in fiscal 2002 compared with fiscal 2001 is
primarily due to net realized gains on the sale of
available-for-sale securities and the increase in average daily
invested balances, offset by lower average interest rates
earned. The decrease in average daily invested balances and
higher realized gains in fiscal 2003 are primarily the result of
the sale of corporate investments to fund the Advantage and
InterPay acquisitions. The Company estimates the use of
corporate investments to fund the two acquisitions reduced
investment income by approximately $7.6 million in fiscal
2003.

The effective income tax rate was 32.0% in fiscal
2003 compared with 30.5% in fiscal 2002 and 30.0% in fiscal
2001. The increases in the effective income tax rate are
primarily the result of lower levels of tax-exempt income, which
is derived primarily from municipal debt securities in the funds
held for clients and corporate investment portfolios. Fiscal
2004’s effective income tax rate is expected to approximate
32.5%.

Despite the impact of lower interest rates and
difficult economic conditions, income before taxes was 39% of
total revenues during fiscal 2003, compared with 41% in fiscal
2002 and 42% in fiscal 2001. Operating income (excluding
interest on funds held for clients) increased 16% in fiscal 2003
and 19% in fiscal 2002 to $348.0 million and
$301.0 million, respectively.

Outlook

The Company has based its fiscal 2004
expectations on current economic and interest rate conditions
continuing with no significant changes. For fiscal 2004, the
Company projects Payroll service revenue growth in the range of
15% to 17%, reflecting the full-year benefits of the
acquisitions of Advantage and InterPay, and Human Resource and
Benefits service revenue growth in the range of 21% to 23%.
Total service revenue growth is anticipated to be in the range
of 16% to 18%. The Company expects interest on funds held for
clients (including realized gains) to be flat in fiscal 2004 and
corporate investment income to be down approximately 45%
primarily due to the sale of investments to fund the
acquisitions in fiscal 2003.

Taking the factors mentioned above into
consideration, the Company anticipates achieving record total
revenues and net income for fiscal 2004. Total revenue growth is
estimated to be in the range of 15% to 17% (10% to 12% without
Advantage and InterPay) accompanied by net income growth of
approximately 10%. The impact of lower interest rates will
continue to moderate year-over-year growth. In addition, the
Company estimates that growth in operating income (excluding
interest on funds held for clients) will be in the range of 15%
to 20% for fiscal 2004.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company has historically funded its
operations, capital purchases, purchases of corporate
investments, and dividend payments primarily through cash
generated from its operating activities. The acquisitions of
Advantage and InterPay in fiscal 2003 were funded entirely by
the Company’s cash and corporate investments. At
May 31, 2003, the Company had $381 million in
available cash and corporate investments. Current cash and
corporate investments and projected operating cash flows are
expected to support normal business operations, purchases of
property and equipment, and current dividend payments.

The Company has two available, uncommitted,
unsecured lines of credit from various banks totaling
$140 million at market rates of interest. The Company also
has an available, uncommitted, secured line of credit from a
bank totaling $350 million at a market rate of interest. No
amounts were outstanding against these lines of credit during
fiscal 2003 or at May 31, 2003. At May 31, 2003, the
Company had a letter of credit outstanding totaling
$7.1 million required by certain PEO workers’
compensation insurance policies.


As of May 31, 2003, the Company has
contractual obligations under operating lease agreements. Future
minimum lease payments under various non-cancelable operating
leases with terms of more than one year are as follows:

At May 31, 2003, the Company had outstanding
commitments to purchase $6.7 million of capital assets. The
Company enters into various purchase commitments with vendors in
the ordinary course of business.

Operating activities

In thousands


Change


Change


Change

Operating cash flows

$

373,708

23.0

%

$

303,821

—

$

304,938

22.5

%

The increase in operating cash flows in fiscal
2003 reflects higher net income and cash provided by working
capital. Operating cash flows in fiscal 2002 were comparable
with fiscal 2001 as higher net income was offset by higher uses
of working capital. The fluctuations in working capital between
periods were primarily related to the timing of payments for
payroll-related, income tax, and other liabilities, and the
timing of payments for PEO and PAS payroll liabilities.

Investing activities

Funds held for clients and corporate
investments:

Funds held for
clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and
available-for-sale debt securities. Corporate investments are
primarily comprised of available-for-sale debt securities. The
portfolio of funds held for clients and corporate investments is
detailed in Note D of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

The amount of funds held for clients will vary
based upon the timing of collecting client funds, and the
related remittance of funds to tax authorities for tax filing
and payment service clients and employees of clients utilizing
employee payment services. Fluctuations in net funds held for
clients and corporate investment activities primarily relate to
timing of purchases, sales, or maturities of corporate
investments. During fiscal 2003, corporate investments were sold
to fund the acquisitions of Advantage and InterPay. Additional
discussion of interest rates and related risks is included in
Item 7A of this Form 10-K.


Purchases of property and equipment:

To support the Company’s
continued client and ancillary product growth, purchases of
property and equipment were made for data processing equipment
and software, and for the expansion and upgrade of various
operating facilities. In fiscal 2003, the Company made purchases
of property and equipment of $60.2 million, compared with
$54.4 million of purchases in fiscal 2002 and
$45.3 million in fiscal 2001. Purchases of property and
equipment in fiscal 2004 are expected to be in the range of $50
million to $55 million. Fiscal 2004 depreciation expense is
projected to be in the range of $40 million to
$42 million.

The capital expenditures in fiscal 2003 include
the purchase of a 220,000-square-foot facility in Rochester, New
York. In the second quarter of fiscal 2003, the Company placed
into service a consolidated data center to enhance data
processing and disaster recovery capabilities. Purchases of data
processing equipment, software, and building improvements in
fiscal 2003 and 2002 for the data center were approximately
$12.2 million and $18.3 million, respectively. During
fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002, the Company purchased approximately
$2.6 million and $11.2 million, respectively, of data
processing equipment and software from EMC Corporation, whose
President and Chief Executive Officer is a member of the Board
of Directors of Paychex.

Financing activities

Dividends paid:

In October 2001, the Board of
Directors approved a 22.2% increase in the quarterly dividend
payment to $.11 per share from $.09 per share. In October 2000,
the Board of Directors approved a 50% increase in the quarterly
dividend payment to $.09 per share from $.06 per share. The
dividends paid as a percentage of net income totaled 56%, 57%,
and 48% in fiscal 2003, fiscal 2002, and fiscal 2001,
respectively. Future dividends are dependent on the
Company’s future earnings and cash flow and are subject to
the discretion of the Board of Directors.

Proceeds from exercise of stock options:

The decrease in proceeds from the
exercise of stock options in fiscal 2003 is primarily due to the
decrease in number of shares exercised. The increase in proceeds
from the exercise of stock options in fiscal 2002 is due to an
increase in the number of shares exercised and an increase in
the comparable average exercise price per share. Shares
exercised in fiscal 2003 were 839,000 compared with 2,212,000
shares in fiscal 2002 and 1,878,000 shares in fiscal 2001. The
Company has recognized a tax benefit from the exercise of stock
options of $5.5 million, $24.1 million, and
$26.4 million for fiscal 2003, fiscal 2002, and fiscal
2001, respectively. This tax benefit reduces the accrued income
tax liability and increases additional paid-in capital, with no
impact on the expense amount for income taxes. See Note G of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in
Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional disclosure on
the Company’s stock option plans.

Other

New accounting pronouncements:

In August 2001, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 143,
“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” which
requires companies to record a liability at fair value for asset
retirement obligations in the period in which they are incurred.
The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of
the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. This Statement is
effective for the Company for the fiscal year beginning
June 1, 2003. The Company does not


believe adoption of this Statement will result in
a material impact to its results of operations or financial
position.

In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets,” which provides a single accounting
model for long-lived assets to be disposed of. The Company
adopted this Statement in the first quarter of fiscal 2003 with
no material impact to its results of operations or financial
position.

In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145,
“Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment
of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections.”
SFAS No. 145 clarifies guidance related to the reporting of
gains and losses from extinguishment of debt and resolves
inconsistencies related to the required accounting treatment of
certain lease modifications. This Statement is effective for
fiscal years beginning after May 15, 2002. The Company
adopted this Statement in the first quarter of fiscal 2003 with
no material impact to its results of operations or financial
position.

In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146,
“Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal
Activities.” SFAS No. 146 nullifies Emerging Issues
Task Force (EITF) No. 94-3, “Liability
Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other
Costs to Exit an Activity,” under which a liability is
recognized solely based on an entity’s commitment to a
plan. SFAS No. 146 requires a liability for these costs to
be recognized and measured at its fair value in the period in
which the liability is incurred. This statement is effective for
exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31,
2002.

SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation,” establishes accounting and
reporting standards for stock-based employee compensation plans.
As permitted by SFAS No. 123, the Company accounts for such
arrangements under Accounting Principles Board
(APB) Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees,” and related interpretations.
Accordingly, no compensation expense is recognized for stock
option grants because the exercise price of the stock options
equals the market price of the underlying stock on the date of
grant.

In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
— Transition and Disclosure.” SFAS No. 148
provides alternative methods of transition for a voluntary
change to the fair value method of accounting for stock-based
employee compensation. In addition, this Statement amends the
previous disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require
prominent disclosures about the method of accounting for
stock-based employee compensation and the effect of the method
used on reported financial results and requires these
disclosures in interim financial information. The Company
continues to account for stock-based employee compensation under
APB Opinion 25, but has adopted the new disclosure requirements
of SFAS 148 beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2003.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk

Market Risk Factors

Interest rate risk:

Funds held for clients are
primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale
debt securities, whereas corporate investments are primarily
comprised of available-for-sale debt securities. The
Company’s available-for-sale debt securities are exposed to
interest rate risk as interest rate volatility will cause
fluctuations in the market value of held investments and the
earnings potential of future investments. Increases in interest
rates normally decrease the market value of the
available-for-sale securities, while decreases in interest rates
increase the market value of the available-for-sale securities.
The Company’s available-for-sale securities and short-term
funds are exposed to earnings risk from changes in interest
rates, as rate volatility will cause fluctuations in the
earnings potential of future investments. Increases in interest
rates quickly increase earnings from short-term funds, and over
time increase earnings from the available-for-sale securities
portfolio. Decreases in interest rates have the opposite
earnings effect on the available-for-sale securities and
short-term funds. Earnings from the available-for-sale
securities do not reflect changes in rates until the investments
are sold or mature, and the proceeds are reinvested at current
rates. The immediate impact of changing interest rates on
earnings from short-term funds may be temporarily offset by
realized gains or losses from transactions in the Company’s
available-for-sale portfolio.


The Company directs investments towards high
credit-quality, tax-exempt securities to mitigate the risk that
earnings from the portfolio could be adversely impacted by
changes in interest rates in the near term. The Company invests
in short- to intermediate-term, fixed-rate municipal and
government securities, which typically have lower interest rate
volatility, and normally manages the securities portfolio to a
benchmark duration of 2.5 to 3.0 years. The Company does
not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage interest
rate risk.

The following table summarizes the changes in the
Federal Funds rate over the last three fiscal years:

On June 25, 2003, the Federal Funds rate was
decreased by .25% to 1.00%.

Calculating the future effects of changing
interest rates involves many factors. These factors include, but
are not limited to, daily interest rate changes, seasonal
variations in investment balances, actual duration of short-and
intermediate-term investments, the proportional mix of taxable
and tax-exempt investments, and changes in tax-exempt municipal
rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not
synchronized or simultaneous. Subject to these factors, a
25-basis-point change generally affects the Company’s
tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points.

The total investment portfolio is expected to
average approximately $2.90 billion in fiscal 2004. The
Company’s normal and anticipated allocation is
approximately 50% invested in short-term securities with a
duration of less than 30 days and 50% invested in
intermediate-term municipal securities with an average duration
of three years. The Company estimates that the earnings effect
of a 25-basis-point change in interest rates (17 basis points
for tax-exempt investments) at this point in time would be
approximately $3.0 million for fiscal 2004.

The combined funds held for clients and corporate
available-for-sale investment portfolios reflected unrealized
gains of $45.0 million at May 31, 2003 compared with
$26.7 million at May 31, 2002 and $20.5 million
at May 31, 2001. During fiscal 2003, the unrealized gain
position ranged from approximately $22.3 million to
$49.7 million. The range of unrealized gains in fiscal 2002
was $7.5 million to $35.9 million. The unrealized gain
position of the Company’s investment portfolios was
approximately $24.9 million at July 30, 2003. As of
May 31, 2003 and May 31, 2002, the Company had
$1.4 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, invested
in available-for-sale securities at fair value, with weighted
average yields to maturity of 3.1% and 3.6%, respectively.
Assuming a hypothetical increase in both short-term and
intermediate-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the
resulting potential decrease in fair value for the portfolio of
securities at May 31, 2003 would be approximately
$8.0 million. Conversely, a corresponding decrease in
interest rates would result in a comparable increase in fair
value. This hypothetical decrease or increase in the fair value
of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the
portfolio’s recorded value, with an offsetting amount
recorded in stockholders’ equity, and with no related or
immediate impact to the results of operations.

Credit risk:

The Company is exposed to credit
risk in connection with these investments through the possible
inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of the bonds. The
Company attempts to limit credit risk by investing primarily in
AAA- and AA- rated securities and A-1- rated short-term
securities, and by limiting amounts that can be invested in any
single instrument. At May 31, 2003, available-for-sale and
short-term securities held at least an A-1 or equivalent rating,
with approximately 99% of available-for-sale securities holding
an AA rating or better.


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data

Report of Ernst & Young LLP Independent
Auditors

Board of Directors

Paychex, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Paychex, Inc. as of May 31, 2003 and
2002, and the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended May 31, 2003. Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at
Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Paychex, Inc.
at May 31, 2003 and 2002, and the consolidated results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended May 31, 2003, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule,
when considered in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Buffalo, New York

June 23, 2003


PAYCHEX, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

In thousands, except per share amounts

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


PAYCHEX, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

In thousands

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


PAYCHEX, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

In thousands

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


PAYCHEX, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

In thousands

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Note A — Significant Accounting
Policies

Business activities:

Paychex, Inc. and its wholly owned
subsidiaries (the “Company”) is a national provider of
payroll, human resource, and employee benefits outsourcing
solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses in the United
States. The Company reports one segment based upon the provision
of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
(SFAS) No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information.”

Total revenues are comprised of service revenues
and interest on funds held for clients. Service revenues are
comprised of the Payroll and Human Resource and Benefits product
lines. Payroll service revenues are earned primarily from
payroll processing, tax filing and payment services, employee
payment services, and other ancillary services. Employee payment
services include the Direct Deposit, Readychex®, and Access
Card product lines.

Payroll processing services include the
preparation of payroll checks, internal accounting records,
federal, state, and local payroll tax returns, and collection
and remittance of payroll obligations for small- to medium-sized
businesses.

In connection with the automated tax filing and
payment services, the Company collects payroll taxes
electronically from clients’ bank accounts typically on
payday, prepares and files the applicable tax returns, and
remits taxes to the appropriate taxing authorities on the due
date. These collections from clients are typically paid between
1 and 30 days after receipt, with some items extending to
90 days. The Company handles all regulatory correspondence,
amendments, and penalty and interest disputes, and is subject to
cash penalties imposed by tax authorities for late filings and
late or underpayment of taxes. With employee payment services,
employers are offered the option of paying their employees by
Direct Deposit, Access Card, a check drawn on a Paychex account,
or a check drawn on the employer’s account. For the first
three methods, net payroll is collected electronically from the
client’s bank account typically 1 day before payroll
and provides payment to the employee on payday. In connection
with both the tax filing and payment and employee payment
services, authorized electronic money transfers from client bank
accounts are subject to potential risk of losses resulting from
insufficient funds to cover such transfers.

In addition to service fees paid by clients, the
Company earns interest on funds that are collected before due
dates and invested (funds held for clients) until remittance to
the applicable tax authorities or client employees. The funds
held for clients and related client deposit liability are
included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as current assets
and current liabilities. The amount of funds held for clients
and related client deposit liability varies significantly during
the year.

The Human Resource and Benefits product line
provides small- to medium-sized businesses with 401(k) Plan
Recordkeeping, Workers’ Compensation Insurance
Administration, Section 125 Plan Administration, Group
Benefits, State Unemployment Insurance and Employee Management
Services. The Company’s Paychex Administrative Services
(PAS) product provides a combined package of payroll,
employer compliance, employee benefit administration, and risk
management outsourcing services designed to make it easier for
small businesses to manage their payroll and related benefits
costs. The Company also operates a Professional Employer
Organization (PEO), which provides primarily the same combined
package of services as the PAS product, but with Paychex acting
as a co-employer of the client’s employees.

Principles of consolidation:

The Consolidated Financial
Statements include the accounts of Paychex, Inc. and its wholly
owned subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions
have been eliminated in consolidation.

Cash and cash equivalents:

Cash and cash equivalents consist
of available cash, money market securities, and other
investments with a maturity of 3 months or less when purchased.
Amounts reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets approximate
fair values.


PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Accounts receivable, net:

Accounts receivable balances are
shown on the Consolidated Balance Sheets net of the allowance
for doubtful accounts of $2,208,000 and $2,600,000 at
May 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Amounts reported in
the Consolidated Balance Sheets approximate fair values.

Funds held for clients and corporate
investments:

Marketable securities
included in funds held for clients and corporate investments
consist primarily of debt securities classified as
available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value obtained from
an independent pricing service. Funds held for clients also
include cash, money market securities, and short-term
investments. Unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable
income taxes, are reported as accumulated other comprehensive
income in the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
Equity. Realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are
determined by specific identification of the security’s
cost basis. Realized gains and losses from funds held for
clients are included in interest on funds held for clients.
Realized gains and losses from corporate investments are
included in investment income, net.

Concentrations:

Substantially all of the
Company’s deposited cash is maintained at two large
credit-worthy financial institutions. These deposits may exceed
the amount of any insurance provided. All of the Company’s
deliverable securities are held in custody with one of the two
aforementioned financial institutions, for which that
institution bears the risk of custodial loss. Non-deliverable
securities, primarily time deposits and money market securities,
are restricted to credit-worthy broker-dealers and financial
institutions.

Property and equipment, net:

Property and equipment is stated
at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization.
Depreciation is based on the estimated useful lives of property
and equipment using the straight-line method. The estimated
useful lives of depreciable assets are generally 10 to
35 years for buildings and improvements, 2 to 15 years
for data processing equipment, 3 to 5 years for software,
7 years for furniture and fixtures, and 2 to 10 years
for leasehold improvements. The Company reviews the carrying
value of property and equipment, including capitalized software,
for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable.

Software development and enhancements:

Expenditures for major software
purchases and software developed for internal use are
capitalized and depreciated using the straight-line method over
the estimated useful lives of the related assets, which are
generally 3 to 5 years. For software developed for internal
use, all external direct costs for materials and services and
certain payroll and related fringe benefit costs are capitalized
in accordance with Statement of Position (SOP) 98-1,
“Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or
Obtained for Internal Use.”

Goodwill and other intangible assets, net:

In the first quarter of fiscal
2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets.” The statement requires that
goodwill not be amortized, but instead periodically evaluated
for impairment. Intangible assets with finite lives are required
to be amortized over their estimated useful lives. The statement
also required an evaluation of existing and acquired goodwill
and other intangible assets for proper classification under the
new requirements. Based on the provisions of SFAS No. 142,
amounts previously recorded as goodwill were reclassified to
intangible assets. Adoption of this standard did not impact the
results of operations or financial position of the Company.

The Company has recorded goodwill in connection
with acquisitions of businesses during fiscal 2003, which are
discussed in Note B of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, goodwill
is tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual
tests if an event occurs or circumstances change in a way to
indicate the potential decline in the fair value of the
reporting unit. Impairment is determined by comparing the fair
value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including
goodwill. Since the Company’s business is largely
homogeneous, the Company has determined it will be evaluated as
a single reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing. The
Company has selected the fourth quarter to perform annual
impairment testing. Based on the Company’s review, no
impairment loss was recognized in the results of operations for
fiscal 2003.


PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Intangible assets are primarily comprised of
client list acquisitions and license agreements with
independently owned associate offices and are reported net of
accumulated amortization on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Intangible assets are amortized over periods ranging from 7 to
12 years using either straight-line or accelerated methods.
The Company periodically reviews and assesses the recoverability
of such assets.

Other long-term assets:

Other long-term assets are
primarily related to the Company’s investment as a limited
partner in various low income housing partnerships. The
investments in these partnerships are accounted for under the
equity method with the Company’s share of partnership
losses recorded in investment income, net on the Consolidated
Statements of Income.

Revenue recognition:

Service revenues are recognized in
the period services are rendered and earned under service
arrangements with clients where service fees are fixed or
determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Certain
processing services are provided under annual service
arrangements with revenue recognized ratably over the annual
service period. Professional Employer Organization
(PEO) revenues are included in service revenues and are
reported net of direct costs billed and incurred for PEO
worksite employees, which include wages, taxes, benefit
premiums, and claims of PEO worksite employees. Direct costs
billed and incurred were $1,460,745,000, $1,056,852,000, and
$865,716,000 for fiscal 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively.
Paychex provides delivery service for many of its clients’
payroll checks and reports. The revenue earned from delivery
service is included in service revenues and the costs for the
delivery are included in operating costs on the Consolidated
Statements of Income.

Interest on funds held for clients is earned
primarily on tax filing and payment and employee payment
services funds that are collected before due dates and invested
(funds held for clients) until remittance to the applicable tax
authorities or client employees. These collections from clients
are typically remitted between 1 and 30 days after receipt,
with some items extending to 90 days. The interest earned on
these funds is included in total revenues on the Consolidated
Statements of Income because the collection, holding, and
remittance of these funds are critical components of providing
these services. Interest on funds held for clients also includes
net realized gains and losses from the sale of
available-for-sale securities.

PEO workers’ compensation insurance:

For fiscal 2003, workers’
compensation insurance for PEO worksite employees was provided
under a prefunded deductible workers’ compensation policy
with a national insurance company. The Company’s maximum
individual claims expense was $250,000 under this policy and the
aggregate claims exposure is based on a percentage of premium
rates as applied to workers’ compensation payroll. At
May 31, 2003, the Company has recorded $4,400,000 in other
long-term liabilities for workers’ compensation claims cost
based on the estimated maximum loss exposure under the insurance
policy. Prior to fiscal 2003, workers’ compensation
insurance was provided under a prefunded deductible policy with
the premium based on fixed rates and with no future liability
under the policy.

Income taxes:

The Company accounts for deferred
taxes by recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for
the expected future tax consequences of events that have been
included in the financial statements or tax returns. Under this
method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based
on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis
of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for
the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The
Company accounts for the tax benefit from the exercise of
non-qualified stock options by reducing its accrued income tax
liability and increasing additional paid-in capital.

Stock-based compensation costs:

SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” establishes
accounting and reporting standards for stock-based employee
compensation plans. As permitted by SFAS No. 123, the
Company accounts for such arrangements under Accounting
Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and
related interpretations. Accordingly, no compensation expense is
recognized for stock option grants because the exercise price of
the stock options equals the market price of the underlying
stock on the date of grant.


PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

In December 2002, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 148,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation — Transition
and Disclosure.” SFAS No. 148 provides alternative
methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value
method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation. In
addition, this Statement amends the previous disclosure
requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require prominent
disclosures about the method of accounting for stock-based
employee compensation and the effect of the method used on
reported financial results and requires these disclosures in
interim financial information. The Company continues to account
for stock-based employee compensation under APB Opinion 25,
but has adopted the new disclosure requirements of SFAS
No. 148 beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2003.

The following table illustrates the pro forma
effect on net income and earnings per share as if the Company
had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS
No. 123 to stock-based compensation.

For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the
estimated fair value of the stock option is amortized to expense
over the option’s vesting period. The fair value of these
stock options was estimated at the date of grant using a
Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions:

The weighted-average fair value of stock options
granted for the years ended May 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001
was $8.66, $11.78, and $15.55 per share, respectively.

Additional information related to the
Company’s stock option plans is detailed in Note G of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Use of estimates:

The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States requires management to make
estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses during
the reporting period. Actual amounts and results could differ
from these estimates.

New accounting standards:

In August 2001, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations,” which requires companies to record a
liability at fair value for asset retirement


PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

obligations in the period in which they are
incurred. The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized
as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. This
Statement is effective for the Company for the fiscal year
beginning June 1, 2003. The Company does not believe
adoption of the Statement will result in a material impact to
its results of operations or financial position.

In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets,” which provides a single accounting
model for long-lived assets to be disposed of. The Company
adopted this Statement in the first quarter of fiscal 2003 with
no material impact to its results of operations or financial
position.

In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145,
“Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment
of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections.”
SFAS No. 145 clarifies guidance related to the reporting of
gains and losses from extinguishment of debt and resolves
inconsistencies related to the required accounting treatment of
certain lease modifications. This Statement is effective for
fiscal years beginning after May 15, 2002. The Company
adopted this Statement in the first quarter of fiscal 2003 with
no material impact to its results of operations or financial
position.

In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146,
“Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal
Activities.” SFAS No. 146 nullifies Emerging Issues
Task Force (EITF) No. 94-3, “Liability
Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other
Costs to Exit an Activity,” under which a liability is
recognized solely based on an entity’s commitment to a
plan. SFAS No. 146 requires a liability for these costs to
be recognized and measured at its fair value in the period in
which the liability is incurred. This statement is effective for
exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31,
2002.

Reclassifications:

Certain prior year amounts have
been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. These
reclassifications had no effect on reported consolidated
earnings.

Note B — Business
Combinations

In fiscal 2003, the Company acquired two
comprehensive payroll processors that service small- to
medium-sized businesses throughout the United States. On
September 20, 2002, Paychex acquired Advantage Payroll
Services, Inc. (“Advantage”) for $314.4 million
in cash including the redemption of preferred stock and the
repayment of outstanding debt of Advantage. On April 1,
2003, Paychex acquired InterPay, Inc. (“InterPay”), a
wholly owned subsidiary of FleetBoston Financial Corporation
(“Fleet”), for $181.7 million in cash.

These acquisitions provided Paychex with over
82,000 new clients. In addition, the integration of these
companies allows Paychex to expand geographic coverage into
areas that were previously not served by the Company and the
opportunity to achieve economies of scale in providing services
to its clients. Results of operations for Advantage and InterPay
are included in the Consolidated Statements of Income since
their respective acquisition dates.

Advantage has license agreements with 15
independently owned associate offices. The associate offices are
responsible for selling and marketing Advantage services and
performing certain operation functions. Advantage provides all
centralized back-office payroll processing and tax filing
services for the associate offices, including the billing and
collection of processing fees and the collection and remittance
of payroll and payroll tax funds pursuant to Advantage’s
service arrangement with associate customers. Commissions earned
by the associate offices are based on the volume of payrolls
processed. Revenue generated from customers as a result of these
relationships and commissions paid to associates are included in
the Consolidated Statements of Income as payroll service revenue
and selling, general, and administrative expense, respectively.


PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Purchase Price Allocations

The cost to acquire Advantage and InterPay has
been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
according to estimated fair values. The following table
summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed for Advantage and InterPay at the date of
their acquisition.

The amounts assigned to funds held for clients
represent investments in marketable securities, primarily money
markets and other cash equivalents as well as mutual funds and
debt securities, which are classified as available-for-sale
securities. These investments were recorded at fair value
obtained from an independent pricing service as of the
acquisition date. The amounts assigned to client fund deposit
liability represent the cash collected from clients for payroll
and tax payment obligations, which had not yet been remitted to
the related client employees or tax agencies.

The amount assigned to intangible assets
primarily represents client lists and license agreements with
associate offices, and was based on an independent appraisal.
The intangible assets will be amortized over periods ranging
from 7 to 12 years using either accelerated or
straight-line methods, based on the provisions of SFAS
No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.”

In connection with the acquisitions of Advantage
and InterPay, the Company recorded $10.7 million of
severance and $6.5 million of redundant lease liabilities
in the preliminary allocation of the purchase price under EITF
95-3, “Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a
Purchase Combination.” Approximately $4.7 million was
paid in fiscal 2003 for severance and redundant lease costs.

Prior to the April 1, 2003 acquisition,
InterPay entered into various salary continuation agreements
with certain former employees. These agreements provide for
benefits to these retired employees, and in certain cases to
their beneficiaries, for life or other designated periods
through 2015. This long-term liability of $2.1 million at
May 31, 2003 represents the estimated present value of the
benefits earned under these agreements. The estimated payments
for these agreements are approximately $300,000 a year.

The amount of goodwill allocated to the Advantage
purchase price was $243.3 million, which is not deductible for
tax purposes. The amount of goodwill allocated to the InterPay
purchase price was $150.4 million, which is expected to be
fully deductible for tax purposes.

Pro Forma Financial
    Information

The following table sets forth the unaudited pro
forma results of operations of the Company for the years ended
May 31, 2003 and May 31, 2002, respectively. The
unaudited pro forma financial information summarizes the results
of operations for the periods indicated as if the Advantage and
InterPay acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of each of
the annual periods presented. The pro forma information contains
the actual combined operating results of Paychex, Advantage, and
InterPay, with the results prior to the


PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

acquisition date adjusted to include the pro
forma impact of: the amortization of acquired intangible assets,
the elimination of Advantage’s interest expense and
preferred stock dividends, and lower interest income as a result
of the sale of available-for-sale securities to fund the two
acquisitions. The Company realized a total of $10.5 million
of gains related to the sale of corporate investments to fund
the acquisitions. These gains are included in each pro forma
period presented as if they occurred at the beginning of that
period. These pro forma amounts do not purport to be indicative
of the results that would have actually been obtained if the
acquisitions occurred as of the beginning of each of the periods
presented or that may be obtained in the future.

Note C — Basic and Diluted Earnings
Per Share

Basic and diluted earnings per share were
calculated as follows:

Weighted-average anti-dilutive stock options to
purchase shares of common stock were excluded from the
computation of diluted earnings per share. These options had an
exercise price that was greater than the average market price of
the common shares for the period; therefore, the effect would
have been anti-dilutive.


PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note D — Funds Held for Clients and
Corporate Investments

Funds held for clients and corporate investments
at May 31, 2003 and 2002 are as follows:

The Company is exposed to credit risk from the
possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of their
bonds. In addition, the Company is exposed to interest rate risk
as rate volatility will cause fluctuations in the market value
of held investments and the earnings potential of future
investments. The Company attempts to limit these risks by
investing primarily in AAA- and AA-rated securities and A-1-
rated short-term securities, limiting amounts that can be
invested in any single instrument, and by investing in short- to
intermediate-term instruments whose market value is less
sensitive to interest rate changes. At May 31, 2003, all
short-term securities classified as cash equivalents and all
available-for-sale securities held at least an A-1 or equivalent
rating, with approximately 99% of the available-for-sale bond
securities holding an AA rating or better. The Company does not
utilize derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate
risk.

Gross unrealized gains and losses, and unrealized
gains, net of the available-for-sale securities are as follows:


PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Realized gains and losses are as follows:

The cost and fair value of available-for-sale
securities at May 31, 2003 by contractual maturity are
shown below. Expected maturities will differ from contractual
maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay
obligations without prepayment penalties.

Note E — Property and Equipment,
Net

The components of property and equipment, net are
as follows:

Construction in progress at May 31, 2002
primarily represents purchases of data processing equipment and
software and related building improvements for the
Company’s data center, which was placed in service during
the second quarter of fiscal 2003.

Depreciation expense was $33,918,000,
$27,020,000, and $24,406,000 for fiscal years 2003, 2002, and
2001, respectively.


PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note F — Intangible Assets,
Net

The components of intangible assets, net are as
follows:

Amortization expense on intangible assets was
$9,460,000, $2,489,000, and $2,033,000 for fiscal years 2003,
2002, and 2001, respectively.

The estimated amortization expense for the next
five fiscal years relating to intangible asset balances as of
May 31, 2003 is as follows:

Note G — Stock Option
Plans

On July 11, 2002, the Board of Directors of
the Company adopted the Paychex, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan
(“2002 Plan”), which became effective upon stockholder
approval at the Company’s Annual Meeting of Stockholders on
October 17, 2002. The 2002 Plan authorizes the granting of
options to purchase up to 9,108,000 shares of the Company’s
common stock, of which 1,608,000 shares were authorized by the
stockholders for the Paychex, Inc. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan
(“1998 Plan”), but were not optioned under the 1998
Plan, and 7,500,000 shares were newly authorized for options. At
May 31, 2003, there were 8,749,000 shares available for
future grants under this Plan.

No future grants will be made from the 1998 Plan
and the 1995 and 1992 Stock Incentive Plans, which expired in
August 1998 and 1995, respectively. However, options to purchase
8,510,000 shares under these three plans remain outstanding at
May 31, 2003.

The exercise price for the shares subject to
options of the Company’s common stock is equal to the fair
market value on the date of the grant. All stock option grants
have a contractual life of ten years from the date of the grant.
Non-qualified stock option grants vest at 33.3% after two years
of service from the date of the grant, with annual vesting at
33.3% thereafter.

In November 1996, the Company granted options to
purchase 3,157,000 shares in a broad-based incentive stock
option grant, for which 50% vested on May 3, 1999, and 50%
vested on May 1, 2001. At May 31, 2003, options to
purchase 690,000 shares remained outstanding and exercisable at
an exercise price of $11.53 per share. In July 1999, the Company
granted options to purchase 1,381,000 shares in a second
broad-based incentive stock option grant, for which 25% vested
in July 2000, 25% vested in July 2001, 25% vested in July 2002,
and an additional 25% will vest in July 2003. At May 31,
2003, options to purchase 688,000 shares remained outstanding at
an exercise price of $21.46 per share. In October 2001, the
Company granted options


PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

to purchase 1,295,000 shares in a third
broad-based incentive stock option grant, for which 25% vested
in October 2002 and 25% will vest in October of each of the
following three years. At May 31, 2003, options to purchase
1,001,000 shares remained outstanding at an exercise price of
$33.17. Subsequent to each of the broad-based grants, each April
and October, the Company granted options to newly hired
employees that met certain criteria.

The following table summarizes stock option
activity for the three years ended May 31, 2003:

The following table summarizes information about
stock options outstanding and exercisable at May 31, 2003:


PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note H — Income Taxes

The components of deferred tax assets and
liabilities are as follows:

The components of the provision for income taxes
are as follows:


PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory
tax rate to the effective rates reported for income before taxes
for the three years ending May 31, 2003 is as follows:

As of May 31, 2003, the Company had
approximately $16,500,000 in acquired operating loss
carryforwards available to offset future taxable income. The
acquired operating loss carryforwards expire through the year
2022. The Company believes that future taxable income will be
sufficient to fully utilize these operating loss carryforwards.

Note I — Other Comprehensive
Income

The following table sets forth the related tax
effects allocated to unrealized gains and losses on
available-for-sale securities, which is the only component of
other comprehensive income:

Note J — Supplemental Cash Flow
Information

Income taxes paid:

The Company paid state and federal
income taxes of $126,341,000, $98,731,000, and $71,734,000, for
the years ended May 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively.

Non-cash financing transactions:

The Company recorded the tax
benefit from the exercise of non-qualified stock options as a
reduction of its income tax liability in the amount of
$5,545,000, $24,101,000, and $26,411,000, for the years ended
May 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively.

Note K — Employee Benefit
Plans

401(k) Plans:

The Company maintains contributory
savings plans that qualify under Section 401(k) of the
Internal Revenue Code. The Paychex, Inc. 401(k) Incentive
Retirement Plan allows all employees to immediately participate
in the salary deferral portion of the Plan, contributing up to a
maximum of 50% of their salary. Employees who have completed one
year of service are eligible to receive a company matching
contribution. The Company currently matches 50% of an
employee’s voluntary contribution up to 6% of a
participant’s gross wages.


PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

This Plan is one hundred percent
participant-directed. Plan participants can fully diversify
their portfolios by choosing from any or all investment fund
choices in the Plan. Transfers in and out of investment funds,
including the Paychex, Inc. ESOP Stock Fund, are not restricted
in any manner. The Company match contribution follows the same
fund elections as the employee compensation deferrals.

Effective April 15, 2002, the Plan was
amended to add an Employee Stock Ownership Plan
(ESOP) feature to the Paychex Stock Fund under section
404(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under this ESOP feature,
participants have voting rights for their ownership of Paychex
stock within the Plan. Participants are able to elect to receive
dividends on their shares of Paychex stock in the form of cash
or have them reinvested into the Fund.

On February 28, 2003, the Advantage Payroll
Services, Inc. 401(k) Incentive Plan was terminated and the
assets were merged into the Paychex, Inc. 401(k) Incentive
Retirement Plan.

The InterPay, Inc. 401(k) Plan allows employees
who have obtained the age of 20 1/2 years and have
completed six months of service with the Company to participate
in the salary deferral portion of the Plan, contributing up to a
maximum of 15% of compensation. The Company currently matches
50% of an employee’s voluntary contribution up to 6% of a
participant’s gross wages.

Company contributions to the 401(k) plans for the
years ended May 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001 were $6,332,000,
$5,714,000, and $4,981,000, respectively.

Deferred Compensation Plan:

The Company offers a non-qualified
Deferred Compensation Plan to a select group of key employees
that provides these employees with the opportunity to defer up
to 100% of their annual base salary and bonus. This Plan also
allows non-employee Directors to defer 100% of their Board
compensation. The amounts accrued under this Plan were
$3,395,000 and $2,983,000 at May 31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively, and are reflected in other long-term liabilities
in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan:

The Company offers an Employee
Stock Purchase Plan under which eligible employees may purchase
common stock of the Company at current market prices. All
transactions occur directly through the Company’s Transfer
Agent and no brokerage fees are charged to employees.

Note L — Commitments and
Contingencies

Lines of credit:

The Company has two available,
uncommitted, unsecured lines of credit from various banks
totaling $140 million at market rates of interest. The
Company also has an available, uncommitted, secured line of
credit with a bank totaling $350 million at a market rate
of interest. No amounts were outstanding against these lines of
credit during fiscal 2003 or at May 31, 2003 and 2002.

Letter of credit:

At May 31, 2003, the Company
had a letter of credit outstanding totaling $7.1 million
required by certain PEO workers’ compensation insurance
policies.

Contingencies:

The Company is subject to various
claims and legal matters that arise in the normal course of
business.

The Company and its wholly owned subsidiary,
Rapid Payroll, Inc. are defendants in 27 pending lawsuits
brought by licensees of payroll processing software licensed by
Rapid Payroll, Inc., under various written agreements. The
licensees assert breach of contract and related tort and
punitive damage claims seeking unspecified money damages and
injunctive relief against Rapid Payroll, Inc. and the Company,
as well as certain of its officers. The Company and Rapid
Payroll are vigorously defending these actions, which are in the
early stages.


PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The range of financial risk to the Company
associated with the resolution of the above legal matters cannot
be reasonably determined at this time. The Company’s
management believes resolution of these matters will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position
or results of operations.

There are inherent uncertainties related to legal
matters. The assessment of the potential impact on the
Company’s financial position or results of operations for
the above legal matters could change in the future.

Lease commitments:

The Company leases office space
and data processing equipment under terms of various operating
leases, with most data processing equipment leases containing a
purchase option at prices representing the fair value of the
equipment at expiration of the lease term. Rent expense for the
years ended May 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001 was $36,623,000,
$33,888,000, and $29,054,000, respectively. At May 31,
2003, future minimum lease payments under various non-cancelable
operating leases with terms of more than one year are as follows:

Other commitments:

At May 31, 2003, the Company
had outstanding commitments to purchase $6.7 million of
capital assets.

In the normal course of business the Company
makes representations and warranties that guarantee the
performance of the Company’s services under service
arrangements with clients. Historically, there have been no
material losses related to such guarantees.

Note M — Related Parties

During the fiscal years ended May 31, 2003
and May 31, 2002, the Company purchased approximately
$2.6 million and $11.2 million, respectively, of data
processing equipment and software from EMC Corporation, whose
President and Chief Executive Officer is a member of the Board
of Directors of Paychex.


PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

In thousands, except per share amounts

(A):

Each quarter is a discrete period and the sum of
    the four quarters’ basic and diluted earnings per share
    amounts may not equal the full year amount.

(B):

Total net realized gains on the combined funds
    held for clients and corporate investment portfolios.


Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant

The following table shows the executive officers
of the Company as of May 31, 2003 and information regarding
their positions and business experience.

The additional information required is set forth
in the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for its 2003
Annual Meeting of Shareholders in the section entitled
“PROPOSAL 1 – ELECTION OF DIRECTORS FOR A ONE-YEAR
TERM” and the section entitled “SECTION 16(a)
BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE” and is
incorporated herein by reference thereto.


Item 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required is set forth in the
Company’s definitive Proxy Statement in the section
entitled “EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION” and is
incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
    Matters

The information required is set forth in the
Company’s definitive Proxy Statement under the heading
“BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP OF PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS, DIRECTORS,
AND MANAGEMENT,” and is incorporated herein by reference
thereto.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions

The information required is set forth in the
Company’s definitive Proxy Statement under the heading
“OTHER MATTERS AND INFORMATION” under the sub-heading
“Certain Related Transactions” and is incorporated
herein by reference thereto.

Item 14.

Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
Procedures:

The Company’s
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have
evaluated the effectiveness of disclosure controls and
procedures as defined in Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, within 90 days
of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on
such evaluation, they have concluded that as of such date, the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

Changes in Internal Controls:

There were no significant changes
in the Company’s internal controls or in other factors that
could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date
of their evaluation.

PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,
    and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) 1.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The schedules required for this item are included
    with this report in Item 8: Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data.

2.

Financial statement schedules required to be
    filed by Item 8 of this Form include
    Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts,
    which is included in Item 15(d). All other schedules are
    omitted as the required matter is not present, the amounts are
    not significant or the information is shown in the financial
    statements or the notes thereto.

3.

Exhibits

(3)(a)

Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, is
    incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s
    Registration Statement No. 2-85103, Exhibits 3.1 through
    3.5, Form 8-K filed with the Commission on October 22,
    1986, Form 10-Q filed with the Commission on January 12,
    1989, Form 10-Q filed with the Commission on
    January 13, 1993, Form 10-Q filed with the Commission
    on January 10, 1996, Form 10-Q filed with the Commission on
    October 14, 1997, and Form 10-Q filed with the
    Commission on December 16, 1999.

(3)(b)

By-Laws, as amended, are incorporated herein by
    reference to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed with the
    Commission on March 19, 2002.

(10)(a)

Paychex, Inc. 1992 Stock Incentive Plan
    incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s
    Registration Statement on Form S-8, No. 33-52772.

(10)(b)

Paychex, Inc. 1995 Stock Incentive Plan
    incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s
    Registration Statement on Form S-8, No. 33-64389.


Paychex, Inc.

Consolidated Financial Statement
Schedule

For the year ended May 31,

(In thousands)

(A):

Acquired in purchase transactions.

(B):

Uncollectible amounts written off, net of
    recoveries.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on
August 1, 2003.

PAYCHEX, INC.

By: /s/ B. THOMAS GOLISANO

B. Thomas Golisano, Chairman, President,

Chief Executive Officer, and Director

By: /s/ JOHN M. MORPHY

John M. Morphy, Senior Vice President,

Chief Financial Officer, and Secretary

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities indicated on August 1, 2003.

By: /s/ B. THOMAS GOLISANO

B. Thomas Golisano, Chairman, President,

Chief Executive Officer, and Director

By: /s/ BETSY S. ATKINS*

Betsy S. Atkins, Director

By: /s/ G. THOMAS CLARK*

G. Thomas Clark, Director

By: /s/ DAVID J. S. FLASCHEN*

David J. S. Flaschen, Director

By: /s/ PHILLIP HORSLEY*

Phillip Horsley, Director

By: /s/ GRANT M. INMAN*

Grant M. Inman, Director

By: /s/ J. ROBERT SEBO*

J. Robert Sebo, Director

By: /s/ JOSEPH M. TUCCI*

Joseph M. Tucci, Director

*By: /s/ B. THOMAS GOLISANO

B. Thomas Golisano, as Attorney-in-Fact

45