10-K


l20831ae10vk.htm

PAYCHEX           10-K

Paychex           10-K


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended May 31, 2006

Commission file number 0-11330

Paychex, Inc.

911 Panorama Trail South

Rochester, New York 14625-2396

(585) 385-6666

A Delaware Corporation

IRS Employer Identification Number: 16-1124166

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act:

None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act:

Common Stock, $.01 Par Value

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.     Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).     Yes

o

No

þ

As of November 30, 2005, the last business day of the most
recently completed second fiscal quarter, shares held by
non-affiliates of the registrant had an aggregate market value
of $14,387,643,144 based on the closing price reported for such
date on the NASDAQ Stock Market.

As of June 30, 2006, 380,333,725 shares of the
registrant’s common stock, $.01 par value, were outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement to
be issued in connection with its Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held on October 5, 2006, to the extent not set forth
herein, are incorporated herein by reference thereto into
Part III, Items 10 through 14, inclusive.



PART I

“SAFE HARBOR” STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE
SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995

Certain written and oral statements made by management of
Paychex, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries
(“our,” “we,” “us”) may constitute
“forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform
Act”). Forward-looking statements are identified by such
words and phrases as “we expect,” “expected
to,” “estimates,” “estimated,”
“current outlook,” “we look forward to,”
“would equate to,” “projects,”
“projections,” “projected to be,”
“anticipates,” “anticipated,” “we
believe,” “could be,” and other similar phrases.
All statements addressing operating performance, events, or
developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the
future, including statements relating to revenue growth,
earnings, earnings-per-share growth, or similar projections, are
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act.
Because they are forward-looking, they should be evaluated in
light of important risk factors. These risk factors include, but
are not limited to, the following and those that are described
in “Risk Factors” under Item 1A and elsewhere in
this Annual Report on
Form

10-K

(“Form

10-K”):

Any of these factors could cause our actual results to differ
materially from our anticipated results. The information
provided in this document is based upon the facts and
circumstances known at this time. We undertake no obligation to
update these forward-looking statements after the date of filing
of this Form

10-K

with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or
“Commission”) to reflect events or circumstances after
such date, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

Item 1.

Business

We are a leading provider of comprehensive payroll and
integrated human resource and employee benefits outsourcing
solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses in the United
States (“U.S.”). At



May 31, 2006, we serviced approximately 543,000 clients and
had approximately 10,900 employees. We maintain our corporate
headquarters in Rochester, New York, and have more than 100
offices nationwide.

We also have approximately 500 clients in Germany as of
May 31, 2006, which are serviced through offices in Hamburg
and Berlin. It is anticipated that sales offices in Munich and
Dusseldorf will be operational early in the fiscal year ending
May 31, 2007 (“fiscal 2007”).

Our company was formed as a Delaware corporation in 1979. We
report our results of operations and financial condition as one
business segment. Our fiscal year ends May 31.

Company Strategy

We are focused on achieving strong long-term financial
performance by:

Market Opportunities

The outsourcing of business processes is a growing trend within
the U.S. Outsourcing of the payroll and human resource
functions allows small- to medium-sized businesses to minimize
the administrative burden and compliance risks associated with
increasingly complex and changing administrative requirements
and federal, state, and local tax regulations. By utilizing the
expertise of outsourcing service providers, businesses are
better able to efficiently meet their compliance requirements
and administrative burdens while, at the same time, providing
competitive benefits for their employees. The technical
capabilities, knowledge, and operational expertise that we have
built, along with the broad portfolio of ancillary services we
offer our clients, have enabled us to capitalize on the
outsourcing trend.

We believe there are approximately 7.6 million employers in
the geographic markets that we currently serve within the
U.S. Of those employers, 99% have fewer than 100 employees
and are our primary customers and target market. Based on
publicly available industry data, we estimate that all payroll
processors combined serve somewhere between 15% to 20% of the
potential businesses in the target market, with much of the
unpenetrated market being composed of businesses with ten or
fewer employees. We remain focused on servicing small-to
medium-sized businesses based upon the growth potential that we
believe exists in this market segment.

Substantially all our revenue is generated within the
U.S. We also generate revenue within Germany, which was
less than 1% of our total revenue for the years ended
May 31, 2006 and 2005.

Clients

We serve a diverse base of small- to medium-sized clients
operating in a broad range of industries located throughout the
continental U.S. At May 31, 2006, we serviced
approximately 543,000 clients. We utilize service agreements and
arrangements with clients that are generally terminable by the
client at any time or



upon relatively short notice. For the year ended May 31,
2006 (“fiscal 2006”), client retention was at a record
level of slightly less than 80% of our beginning client base.
The most significant factor contributing to client losses is
companies going out of business. No single client has a material
impact on total service revenue or results of operations.

The composition of the market and the client base we serve (in
the U.S.) by employee size is as follows:

Business size

Estimated market distribution

Paychex, Inc. percentage

(Number of employees)

(7.6 million businesses in areas served)

of client base

1-4


%


%

5-19


%


%

20-49


%


%

50-99


%


%

100+


%


%

Products and Services

We offer a comprehensive portfolio of payroll, payroll-related,
and human resource products and services to meet the diverse
needs of our client base. These include:

By offering ancillary services that leverage the information
gathered in the base payroll processing service, we are able to
provide comprehensive outsourcing services that allow employers
to expand their employee benefits offerings at an affordable
cost. We earn our revenue primarily through recurring fees for
services performed. Service revenue is primarily driven by the
number of clients, utilization of ancillary services, and checks
or transactions per client per pay period.

Payroll
Processing

Payroll processing is the foundation of our service portfolio.
Our payroll service includes the calculation, preparation, and
delivery of employee payroll checks; production of internal
accounting records and management reports; and the preparation
of federal, state, and local payroll tax returns. Payroll
processing clients are charged a base fee each period that
payroll is processed, plus a fee per employee check processed.

The Core Payroll service is generally targeted at clients with
one to forty-nine employees, although many clients with fifty or
more employees utilize this service. Our average Core Payroll
client employs approximately thirteen people and processes
approximately thirty payrolls each year. These figures are
impacted year-over-year as larger clients, generally fifty or
more employees, convert to our Major Market Services
(“MMS”).

Core Payroll clients may communicate their payroll information,
including hours worked by each employee and any personnel or
compensation changes, by telephone, fax, use of the Paychex
Paylink

®



software, or the Internet. Each client is assigned a payroll
specialist who is trained extensively and continuously in all
facets of payroll preparation and applicable tax regulations.
Clients receive payroll checks and reports from either a
delivery service, the U.S. Postal Service, or by picking
them up at the local Paychex branch.

We also offer Core Payroll services to our clients and their
accountants through Paychex Online. This secure Internet site
offers clients a suite of interactive, self-service products and
services twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. These
include Paychex Online
Payroll

SM

,
Internet Time Sheet, Paychex Online Reports, and General Ledger
Reporting Service. Clients can communicate payroll information
through the Internet Time Sheet or use the Online Payroll
service, and can access current and historical payroll
information using Paychex Online Reports. The General Ledger
Reporting Service transfers payroll information calculated by us
to the clients’ general ledger accounting software,
eliminating manual entries and improving the accuracy of
bookkeeping. Over 180,000 clients are currently utilizing some
form of Paychex Online service.

MMS primarily targets companies that have more complex payroll
and benefits needs or have outgrown our Core Payroll service, as
well as new clients that have fifty or more employees. We
currently offer this service in all of our significant markets.
Approximately one-third of new MMS clients are conversions from
our Core Payroll service.

Most MMS clients communicate their payroll information to us
using our
Preview

®

software. Preview provides clients with in-house control of
payroll and human resource information because the software and
the payroll and human resource database reside on the
clients’ personal computer or personal computer network.
Clients can produce reports and checks at their convenience. We
handle the software maintenance and provide the client ancillary
products and services as requested.

Ancillary Products and
Services

We provide our clients with a portfolio of ancillary products
and services that have been developed and refined over many
years. Ancillary products and services provide us with
additional recurring revenue streams and increased service
efficiencies as these products are integrated with payroll
processing services. We offer the following ancillary products
and services:

Payroll Tax Administration Services:

As of
May 31, 2006, 92% of our clients utilized our payroll tax
administration services (including
Taxpay

®

),
which provide accurate preparation and timely filing of
quarterly and year-end tax returns, as well as the electronic
transfer of funds to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies
(federal, state, and local). More than 95% of new clients
purchase our payroll tax administration services. We believe
that the client utilization percentage of these services is near
maturity. In connection with these services, we electronically
collect payroll taxes from clients’ bank accounts,
typically on payday, prepare and file the applicable tax
returns, and remit taxes to the applicable tax or regulatory
agencies on the respective due dates. These taxes are typically
paid between one and thirty days after receipt of collections
from clients, with some items extending to ninety days. We
handle all regulatory correspondence, amendments, and penalty
and interest disputes, and we are subject to cash penalties
imposed by tax or regulatory agencies for late filings and late
or under payments of taxes. Clients utilizing the payroll tax
administration services are charged a base fee and a fee per
transaction for each period that payroll is processed. In
addition to fees paid by clients, we earn interest on client
funds that are collected before due dates and invested until
remittance to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies.

Employee Payment Services:

As of May 31,
2006, 68% of our clients utilized our employee payment services,
which provide the employer the option of paying their employees
by direct deposit, Paychex Access
Visa

®

Card, a check drawn on a Paychex account
(Readychex

®

),
or a check drawn on the employer’s account and
electronically signed by us. More than 75% of new clients
purchase some form of employee payment services. For the first
three methods, we electronically collect net payroll from the
clients’ bank account, typically one day before payday, and
provide payment to the employee on payday. Our flexible payment
options provide a cost-effective solution that offers the
benefit of convenient, one-step payroll account reconciliation
for employers. Clients utilizing employee payment services are
charged a base fee for each



period that payroll is processed and a fee per transaction or
per employee depending on the service provided. In addition to
fees paid by clients, we earn interest on client funds that are
collected before pay dates and invested until remittance to
clients’ employees.

The payroll tax administration services and employee payment
services are integrated with our payroll processing service.
Interest earned on funds held for clients is included in total
revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Income because the
collection, holding, and remittance of these funds are critical
components of providing these services.

Regulatory Compliance Services:

We offer new-hire
reporting services, which enable clients to comply with federal
and state requirements to report information on newly hired
employees, to aid the government in enforcing child support
orders, and to minimize fraudulent unemployment and
workers’ compensation insurance claims. Our garnishment
processing service provides deductions from employees’ pay,
forwards payments to third-party agencies, including those that
require electronic payments, and tracks the obligation to
fulfillment. These services enable employers to comply with
legal requirements and reduce the risk of penalties.

Comprehensive Administrative Services:

The Paychex
Premier

sm

Human Resource Services (“Paychex Premier”) provide
businesses a full-service approach to the outsourcing of
employer and employee administrative needs. Paychex Premier
offers businesses a combined package of services that includes
payroll, employer compliance, human resource and employee
benefits administration, risk management outsourcing, and the

on-site

availability of
a professionally trained human resource representative. This
comprehensive bundle of services is designed to make it easier
for businesses to manage their payroll and benefit costs while
providing a benefits package equal to that of larger companies.
We also operate a Professional Employer Organization
(“PEO”), which provides businesses with primarily the
same services as Paychex Premier, except we serve as a
co-employer of the clients’ employees, assume the risks and
rewards of workers’ compensation insurance, and provide
more sophisticated health care offerings to PEO clients. Our PEO
service is available primarily for clients domiciled in Florida
and Georgia, where the utilization of PEOs is more prevalent
than other areas of the U.S. We offer our PEO service
through our subsidiary, Paychex Business Solutions, Inc. For
these two services, the client pays a fee per employee per
processing period. As of May 31, 2006, Paychex Premier
serviced over 236,000 client employees and our PEO product
serviced approximately 59,000 client employees.

Retirement Services Administration:

Our Retirement
Services product line offers a variety of options to clients,
including 401(k) plans, 401(k) SIMPLE, SIMPLE IRA, 401(k) plans
with safe harbor provisions, profit sharing, and money purchase
plans. These services provide plan implementation, ongoing
compliance with government regulations, employee and employer
reporting, participant and employer access online, electronic
funds transfer, and other administrative services. Selling
efforts for these services are focused primarily on our existing
payroll client base, as the processed payroll information allows
for data integration necessary to provide these services
efficiently. Retirement Services were utilized by over 38,000
clients at May 31, 2006. This demonstrates the continuing
interest of small- to medium-sized businesses in providing
retirement savings benefits to their employees. We believe that
we are now one of the largest 401(k) recordkeepers for small
businesses in the U.S. Clients utilizing this service are
charged a one-time set up fee, a monthly recurring fee, and a
fee per employee. Client employee 401(k) funds externally
managed totaled approximately $6.3 billion at May 31,
2006. We earn a fee approximating forty basis points from the
external managers based on the total of client employee 401(k)
funds.

Workers’ Compensation Insurance
Administration:

Most employers are required to carry
workers’ compensation insurance, which provides payments to
employees who are unable to work because of job-related
injuries. We provide workers’ compensation insurance
administration services by serving, through our licensed
insurance agency, as a general agent providing qualified
workers’ compensation insurance through a variety of
insurance carriers who are underwriters. Our Workers’
Compensation Payment Service uses rate and job classification
information to enable clients to pay workers’ compensation
premiums in regular monthly amounts rather than with large
up-front payments, which stabilizes their cash flow and
minimizes year-end adjustments. Our Workers’ Compensation
Report Service provides our clients with comprehensive informa-



tion to allow them to better manage workers’ compensation
insurance costs. As of May 31, 2006, over 52,000 clients
utilized the workers’ compensation insurance administration
services.

Employee Benefits Administration:

We offer the
outsourcing of plan administration under section 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code. The Premium Only Plan allows employees to
pay for certain health insurance benefits with pretax dollars,
which can result in a reduction in payroll taxes for employers
and employees. The Flexible Spending Account Plan allows our
clients’ employees to pay, with pretax dollars, health and
dependent care expenses not covered by insurance. All required
implementation, administration, compliance, claims processing
and reimbursement, and coverage tests are provided with these
services. The Health Savings Account product serves as a tax
savings tool for employers and employees, allowing individuals
to save money tax-free to pay for qualified medical expenses now
and in the future. It also provides the means to manage rising
health insurance premiums.

Time and Attendance Solutions:

We offer Time In A
Box

®

and other time and attendance solutions, which help employers
minimize the time spent compiling time sheet information. These
computer-based systems allow the employer flexibility to handle
multiple payroll scenarios and result in improved productivity,
accuracy, and reliability in the payroll process. Certain
clients are charged a monthly fee for use of hardware, software,
and support. Clients also have the option to purchase the
hardware and software with annual maintenance contracts. Time In
A Box is marketed to our small- to medium-sized clients,
while other time and attendance solutions are marketed to larger
clients.

Other Human Resource Products and Services:

Group
health benefits are offered in select geographic areas, as are
state unemployment insurance services, which provide clients
with prompt processing for all claims, appeals, determinations,
change statements, and requests for separation documents. Other
Human Resource Services products include employee handbooks,
management manuals, and personnel and required regulatory forms.
These products are designed to simplify clients’ office
processes and enhance their employee benefits programs.

Sales and Marketing

We market our services primarily through our direct sales force
based in the metropolitan markets we serve. Our sales
representatives specialize in Core Payroll, MMS payroll, or
Human Resource Services product lines. For fiscal 2007, our
sales force is expected to total approximately 2,035, with 1,190
for Core Payroll (including international), 225 for MMS payroll,
and 620 for various Human Resource Services products. The Human
Resource Services sales force includes 285 human resources and
Retirement Services sales representatives, 190 Paychex Premier
and PEO sales representatives, 110 licensed agents selling
workers’ compensation insurance and health and benefits
services, and 35 time and attendance solution sales
representatives. Growth in the direct sales force results from
the offering of new products and services, particularly as it
relates to licensed agents for health and benefits and the
continued expansion within Germany. The direct sales force has
grown with the addition of time and attendance solutions. The
complexity of the time and attendance solutions requires
specialized sales representatives.

In addition to our direct selling and marketing efforts, we
utilize relationships with existing clients, certified public
accountants (“CPAs”), and banks for new client
referrals. Approximately two-thirds of our new clients
(excluding acquisitions) come from these referral sources. To
further enhance our strong relationship with CPAs, we have
partnered with the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (“AICPA”) as the preferred payroll
provider for its AICPA Business Solutions Partner Program.
During the year ended May 31, 2005, the program was
expanded to include our Retirement Services and MMS.

Our website at

www.paychex.com

, which includes online
payroll sales presentations and product and service information,
is a cost-efficient tool that serves as a source of leads and
new sales while complementing the efforts of our direct sales
force. This online tool allows us to market to clients in more
geographically remote areas. Our sales representatives are also
supported by marketing, advertising, public relations, trade
shows, and telemarketing programs. We have grown and expect to
continue to grow our direct sales force. In recent years, we
have increased our emphasis on the selling of ancillary services
to both new clients and our existing client base.



In addition, Advantage Payroll Services, Inc.
(“Advantage”) has license agreements with fifteen
independently owned associate offices (“Associates”),
which are responsible for selling and marketing Advantage
payroll services and performing certain operational functions,
while Paychex, Inc. and Advantage provide all centralized
back-office payroll processing and payroll tax administration
services. In addition, Advantage has a relationship with New
England Business Service, Inc.
(“NEBS

®

”)
whereby Advantage performs all client functions other than sales
and marketing. The marketing and selling by both Associates and
NEBS is conducted under their respective logos.

Competition

The market for payroll processing and human resource services is
highly competitive and fragmented. We believe our primary
national competitor,
ADP

®

(“Automatic Data Processing, Inc.”), is the largest
U.S. third-party provider of payroll processing and human
resource services in terms of revenue. We compete with other
national, regional, local, and online service providers, all of
which we believe have significantly smaller client bases than us.

In addition to traditional payroll processing and human resource
service providers, we compete with in-house payroll and human
resource systems and departments. Payroll and human resource
systems and software are sold by many vendors. Our Human
Resource Services products also compete with a variety of
providers of human resource services, such as retirement
services companies, insurance companies, and human resources and
benefits consulting firms.

Competition in the payroll processing and human resource
services industry is primarily based on service responsiveness,
product quality and reputation, breadth of product and service
offering, and price. We believe we are competitive in each of
these areas.

Software Maintenance and Development

The ever-changing mandates of federal, state, and local tax or
regulatory agencies require us to regularly update the
proprietary software we utilize to provide Payroll and Human
Resource Services to our clients. We are continually engaged in
developing enhancements to and maintenance of our various
software platforms to meet the changing requirements of our
clients and the marketplace.

Employees

As of May 31, 2006, we employed approximately 10,900
people. None of our employees were covered by collective
bargaining agreements.

Intellectual Property

We own or license and use a number of trademarks, trade names,
copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, computer programs and
software, and other intellectual property rights. Taken as a
whole, our intellectual property rights are material to the
conduct of our business. Where it is determined to be
appropriate, we take measures to protect our intellectual
property rights, including, but not limited to,
confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements or policies with
employees, vendors, and others; license agreements with
licensees and licensors of intellectual property; and
registration of certain trademarks. We believe that the
“Paychex” name, trademark, and logo are of material
importance to us.

Seasonality

There is no significant seasonality to our business. However,
during our third fiscal quarter, which ends in February, the
number of new Payroll clients, new Retirement Services clients,
and new Paychex Premier and PEO worksite employees tends to be
higher than during the rest of the fiscal year, primarily
because a majority of new clients begin using our services in
the beginning of a calendar year. In addition, calendar year-end
transaction processing and client funds activity are
traditionally higher during the third fiscal quarter due to
clients paying year-end bonuses and requesting additional
year-end services. Historically, as a result of these



factors, our total revenue has been slightly higher in the third
fiscal quarter, with greater sales commission expenses also
reported in this quarter.

Other

Information about our products and services, stockholder
information, press releases, and filings with the SEC can be
found on our website at

www.paychex.com

. Our Annual
Reports on
Form

10-K,

Quarterly Reports on
Form

10-Q,

Current
Reports on
Form

8-K,

and
other SEC filings, and any amendments to such reports and
filings, are made available, free of charge, on the Investor
Relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practical
after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.
Also, copies of our Annual Report to Stockholders and Proxy
Statement, to be issued in connection with our 2006 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders, will be made available, free of charge,
upon written request submitted to Paychex, Inc.,
c/o Corporate Secretary, 911 Panorama Trail South,
Rochester, New York 14625-2396.

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

Our future results of operations are subject to a number of
risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could
cause actual results to differ materially from historical and
current results and from our projections. Important factors
known to us that could cause such differences include, but are
not limited to, those discussed below and those contained in the
“Safe Harbor” statement at the beginning of
Part I of this
Form

10-K.

We may make errors and omissions in providing services,
which could result in significant penalties and liabilities for
us:

Processing, tracking, collecting, and remitting
client funds to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies,
client employees, and other third parties are complex
operations. These tasks could be subject to error and these
errors could include, but are not limited to, late filing with
applicable tax or regulatory agencies, underpayment of taxes,
and failure to comply with applicable banking regulations and
laws relating to employee benefits administration, which could
result in significant penalties and liabilities that would
adversely affect our results of operations. We could also
transfer funds in error to an incorrect party or for the wrong
amount, and may be unable to correct the error or recover the
funds, resulting in a loss to us.

Our business and reputation may be affected by our ability
to keep clients’ information confidential

:

Our
business involves the use of significant amounts of private and
confidential client information including employees
identification numbers, bank accounts, and retirement account
information. This information is critical to the accurate and
timely provision of services to our clients, and certain
information may be transmitted via the Internet. There is no
guarantee that our systems and processes are adequate to protect
against all security breaches. If our systems are disrupted or
fail for any reason, or if our systems are infiltrated by
unauthorized persons, our clients could experience data loss,
financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business
interruption. Such events may expose us to unexpected liability,
litigation, regulation investigation and penalties, loss of
clients business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and
there could be a material adverse effect on our business and
results of operations.

We may be adversely impacted by changes in government
regulations and policies:

Many of our services,
particularly payroll tax administration services and benefit
plan administration services, are designed according to
government regulations that continue to change. Changes in
regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits
employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or
the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are
required to pay. Such changes could reduce or eliminate the need
for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue.
Added requirements could also increase our cost of doing
business. Failure by us to modify our services in a timely
fashion in response to regulatory changes could have adverse
effects on our business and results of operations.

We may be adversely impacted by failure of third-party
service providers to perform their functions:

As part of
providing services to clients, we rely on a number of
third-party service providers. These providers include, but are
not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks
and banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to
their employees. Failure by these providers, for any reason, to
deliver their



services in a timely manner could result in material
interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and
result in significant penalties or liabilities to us.

In the event of a catastrophe our business continuity plan
may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and
adversely interrupt operations:

Our operations are
dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against
damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, unauthorized
security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure,
terrorist attack, or other events that could have a significant
disruptive effect on our operations. We have a business
continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to
any of these events. If the business continuity plan is
unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could
potentially lose client data or experience material adverse
interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our
clients.

We may not be able to keep pace with changes in
technology

:

To maintain our growth strategy, we must
adapt and respond to technological advances and technological
requirements of our clients. Our future success will depend on
our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance
of our internal use systems, particularly our systems that meet
our clients’ requirements. We continue to make significant
investments related to the development of new technology. If our
systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when
competing in our industry. There can be no assurance that our
efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. If
we do not timely integrate and update our systems, or if our
investments in technology fail to provide the expected results,
there could be an adverse impact to our business and results of
operations.

We may not realize the anticipated benefits from
acquisitions:

The effective integration of acquired
companies may be difficult to achieve. It is also possible that
we may not realize any or all expected benefits from
acquisitions or achieve benefits from acquisitions in a timely
manner. In addition, we may incur significant costs and
management’s time and attention may be diverted in
connection with the integration of acquisitions. Failure to
effectively integrate future acquisitions could affect our
results of operations. We currently have no definitive
agreements or current plans with respect to any material
prospective acquisitions.

We may have an adverse outcome of legal matters, which
could harm our business:

We are subject to various
claims and legal matters that arise in the normal course of
business. These include disputes or potential disputes related
to breach of contract, employment-related claims, tax claims,
and other matters. As of May 31, 2006, we have a reserve of
$15.6 million for pending legal matters. See Item 3 of
this Form

10-K

for
additional disclosure. In light of the legal reserve recorded,
our management currently believes that resolution of these
matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial
position or results of our operations. However, these matters
are subject to inherent uncertainties and there exists the
possibility that their ultimate resolution could have a material
adverse impact on our financial position and results of
operations in the period in which any such effect is recorded.

We may experience a loss as the result of our clients
having insufficient funds to cover payments we have made on
their behalf to applicable tax or regulatory agencies and
employees:

As part of the payroll processing service, we
are authorized by our clients to transfer money from their bank
accounts to fund amounts owed to their employees and applicable
tax or regulatory agencies. It is possible that we would be held
liable for such amounts in the event the client has insufficient
funds to cover them. We have in the past, and may in the future,
make payments on our clients’ behalf for which we are not
reimbursed, resulting in a loss to us.

Our interest earned on funds held for clients may be
impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the
amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance:

We
receive interest income from investing client funds collected
but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or
to client employees. A change in regulations either decreasing
the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to
remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies would
adversely impact this interest income.

We may be exposed to additional risks related to a foreign
operation as a result of our business in Germany

:

We
currently have approximately 500 clients in Germany. As a
result, our business is subject to political and economic
instability unrelated to our operations in the
U.S. Additionally, our business in Germany exposes us to
currency fluctuations and we must operate under legal and tax
regulations that differ from those of the U.S. We do not
currently hedge our foreign currency transactions due to the
relatively



insignificant amounts. Our entry into foreign operations
requires a significant investment and management’s
attention. There can be no assurance that our investment in
Germany will produce expected levels of revenue or that other
factors noted previously will not harm our business.

Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market
risk:

Refer to Item 7A of this
Form

10-K

for a
discussion on Market Risk Factors.

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2.

Properties

We owned and leased the following properties at May 31,
2006:

*

Includes the

140,000-square

-foot
    building complex of our corporate headquarters located at 911
    Panorama Trail South, Rochester, New York 14625.

Our facilities in Rochester, New York house various
distribution, processing, and technology functions, certain
ancillary functions, a telemarketing unit, and other back-office
functions. Facilities outside of Rochester, New York are at
various locations throughout the U.S. and Germany and house our
regional, branch, and sales offices and data processing centers.
These locations are concentrated in metropolitan areas. We
believe that adequate, suitable lease space will continue to be
available for our needs.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

We are subject to various claims and legal matters that arise in
the normal course of our business. These include disputes or
potential disputes related to breach of contract,
employment-related claims, tax claims, and other matters.

We and our wholly owned subsidiary, Rapid Payroll, Inc.
(“Rapid Payroll”), are currently defendants in three
lawsuits pending in the United States Bankruptcy Court, Central
District of California, thirteen lawsuits pending in the United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and one lawsuit
pending in the California Court of Appeal, Second District, all
brought in calendar years 2002 and 2003 by licensees of payroll
processing software owned by Rapid Payroll.

In August 2001, Rapid Payroll informed seventy-six licensees
that it intended to stop supporting the payroll processing
software in August of 2002. Thereafter, lawsuits were commenced
by licensees asserting various claims, including breach of
contract and related tort and fraud causes of action. These
lawsuits sought compensatory damages, punitive damages, and
injunctive relief against Rapid Payroll, us, our former Chief
Executive Officer, and our Senior Vice President of Sales and
Marketing. In accordance with our indemnification agreements
with our senior executives, we will defend and, if necessary,
indemnify them in connection with these pending matters.



On July 5, 2002, the federal district court entered a
preliminary injunction requiring that Rapid Payroll and us
continue to support and maintain the subject software pursuant
to the license agreements.

In 2005, judgment was entered in

Accuchex, Inc. v. Rapid
Payroll, Inc., et al.

following a bench trial before a
judge of the Los Angeles County Superior Court. The judgment
provided that the limitation of liability clause in the
parties’ license agreement is valid and enforceable. The
court awarded Accuchex damages of $30.5 thousand plus a refund
of approximately $35.0 thousand in license fees. The court also
ordered Rapid Payroll to support its software being used by
Accuchex until such time as Rapid Payroll dissolves, which the
court found Rapid Payroll was entitled to do without incurring
any further liability to Accuchex. The court rejected all of the
other causes of action asserted by the plaintiff. The case is
pending on appeal with the California Court of Appeal, Second
District.

On February 28 and March 1, 2005, the United States
District Court, Central District of California entered judgment
in thirteen of the cases pending before it. Those judgments
provided that Rapid Payroll’s liability is limited by the
license fees paid to it by the plaintiff licensees, pursuant to
express contractual provisions of the license agreements. Those
judgments also extended the court’s preliminary injunction,
ordering that Rapid Payroll must support the licensed software
through April 30, 2006, and, at that time, refund to each
of the licensee plaintiffs the license fees paid by that
plaintiff. The license fees received by Rapid Payroll under the
agreements from these thirteen licensee plaintiffs total
approximately $2.5 million. The federal court also ordered
the release of the source code pursuant to the escrow terms of
the license agreements. The federal court judgments rejected the
fraud and other tort claims brought by those plaintiffs against
all of the defendants. Plaintiffs have appealed the federal
court rulings and we have cross-appealed.

On May 4, 2006, following expiration of the federal
district court’s injunction, Rapid Payroll filed a petition
under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in order
to develop a plan that allows Rapid Payroll to discontinue
support for the software in a manner that deals fairly with its
few remaining licensees. Rapid Payroll is continuing to operate
as a

debtor-in

-possession,
paying all of its post-petition debts as they become due.

Based on the application of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard (“SFAS”) No. 5, “Accounting for
Contingencies,” we are required to record a reserve if we
believe an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the
probable loss can be reasonably estimated. Our legal reserve for
all litigation totaled $15.6 million at May 31, 2006,
and is included in current liabilities on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets. The legal reserve has been reduced during fiscal
2006 as actual settlements and incurred professional fees have
been charged against it.

In light of the legal reserve recorded, our management currently
believes that resolution of these matters will not have a
material adverse effect on our financial position or results of
operations. However, these matters are subject to inherent
uncertainties and there exists the possibility that the ultimate
resolution of these matters could have a material adverse impact
on our financial position and results of operations in the
period in which any such effect is recorded.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders, through
the solicitation of proxies or otherwise, during the three
months ended May 31, 2006.

PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related
    Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities

Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Stock
Market

®

under the symbol “PAYX.” Dividends have historically
been paid in August, November, February, and May. The level and
continuation of future dividends are dependent on our future
earnings and cash flows, and are subject to the discretion of
the Board of Directors.



On June 30, 2006, there were 18,240 holders of record of
our common stock, which includes registered holders and
participants in the Paychex, Inc. Dividend Reinvestment and
Stock Purchase Plan. There were also 9,284 participants in the
Paychex, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan and 6,556
participants in the Paychex, Inc. Employee Stock Ownership Plan.

The high and low sale prices for our common stock as reported on
The NASDAQ Stock Market and dividends for each of the years
ended May 31, 2006 and 2005, are as follows:

Fiscal 2006

Fiscal 2005

Cash

Cash

Sales prices

dividends

Sales prices

dividends

declared per

declared per

High

Low

share

High

Low

share

First quarter

$

35.37

$

28.60

$

0.13

$

38.88

$

28.83

$

0.12

Second quarter

$

43.37

$

32.37

$

0.16

$

34.45

$

29.25

$

0.13

Third quarter

$

43.20

$

35.52

$

0.16

$

34.57

$

29.69

$

0.13

Fourth quarter

$

42.37

$

36.11

$

0.16

$

34.69

$

28.88

$

0.13

The closing price of our common stock on May 31, 2006, as
reported on The NASDAQ Stock Market, was $36.71 per share.

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations reviews the operating results of
Paychex, Inc. (“we,” “our,” or
“us”) for each of the three fiscal years ended
May 31, 2006 (“fiscal 2006”), May 31, 2005
(“fiscal 2005”), and May 31, 2004 (“fiscal
2004”), and our financial condition at May 31, 2006.
This review should be read in conjunction with the accompanying
Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of
this Annual Report on
Form

10-K

(“Form

10-K”)

and the “Risk Factors” discussed in Item 1A of
this Form

10-K.

Forward-looking statements in this review are qualified by the
cautionary statement under the heading “Safe Harbor”
Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995 contained at the beginning of Part I of this
Form

10-K.



Overview

We are a leading provider of comprehensive payroll and
integrated human resource and employee benefits outsourcing
solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses. Our Payroll and
Human Resource Services product lines offer a portfolio of
products and services that allow our clients to meet their
diverse payroll and human resource needs.

Our Payroll services are provided through either our Core
Payroll or Major Market Services (“MMS”) and include:

MMS is utilized by clients that have more complex payroll and
benefits needs. While MMS is focused on the more than fifty
employees market segment, MMS has many clients with less than
fifty employees that have more complex payroll requirements.

Our Human Resource Services primarily include:

We earn revenue primarily through recurring fees for services
performed related to our products. Service revenue is primarily
driven by the number of clients, utilization of ancillary
services, and checks or transactions per client per pay period.
We also earn interest on funds held for clients between the time
of collection from our clients and remittance to the applicable
tax or regulatory agencies or client employees. Our strategy is
focused on achieving strong long-term financial performance
while providing high-quality, timely, accurate, and affordable
services, growing our client base, increasing utilization of our
ancillary services, and leveraging our technological and
operating infrastructure.

Fiscal 2006 was our sixteenth consecutive year of record total
revenue, net income, and diluted earnings per share. Our
financial results for fiscal 2006 included the following
highlights:



Our financial performance in fiscal 2006 was largely due to
strong service revenue growth of 14%. This growth in service
revenue was attributable to growth in client base, check volume,
and utilization of ancillary services.

Our financial performance was also positively impacted by the
effects of increases in interest rates earned on our funds held
for clients and corporate investment portfolios. The Federal
Reserve increased the Federal Funds rate by 200 basis
points in fiscal 2005 and by another 200 basis points in
fiscal 2006 to a rate of 5.00% at May 31, 2006. Our
combined interest on funds held for clients and corporate
investment income increased 73% for fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2006,
our combined portfolios earned an average rate of return of
3.2%, increased from 2.2% in fiscal 2005 and 1.8% in fiscal
2004. The impact of changing interest rates and related risks is
discussed in more detail in the “Market Risk Factors”
section in Item 7A of this
Form

10-K.

We continue to make investments in our business as part of our
growth strategy. Some of these investments include the following:

Growing the client base and increasing utilization of
ancillary services:

Our client base increased to
approximately 543,000 clients at May 31, 2006. This
compares with approximately 522,000 clients at May 31,
2005, and approximately 505,000 clients at May 31, 2004.
Client growth was approximately 4.0% for fiscal 2006, compared
with approximately 3.5% for fiscal 2005.

We have continued to invest in our direct sales force, as we
believe there is opportunity for growth within our target market
of small- to medium-sized businesses. The approximate
composition of our direct sales force is summarized in the
following table:

Expected

For fiscal year ended May 31,


Change


Change


Change


Core Payroll (including international)

1,190


%

1,115


%

1,050


%


MMS payroll



%



%



%


Human Resources/ Retirement Services



%



%



%


Paychex Premier and PEO



%



%



%


Licensed agents for workers’ compensation and health and
    benefits



%



%



%


Time and attendance solutions



%



%



%

—

Total sales representatives

2,035


%

1,805


%

1,650


%

1,480

We believe there are opportunities for growth within our current
client base, as well as with new clients, through increased
utilization of our payroll-related and human resource ancillary
services. Ancillary services effectively leverage payroll
processing data and, therefore, are beneficial to our operating
margin. Penetration of our payroll tax administration services
has continued to increase, and was 92% at May 31, 2006,
compared with 90% at May 31, 2005, and 89% at May 31,
2004. Employee payment services penetration has increased to 68%
at May 31, 2006, compared with 65% at May 31, 2005,
and 63% at May 31, 2004. Our client bases in the Human
Resource Services areas have continued to grow, as shown in the
following table:

As of May 31,




Retirement Services clients

38,000

33,000

29,000

Workers’ compensation insurance clients

52,000

44,000

37,000

Paychex Premier worksite employees

236,000

171,000

106,000

PEO worksite employees

59,000

54,000

51,000

Product and service initiatives:

During fiscal
2006, we made investments to broaden our portfolio of products
and services and expand into new markets, and:

•

Enhanced our 401(k) recordkeeping service, allowing our clients
    use of our recordkeeping with significantly expanded investment
    choices.



Business acquisitions:

We will supplement our
growth through strategic acquisition when opportunities arise.
In the fiscal year ended May 31, 2003, we expanded our
client base through the acquisitions of Advantage Payroll
Services, Inc. (“Advantage”) and InterPay, Inc.
(“InterPay”). In fiscal 2004, the acquisition of
substantially all the assets and certain liabilities of
Stromberg LLC (“Stromberg”) along with the acquisition
of Stromberg’s Time In A
Box

®

product, allowed us to expand our product offering to include
time and attendance solutions and thus offer value-added
products and services to payroll and non-payroll clients. We
currently have no definitive agreements or current plans with
respect to any material prospective acquisition.

Focus on customer service:

We have always focused
on customer service and the maximization of client retention.
Fiscal 2006 client retention is at record levels of slightly
less than 80% of our beginning client base. The most significant
factor contributing to client losses is companies going out of
business. In fiscal 2006, we reduced the number of clients per
payroll specialist due to our commitment to continuously improve
client service.

Financial position:

At May 31, 2006, we
maintained a strong financial position with total cash and
corporate investments of $577.4 million. We also had
$384.5 million in long-term corporate investments at
May 31, 2006. Our primary source of cash is our ongoing
operations. Cash flow from operations was $569.2 million in
fiscal 2006 compared to $466.6 million in fiscal 2005.
Historically, we have funded our operations, capital purchases,
and dividend payments from our operating activities. It is
anticipated that current cash and corporate investment balances,
along with projected operating cash flows, will support our
normal business operations, capital purchases, and dividend
payments for the foreseeable future.

For further analysis of our results of operations for fiscal
years 2006, 2005, and 2004, and our financial position at
May 31, 2006, refer to the tables and analysis in the
“Results of Operations” and “Liquidity and
Capital Resources” sections of this Item 7 and the
discussion in the “Critical Accounting Policies”
section of this Item 7.

Outlook

Our current outlook for the full fiscal year ended May 31,
2007 (“fiscal 2007”) is based upon current economic
conditions and interest rate levels as of May 31, 2006, and
is summarized as follows:



•

The effective income tax rate is expected to be approximately
    31.0%.

•

Net income growth is expected to be in the range of 12% to 14%.

Purchases of property and equipment in fiscal 2007 are expected
to be in the range of $85 million to $90 million, in
line with our growth rates. Fiscal 2007 depreciation expense is
projected to be approximately $55 million, and we project
amortization of intangible assets for fiscal 2007 to be
approximately $14 million.

Our projections are based on current economic and interest rate
conditions continuing with no significant changes. We estimate
that the earnings effect of a 25-basis-point change in interest
rates (17 basis points for tax-exempt investments) at the
beginning of fiscal 2007 would be in the range of
$4.5 million to $5.0 million for fiscal 2007. The
total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate
investments) is expected to average approximately
$4.5 billion in fiscal 2007. Given current accounting
interpretations, in order to preserve the accounting treatment
on available-for-sale securities of recording market value
fluctuations through comprehensive income instead of through the
income statement, we do not expect to realize any losses in the
investment portfolios in fiscal 2007.

Results of Operations

Summary of Results of Operations for the Fiscal Years Ended
May 31:



Details regarding our combined funds held for clients and
corporate investment portfolios are as follows:

As of May 31,

$ in millions




Unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities

$

(22.0

)

$

(9.9

)

$

(4.2

)

Federal Funds rate

5.00

%

3.00

%

1.00

%

Three-year “AAA” municipal securities yield

3.65

%

2.85

%

2.50

%

Total market value of available-for-sale securities

$

3,852.4

$

3,567.2

$

3,269.9

Average duration of available-for-sale securities (in years)(A)

2.0

2.1

2.1

Weighted-average yield-to-maturity of available-for-sale
    securities(A)

3.0

%

2.6

%

2.3

%

(A)

These items exclude the impact of auction rate securities and
    variable rate demand notes (“VRDNs”) as they are tied
    to short-term interest rates.

Revenue:

The increases in Payroll service revenue
in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005, and in fiscal 2005 as
compared to fiscal 2004, were primarily attributable to growth
in clients, check volume, and utilization of our ancillary
services.

As of May 31, 2006, 92% of all clients utilized our payroll
tax administration services, compared with 90% at May 31,
2005, and 89% at May 31, 2004. We believe our client
utilization percentage of these services is near maturity. Our
employee payment services were utilized by 68% of our clients at
May 31, 2006, compared with 65% at May 31, 2005, and
63% at May 31, 2004. More than 95% of new clients purchase
our payroll tax administration services and more than 75% of new
clients purchase our employee payment services.

MMS revenue increased 27% for both fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005
to $225.0 million and $176.9 million, respectively.
Approximately one-third of our new MMS clients are conversions
from our Core Payroll service. We had over 33,000 MMS
clients at May 31, 2006.

Human Resource Services revenue increased 29% in fiscal 2006 and
26% in fiscal 2005 as a result of higher revenue from the
following services:

•

We have continued to see growth in the number of clients
    utilizing our Retirement Services product. Retirement Services
    revenue increased 16% for fiscal 2006 and 17% for fiscal 2005 to
    $106.1 million and $91.4 million, respectively. We
    serviced over 38,000 and over 33,000 Retirement Services clients
    at May 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.



The increase in interest on funds held for clients in fiscal
2006 compared to fiscal 2005 is the result of higher average
interest rates earned in fiscal 2006 and higher average
portfolio balances. The increase in interest on funds held for
clients in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 is the result of
higher average interest rates earned in fiscal 2005 and higher
average portfolio balances, offset by lower net realized gains
on the sales of available-for-sale securities. The higher
average portfolio balances in both fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005
were driven by client base growth, wage inflation, check volume
growth within our current client base, and increased utilization
of our payroll tax administration services and employee payment
services. See the “Market Risk Factors” section,
contained in Item 7A of this
Form

10-K,

for
more information on changing rates.



Combined Operating and SG&A Expenses:

The
following table summarizes total combined operating and selling,
general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses for
the fiscal year ended May 31:

Combined operating and SG&A expenses increased 12% in fiscal
2006 and 10% in fiscal 2005, excluding the expense charge to
increase the legal reserve in fiscal 2004. The increases in both
fiscal 2006 and in fiscal 2005 were the result of our continued
investment in information technology to create more efficient
processes and systems as well as investment in personnel and
other costs to support organic growth. During fiscal 2006, total
expenses were affected by a strong sales year as our sales force
exceeded its targets resulting in higher than normal levels of
sales expense, continued investments in new products and
services, geographic expansion within Germany, and other
expenditures to continually improve client service. Fiscal 2005
growth was impacted by additional expenses as a result of our
April 2004 acquisition of Stromberg. At May 31, 2006, we
had approximately 10,900 employees compared with approximately
10,000 at May 31, 2005 and 9,400 at May 31, 2004.

Depreciation expense is primarily related to buildings,
furniture and fixtures, data processing equipment, and software.
Depreciation expense increased in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal
2005 due to the purchase in May 2005 of a

127,000-square

foot
building in Rochester, New York and higher levels of capital
expenditures. Amortization of intangible assets is primarily
related to client lists obtained from previous acquisitions,
which are amortized using accelerated methods. Other expenses
include items such as delivery, forms and supplies,
communications, travel and entertainment, professional services,
and other costs incurred to support our business.

Operating Income:

Operating income year-over-year
growth was 22% for fiscal 2006 and 23% for fiscal 2005. The
increases in operating income in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 are
attributable to the factors previously discussed.

Investment Income, Net:

Investment income, net
primarily represents earnings from our cash and cash equivalents
and investments in available-for-sale securities. Investment
income does not include interest on funds held for clients,
which is included in total revenue. The increase in investment
income in fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal 2005 is mainly due to
higher average interest rates earned in fiscal 2006 and higher
average portfolio balances resulting from investment of cash
generated from ongoing operations. The decrease in investment
income in fiscal 2005 compared with fiscal 2004 is mainly due to
lower net realized gains on sales of available-for-sale
securities and lower average interest rates earned on
longer-term investments, offset by an increase in average daily
balances.

Income Taxes:

Our effective income tax rate was
31.1% in fiscal 2006, compared with 32.5% in fiscal 2005, and
32.6% in fiscal 2004. The decrease in our effective income tax
rate in fiscal 2006 was primarily the result of higher levels of
tax-exempt income, which is derived primarily from municipal
debt securities in the funds held for clients and corporate
investment portfolios and a lower effective state income tax
rate. See Note H of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, contained in Item 8 of this
Form

10-K,

for
additional disclosures on income taxes.



Net Income:

Net income growth was 26% for fiscal
2006 and 22% for fiscal 2005. The increases in net income for
fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 are attributable to the factors
previously discussed.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

At May 31, 2006, our principal source of liquidity was
$577.4 million of cash and corporate investments. We also
had $384.5 million in long-term corporate investments at
May 31, 2006. Current cash and corporate investments and
projected operating cash flows are expected to support our
normal business operations, capital purchases, and dividend
payments for the foreseeable future.

Commitments and Contractual Obligations

We have unused borrowing capacity available under four
uncommitted, secured, short-term lines of credit with financial
institutions at market rates of interest as follows:

Financial institution

Amount available

Expiration date

JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.

$

350 million

February 2007

Fleet National Bank, a Bank of America company

$

250 million

February 2007

PNC Bank, National Association

$

150 million

February 2007

Wells Fargo Bank, National Association

$

150 million

February 2007

Our credit facilities are evidenced by Promissory Notes and are
secured by separate Pledge Security Agreements by and between
Paychex, Inc. and each of the financial institutions (the
“Lenders”), pursuant to which we have granted each of
the Lenders a security interest in certain of our investment
securities accounts. The collateral is maintained in a pooled
custody account pursuant to the terms of a Control Agreement and
is to be administered under an Intercreditor Agreement among the
Lenders. Under certain circumstances, individual Lenders may
require that collateral be transferred from the pooled account
into segregated accounts for the benefit of such individual
Lenders.

The primary uses of the lines of credit would be to meet
short-term funding requirements related to deposit account
overdrafts and client fund deposit obligations arising from
electronic payment transactions on behalf of our clients in the
ordinary course of business, if necessary. No amounts were
outstanding against these lines of credit during fiscal 2006 or
at May 31, 2006.

We had standby letters of credit outstanding totaling
$53.4 million at May 31, 2006, required to secure
commitments for certain of our insurance policies. These letters
of credit expire at various dates between July 2006 and December
2008 and are secured by securities held in our corporate
investment portfolios, including a $44.2 million letter of
credit for which funds have been segregated into a separate
account. Effective June 28, 2006, this $44.2 million
letter of credit was increased to $50.9 million, bringing
the total letters of credit outstanding to $60.2 million.
No amounts were outstanding on these letters of credit during
fiscal 2006 or at May 31, 2006.

We have entered into various operating leases and purchase
obligations that, under U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles, are not reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets
at May 31, 2006. The table below summarizes our estimated
annual payment obligations under these commitments, as well as
other contractual obligations shown as other liabilities on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets at May 31, 2006:

Payments due by period

Less than

More than

In millions

Total

1 year

1-3 years

4-5 years

5 years

Operating
    leases

(1)

$

134.2

$

37.6

$

60.1

$

31.6

$

4.9

Other purchase
    obligations

(2)

77.0

40.4

18.0

14.5

4.1

Other
    liabilities

(3)

1.5

0.3

0.6

0.4

0.2

Total

$

212.7

$

78.3

$

78.7

$

46.5

$

9.2



(1)

Operating leases are primarily for office space and equipment
    used in our branch operations. These amounts do not include
    future payments under redundant leases related to the
    acquisitions of Advantage and InterPay, which are included in
    the table above with other liabilities.

(2)

Purchase obligations include our estimate of the minimum
    outstanding commitments under purchase orders to buy goods and
    services and legally binding contractual arrangements with
    future payment obligations. Included in the total purchase
    obligations is $8.2 million of commitments to purchase
    capital assets. Amounts actually paid under certain of these
    arrangements may be higher due to variable components of these
    agreements.

(3)

The obligations shown as other liabilities represent business
    acquisition reserves and are reflected in the Consolidated
    Balance Sheets at May 31, 2006, with $0.3 million in
    other current liabilities and $1.2 million in other
    long-term liabilities. Certain deferred compensation plan
    obligations and other long-term liabilities amounting to
    $39.4 million are excluded because the timing of actual
    payments cannot be specifically or reasonably determined due to
    the variability in assumptions required to project the timing of
    future payments.

Advantage has license agreements with fifteen independently
owned associate offices (“Associates”), which are
responsible for selling and marketing Advantage payroll services
and performing certain operational functions, while Paychex,
Inc. and Advantage provide all centralized back-office payroll
processing and payroll tax administration services. In addition,
Advantage has a relationship with New England Business Services,
Inc.
(“NEBS

®

”)
whereby Advantage performs all client functions other than sales
and marketing. Under these arrangements, Advantage pays the
Associates and NEBS commissions based on processing activity for
the related clients. Since the actual amounts of future payments
are uncertain, obligations under these arrangements are not
included in the table above. Commission expense for the
Associates and NEBS in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 was
$19.0 million and $16.7 million, respectively.

We guarantee performance of service on annual maintenance
contracts for clients who financed their service contracts
through a third party. In the normal course of business, we make
representations and warranties that guarantee the performance of
services under service arrangements with clients. In addition,
we have entered into indemnification agreements with our
officers and directors, which require us to defend and, if
necessary, indemnify these individuals for certain pending or
future legal claims as they relate to their services to Paychex
and our subsidiaries. Historically, there have been no material
losses related to such guarantees and indemnifications.

We currently self-insure the deductible portion of various
insured exposures under certain of our employee benefit plans.
Our estimated loss exposure under these insurance arrangements
is recorded in other current liabilities. Historically, the
amounts accrued have not been material. We have insurance
coverage in addition to our purchased primary insurance policies
for gap coverage for employment practices liability, errors and
omissions, warranty liability, and acts of terrorism, and
capacity for deductibles and self-insured retentions through our
captive insurance company.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in
transactions with unconsolidated entities such as special
purpose entities or structured finance entities, which would
have been established for the purpose of facilitating
off-balance sheet arrangements or other limited purposes. We do
maintain investments as a limited partner in low-income housing
projects that are not considered part of our ongoing operations.
These investments are accounted for under the equity method of
accounting.



Operating Cash Flow Activities

Year ended May 31,

In millions




Net income

$

464.9

$

368.8

$

303.0

Non-cash adjustments to net income

99.5

106.7

105.6

Cash provided by/(used in) changes in operating assets and
    liabilities

4.8

(8.9

)

(19.6

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

$

569.2

$

466.6

$

389.0

The increase in our operating cash flows in fiscal 2006 and
fiscal 2005 was driven by higher net income, impacted by changes
in operating assets and liabilities. The fluctuations in our
operating assets and liabilities between periods were primarily
related to the timing of accounts receivable billing and
collection, and timing of payments for compensation, PEO
payroll, income tax, and other liabilities.

Investing Cash Flow Activities

Year ended May 31,

In millions




Net change in funds held for clients and corporate investment
    activities

$

(224.0

)

$

(177.3

)

$

(151.8

)

Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from the
    sale of property and equipment

(81.1

)

(67.2

)

(50.6

)

Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired

(0.7

)

(0.4

)

(13.2

)

Purchases of other assets

(4.2

)

(2.7

)

(2.4

)

Net cash used in investing activities

$

(310.0

)

$

(247.6

)

$

(218.0

)

Funds held for clients and corporate investments:

Funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term
funds and available-for-sale securities. Corporate investments
are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. The
portfolio of funds held for clients and corporate investments is
detailed in Note D of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, included in Item 8 of this
Form

10-K.

The amount of funds held for clients will vary based upon the
timing of collecting client funds, and the related remittance of
funds to applicable tax or regulatory agencies for payroll tax
administration services and to employees of clients utilizing
employee payment services. Fluctuations in net funds held for
clients and corporate investment activities primarily relate to
timing of purchases, sales, or maturities of corporate
investments. Additional discussion of interest rates and related
risks is included in the “Market Risk Factors”
section, contained in Item 7A of this
Form

10-K.

Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired:

In fiscal 2004, we paid approximately $12.6 million in cash
for the acquisition of Stromberg and $0.6 million of
additional purchase price related to the InterPay acquisition.

Purchases of property and equipment:

To support
our continued client and ancillary product growth, purchases of
property and equipment were made for data processing equipment
and software, and for the expansion and upgrade of various
operating facilities. In fiscal 2006, we made purchases of
property and equipment of $81.1 million, compared with
$70.7 million of purchases in fiscal 2005 and
$50.6 million of purchases in fiscal 2004. In May 2005, we
purchased a

127,000-square

-foot
facility in Rochester, New York for $10.5 million.
Construction in progress totaled $36.3 million and
$29.5 million at May 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Of these costs, $29.4 million and $18.9 million
represent software being developed for internal use at
May 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Capitalization of
costs ceases when the software is ready for its intended use, at
which time we will begin amortization of the costs.



During fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005, and fiscal 2004, we purchased
approximately $4.6 million, $2.5 million, and
$1.2 million, respectively, of data processing equipment
and software from EMC Corporation, whose Chairman, President,
and Chief Executive Officer is a member of our Board of
Directors.

Financing Cash Flow Activities

Year ended May 31,

In millions, except per share amounts




Dividends paid

$

(231.5

)

$

(193.0

)

$

(177.4

)

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

32.1

9.0

18.3

Net cash used in financing activities

$

(199.4

)

$

(184.0

)

$

(159.1

)

Cash dividends per common share

$

0.61

$

0.51

$

0.47

Dividends paid:

In October 2005, our Board of
Directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend payment
to $0.16 per share from $0.13 per share. In October
2004, our Board of Directors approved an increase in the
quarterly dividend payment to $0.13 per share from
$0.12 per share. The dividends paid as a percentage of net
income totaled 50%, 52%, and 59% in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005,
and fiscal 2004, respectively. Future dividends are dependent on
our future earnings and cash flow and are subject to the
discretion of our Board of Directors.

Proceeds from exercise of stock options:

The
increase in proceeds from the exercise of stock options in
fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal 2005 is primarily due to an
increase in the number of stock options exercised and an
increase in the average exercise price per share. The decrease
in proceeds from the exercise of stock options in fiscal 2005
compared with fiscal 2004 is primarily due to a decrease in the
number of stock options exercised. Common shares acquired
through exercise of stock options in fiscal 2006 were
1.7 million shares compared with 0.7 million shares in
fiscal 2005 and 1.3 million shares in fiscal 2004. We have
recognized a tax benefit from the exercise of stock options of
$11.6 million, $4.5 million, and $10.2 million
for fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005, and fiscal 2004, respectively.
This tax benefit reduces the accrued income tax liability and
increases additional paid-in capital, with no impact on the
expense amount for income taxes. See Note G to the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, contained in Item 8 of
this Form

10-K,

for additional disclosures on our stock option plans.

Other

New accounting pronouncements:

In December 2004,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)
issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
(“SFAS”) No. 123(R), “Share-Based
Payment,” which replaces SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” and
supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25
(“APB 25”), “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees.” This statement requires that all stock-based
payments to employees, including grants of employee stock
options, be recognized as compensation costs in the financial
statements based on their fair values measured at the date of
grant.

Prior to June 1, 2006, we had accounted for grants of
employee stock options under the intrinsic value method allowed
under APB 25 and related interpretations, and therefore had
not recognized any compensation costs for stock-based awards. As
permitted by SFAS No. 123, we presented pro forma
financial results including the effects of share-based
compensation costs in the footnotes to the financial statements.
Refer to Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
included in Item 8 of this
Form

10-K,

under
the heading “Stock-based compensation costs,” for the
pro forma results for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004.



SFAS No. 123(R) is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005 and permits adoption
using one of the following two methods:

•

Modified prospective method

, in which compensation
    costs will be recognized in our Consolidated Financial
    Statements for all awards granted after the date of adoption as
    well as for the unvested portion of existing awards as of the
    date of adoption (the “Existing Awards”), and requires
    that prior periods not be restated.

•

Modified retrospective method

, which includes the
    requirements of the modified prospective method described above
    for new awards and Existing Awards, but also permits entities to
    restate prior periods based on amounts previously determined
    under SFAS No. 123 for pro forma disclosures.

We will adopt this standard beginning June 1, 2006, using
the modified prospective method. Accordingly, the results of
operations for future periods will not be comparable to our
historical results of operations. We anticipate the adoption of
SFAS No. 123(R) will negatively impact net income in
the range of 4% to 5% in fiscal 2007, increasing our operating
expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses.

Unrecognized stock-based compensation costs related to Existing
Awards as of May 31, 2006 were approximately
$38.3 million and are expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 2.4 years. We cannot yet
estimate what the compensation cost impact will be on our
Consolidated Financial Statements for the awards that we issue
after June 1, 2006, as it will depend on the terms of any
future grants approved by the Board of Directors and the
underlying assumptions used in calculating the fair value at the
time of any such future grants. The calculation of fair value is
very sensitive to changes in the underlying assumptions,
especially volatility and expected option term life.

In addition, SFAS No. 123(R) will impact how income
taxes are recorded to our Consolidated Financial Statements, as
tax deductions for certain tax-qualified option grants
(“incentive stock options”) are allowed only at the
time a taxable disposition occurs. This may result in an
increase in our effective tax rate in the early periods after
adoption and it could cause variability in our effective tax
rate throughout a fiscal year as these events occur.

SFAS No. 123(R) also amends SFAS No. 95,
“Statement of Cash Flows,” to require that excess tax
benefits be reported as a financing cash inflow rather than a
reduction of taxes paid in operating cash flows. We cannot
estimate what the amount of excess tax deductions will be in
future periods. However, the amounts of operating cash flows
recognized in prior periods for excess tax deductions were
$11.6 million, $4.5 million, and $10.2 million
for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.

Our pro-forma disclosures under SFAS No. 123 utilized
a Black-Scholes option pricing model for valuing employee stock
options and allocated the expense using an accelerated method.
Upon adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), we will continue to
use a Black-Scholes option pricing model, but will begin to
allocate the expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite
service period as we believe this better aligns the cost with
the employee services provided.

Upon adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), we will be required
to estimate forfeitures and only record compensation costs for
those awards that are expected to vest. In our pro forma
disclosures under SFAS No. 123, we have accounted for
forfeitures as they occurred. Our assumptions for forfeitures
will be determined based on factors including type of award and
historical experience, and will be reevaluated regularly as an
award vests.

We currently offer an Employee Stock Purchase Plan to all
employees, under which stock can be purchased through a payroll
deduction with no discount to the market price and no look-back
provision. We have determined that this plan is non-compensatory
and is not subject to the provisions of
SFAS No. 123(R). Therefore, no compensation costs will
be recognized related to this plan.



The following FASB Staff Positions (“FSP”) issued
during our fiscal year ended May 31, 2006 and related to
SFAS No. 123(R) will be applied upon adoption of
SFAS No. 123(R) for our fiscal year beginning
June 1, 2006:

In October 2005, the FASB issued FSP
FAS

13-1,

“Accounting for Rental Costs Incurred During a Construction
Period.” This FSP provides that rental costs associated
with operating leases that are incurred during a construction
period should be recognized as rental expense and included in
income from continuing operations. The guidance in this FSP was
effective in the first reporting period beginning after
December 15, 2005. We have historically expensed rental
costs incurred during a construction period, and therefore, the
adoption of this FSP did not have an impact on our results of
operations or financial position.

In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS 115-1 and
FAS 124-1, “The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary
Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments.”
This FSP provides guidance on determining if an investment is
considered to be impaired, if the impairment is
other-than-temporary, and the measurement of an impairment loss.
It also includes accounting considerations subsequent to the
recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment and requires
certain disclosures about unrealized losses that have not been
recognized as other-than-temporary impairments. The guidance in
this FSP amends SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities” and was
effective for reporting periods beginning after
December 15, 2005. We account for investments in accordance
with this guidance, and therefore, the adoption of this FSP did
not have an impact on our results of operations or financial
position.

In February and March 2006, the FASB issued the following
statements amending SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” and
SFAS No. 140, “Accounting for Transfers and
Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of
Liabilities — a Replacement of FASB Statement
No. 125:”

•

SFAS No. 155, “Accounting for Certain Hybrid
    Financial Instruments — an Amendment of FASB
    Statements No. 133 and 140;” and

•

SFAS No. 156, “Accounting for Servicing of
    Financial Assets — an Amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 140.”

The guidance in these statements is effective in the first
fiscal year beginning after September 15, 2006. We do not
utilize derivative financial instruments and currently do not
have any servicing assets or servicing liabilities that would
fall under the guidance of either statement, and therefore, the
adoption of these statements will not have a material impact on
our results of operations or financial position.

Critical Accounting Policies

Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included
in Item 8 of this
Form

10-K,

discusses the significant accounting policies of Paychex, Inc.
Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and
results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial
Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The
preparation of these financial statements requires us to make
estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. On an
ongoing basis, we evaluate the accounting policies and estimates
used to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements. We base
our estimates on historical experience, future expectations,



and assumptions believed to be reasonable under current facts
and circumstances. Actual amounts and results could differ from
these estimates. Certain accounting policies that are deemed
critical to our results of operations or financial position are
discussed below.

Revenue recognition:

Service revenue is recognized
in the period services are rendered and earned under service
arrangements with clients where service fees are fixed or
determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Certain
processing services are provided under annual service
arrangements with revenue recognized ratably over the annual
service period. Our service revenue is largely attributable to
payroll-related processing services where the fee is based on a
fixed amount per processing period or a fixed amount per
processing period plus a fee per employee or transaction
processed. The revenue earned on delivery service for the
distribution of certain client payroll checks and reports is
included in service revenue, and the costs for delivery are
included in operating expenses on the Consolidated Statements of
Income.

PEO revenue is included in service revenue and is reported net
of direct costs billed and incurred, which include wages, taxes,
benefit premiums, and claims of PEO worksite employees. Direct
costs billed and incurred for PEO worksite employees were
$2,414.5 million, $2,230.8 million, and
$1,846.1 million for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004,
respectively.

Revenue from certain time and attendance solutions is recognized
using the residual method when all of the following are present:
persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, typically a
non-cancelable sales order; delivery is complete for the
software and hardware; the fee is fixed or determinable and free
of contingencies; and collectibility is reasonably assured.
Maintenance contracts are generally purchased by our clients in
conjunction with their purchase of certain time and attendance
solutions. Revenue from these maintenance contracts is
recognized ratably over the term of the contract.

Interest on funds held for clients is earned primarily on funds
that are collected from clients before due dates for payroll tax
administration services and for employee payment services, and
invested until remittance to the applicable tax or regulatory
agencies or client employees. These collections from clients are
typically remitted between one and thirty days after receipt,
with some items extending to ninety days. The interest earned on
these funds is included in total revenue on the Consolidated
Statements of Income because the collection, holding, and
remittance of these funds are critical components of providing
these services. Interest on funds held for clients also includes
net realized gains and losses from the sales of
available-for-sale securities.

PEO workers’ compensation insurance:

Workers’ compensation insurance reserves are established to
provide for the estimated costs of paying claims underwritten by
us. These reserves include estimates for reported losses, plus
amounts for those claims incurred but not reported and estimates
of certain expenses associated with processing and settling the
claims. In establishing the workers’ compensation insurance
reserves, we utilize an independent actuarial estimate of
undiscounted future cash payments that would be made to settle
the claims.

Estimating the ultimate cost of future claims is an uncertain
and complex process based upon historical loss experience and
actuarial loss projections, and is subject to change due to
multiple factors, including social and economic trends, changes
in legal liability law, and damage awards, all of which could
materially impact the reserves as reported in the Consolidated
Financial Statements. Accordingly, final claim settlements may
vary from our present estimates, particularly when those
payments may not occur until well into the future.

We regularly review the adequacy of our estimated workers’
compensation insurance reserves. Adjustments to previously
established reserves are reflected in the operating results of
the period in which the adjustment is identified. Such
adjustments could possibly be significant, reflecting any
variety of new and adverse or favorable trends.

In fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, workers’ compensation
insurance for PEO worksite employees was provided based on
claims paid as incurred. Our maximum individual claims liability
was $750,000 under the fiscal 2006 policy and $500,000 under the
fiscal 2005 policy.



We had recorded the following amounts on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets for workers’ compensation claims as of
May 31:

Prepaid

Current

Long-term

In thousands

expense

liability

liability


$

3,150

$

7,061

$

18,374


$

3,702

$

7,164

$

13,963

Valuation of investments:

Our investments in
available-for-sale securities are reported at market value.
Unrealized gains related to increases in the market value of
investments and unrealized losses related to decreases in the
market value are included in comprehensive income, net of tax,
as reported on our Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
Equity. However, changes in the market value of investments
impact our net income only when such investments are sold or
impairment is recognized. Realized gains and losses on the sale
of securities are determined by specific identification of the
security’s cost basis. On our Consolidated Statements of
Income, realized gains and losses from funds held for clients
are included in interest on funds held for clients, whereas
realized gains and losses from corporate investments are
included in investment income, net.

We are exposed to credit risk in connection with our
available-for-sale securities from the possible inability of
borrowers to meet the terms of their bonds. We attempt to
mitigate this risk by investing primarily in high credit quality
securities, AAA- and AA-rated securities, and A-1-rated
short-term securities. We periodically review our investment
portfolio to determine if any investment is
other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or
other potential valuation concerns, which would require us to
record an impairment charge in the period any such determination
is made. In making this judgment, we evaluate, among other
things, the duration and extent to which the market value of an
investment is less than its cost, the credit rating and any
changes in credit rating for the investment, and our ability and
intent to hold the investment until the earlier of market price
recovery or maturity. Our assessment that an investment is not
other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due
to new developments or changes in our strategies or assumption
related to any particular investment.

Goodwill and intangible assets:

For business
combinations, we assign estimated fair values to all assets and
liabilities acquired, including intangible assets, such as
customer lists, certain license agreements, trade names, and
non-compete agreements. The assignment of fair values to
acquired assets and liabilities and the determination of useful
lives for depreciable and amortizable assets requires
significant estimates, judgments, and assumptions. For certain
fixed assets, including software and intangible assets, we
utilize the assistance of independent valuation consultants. The
remaining purchase price of the acquired business not assigned
to identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill.

We have $405.8 million of goodwill recorded on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet at May 31, 2006, resulting from
acquisitions in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004.
SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets,” requires that goodwill not be amortized, but
instead tested for impairment on an annual basis and between
annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change in a way
to indicate that there has been a potential decline in the fair
value of the reporting unit. Impairment is determined by
comparing the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to its
carrying amount, including goodwill. We perform our annual
review at the beginning of the fourth fiscal quarter. Our
business is largely homogeneous and, as a result, substantially
all of the goodwill is associated with one reporting unit. Based
on the results of our goodwill impairment review, no impairment
loss was recognized in the results of operations for fiscal 2006
or fiscal 2005. Subsequent to this review, there have been no
events or circumstances that indicate any potential impairment
of our goodwill balance.

We also test intangible assets for potential impairment when
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may not be recoverable.

Accrual for client fund losses:

We maintain an
accrual for estimated losses associated with our clients’
inability to meet their payroll obligations. As part of
providing payroll, payroll tax administration services, and
employee payment services, we are authorized by the client to
initiate money transfers from the client’s



account for the amount of tax obligations and employees’
direct deposits. Electronic money fund transfers from client
bank accounts are subject to potential risk of loss resulting
from clients’ insufficient funds to cover such transfers.
We evaluate certain uncollected amounts on a specific basis and
analyze historical experience for amounts not specifically
reviewed to determine the likelihood of recovery from the
clients.

Contingent liabilities:

We are subject to various
claims and legal matters that arise in the normal course of
business. At May 31, 2006, we had approximately
$15.6 million of reserves for pending legal matters. Based
on the application of SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for
Contingencies,” which requires us to record a reserve if we
believe an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the
probable loss can be reasonably estimated, we deem this amount
adequate. The determination of whether any particular matter
involves a probable loss or if the amount of a probable loss can
be reasonably estimated requires considerable judgment. This
reserve may change in the future due to new developments or
changes in our strategies or assumptions related to any
particular matter. In light of the legal reserve recorded, we
currently believe that resolution of these matters will not have
a material adverse effect on our financial position or results
of operations. However, these matters are subject to inherent
uncertainties and there exists the possibility that the ultimate
resolution of these matters could have a material adverse impact
on our financial position and our results of operations in the
period in which any such effect is recorded. For additional
information regarding pending legal matters, refer to
Note L in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
contained in Item 8 of this
Form

10-K.

Income taxes:

We account for deferred taxes by
recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the
expected future tax consequences of events that have been
included in our financial statements or tax returns. Under this
method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based
on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis
of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for
the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. We
account for the tax benefit from the exercise of non-qualified
stock options by reducing our accrued income tax liability and
increasing additional paid-in capital.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk

Market Risk Factors

Changes in interest rates and interest rate risk:

Funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term
funds and available-for-sale securities and corporate
investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale
securities. As a result of our operating and investing
activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may
materially affect our results of operations and financial
position. Changes in interest rates will impact the earnings
potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in
the market value of our longer-term available-for-sale
securities. In seeking to minimize the risks and/or costs
associated with such activities, we generally direct investments
towards high credit quality, fixed-rate municipal and government
securities and manage the available-for-sale securities to a
benchmark duration of two and one-half to three years. We do not
utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest
rate risk.

Our investment portfolios and the earnings from these portfolios
have been impacted by the fluctuations in interest rates. The
Federal Funds rate has increased to 5.00% as of May 31,
2006. During fiscal 2006, the average interest rate earned on
our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment
portfolios was 3.2% compared with 2.2% for fiscal 2005 and 1.8%
for fiscal 2004. Short-term rates rose steadily throughout
fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2005, longer-term rates,
on average, were basically unchanged from fiscal 2004, but have
risen steadily in fiscal 2006. While short-term and long-term
interest rates generally move in the same direction, there are
certain economic and liquidity conditions that will affect this
relationship. While interest rates are rising, the full benefit
of higher interest rates will not immediately be reflected in
net income due to the interaction of long- and short-term
interest rate changes as discussed below. The Federal Funds rate
decreased from 6.50% at May 31, 2000 to 1.00% at
May 31, 2004. The decreasing interest rate environment
experienced through fiscal 2004 negatively affected net income
growth. During fiscal 2004, the decreasing rate environment
generated significant unrealized gains for our longer-term
available-for-sale securities and we were able to mitigate some
of the impact of lower interest rates on earnings by realizing
gains from sales of our investments.



Increases in interest rates increase earnings from our
short-term investments, and over time will increase earnings
from our longer-term available-for-sale securities. Earnings
from the available-for-sale securities, which currently have an
average duration of 2.0 years excluding the impact of
auction rate securities and VRDNs that are tied to short-term
interest rates, will not reflect increases in interest rates
until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are
reinvested at higher rates. An increasing interest rate
environment will generally result in a decrease in the market
value of our investment portfolio.

The cost and market value of available-for-sale securities that
have stated maturities at May 31, 2006 are shown below by
contractual maturity. Expected maturities will differ from
contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to
prepay obligations without prepayment penalties.

May 31, 2006

In thousands

Cost

Market value

Maturity date:

Due in one year or less

$

545,046

$

542,178

Due after one year through three years

688,411

678,728

Due after three years through five years

282,107

276,241

Due after five years

2,356,196

2,352,513

Total available-for-sale securities

$

3,871,760

$

3,849,660

VRDNs and auction rate securities are primarily categorized as
due after five years in the table above as the contractual
maturities on these securities is typically twenty to thirty
years. Although these securities are issued as long-term
securities, both are priced and traded as short-term instruments
because of the liquidity provided through the auction or tender
feature.

The following table summarizes the changes in the Federal Funds
rate over the past three fiscal years:

The Federal Funds rate was increased to 5.25% on June 29,
2006.

Calculating the future effects of changing interest rates
involves many factors. These factors include, but are not
limited to, daily interest rate changes, seasonal variations in
investment balances, actual duration of short-term and
available-for-sale securities, the proportional mix of taxable
and tax-exempt investments, and changes in tax-exempt municipal
rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not
synchronized or simultaneous. Subject to these factors, a
25-basis-point change in taxable interest rates generally
affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately
17 basis points.

Our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and
corporate investments) averaged approximately $3.9 billion
for the full year ended May 31, 2006. Our normal and
anticipated allocation is approximately 60% invested in
short-term securities and available-for-sale securities that are
priced and traded as short-term securities (auction rate
securities and VRDNs) with an average duration of thirty-five
days, and 40% invested in other available-for-sale securities
with an average duration of two and one-half to three years.
Based on these current assumptions, we estimate that the
earnings effect of a 25-basis-point change in interest rates



(17 basis points for tax-exempt investments) at the
beginning of fiscal 2007 would be approximately
$4.5 million to $5.0 million for fiscal 2007.

The combined funds held for clients and corporate
available-for-sale securities reflected a net unrealized loss of
$22.0 million at May 31, 2006, compared with a net
unrealized loss of $9.9 million at May 31, 2005, and a
net unrealized loss of $4.2 million at May 31, 2004.
During fiscal 2006, the net unrealized gain or loss position
ranged from a net unrealized loss of $25.2 million to
$6.1 million. During fiscal 2005, the net unrealized gain
or loss position ranged from approximately $14.4 million
net unrealized loss to $10.6 million net unrealized gain.
The net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolios
was approximately $23.9 million at July 20, 2006.

As of May 31, 2006 and May 31, 2005, we had
$3.9 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, invested
in available-for-sale securities at market value. Excluding
auction rate securities and VRDNs classified as
available-for-sale securities which are tied to short-term
interest rates, the weighted average yields to maturity were
3.0% and 2.6%, as of May 31, 2006 and May 31, 2005,
respectively. Assuming a hypothetical increase in both
short-term and longer-term interest rates of 25 basis
points, the resulting potential decrease in market value for our
portfolio of securities at May 31, 2006, would be
approximately $8.5 million. Conversely, a corresponding
decrease in interest rates would result in a comparable increase
in market value. This hypothetical decrease or increase in the
market value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment
to the portfolio’s recorded value, with an offsetting
amount recorded in stockholders’ equity and with no related
or immediate impact on the results of operations.

Credit risk:

We are exposed to credit risk in
connection with these investments through the possible inability
of the borrowers to meet the terms of the bonds. We attempt to
limit credit risk by investing primarily in AAA-and AA-rated
securities and A-1- rated short-term securities, and by limiting
amounts that can be invested in any single issuer.



Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data




REPORT ON MANAGEMENT’S ASSESSMENT OF

INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

Management of Paychex, Inc. (the “Company”) is
responsible for establishing and maintaining an adequate system
of internal control over financial reporting as such term is
defined in
Rules

13a-15(f)

and

15d-15(f)

under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company’s
internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of the Consolidated Financial
Statements. Our internal control over financial reporting is
supported by a program of internal audits and appropriate
reviews by management, written policies and guidelines, careful
selection and training of qualified personnel, and a written
Code of Business Conduct adopted by our Company’s Board of
Directors, applicable to all Company Directors and all officers
and employees of our Company.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements and
even when determined to be effective, can only provide
reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement
preparation and presentation. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the
risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.

The Audit Committee of our Company’s Board of Directors
meets with the independent public accountants, management, and
internal auditors periodically to discuss internal control over
financial reporting and auditing and financial reporting
matters. The Audit Committee reviews with the independent public
accountants the scope and results of the audit effort. The Audit
Committee also meets periodically with the independent public
accountants and the chief internal auditor without management
present to ensure that the independent public accountants and
the chief internal auditor have free access to the Audit
Committee. The Audit Committee’s Report can be found in the
Definitive Proxy Statement to be issued in connection with the
Company’s 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of May 31,
2006. In making this assessment, management used the criteria
set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission in

Internal Control —
Integrated Framework.

Based on our assessment, management
believes that the Company maintained effective internal control
over financial reporting as of May 31, 2006.

The Company’s independent public accountants,
Ernst & Young LLP, a registered public accounting firm,
are appointed by its Audit Committee. Ernst & Young LLP
has audited and reported on the Consolidated Financial
Statements of Paychex, Inc., management’s assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting and the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting. The reports of the
independent public accountants are contained in this Annual
Report on
Form

10-K.

/s/ Jonathan J. Judge

Jonathan
    J. Judge

President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ John M. Morphy

John
    M. Morphy

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Secretary



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Audit Committee of the Board of Directors

and the Stockholders of Paychex, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Paychex, Inc. as of May 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity,
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
May 31, 2006. Our audits also included the financial
statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15(a). These
financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of
Paychex, Inc.’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule
based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
consolidated financial position of Paychex, Inc. at May 31,
2006 and 2005, and the consolidated results of its operations
and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended May 31, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the
related financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set
forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
effectiveness of Paychex, Inc.’s internal control over
financial reporting as of May 31, 2006, based on criteria
established in

Internal Control — Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
July 13, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Cleveland, Ohio

July 13, 2006



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

ON EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING

Audit Committee of the Board of Directors

and the Stockholders of Paychex, Inc.

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the
accompanying Report on Management’s Assessment of Internal
Control over Financial Reporting, that Paychex, Inc. (the
Company) maintained effective internal control over financial
reporting as of May 31, 2006, based on criteria established
in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Paychex Inc.’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment about
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s
assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting based
on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design
and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that Paychex, Inc.
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting
as of May 31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material
respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion,
Paychex, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of May 31,
2006, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated balance sheets of Paychex, Inc. as of May 31,
2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of
income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended May 31, 2006, and our
report dated July 13, 2006, expressed an unqualified
opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Cleveland, Ohio

July 13, 2006



PAYCHEX, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

In thousands, except per share amounts

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



PAYCHEX, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

In thousands, except per share amount

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



PAYCHEX, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

In thousands

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



PAYCHEX, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

In thousands

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note A — Description of Business and
Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Business:

Paychex, Inc. and its
wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company” or
“Paychex”) is a leading provider of comprehensive
payroll and integrated human resource and employee benefits
outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses in
the United States (“U.S.”). The Company also has
approximately 500 clients in Germany. The Company, a Delaware
corporation, reports one segment based upon the provision of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”)
No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise
and Related Information.”

Total revenue is comprised of service revenue and interest on
funds held for clients. Service revenue is comprised of the
Payroll and Human Resource Services product and service lines.
Payroll service revenue is earned primarily from payroll
processing, payroll tax administration services, employee
payment services, and other ancillary services.

Payroll processing services include the calculation,
preparation, and delivery of employee payroll checks; production
of internal accounting records and management reports; the
preparation of federal, state, and local payroll tax returns;
and collection and remittance of payroll obligations for small-
to medium-sized businesses.

In connection with the automated payroll tax administration
services, the Company collects payroll taxes electronically from
clients’ bank accounts, typically on payday, prepares and
files the applicable tax returns, and remits taxes to the
applicable tax or regulatory agencies on their due dates. These
collections from clients are typically paid between one and
thirty days after receipt, with some items extending to ninety
days. The Company handles all regulatory correspondence,
amendments, and penalty and interest disputes, and is subject to
cash penalties imposed by tax or regulatory agencies for late
filings and late or under payment of taxes. With employee
payment services, employers are offered the option of paying
their employees by direct deposit, Paychex Access
Visa

®

Card, a check drawn on a Paychex account
(Readychex

®

),
or a check drawn on the employer’s account and
electronically signed by Paychex. For the first three methods,
net payroll is collected electronically from the clients’
bank account, typically one day before payday, and provides
payment to the employee on payday. In connection with both the
payroll tax administration and employee payment services,
authorized electronic money transfers from client bank accounts
are subject to potential risk of loss resulting from
insufficient funds to cover such transfers.

In addition to service fees paid by clients, the Company earns
interest on funds held for clients that are collected before due
dates and invested until remittance to the applicable tax or
regulatory agencies or client employees. The funds held for
clients and related client deposit liability are included in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets as current assets and current
liabilities. The amount of funds held for clients and related
client deposit liability varies significantly during the year.

The Human Resource Services product and service line provides
small- to medium-sized businesses with retirement services
administration, workers’ compensation insurance
administration, employee benefits administration, group health
benefits, and state unemployment insurance. The Company’s
Paychex
Premier

sm

Human Resource Services (“Paychex Premier”) product
provides a combined package of services that include payroll,
employer compliance, human resource and employee benefits
administration, risk management outsourcing, and the on-site
availability of a professionally trained human resource
representative. This comprehensive bundle of services is
designed to make it easier for businesses to manage their
payroll and related benefits costs while providing a benefits
package equal to that of larger companies. The Company also
operates a Professional Employer Organization (“PEO”),
which provides primarily the same package of services as the
Paychex Premier product, except Paychex serves as a co-employer
of the clients’ employees, assumes the risks and rewards of
workers’ compensation insurance, and provides more
sophisticated health care offerings to PEO clients. The Company
makes available time and attendance solutions to larger
companies, and offers solutions to small- to medium-sized
businesses through Time In A
Box

®

.



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Principles of consolidation:

The Consolidated
Financial Statements include the accounts of Paychex, Inc. and
its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Cash and cash equivalents:

Cash and cash
equivalents consist of available cash, money market securities,
and other investments with a maturity of three months or less at
the Balance Sheet date. Amounts reported in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets approximate fair value.

Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful
accounts:

Accounts receivable balances are shown on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets net of the allowance for doubtful
accounts of $2.5 million at both May 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively. Amounts reported in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets approximate fair values. No single client has a material
impact on total accounts receivable, service revenue, or results
of operations.

Funds held for clients and corporate investments:

Marketable securities included in funds held for clients and
corporate investments consist primarily of securities classified
as available-for-sale and are recorded at market value obtained
from an independent pricing service. Funds held for clients also
include cash, money market securities, and short-term
investments. Unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable
income taxes, are reported as comprehensive income in the
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity. Realized
gains and losses on the sales of securities are determined by
specific identification of the cost basis of each security. On
the Consolidated Statements of Income, realized gains and losses
from funds held for clients are included in interest on funds
held for clients and realized gains and losses from corporate
investments are included in investment income, net.

Concentrations:

Substantially all of the
Company’s deposited cash is maintained at two large
credit-worthy financial institutions. These deposits may exceed
the amount of any insurance provided. All of the Company’s
deliverable securities are held in custody with one of the two
aforementioned financial institutions, for which that
institution bears the risk of custodial loss. Non-deliverable
securities, primarily time deposits and money market securities,
are restricted to credit-worthy broker-dealers and financial
institutions.

Property and equipment, net of accumulated
depreciation:

Property and equipment is stated at cost,
less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is
based on the estimated useful lives of property and equipment
using the straight-line method. The estimated useful lives of
depreciable assets are generally ten to thirty-five years, or
the remaining life, whichever is shorter, for buildings and
improvements, two to seven years for data processing equipment,
three to five years for software, seven years for furniture and
fixtures, and ten years or the life of the lease, whichever is
shorter, for leasehold improvements. Normal and recurring repair
and maintenance costs are charged to expense as incurred. The
Company reviews the carrying value of property and equipment,
including capitalized software, for impairment when events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of
such assets may not be recoverable.

Software development and enhancements:

Expenditures for software purchases and software developed for
internal use are capitalized and depreciated on a straight-line
basis over the estimated useful lives, which are generally three
to five years, except for substantial changes in the
functionality of processing applications, for which the
estimated useful life may be longer. For software developed for
internal use, costs are capitalized in accordance with Statement
of Position 98-1, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer
Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.”
Capitalized internal use software costs include external direct
costs of materials and services associated with developing or
obtaining the software, and payroll and payroll-related costs
for employees who are directly associated with internal-use
software projects. Capitalization of these costs ceases no later
than the point at which the project is substantially complete
and ready for its intended use. Costs associated with
preliminary project stage activities, training, maintenance, and
other post-implementation stage activities are expensed as
incurred. The carrying value of software and development costs,
along with other long-lived assets, is reviewed for impairment
when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable.



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated
amortization:

The Company has recorded goodwill in
connection with the acquisitions of businesses during the years
ended May 31, 2003 (“fiscal 2003”) and
May 31, 2004 (“fiscal 2004”). See Note B of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in
Item 8 of this
Form

10-K,

for
further discussion on the fiscal 2004 acquisition. Under the
provisions of SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,” goodwill is tested for impairment on an
annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or
circumstances change in a way to indicate a potential decline in
the fair value of the reporting unit. Impairment is determined
by comparing the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to
its carrying amount, including goodwill. The Company’s
business is largely homogeneous, and as a result, substantially
all the goodwill is associated with one reporting unit. The
Company performs its annual impairment testing in the fourth
fiscal quarter. Based on the Company’s review, no
impairment loss was recognized in the results of operations for
the year ended May 31, 2006 (“fiscal 2006”) or
the year ended May 31, 2005 (“fiscal 2005”).

Intangible assets are primarily comprised of client list
acquisitions and license agreements with independently owned
associate offices and are reported net of accumulated
amortization on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Intangible
assets are amortized over periods generally ranging from five to
twelve years using either straight-line or accelerated methods.
The Company tests intangible assets for impairment when events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may
not be recoverable.

Other long-term assets:

Other long-term assets are
primarily related to the Company’s investment as a limited
partner in various low-income housing partnerships. These
partnerships were determined to be variable interest entities as
defined by Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) Interpretation No. 46,
“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” The
Company is not the primary beneficiary of these variable
interest entities and, therefore, does not consolidate them in
its results of operations and financial position. The
investments in these partnerships are accounted for under the
equity method, with the Company’s share of partnership
losses recorded in investment income, net on the Consolidated
Statements of Income. The net investment in these entities
recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets was
$4.5 million at May 31, 2006 and $5.2 million at
May 31, 2005.

Revenue recognition:

Service revenue is recognized
in the period services are rendered and earned under service
arrangements with clients where service fees are fixed or
determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Certain
processing services are provided under annual service
arrangements with revenue recognized ratably over the annual
service period. The Company’s service revenue is largely
attributable to payroll-related processing services where the
fee is based on a fixed amount per processing period or a fixed
amount per processing period plus a fee per employee or
transaction processed. The revenue earned from delivery service
for the distribution of certain client payroll checks and
reports is included in service revenue, and the costs for the
delivery are included in operating expenses on the Consolidated
Statements of Income.

PEO revenue is included in service revenue and is reported net
of direct costs billed and incurred, which include wages, taxes,
benefit premiums, and claims of PEO worksite employees. Direct
costs billed and incurred were $2,414.5 million,
$2,230.8 million, and $1,846.1 million for fiscal
2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.

Revenue from certain time and attendance solutions is recognized
using the residual method when all of the following are present:
persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, typically a
non-cancelable sales order; delivery is complete for the
software and hardware; the fee is fixed or determinable and free
of contingencies; and collectibility is reasonably assured.
Maintenance contracts are generally purchased by the
Company’s clients in conjunction with their purchase of the
related time and attendance solutions. Revenue from these
maintenance contracts is recognized ratably over the term of the
contract.

Interest on funds held for clients is earned primarily on funds
that are collected from clients before due dates for payroll tax
administration services and employee payment services, and
invested until remittance to



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

the applicable tax or regulatory agencies or client employees.
These collections from clients are typically remitted between
one and thirty days after receipt, with some items extending to
ninety days. The interest earned on these funds is included in
total revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Income because
the collection, holding, and remittance of these funds are
critical components of providing these services. Interest on
funds held for clients also includes net realized gains and
losses from the sales of available-for-sale securities.

Advantage Payroll Services, Inc. (“Advantage”), a
subsidiary of the Company, has license agreements with fifteen
independently owned associate offices (“Associates”).
The Associates are responsible for selling and marketing
Advantage payroll services and performing certain operational
functions. Paychex and Advantage provide all centralized
back-office payroll processing and payroll tax administration
services for the Associates, including the billing and
collection of processing fees and the collection and remittance
of payroll and payroll tax funds pursuant to Advantage’s
service arrangement with Associate customers. The marketing and
selling by the Associates is conducted under their respective
logos. Commissions earned by the Associates are based on the
processing activity for the related clients. Revenue generated
from customers as a result of these relationships and
commissions paid to Associates are included in the Consolidated
Statements of Income as service revenue and selling, general and
administrative expense, respectively.

PEO workers’ compensation insurance:

Workers’ compensation insurance reserves are established to
provide for the estimated costs of paying claims underwritten by
the Company. These reserves include estimates for reported
losses, plus amounts for those claims incurred but not reported
and estimates of certain expenses associated with processing and
settling the claims. In establishing the workers’
compensation insurance reserves, the Company utilizes an
independent actuarial estimate of undiscounted future cash
payments that would be made to settle the claims.

Estimating the ultimate cost of future claims is an uncertain
and complex process based upon historical loss experience and
independent actuarial loss projections, and is subject to change
due to multiple factors, including social and economic trends,
changes in legal liability law, and damage awards, all of which
could materially impact the reserves as reported in the
Consolidated Financial Statements. Accordingly, final claim
settlements may vary from the present estimates, particularly
when those payments may not occur until well into the future.

The Company regularly reviews the adequacy of its estimated
workers’ compensation insurance reserves. Adjustments to
previously established reserves are reflected in the operating
results of the period in which the adjustment is identified.
Such adjustments could possibly be significant, reflecting any
variety of new and adverse or favorable trends.

In fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, workers’ compensation
insurance for PEO worksite employees was provided based on
claims paid as incurred. The Company’s maximum individual
claims liability was $750,000 under its fiscal 2006 policy and
$500,000 under the fiscal 2005 policy.

The Company had recorded the following amounts on its
Consolidated Balance Sheets for workers’ compensation
claims as of May 31:

Prepaid

Current

Long-term

In thousands

expense

liability

liability


$

3,150

$

7,061

$

18,374


$

3,702

$

7,164

$

13,963

The amount included in prepaid expense on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets relates to the fiscal 2004 policy, which was a
pre-funded policy.

Other insurance:

The Company’s captive
insurance company provides insurance coverage to Paychex in
addition to primary insurance policies purchased by Paychex. The
coverage provided includes gap coverage for



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

employment practices liability, errors and omissions, warranty
liability, acts of terrorism, capacity for deductibles, and
self-insured retentions.

Income taxes:

The Company accounts for deferred
taxes by recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for
the expected future tax consequences of events that have been
included in the financial statements or tax returns. Under this
method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based
on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis
of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for
the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The
Company accounts for the tax benefit from the exercise of
non-qualified stock options by reducing its accrued income tax
liability and increasing additional paid-in capital.

Stock-based compensation costs:

SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,” establishes accounting and reporting
standards for stock-based employee compensation plans. As
permitted by SFAS No. 123, the Company accounts for
such arrangements under Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 25 (“APB 25”), “Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees,” and related interpretations.
Accordingly, no compensation expense is recognized for stock
option grants because the exercise price of the stock options
equals the market price of the underlying stock on the date of
the grant.

The following table illustrates the pro forma effect on net
income and earnings per share as if the Company had applied the
fair value recognition provision of SFAS No. 123 to
stock-based compensation:

For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value
of the stock option is amortized to expense over the
option’s vesting period. The weighted-average fair value of
stock options granted for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 was
$11.10, $9.02, and $9.61 per share, respectively. The fair
value of these stock options was estimated at the date of the
grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the
following weighted-average assumptions:

Year ended May 31,




Risk-free interest rate

4.0

%

3.6

%

2.8

%

Dividend yield

1.6

%

1.6

%

1.4

%

Volatility factor

.31

.31

.33

Expected option term life in years

6.4

5.0

4.7

Additional information related to the Company’s stock
option plans is detailed in Note G of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Use of estimates:

The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates,
judgments, and assumptions that affect reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual amounts and results could differ from these
estimates.

New accounting pronouncements:

In December 2004,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R), “Share-Based
Payment,” which replaces SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” and
supersedes APB 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees.” This statement requires that all stock-based
payments to employees, including grants of employee stock
options, be recognized as compensation costs in the financial
statements based on their fair values measured at the date of
grant.

Prior to June 1, 2006, the Company had accounted for grants
of employee stock options under the intrinsic value method
allowed under APB 25 and related interpretations, and
therefore had not recognized any compensation costs for
stock-based awards. As permitted by SFAS No. 123, the
Company presented pro forma financial results including the
effects of share-based compensation costs in this Note A to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

SFAS No. 123(R) is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005 and permits adoption
using one of the following two methods:

•

Modified prospective method

,

in which compensation
    costs will be recognized in the Company’s Consolidated
    Financial Statements for all awards granted after the date of
    adoption as well as for the unvested portion of existing awards
    as of the date of adoption (the “Existing Awards”),
    and requires that prior periods not be restated.

•

Modified retrospective method

,

which includes the
    requirements of the modified prospective method described above
    for new awards and Existing Awards, but also permits entities to
    restate prior periods based on amounts previously determined
    under SFAS No. 123 for pro forma disclosures.

The Company will adopt this standard beginning June 1,
2006, using the modified prospective method. Accordingly, the
results of operations for future periods will not be comparable
to the Company’s historical results of operations. Paychex
anticipates the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) will
negatively impact net income in the range of 4% to 5% for the
fiscal year ending May 31, 2007, increasing the
Company’s operating expenses and selling, general and
administrative expenses.

Unrecognized stock-based compensation costs related to Existing
Awards as of May 31, 2006 were approximately
$38.3 million and are expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 2.4 years. The Company cannot
yet estimate what the compensation cost impact will be on the
financial statements for the awards that the Company issues
after June 1, 2006, as it will depend on the terms of any
future grants approved by the Board of Directors and the
underlying assumptions used in calculating the fair value at the
time of any such future grants. The calculation of fair value is
very sensitive to changes in the underlying assumptions,
especially volatility and expected option term life.

In addition, SFAS No. 123(R) will impact how income
taxes are recorded to the Company’s Consolidated Financial
Statements, as tax deductions for certain tax-qualified option
grants (“incentive stock options”) are allowed only at
the time a taxable disposition occurs. This may result in an
increase in the Company’s effective tax rate in the early
periods after adoption and it could cause variability in the
Company’s effective tax rate throughout a fiscal year as
these events occur.

SFAS No. 123(R) also amends SFAS No. 95,
“Statement of Cash Flows,” to require that excess tax
benefits be reported as a financing cash inflow rather than a
reduction of taxes paid in operating cash flows. The Company
cannot estimate what the amount of excess tax deductions will be
in future periods. However, the amounts of operating cash flows
recognized in prior periods for excess tax deductions were
$11.6 million, $4.5 million, and $10.2 million
for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Company’s pro-forma disclosures under
SFAS No. 123 utilized a Black-Scholes option pricing
model for valuing employee stock options and allocated the
expense using an accelerated method. Upon adoption of
SFAS No. 123(R), Paychex will continue to use a
Black-Scholes option pricing model, but will begin to allocate
the expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service
period to better reflect the cost of employee services provided.

Upon adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), Paychex will be
required to estimate forfeitures and only record compensation
costs for those awards that are expected to vest. In the
Company’s pro forma disclosures under
SFAS No. 123, it has accounted for forfeitures as they
occurred. Assumptions for forfeitures will be determined based
on factors including type of award and historical experience,
and will be reevaluated regularly as an award vests.

Paychex currently offers an Employee Stock Purchase Plan to all
employees, under which stock can be purchased through a payroll
deduction with no discount to the market price and no look-back
provision. The Company has determined that this plan is
non-compensatory and is not subject to the provisions of
SFAS No. 123(R). Therefore, no compensation cost will
be recognized related to this plan.

The following FASB Staff Positions (“FSP”) issued
during the Company’s fiscal year ended May 31, 2006
and related to SFAS No. 123(R) will be applied upon
adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) for the Company’s
fiscal year beginning June 1, 2006:

In October 2005, the FASB issued FSP
FAS

13-1,

“Accounting for Rental Costs Incurred During a Construction
Period.” This FSP provides that rental costs associated
with operating leases that are incurred during a construction
period should be recognized as rental expense and included in
income from continuing operations. The guidance in this FSP was
effective in the first reporting period beginning after
December 15, 2005. The Company has historically expensed
rental costs incurred during a construction period, and
therefore, the adoption of this FSP did not have an impact on
the Company’s results of operations or financial position.

In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS 115-1 and
FAS 124-1, “The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary
Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments.”
This FSP provides guidance on determining if an investment is
considered to be impaired, if the impairment is
other-than-temporary, and the measurement of an impairment loss.
It also includes accounting considerations subsequent to the
recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment and requires
certain disclosures about unrealized losses that have not been
recognized as other-than-temporary impairments. The guidance in
this FSP amends SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” and was
effective for reporting periods beginning after
December 15, 2005. The Company accounts for investments in
accordance with this guidance, and therefore, the adoption of
this FSP did not have an impact on the Company’s results of
operations or financial position.

In February and March 2006, the FASB issued the following
statements amending SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” and
SFAS No. 140, “Accounting for



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments
of Liabilities — a Replacement of FASB Statement
No. 125:”

•

SFAS No. 155, “Accounting for Certain Hybrid
    Financial Instruments  — an Amendment of FASB
    Statements No. 133 and 140;” and

•

SFAS No. 156, “Accounting for Servicing of
    Financial Assets — an Amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 140.”

The guidance in these statements is effective in the first
fiscal year beginning after September 15, 2006. The Company
does not utilize derivative financial instruments and currently
does not have any servicing assets or servicing liabilities that
would fall under the guidance of either statement, and
therefore, the adoption of these statements will not have a
material impact on the Company’s results of operations or
financial position.

Reclassifications:

Certain prior periods presented
reflect the change in classification of variable rate demand
notes (“VRDNs”) and auction rate securities from cash
equivalents to available-for-sale securities. This
reclassification had no impact on reported consolidated earnings.

VRDNs are variable rate securities where the interest rate is
periodically reset, as established at the time of the notes
issuance, and is often tied to short-term interest rates.
However, the contractual maturity on these notes is typically
twenty to thirty years. The Company invests in these securities
to provide near-term liquidity as it can tender the notes at par
to a remarketing agent either daily or within five business
days. Auction rate securities are also variable rate and tied to
short-term interest rates with maturities in excess of ninety
days. Interest rates on these securities reset through a Dutch
auction, at predetermined short-term intervals, usually every
seven, twenty-eight, thirty-five, or forty-nine days. Interest
paid during a given period is based upon the interest rate
determined during the prior auction. Although VRDNs and auction
rate securities are issued as long-term securities, both are
priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the
liquidity provided through the auction or tender feature. The
Company has historically classified these securities as cash
equivalents if the period between interest rate resets was
ninety days or less.

Based on the Company’s review of the maturity dates
associated with the underlying securities and as liquidity is
provided by a party other than the original issuer, the Company
has reclassified VRDNs and auction rate securities to
available-for-sale securities, within corporate investments and
funds held for clients, for each of the periods presented in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. This reclassification
was $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion from cash
equivalents to available-for-sale securities within funds held
for clients as of May 31, 2006 and May 31, 2005,
respectively, and $263.5 million and $203.3 million
from cash and cash equivalents to corporate investments as of
May 31, 2006 and May 31, 2005, respectively. In
addition, “Purchases of available-for-sale
securities,” “Proceeds from sales and maturities of
available-for-sale securities,” “Net change in funds
held for clients’ money market securities and other cash
equivalents,” and “Net realized gains on sales of
available-for-sale securities” included in the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, have been revised to
reflect the purchase and sale of VRDNs and auction rate
securities during the periods presented.

Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform
to the current period presentation. These reclassifications had
no effect on reported consolidated earnings. Expenses have been
reclassified between operating expenses and selling, general and
administrative expenses to more appropriately reflect the
Company’s current way of conducting business. The role of
the branch and its relationship to corporate support and
information technology functions has evolved to the point where
the classification of branch-related expenses needed to be
revised. The new classification provides better year-over-year
comparisons for operating expenses and selling, general and
administrative expenses.



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note B — Business Combinations

As a result of acquisitions in fiscal 2003, the Company recorded
reserves for severance and redundant lease costs in the
allocation of purchase price under Emerging Issues Task Force
95-3, “Recognition of Liabilities in Connection With a
Purchase Combination.” The purchase price allocation for
the acquisitions included reserves of $10.0 million for
severance and $5.9 million for redundant lease costs.
Activity for fiscal 2006 for these reserves is summarized as
follows:

Balance at

Other

Balance at

May 31,

Utilization

reserve

May 31,

In thousands


of reserve

adjustments


Severance costs

$


$


$

—

$


Redundant lease costs

$

2,490

$


$


$

1,539

The remaining severance payments will be complete by the end of
the fiscal year ending May 31, 2008. The majority of
redundant lease payments are expected to be complete in the
fiscal year ending May 31, 2007, with the remaining
payments extending until 2015. Payments of $1.4 million
extend beyond one year and are included in other long-term
liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at May 31,
2006.

Fiscal 2004 acquisition:

During fiscal 2004, the
Company expanded its product offerings to include time and
attendance solutions. Effective April 12, 2004, Paychex
acquired substantially all the assets and certain liabilities of
Stromberg LLC (“Stromberg”), a provider of time and
attendance solutions for medium- to large-sized businesses, for
approximately $13.5 million. Paychex had purchased
Stromberg’s Time In A Box product, a time and
attendance solution for small- to medium-sized businesses, in
October 2003. The purchase price was allocated to the assets and
liabilities of Stromberg based on their fair values as follows:

In thousands

Stromberg

Current assets and other long-term assets

$


Property and equipment

2,097

Intangible assets


Goodwill

11,757

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

(2,053

)

Total purchase price

$

13,474

The amount assigned to property and equipment primarily
represents the fair value of software and is based upon an
independent appraisal. The goodwill balance is deductible for
tax purposes.



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note C — Basic and Diluted Earnings Per
Share

Basic and diluted earnings per share were calculated as follows:

Weighted-average anti-dilutive stock options to purchase shares
of common stock were excluded from the computation of diluted
earnings per share. These options had an exercise price that was
greater than the average market price of the common shares for
the period; therefore, the effect would have been anti-dilutive.

Note D — Funds Held for Clients and Corporate
Investments

Funds held for clients and corporate investments at May 31,
2006 and 2005 are as follows:



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Classification of investments on the Consolidated Balance Sheets
is as follows:

In thousands

May 31, 2006

May 31, 2005

Funds held for clients

$

3,591,611

$

2,979,348

Corporate investments

440,007

225,719

Long-term corporate investments

384,481

404,152

Total funds held for clients and corporate investments

$

4,416,099

$

3,609,219

The Company is exposed to credit risk in connection with these
investments through the possible inability of the borrowers to
meet the terms of the bonds. In addition, the Company is exposed
to interest rate risk, as rate volatility will cause
fluctuations in the market value of held investments and in the
earnings potential of future investments. The Company attempts
to limit these risks by investing primarily in AAA- and AA-rated
securities and A-1- rated short-term securities, limiting
amounts that can be invested in any single issuer, and by
investing in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose
market value is less sensitive to interest rate changes.

The Company’s available-for-sale securities reflected a net
unrealized loss position of $22.0 million at May 31,
2006 compared with $9.9 million at May 31, 2005. The
change in the net unrealized loss position of the Company’s
available-for-sale securities from May 31, 2005 to
May 31, 2006 resulted from increases in long-term market
interest rates. The gross unrealized losses at May 31, 2006
were comprised of 441 available-for-sale securities, which had a
total market value of $1,625.7 million. The gross
unrealized losses at May 31, 2005 were comprised of 327
available-for-sale securities with a total market value of
$1,211.5 million. The securities in an unrealized loss
position were in a loss position as follows as of May 31,
2006 and 2005:

Less than 12 Months

More than 12 Months

Gross

Gross

unrealized

Market

unrealized

Market

In thousands

loss

value

loss

value


$

(7,724

)

$

735,610

$

(14,863

)

$

890,076


$

(6,474

)

$

818,782

$

(6,248

)

$

392,748



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Company periodically reviews its investment portfolios to
determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired
due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation
concerns. At May 31, 2006, the Company believed that the
investments it held were not other-than-temporarily impaired.
While certain available-for-sale securities had market values
that were below cost, the Company believed that it was probable
that the principal and interest would be collected in accordance
with contractual terms, and that the decline in the market value
was due to changes in interest rates and was not due to
increased credit risk. At May 31, 2006 and May 31,
2005, substantially all of the securities in an unrealized loss
position held an AA rating or better. The Company currently
believes that it has the ability and intent to hold these
investments until the earlier of market price recovery or
maturity. The Company’s assessment that an investment is
not other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future
due to new developments or changes in the Company’s
strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment.
As of May 31, 2006, the Company had separately reported its
long-term corporate investments on its Consolidated Balance
Sheets as the Company has the ability to hold these investments
for a period in excess of one year. To conform to the current
period presentation, the Company has also reclassified its
investments at May 31, 2005.

Realized gains and losses are as follows:

Year ended May 31,

In thousands




Gross realized gains

$

1,036

$

1,114

$

19,808

Gross realized losses

(61

)

(891

)

(675

)

Net realized gains

$


$


$

19,133

The cost and market value of available-for-sale securities that
have stated maturities at May 31, 2006 are shown below by
contractual maturity. Expected maturities will differ from
contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to
prepay obligations without prepayment penalties.

May 31, 2006

In thousands

Cost

Market value

Maturity date:

Due in one year or less

$

545,046

$

542,178

Due after one year through three years

688,411

678,728

Due after three years through five years

282,107

276,241

Due after five years

2,356,196

2,352,513

Total available-for-sale securities

$

3,871,760

$

3,849,660

VRDNs and auction rate securities are primarily categorized as
due after five years in the table above as the contractual
maturities on these securities is typically twenty to thirty
years. Although these securities are issued as long-term
securities, both are priced and traded as short-term instruments
because of the liquidity provided through the auction or tender
feature.



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note E — Property and Equipment, Net of
Accumulated Depreciation

The components of property and equipment, at cost, consisted of
the following:

Depreciation expense was $51.6 million, $46.2 million,
and $39.2 million for fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004,
respectively.

Within construction in progress, there are costs for software
being developed for internal use of $29.4 million and
$18.9 million at May 31, 2006 and May 31, 2005,
respectively. Capitalization of costs ceases when the software
is ready for its intended use, at which time the Company begins
amortization of the costs.

Note F — Intangible Assets, Net of Accumulated
Amortization

The Company accounts for certain intangible assets with finite
lives in accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets.” The components of intangible
assets, at cost, consisted of the following:

May 31,

In thousands



Client lists and associate offices license agreements

$

122,909

$

118,749

Other intangible assets

4,165

4,166

Total intangible assets, gross

127,074

122,915

Less: Accumulated amortization

66,370

51,457

Intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization

$

60,704

$

71,458

Amortization expense for intangible assets was
$14.9 million, $15.8 million, and $16.6 million
for fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The estimated amortization expense for the next five fiscal
years relating to intangible asset balances as of May 31,
2006, is as follows:

Estimated

In thousands

amortization

Fiscal year ended May 31,

expense


$13,475


$11,736


$  9,995


$  8,367


$  6,592

Note G — Stock Option Plans

The Paychex, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and
restated (the “2002 Plan”), became effective on
October 12, 2005 upon its approval by the Company’s
stockholders. The 2002 Plan authorizes the granting of options
to purchase up to 29.1 million shares of the Company’s
common stock. At May 31, 2006, there were 20.5 million
shares available for future grants under the 2002 Plan.

No future grants will be made pursuant to the Paychex, Inc. 1998
or 1995 Stock Incentive Plans, which expired in August 2002 and
1998, respectively. However, options to purchase an aggregate of
4.5 million shares under these two plans remain outstanding
at May 31, 2006.

The exercise price for the shares subject to options of the
Company’s common stock is equal to the fair market value on
the date of the grant. All stock option grants have a
contractual life of ten years from the date of the grant.
Non-qualified stock option grants since July 2005 vest
20% per annum, with previously granted stock options
vesting at 33.3% after two years of service from the date of the
grant, with annual vesting at 33.3% thereafter.

The Company has granted stock options to employees in the
following broad-based incentive stock option grants:

Shares

Shares

Exercise

outstanding at

Date of broad-based grant

granted

price

May 31, 2006

Vesting schedule

November 1996

3,157,000

$11.53

180,000

50% on May 3, 1999, 50% on May 1, 2001

July 1999

1,381,000

$21.46

328,000

25% each July in 2000 through 2003

October 2001

1,295,000

$33.17

579,000

25% each October in 2002 through 2005

April 2004

1,655,000

$37.72

1,173,000

25% each April in 2005 through 2008

Historically, each April and October, the Company has granted
options to newly hired employees who met certain criteria.
Beginning with grants issued in July 2005, such grants of
options vest 20% per annum.



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table summarizes stock option activity for the
three years ended May 31, 2006:

Stock options granted during fiscal 2005 include a grant of
650,000 options, at an exercise price of $30.68 per share,
to the Company’s current President and Chief Executive
Officer on October 1, 2004. Of these stock options, 100,000
were granted under the 2002 Plan and the remaining 550,000 were
granted under a non-qualified stock option agreement.

Historically, the Company has granted options to purchase common
stock in an annual aggregate amount that is less than one
percent of the outstanding common shares. With the July 2005
grant of options to purchase common stock, the Company has
increased the annual amount to approximately one percent of
outstanding common shares.

The following table summarizes information about stock options
outstanding and exercisable at May 31, 2006:

Options outstanding

Options exercisable

Weighted-

Weighted-

average

Weighted-

Shares subject

average

remaining

Shares subject

average

Range of exercise

to options (in

exercise price

contractual

to options (in

exercise price

prices per share

thousands)

per share

life in years

thousands)

per share

$ 8.71 —  $17.24


$11.59

1.0


$11.59

$17.25 — $25.78

1,191

$20.85

2.8

1,191

$20.85

$25.79 — $34.32

8,465

$31.85

8.0

1,622

$30.56

$34.33 — $42.86

3,006

$39.14

6.8

1,821

$39.76

$42.87 — $51.38


$50.53

4.3


$50.53

$ 8.71 —  $51.38

13,510

$31.61

6.8

5,482

$29.49



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note H — Income Taxes

The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as
follows:

The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate to
the effective rates reported for income before taxes for the
three years ending May 31, 2006, is as follows:

Year ended May 31,




Federal statutory tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

Increase/(decrease) resulting from:

State income taxes, net of federal benefit

0.8

1.1

2.1

Tax-exempt municipal bond interest

(4.5

)

(3.9

)

(3.8

)

Other items

(0.2

)

0.3

(0.7

)

Effective income tax rate

31.1

%

32.5

%

32.6

%

Note I — Other Comprehensive Loss

The following table sets forth the related tax effects allocated
to unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities,
which is the only component of other comprehensive loss:

Year ended May 31,

In thousands




Unrealized holding losses

$

(11,216

)

$

(5,445

)

$

(30,011

)

Income tax benefit related to unrealized holding losses

3,941

1,878

10,768

Reclassification adjustment for the net gain on sale of
    available-for-sale securities realized in net income

(975

)

(223

)

(19,133

)

Income tax expense on reclassification adjustment for net gain
    on sale of available-for-sale securities



6,972

Other comprehensive loss

$

(7,905

)

$

(3,712

)

$

(31,404

)

At May 31, 2006, accumulated other comprehensive loss was
$14.3 million, net of tax of $7.8 million. At
May 31, 2005, accumulated other comprehensive loss was
$6.4 million, net of tax of $3.4 million.

Note J — Supplemental Cash Flow Information

Supplemental disclosure of non-cash financing activities and
cash flow information is as follows:

Year ended May 31,

In thousands




Income taxes paid

$

207,632

$

166,903

$

145,710

Tax benefit from the exercise of stock options

$

11,587

$

4,516

$

10,194



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note K — Employee Benefit Plans

401(k) Plans:

The Company maintains a contributory
savings plan that qualifies under section 401(k) of the
Internal Revenue Code. The Paychex, Inc. 401(k) Incentive
Retirement Plan (the “Plan”) allows all employees to
immediately participate in the salary deferral portion of the
Plan, contributing up to a maximum of 50% of their salary.
Employees who have completed one year of service are eligible to
receive a company matching contribution. The Company currently
matches 50% of an employee’s voluntary contribution up to
6% of a participant’s gross wages.

This Plan is 100% participant-directed. Plan participants can
fully diversify their portfolios by choosing from any or all
investment fund choices in the Plan. Transfers in and out of
investment funds, including the Paychex, Inc. Employee Stock
Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) Stock Fund, are not restricted
in any manner. The Company match contribution follows the same
fund elections as the employee compensation deferrals.

Company contributions to the 401(k) plan for fiscal 2006, 2005,
and 2004 were $9.1 million, $7.9 million, and
$7.1 million, respectively.

Deferred Compensation Plans:

The Company offers a
non-qualified and unfunded Deferred Compensation Plan to a
select group of key employees, executive officers, and
Directors. Eligible employees are provided with the opportunity
to defer up to 50% of their annual base salary and bonus and
non-employee directors to defer 100% of their Board
compensation. Gains and losses are credited based on the
participant’s election of a variety of investment choices.
The Company does not match any participant deferral or guarantee
its return. The amounts accrued under this Plan were
$6.6 million and $5.4 million at May 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively, and are reflected in other long-term
liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Prior to the April 1, 2003 acquisition, InterPay, Inc.
(“InterPay”) entered into various salary continuation
agreements with certain former employees. These agreements
provide for benefits to these retired employees, and in certain
cases to their beneficiaries, for life or other designated
periods through 2015. The amounts accrued under these agreements
were $1.6 million and $1.8 million at May 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively, and represent the estimated present
value of the benefits earned under these agreements.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan:

The Company offers
an Employee Stock Purchase Plan under which eligible employees
may purchase common stock of the Company at current market
prices with no look-back provision. All transactions occur
directly through the Company’s transfer agent and no
brokerage fees are charged to employees, except for when stock
is sold.

Note L — Commitments and Contingencies

Lines of credit:

The Company has unused borrowing
capacity available under four uncommitted, secured, short-term
lines of credit with financial institutions at market rates of
interest as follows:

Financial institution

Amount available

Expiration date

JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.

$350 million

February 2007

Fleet National Bank, a Bank of America company

$250 million

February 2007

PNC Bank, National Association

$150 million

February 2007

Wells Fargo Bank, National Association

$150 million

February 2007

The credit facilities are evidenced by Promissory Notes and are
secured by separate Pledge Security Agreements by and between
Paychex, Inc. and each of the financial institutions (the
“Lenders”), pursuant to which the Company has granted
each of the Lenders a security interest in certain investment
securities accounts. The collateral is maintained in a pooled
custody account pursuant to the terms of a Control Agreement and
is to be administered under an Intercreditor Agreement among the
Lenders. Under certain



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

circumstances, individual Lenders may require that collateral be
transferred from the pooled account into segregated accounts for
the benefit of such individual Lenders.

The primary uses of the lines of credit would be to meet
short-term funding requirements related to deposit account
overdrafts and client fund deposit obligations arising from
electronic payment transactions on behalf of clients in the
ordinary course of business, if necessary. No amounts were
outstanding against these lines of credit during fiscal 2006 or
at May 31, 2006.

Letters of credit:

The Company had standby letters
of credit outstanding totaling $53.4 million and
$53.1 million at May 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively,
required to secure commitments for certain insurance policies.
These letters of credit at May 31, 2006, expire at various
dates between July 2006 and December 2008 and are secured by
securities held in the Company’s corporate investment
portfolios, including a $44.2 million letter of credit for
which funds have been segregated into a separate account.
Effective June 28, 2006, this $44.2 million letter of
credit was increased to $50.9 million, bringing the total
letters of credit outstanding to $60.2 million. No amounts
were outstanding on these letters of credit during fiscal 2006
or at May 31, 2006.

Contingencies:

The Company is subject to various
claims and legal matters that arise in the normal course of its
business. These include disputes or potential disputes related
to breach of contract, employment-related claims, tax claims,
and other matters.

The Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, Rapid Payroll, Inc.
(“Rapid Payroll”), are currently defendants in three
lawsuits pending in the United States Bankruptcy Court, Central
District of California, thirteen lawsuits pending in the United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and one lawsuit
pending in the California Court of Appeal, Second District, all
brought in calendar years 2002 and 2003 by licensees of payroll
processing software owned by Rapid Payroll.

In August 2001, Rapid Payroll informed seventy-six licensees
that it intended to stop supporting the payroll processing
software in August of 2002. Thereafter, lawsuits were commenced
by licensees asserting various claims, including breach of
contract and related tort and fraud causes of action. These
lawsuits sought compensatory damages, punitive damages, and
injunctive relief against Rapid Payroll, the Company, the
Company’s former Chief Executive Officer, and its Senior
Vice President of Sales and Marketing. In accordance with the
Company’s indemnification agreements with its senior
executives, the Company will defend and, if necessary, indemnify
them in connection with these pending matters.

On July 5, 2002, the federal district court entered a
preliminary injunction requiring that Rapid Payroll and the
Company continue to support and maintain the subject software
pursuant to the license agreements.

In 2005, judgment was entered in

Accuchex, Inc. v. Rapid
Payroll, Inc., et al.

following a bench trial before a
judge of the Los Angeles County Superior Court. The judgment
provided that the limitation of liability clause in the
parties’ license agreement is valid and enforceable. The
court awarded Accuchex damages of $30.5 thousand plus a refund
of approximately $35.0 thousand in license fees. The court also
ordered Rapid Payroll to support its software being used by
Accuchex until such time as Rapid Payroll dissolves, which the
court found Rapid Payroll was entitled to do without incurring
any further liability to Accuchex. The court rejected all of the
other causes of action asserted by the plaintiff. The case is
pending on appeal with the California Court of Appeal, Second
District.

On February 28 and March 1, 2005, the United States
District Court, Central District of California entered judgment
in thirteen of the cases pending before it. Those judgments
provided that Rapid Payroll’s liability is limited by the
license fees paid to it by the plaintiff licensees, pursuant to
express contractual provisions of the license agreements. Those
judgments also extended the court’s preliminary injunction,
ordering that Rapid Payroll must support the licensed software
through April 30, 2006, and, at that time, refund to each
of the licensee plaintiffs the license fees paid by that
plaintiff. The license fees received by



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

’Rapid Payroll under the agreements from these thirteen
licensee plaintiffs total approximately $2.5 million. The
federal court also ordered the release of the source code
pursuant to the escrow terms of the license agreements. The
federal court judgments rejected the fraud and other tort claims
brought by those plaintiffs against all of the defendants.
Plaintiffs have appealed the federal court rulings and the
Company has cross-appealed.

On May 4, 2006, following expiration of the federal
district court’s injunction, Rapid Payroll filed a petition
under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in order
to develop a plan that allows Rapid Payroll to discontinue
support for the software in a manner that deals fairly with its
few remaining licensees. Rapid Payroll is continuing to operate
as a

debtor-in

-possession,
paying all of its post-petition debts as they become due.

Based on the application of SFAS No. 5,
“Accounting for Contingencies,” the Company is
required to record a reserve if it believes an unfavorable
outcome is probable and the amount of the probable loss can be
reasonably estimated. The Company’s legal reserve for all
litigation totaled $15.6 million at May 31, 2006, and
is included in current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets. The legal reserve has been reduced in fiscal 2006 as
actual settlements and incurred professional fees have been
charged against it.

In light of the legal reserve recorded, the Company’s
management currently believes that resolution of these matters
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
financial position or results of operations. However, these
matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and there exists
the possibility that the ultimate resolution of these matters
could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s
financial position and the results of operations in the period
in which any such effect is recorded.

Lease commitments:

The Company leases office space
and data processing equipment under terms of various operating
leases, with most data processing equipment leases containing a
purchase option at prices representing the fair value of the
equipment at expiration of the lease term. Rent expense for
fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 was $37.6 million,
$35.9 million, and $37.7 million, respectively. At
May 31, 2006, future minimum lease payments under various
non-cancelable operating leases with terms of more than one year
are as follows:

In thousands

Fiscal year ended May 31,

Minimum lease payments


$37,902


$33,687


$27,019


$19,859


$12,100

Thereafter

$  5,104

The amounts shown above for operating leases include obligations
under redundant leases related to Advantage and InterPay.

Other commitments:

At May 31, 2006, the
Company had outstanding commitments under purchase orders and
legally binding contractual arrangements with minimum future
payment obligations of approximately $77.0 million,
including $8.2 million of commitments to purchase capital
assets.

The Company guarantees performance of service on annual
maintenance contracts for clients who financed their service
contracts through a third party. In the normal course of
business, the Company makes representations and warranties that
guarantee the performance of services under service arrangements
with clients. The Company has entered into indemnification
agreements with its officers and directors, which require the
Company to defend and, if necessary, indemnify these individuals
for certain pending or future



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

legal claims as they relate to their services to Paychex and its
subsidiaries. Historically, there have been no material losses
related to such guarantees and indemnifications.

Paychex currently self-insures the deductible portion of various
insured exposures under certain employee benefit plans. The
Company’s estimated loss exposure under these insurance
arrangements is recorded in other current liabilities.
Historically, the amounts accrued have not been material. The
Company maintains insurance coverage in addition to its
purchased primary insurance policies for gap coverage for
employment practices liability, errors and omissions, warranty
liability, and acts of terrorism, and capacity for deductibles
and self-insured retentions through its captive insurance
company.

Note M — Related Parties

During fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004, the Company purchased
approximately $4.6 million, $2.5 million, and
$1.2 million, respectively, of data processing equipment
and software from EMC Corporation, whose Chairman, President,
and Chief Executive Officer is a member of the Board of
Directors of Paychex.



PAYCHEX, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note N — Quarterly Financial Data
(Unaudited)

In thousands, except per share amounts



Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying
Accounts

PAYCHEX, INC.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

FOR THE YEAR ENDED MAY 31,

In thousands



Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting:

Disclosure controls and
procedures are designed with the objective of ensuring that
information required to be disclosed in the Company’s
reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the “Exchange Act”), such as this report, is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified in the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and
procedures are also designed with the objective of ensuring that
such information is accumulated and communicated to the
Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate,
to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures:

As of the end of the period covered by this report, the Company
carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the
participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of disclosure
controls and procedures as defined in
Rules

13a-15(e)

and

15d-15(e)

of the
Exchange Act. Based on such evaluation, the Company’s Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded
that as of the end of the period covered by this report, the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective
at meeting their objectives.

Changes in Internal Controls:

There were no
changes in the Company’s internal controls over financial
reporting that occurred during the Company’s most recently
completed fiscal quarter that materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting.

The Report on Management’s Assessment of Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting and the Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm on Effectiveness of Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting are incorporated herein by
reference from Part II, Item 8 of this
Form

10-K.

Item 9B.

Other Information

None.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table shows the executive officers of the Company
as of May 31, 2006, and information regarding their
positions and business experience. Such executive officers
maintain principal policy-making powers at the Company.

Name

Age

Position and business experience

Jonathan J. Judge


Mr. Judge became President and Chief Executive Officer of the
    Company in October 2004. Prior to joining the Company, from
    October 2002 through December 2003, he served as President and
    Chief Executive Officer of Crystal Decisions, Inc., an
    information management software company. From 2001 to 2002,
    Mr. Judge was General Manager of IBM’s Personal
    Computing Division. From 1998 to 2001, he headed up the
    worldwide sales, service, and support functions of IBM’s
    Personal Computing Division and was a member of the worldwide
    management committee of IBM. Mr. Judge also serves as a
    director of the Company and is also a director of PMC-Sierra,
    Inc.



The additional information required by this item is set forth in
the Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2006
Annual Meeting of Stockholders in the sections titled
“PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS FOR A
ONE-YEAR TERM,” “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE,”
“CODE OF ETHICS,” and “SECTION 16(a)
BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE,” and is
incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required by this item is set forth in the
Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2006 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders in the section titled “EXECUTIVE
OFFICER COMPENSATION,” and is incorporated herein by
reference thereto.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this item is set forth below and in
the Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2006
Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the heading “SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT,” and
is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

The Company maintains equity compensation plans in the form of
stock option incentive plans. Currently, stock options are
granted to employees in the form of non-qualified or incentive
stock options



(broad-based grants only) from the Paychex, Inc. 2002 Stock
Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the “2002
Plan”). The 2002 Plan was adopted on July 7, 2005, by
the Board of Directors of the Company and became effective upon
stockholder approval at the Company’s Annual Meeting of
Stockholders held on October 12, 2005. There are previously
granted options to purchase shares under the Paychex, Inc. 1998
and 1995 Stock Incentive Plans that remain outstanding at
May 31, 2006. There will not be any new grants under these
expired plans. Refer to Note G in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, contained in Item 8 of this
Form

10-K,

for
more information on the Company’s stock option plans.

The following table details information on securities authorized
for issuance under the Company’s stock incentive plans as
of May 31, 2006:

Number of

securities

Number of

remaining available

securities to be

for future issuance

issued upon

Weighted-average

under equity

exercise of

exercise price of

compensation

In thousands

outstanding options

outstanding options

plans

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders

12,960

$

31.64

20,509

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders


$

30.68

—

Total

13,510

$

31.61

20,509

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information required by this item is set forth in the
Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2006 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders under the heading “OTHER MATTERS
AND INFORMATION,” under the sub-heading “Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions,” and is
incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The information required by this item is set forth in the
Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2006 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders under the heading “INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS,” and is incorporated herein
by reference thereto.

PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

1.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

See Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Table of
    Contents at page 31.

2.

Financial statement schedules required to be filed by
    Item 8 of this Form 10-K include
    Schedule II  — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.
    See Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Table of
    Contents at page 31.

All other schedules are omitted as the required matter is not
    present, the amounts are not significant, or the information is
    shown in the financial statements or the notes thereto.

3.

Exhibits

(3)(a)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation, incorporated herein by
    reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Company’s
    Form 10-K filed with the Commission on July 20, 2004.

*

(3)(b)

Bylaws, as amended.

#

(10)(a)

Paychex, Inc. 1995 Stock Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by
    reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Registration
    Statement on Form S-8, No. 33-64389.



*

Exhibit filed with this report

#

Management contract or compensatory plan



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, on July 21, 2006.

PAYCHEX, INC.

By: /s/

Jonathan J.
Judge

Jonathan J. Judge

President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on
July 21, 2006.

/s/

Jonathan J. Judge

Jonathan J. Judge, President and

Chief Executive Officer, and Director

(Principal Executive Officer)

/s/

John M. Morphy

John M. Morphy, Senior Vice President,

Chief Financial Officer, and Secretary

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

B. Thomas Golisano*, Chairman of the Board

David J. S. Flaschen*, Director

Phillip Horsley*, Director

Grant M. Inman*, Director

Pamela A. Joseph*, Director

J. Robert Sebo*, Director

Joseph M. Tucci*, Director

*By: /s/

Jonathan J.
Judge

Jonathan J. Judge, as

Attorney-in

-Fact

66