
10-K
PNC BANK CORP. 10-K



                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                      
                                  FORM 10-K
             ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
(Mark One)
   [X]       Annual report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the 
                       Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                                      OR
   [ ]    Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the transaction period
          from                        to
               ----------------------    ----------------------

                                 PNC BANK CORP.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           PENNSYLVANIA                                  25-1435979
 (State or other jurisdiction of                      (I.R.S. Employer  
  incorporation or organization)                     Identification No.)     


                                ONE PNC PLAZA
                         FIFTH AVENUE AND WOOD STREET
                       PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA  15265
                   (Address of principal executive offices)
                                  (Zip Code)

     REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE - (412) 762-3900

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT


INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS REQUIRED
TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DURING
THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE REGISTRANT WAS
REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH FILING
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS. YES  X   NO
                                       ---     ---

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF THE DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM
405 OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE
BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION STATEMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K. [    ]

THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF THE VOTING STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF THE
REGISTRANT AMOUNTED TO APPROXIMATELY $5,468,988,835 AT FEBRUARY 28, 1995.

NUMBER OF SHARES OF REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK OUTSTANDING AT February 28, 1995: 
230,452,514

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

PORTIONS OF PNC BANK CORP.'S ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 1994 ("ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS") ARE INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE INTO PARTS I AND II AND PORTIONS OF THE DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT OF
PNC BANK CORP. FOR THE ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS TO BE HELD ON APRIL 25,
1995 ("PROXY STATEMENT") ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE INTO PART III OF THIS
FORM 10-K. THE INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE HEREIN OF PORTIONS OF THE PROXY
STATEMENT SHALL NOT BE DEEMED TO SPECIFICALLY INCORPORATE BY REFERENCE THE
INFORMATION REFERRED TO IN ITEM 402(a)(8) OF REGULATION S-K.

                                     INDEX



                                      i

                                     PART I

ITEM 1 - BUSINESS

        BUSINESS OVERVIEW

          INTRODUCTION

        PNC Bank Corp. ("PNC Bank" or "Corporation"), is a bank holding
        company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as
        amended ("BHC Act"). PNC Bank was incorporated under Pennsylvania law
        in 1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh National Corporation and
        Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, PNC Bank has diversified
        its geographical presence and product capabilities through
        strategic acquisitions and the formation of various non-banking
        subsidiaries. At December 31, 1994, the Corporation operated 10 banking
        subsidiaries in Pennsylvania, Delaware, Indiana, Kentucky,
        Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Ohio ("primary markets"), and over 80
        non-banking subsidiaries. The Corporation's total assets and total
        shareholders' equity were $64.1 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively.
        Based on year-end 1994 assets, PNC Bank was the 12th largest bank
        holding company in the United States. During 1994, the Corporation and
        subsidiaries employed approximately 21,000 people on a full-time
        equivalent basis.

          ACQUISITIONS

        On November 30, 1993, the Corporation completed the acquisition
        of PNC Mortgage (formerly Sears Mortgage Banking Group). With this
        acquisition, the Corporation added mortgage-related assets of $7.6
        billion; a mortgage servicing portfolio approximating $27 billion,
        including $21 billion serviced for others; and a national residential
        mortgage origination network. In 1994, the Corporation purchased a
        $10 billion residential mortgage servicing portfolio from the
        Associates Corporation of North America.

        During 1994, the Corporation completed the acquisitions of United
        Federal Bancorp, Inc., State College, Pennsylvania and First Eastern 
        Corp., Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. The combined assets and deposits 
        totaled $2.8 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively, and are now part 
        of PNC Bank, National Association.                           

        On January 13, 1995, the Corporation acquired Indian River
        Federal Savings Bank ("Indian River"), Vero Beach, Florida, for
        approximately $12 million in cash. Indian River had assets of $79
        million and deposits of $62 million at December 31, 1994. In
        connection with the acquisition, Indian River was merged with PNC Trust
        Company of Florida, National Association and renamed PNC Bank, FSB.
        Through this subsidiary, the Corporation offers private banking
        services to customers throughout Florida.


        On February 28, 1995, the Corporation completed the acquisition
        of BlackRock Financial Management L.P. and related partnerships
        ("BlackRock") for approximately $240 million in cash and notes.
        BlackRock, with approximately $24.3 billion of managed assets, provides
        fixed-income asset management services. BlackRock now operates as a
        subsidiary of PNC Asset Management Group, Inc. ("Asset Management
        Group"), a newly-formed subsidiary of PNC Bank, National Association, 
        that holds the Corporation's investment management companies.

        On March 3, 1995, the Corporation completed the acquisition of
        Brentwood Financial Corporation ("Brentwood"), Cincinnati, Ohio, for
        approximately $20.9 million in cash. The acquisition added assets and
        deposits of approximately $96 million and $78 million, respectively.
        The assets and deposits acquired are now part of PNC Bank, Ohio,
        National Association.

        On March 7, 1995, the Corporation entered into a definitive
        agreement with Chemical Banking Corp. ("Chemical") to acquire Chemical
        Bank New Jersey. The total purchase price will approximate $504
        million, subject to closing adjustments in accordance with the terms of
        the agreement. The Chemical Bank New Jersey franchise being acquired 
        consists of a network of 84 branches, located in 15
        counties throughout central and southern New Jersey, adjacent to the
        Corporation's existing operations in eastern Pennsylvania and Delaware.
        Chemical will retain its northern New Jersey banking operations,
        focused on the New York metropolitan region. The transaction includes
        assets approximating $3.3 billion and retail core deposits of
        approximately $2.9 billion. The Corporation is not acquiring any
        nonperforming assets. The Corporation expects the transaction to close
        prior to year-end 1995, subject to regulatory approvals.

        BUSINESS STRATEGIES
        
        In 1994, the Corporation was faced with interest rates that rose higher
        and faster than anticipated. Consequently, the Corporation
        focused on reducing interest rate sensitivity and realigning the
        balance sheet consistent with its operating strategies. During the
        second half of 1994, the Corporation sold $4.5 billion of fixed-rate
        securities, entered into $5.0 billion notional value of pay-fixed
        interest rate swaps; and purchased $5.5 billion notional value of
        interest rate caps. As a result, the Corporation substantially reduced
        its liability sensitivity at one year and mitigated the impact of 
        significantly higher interest rates on net interest income. As part of 
        the balance sheet realignment, the Corporation intends to reduce 
        further its securities portfolio. In addition, in connection with this
        downsizing, in January 1995 the Corporation's board of directors
        authorized the purchase of up to 24 million common shares over a
        two-year period.

        The financial services industry is currently being challenged by
        potential deregulation, excess capital, overcapacity and
        increased competition. Loan pricing and credit standards are under
        competitive pressure as lenders seek to employ capital and nonbank
        competitors make capital markets more accessible to a broader range of
        borrowers. Traditional deposit activities are subject to pricing
        pressures and customer migration as the competition for consumer
        investment dollars intensifies among banks and other financial services
        companies. Mortgage banking is being challenged as providers of
        residential mortgages and mortgage services attempt to maintain
        origination and servicing volumes in an environment characterized by
        significantly reduced business volumes. These factors have the
        potential to adversely affect the Corporation's financial results for
        1995.


        The Corporation's business strategies in this environment are
        based on a commitment to be an exceptional marketing company with a
        focus on customer satisfaction. The Corporation has begun to realign
        its line of business structure with various customer segments, as it
        believes this will provide greater opportunities for growth and
        business development. The Corporation intends to continue to focus
        marketing efforts on customer segments. As part of the marketing focus,
        employee training will emphasize identifying and meeting customers'
        need and taking advantage of permissible cross-selling opportunities.
        Also, because of changes in consumer preferences, the Corporation
        intends to continue to make investments in alternative delivery
        systems, such as telebanking, and to continue to consolidate
        approximately 30 percent of its retail branches over the next
        few years. Along with these operating strategies, the Corporation will
        further evaluate its existing businesses and markets and their 
        respective rates of return, and continue to consider and evaluate 
        opportunities to diversify and complement its business mix, as it did
        when it acquired BlackRock. 

        LINES OF BUSINESS

        PNC Bank delivers a broad range of financial services and
        products to its customers through four distinct lines of business: 
        Corporate Banking, Retail Banking, Investment Management and Trust, and
        Investment Banking.  For the most part, these products and services are
        distributed through PNC Bank's retail banking office network or
        wholesale banking offices located in certain major metropolitan areas
        located in the United States.  PNC Bank also originates
        residential mortgages through 100 offices in 30 states.  Additional
        information relating to the lines of business is set forth under the
        caption entitled "Line of Business Results" in the "Corporate Financial
        Review" included on pages 26-31 of the Annual Report to Shareholders,
        which is incorporated herein by reference.  

        CORPORATE BANKING  Corporate Banking provides traditional financing,
        liquidity and treasury management, capital markets, and other financial
        services to business and government entities.  Corporate Banking's
        focus is on serving customers by developing and delivering specific
        products and services to meet their needs.  This line of business has
        established one of the largest market shares among middle-market
        companies in most of the Corporation's primary markets.  In addition,
        Corporate Banking maintains banking relationships with many of the
        largest companies in the United States and is a major provider of
        treasury management products and services to large corporate customers. 
        Corporate Banking also provides its customers with access to the
        capital markets through an array of financing alternatives including
        securitization activities.

        RETAIL BANKING  Retail Banking provides lending, deposit,
        investment, payment system access, and other financial services to
        consumers and small businesses. Such services are primarily provided
        through PNC Bank's 604 banking offices located in the Corporation's
        primary markets.  The principal focus of Retail Banking is on providing
        products and services sought by its customers in a cost-effective
        manner.  The Corporation's unified operating systems have been designed
        to enable Retail Banking to provide common products and services in a
        low-cost manner.  Alternative delivery systems, such as the
        Corporation's consolidated telebanking center in Pittsburgh, are
        expected to allow the Corporation to provide products and services more
        efficiently than traditional banking delivery systems.  Retail Banking
        serves approximately 2.5 million households and more than 75,000 small
        businesses, with a loan portfolio exceeding $20 billion and more than
        $27 billion in deposits.  At December 31, 1994, PNC Mortgage was the
        nation's 12 largest mortgage banking company, based on its mortgage
        servicing portfolio of approximately $41 billion, including $30 billion
        serviced for others.  Retail Banking is currently


        reorganizing its delivery channels around customer segments, including  
        development of a "Private Bank" to serve affluent customers, a "Branch
        Bank" to serve small-business and traditional customers and a "Direct
        Bank" under which the Corporation will provide products and services
        to customers in its primary markets and nationwide through alternative
        delivery systems.

                INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AND TRUST  Investment Management and
        Trust provides investment advice, asset management, and administrative
        and custodial services to individuals, institutions and mutual funds.
        Additionally, economic and investment research services are sold to
        more than 245 other financial institutions. At December 31, 1994, the
        Corporation was among the largest United States bank trustees for
        individuals and was the ninth-largest United States bank investment
        manager and 32nd-largest among all investment managers in the country. 
        The Corporation provided services to more than 400 mutual fund
        companies ranking it among the largest providers of such services.  In
        addition, the Corporation was the second largest bank manager of mutual
        funds. The acquisition of BlackRock, completed February 28, 1995, added
        $24.3 billion of assets under management. As part of the Corporation's
        customer segment alignment, Investment Management and Trust's personal
        trust organization will become part of the Private Bank, and its
        corporate trust and employee benefits sales and servicing will become
        part of Corporate Banking. The Corporation's investment management
        and asset servicing functions will be part of the new Asset Management
        Group.


        INVESTMENT BANKING  Investment Banking includes the Asset/Liability
        Management function of PNC Bank as well as underwriting,        
        brokerage, direct investment and liquidity management services.  PNC
        Brokerage Corp. services Retail Banking customers throughout the branch
        system with more than 200 licensed brokers. Through PNC Brokerage Corp,
        Investment Banking offers a broad range of financial products including
        FDIC-insured money market accounts and certificates of deposits and
        non-FDIC insured stocks, bonds and mutual funds.  In addition, certain
        securities underwriting services are provided by PNC Securities Corp,
        which ranks as one of the largest bank underwriters of revenue bonds
        for the health care industry and colleges and universities. Private
        equity placements for middle market and smaller companies to finance
        growth or ownership transition are provided by PNC Equity Management
        Corp and related companies.  As part of the Corporation's customer
        segment alignment, PNC Brokerage Corp will become part of the Private
        Bank.  Public and corporate finance and liquidity management will be
        aligned with Corporate Banking.


          SUBSIDIARY BANKS

        Information as of December 31, 1994 for certain of the
        Corporation's banks is set forth below.

       

        STATISTICAL DISCLOSURES BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES

        The "Statistical Information" contained on pages 67-77 of the
        Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

        RISK MANAGEMENT

        In the normal course of business, the Corporation is subject to
        various risks. Two of the most significant are interest rate risk and
        credit risk. Although it cannot eliminate these risks, the Corporation
        has risk management processes designed to provide for risk
        identification, measurement, monitoring and control. In addition to the
        discussion provided below, information related to the Corporation's risk
        management activities is set forth under the section entitled "Risk 
        Management" in the "Corporate Financial Review" included on pages 37
        - 42 of the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein
        by reference.       

        INTEREST RATE RISK  Interest rate risk is the sensitivity of net
        interest income and the market value of financial instruments to the
        timing, magnitude and frequency of changes in interest rates. Interest
        rate risk results from various repricing frequencies and the maturity
        structure of assets, liabilities, and off-balance-sheet positions.
        Interest rate risk also results from, among other factors, changes in
        the relationship or spread between interest rates. Asset/liability
        management uses a variety of investments, funding sources and   
        off-balance-sheet instruments in managing the overall interest rate risk
        profile of the Corporation.  A number of tools are used to measure 
        interest rate risk including income simulation modeling and interest
        sensitivity ("gap") analyses.

        A dynamic income simulation model is the primary mechanism used
        by management to measure interest rate risk. The primary purpose of the
        simulation model is to assess the direction and magnitude of the impact
        of most likely (a "base case" which management believes is reasonably
        likely to occur) and higher and lower ("alternative") interest rate 
        scenarios on net interest 


        income. 
        
                The results of the simulation model are highly dependent on
        numerous assumptions.These assumptioins generally fall into two
        categories: those relating to the interest rate environment and those
        relating to general business and economic factors. Assumptions related
        to the interst rate environment include the level of various interest
        rates, the shape of the yield curve, and the relationship among these
        factors as rates change. Also included are other rate-related factors,
        such as prepayment speed on mortgage-related assets and the cash flows
        and maturities of financial instruments including index amortizing
        interest rate swaps. Assumptions related to general business and
        economic factors include changes in market conditions, loan pricing,
        deposit sensitivity, customer preferences, competition, and
        management's financial and  and capital plans.  The assumptions are
        developed based on current business and asset/liability management
        strategies, historical experience, the current economic environment,
        forecasted economic conditions and other analyses. These assumptions
        are subject to change as time passes.  Accordingly, they are updated on
        at least a quarterly basis. Because of these and other factors,
        including those described in "Business Strategies" above, the results
        of the model, as discussed in the section entitled "Asset/Liability
        Managment" of the "Corporate Financial Review" at page 38 of the Annual
        Report to Shareholders, will not necessarily provide a precise estimate
        of net interest income or the impact of higher or lower interest rates. 

                Using these assumptions, the model simulates net interest
        income under a base case scenario that mangement believes is reasonably
        likely to occur. Management also evaluates the relative risk of changes
        in interest rates by simulating the impact on net interest income of
        gradual parallel shifts in interest rates of 100 basis points higher
        and lower than the base case scenario. In such alternative scenarios,
        certain assumptions that are directly dependent on the interest rate    
        environment are adjusted for the respective higher or lower interest
        rate environment. Other assumptions related to general and economic
        factors are held constant with those developed for the base case
        scenario. As a result, the alternative interest rate scenarios indicate
        what may happen to net interest income if interest rates were to change
        to the levels of the higher and lower scenarios but does not predict
        what may happen to net interest income if business and economic
        assumptions are not realized.

                Actual results will differ from the simulated results of the
        base case scenario and of each alternative scenario due to various
        factors including timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate
        changes, the relationship or spread between various interest rates,
        changes in market conditions, loan pricing and deposit sensitivity,
        customer preferences, competition, and the actual interaction of the
        numerous assumptions. In addition, the actual results will be affected
        by the impact of mergers or acquisitions and business and
        asset/liability management strategies that differ from those assumed in
        the model.  While the simulation model measures the relative risk of
        changes in interest rates on net interest income, the actual impact on
        net interest income could exceed or be less than the amounts projected
        in the base case and in each alternative scenario. If interest rates
        exceed those assumed in the high alternative scenarios, or if interest
        rates are less than those assumed in the low alternative scenario, the
        actual impact on net interest income could further differ from the
        simulated results.
                       
        In addition to the simulation model, management performs an
        interest sensitivity (gap) analysis which represents a point-in-time
        net position of assets, liabilities and off-balance-sheet instruments
        subject to repricing in specified time periods. A cumulative
        liability-sensitive gap position indicates the Corporation's
        liabilities are expected to reprice more quickly than its assets.
        Alternatively, a cumulative asset-sensitive gap position indicates the
        Corporation's assets 


        are expected to reprice more quickly than its liabilities. The gap
        analysis does not accurately measure the magnitude of changes in net 
        interest income since changes in interest rates over time do not impact
        all categories of assets, liabilities and off-balance-sheet instruments
        equally or simultaneously.
        
        The Corporate Asset and Liability Committee ("ALCO") has
        primary responsibility for monitoring compliance with established
        interest rate risk policies and procedures. ALCO policies include
        limits on interest rate sensitivity to gradual parallel shifts in 
        interest rates and the cumulative one-year gap. Management may 
        initiate various asset/liability actions to remain in compliance with 
        such limits. Such actions are dependent on existing and expected 
        economic conditions, the overall interest rate risk profile of the 
        Corporation, various business strategies, and other factors. Actions 
        that management may initiate are also subject to costs, competitive 
        factors and execution risks (that is, the ability to execute a desired
        action and to do so at acceptable costs).

        CREDIT RISK  Credit risk represents the possibility that borrowers may
        not perform in accordance with contractual terms. Credit risk results
        from extending credit, purchasing securities and entering into certain
        off-balance-sheet financial instruments.  Risk associated with the
        extension of credit includes general risk, which is inherent in the
        lending business, and risk specific to individual borrowers. The
        Corporation seeks to manage credit risk through portfolio
        diversification, underwriting policies and procedures and loan
        monitoring practices. Information relating to the distribution of the
        loan portfolio by type of loan, loan maturities and interest sensitivity
        is set forth under the section entitled "Loans" in the "Corporate
        Financial Reviews" and "Loans" in the "Statistical Information" 
        included on pages 32 and 33 and page 74, respectively, of the Annual 
        Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                  
        Credit Policy is responsible for the overall management of
        credit risk and the development and application of consistent
        policies and procedures across the Corporation. One objective is
        diversification by industry concentration, geographic distribution and
        the type of borrower. Policies contain limits on amounts that may be
        committed for specified categories of loans and individual borrowers.
        These limits are specified for both consolidated and individual bank
        exposure levels. Specific underwriting policies have been adopted for
        many categories of exposure including commercial real estate, cable,
        cellular, broadcasting, health care and automobile dealers, as well as
        general policies covering standards of documentation, collateral
        coverage, guarantee provisions, environmental risk protection and
        approval processes.

        The Corporation receives collateral to support credit extensions and
        commitments when deemed necessary, the amount of which is based on
        management's credit evaluation of the borrower. The most significant
        categories of collateral include real estate, commercial business 
        assets, cash on deposit and marketable securities. In addition, for 
        some loans made on the basis of the general creditworthiness of the 
        borrower, additional security in the form of real and personal 
        property may be obtained that may not be directly related to the 
        purpose of the loan.

        In order to assess and monitor the degree of risk in the loan
        portfolio, a lender-initiated credit risk grading system is used. A
        risk grade is assigned to each loan on origination based on an
        assessment of the borrower's financial capacity to service the debt and
        the presence and value of collateral for the 


        loan. Industry and economic risks are also considered when
        assigning such grades. Credit grades are maintained by the loan officer
        whose responsibilities include monitoring the risk inherent in such
        individual credits. An independent corporate loan review function
        assesses the credit granting process and reviews credit grades for
        compliance with policies.

        Asset/liability management seeks to minimizes the credit risk
        associated with its activities, primarily by entering into transactions
        with only a select number of high-quality institutions, establishing
        credit limits with counterparties and, where applicable, requiring
        segregated collateral.

        SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

          BANK HOLDING COMPANIES

        GENERAL  As a registered holding company, the Corporation is
        regulated under the BHC Act and is subject to supervision and regular
        inspection by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the
        "Federal Reserve Board"). The BHC Act requires, among other things, the
        prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board in any case where the
        Corporation proposes to (i) acquire all or substantially all of the
        assets of any bank, (ii) acquire direct or indirect ownership or
        control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any bank or
        (iii) merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company.

        ACQUISITIONS/PERMISSIBLE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES  The BHC Act
        prohibits the Federal Reserve Board from approving a bank holding
        company's application to acquire a bank or bank holding company located
        outside the state in which the operations of its banking subsidiaries
        are principally conducted, unless such acquisition is specifically
        authorized by statute of the state in which the bank or bank holding
        company to be acquired is located. Pennsylvania law permits bank
        holding companies located in any state to acquire Pennsylvania banks
        and bank holding companies, provided that the home state of the
        acquiring company has enacted "reciprocal" legislation. In this
        context, reciprocal legislation is generally defined as legislation
        that expressly authorizes Pennsylvania bank holding companies to
        acquire banks or bank holding companies located in another state on
        terms and conditions substantially no more restrictive than those
        applicable to such an acquisition in Pennsylvania by a bank holding
        company located in the other state.

        On September 29, 1994, the President signed into law the
        Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994
        (the "IBBEA"), which permits adequately capitalized and adequately
        managed bank holding companies to acquire banks in any state. The IBBEA
        also permits banks in separate states to consolidated into single
        entities with branches in multiple states. Consequently, effective
        September 29, 1995, the Corporation will have the authority to acquire
        any bank or bank holding company, and could be acquired by any bank or
        bank holding company, located anywhere in the United States. Further,
        effective June 1, 1997, the Corporation's subsidiary banks will have
        the authority, subject to certain restrictions, including state opt-out
        provisions, to consolidate with one another. States may affirmatively
        opt-in earlier. Among other things, the IBBEA provides that interstate
        branches of national banks will be subject to host state laws with 
        respect to intrastate branching, consumer protection, fair lending, 
        and community reinvestment laws, unless any such law is preempted by 
        federal law or is discriminatory in effect. The IBBEA provides that
        interstate branches of state banks will be 


        subject to the laws of the host state.  In addition, among other 
        things, the IBBEA increases the community reinvestment requirements 
        applicable to multi-state depository institutions.  This legislation
        may increase competition as banks branch across state lines and enter 
        new markets.

        Under the BHC Act, the Corporation is prohibited, with certain
        exceptions, from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of
        more than 5 percent of any class of voting shares of any non-banking
        corporation. Further, the Corporation may not engage in any business
        other than managing and controlling banks or furnishing certain
        specified services to subsidiaries, and may not acquire voting control
        of non-banking corporations except those corporations engaged in
        businesses or furnishing services that the Federal Reserve Board deems
        to be closely related to banking as "to be proper incident thereto."
        The Federal Reserve Board has determined that a number of activities
        meet this standard, including, for example, (i) making and servicing
        loans, (ii) performing certain fiduciary functions, (iii) leasing real
        and personal property, (iv) underwriting and dealing in government
        obligations and certain money market instruments, and, to a limited
        extent, in certain other securities that banks may not otherwise
        underwrite or deal in, (v) providing foreign exchange advisory and
        transactional services, (vi) making equity or debt investments in
        corporations designed to promote community welfare or rehabilitation,
        and (vii) owning, controlling or operating a savings association,
        if the savings association engages only in deposit-taking activities
        and lending and other activities that are permissible for bank holding
        companies. The Federal Reserve Board may revise, and has revised, from
        time to time, its list of permitted activities. See "Supervision and
        Regulation - Legislative Proposals and Reform" below.

        COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT  Bank holding companies and their
        subsidiary banks are subject to the provisions of the Community
        Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (the "CRA"). Under the terms of
        the CRA, each subsidiary bank's record in meeting the credit needs of
        the community served by that bank, including low- and moderate-income
        neighborhoods, is generally annually assessed by that bank's primary
        regulatory authority. When a bank holding company applies for approval
        to acquire a bank or other bank holding company, the Federal Reserve
        Board will review the assessment of each subsidiary bank of the
        applicant bank holding company, and such records may be the basis for
        denying the application. The federal banking agencies have issued a
        notice of proposed rulemaking that would replace the current CRA
        assessment system with a new evaluation system that would primarily
        rate institutions based on their actual lending activity in the
        community. Under the current proposal, each institution would be
        evaluated based on the degree to which it is providing loans and other
        services and investments to low- and moderate-income areas. Such
        proposal includes race and gender reporting requirements.

        SOURCE OF STRENGTH POLICY Under Federal Reserve Board policy, a
        bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial
        strength to each of its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to
        support each such bank. In addition, under federal law, a bank 
        holding company may find it 


        necessary to provide capital to an insured depository
        institution subsidiary in connection with that subsidiary's capital
        restoration plan. Consistent with its "source of strength" policy for
        subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve Board has stated that, as a
        matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company generally should not
        maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to
        common shareholders has been sufficient to fund fully the dividends,
        and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent
        with the corporation's capital needs, asset quality and overall
        financial condition.

          SUBSIDIARY BANKS

        GENERAL  The Corporation's subsidiary banks are subject to
        supervision and examination by applicable federal and state banking
        agencies, including the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
        ("Comptroller") in the case of national banks. In addition, all of the
        subsidiary banks are insured by and subject to some or all of the
        regulations of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"). The
        Corporation's subsidiary banks are also subject to various requirements
        and restrictions under federal and state law, including requirements to
        maintain reserves against deposits, restrictions on the types, amounts 
        and terms and conditions of loans that may be granted and limitations 
        on the types of investments that may be made and the types of services 
        that may be offered. Various consumer laws and regulations also affect 
        the operations of the subsidiary banks. In addition to the impact of
        regulation, commercial banks are affected significantly by the actions
        of the Federal Reserve Board, including actions taken with respect to
        interest rates, as it attempts to control the money supply and credit
        availability in order to influence the economy.

        DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS  Dividends from the Corporation's
        subsidiary banks constitute the principal source of income to the
        parent company. The Corporation's subsidiary banks are subject to
        various statutory and regulatory restrictions on their ability to pay
        dividends to the Corporation. Under such restrictions, the amount
        available for payment of dividends to the Corporation by all subsidiary
        banks was $948 million at December 31, 1994. In addition, the
        Comptroller, in the case of national bank subsidiaries, and the FDIC or
        the Federal Reserve Board, in the case of state bank subsidiaries, have
        authority to prohibit any such bank subsidiary from engaging in an
        unsafe or unsound practice in conducting its business. The payment of
        dividends, depending upon the financial condition of the bank
        subsidiary in question, could be deemed to constitute such an unsafe or
        unsound practice, and the Comptroller and the Federal Reserve Board
        have indicated their view that it generally would be an unsafe and
        unsound practice to pay dividends except out of current operating
        earnings. The ability of the subsidiary banks to pay dividends in the
        future is presently, and could be further, influenced by bank
        regulatory and supervisory policies.

        AFFILIATE TRANSACTION RESTRICTIONS  The Corporation's
        subsidiary banks are subject to affiliate transaction restrictions
        under federal law which limit the transactions by subsidiary banks to
        or on behalf of their parent company and to or on behalf of any
        non-bank subsidiaries, whether in the form of loans, extensions of
        credit, issuances of guaranties, acceptances or letters of credits,
        investments or asset purchases.  Such transactions by a subsidiary bank
        to its parent company or to any non-bank subsidiary are limited to 
        10 percent of a bank subsidiary's capital and surplus


        and, with respect to such parent company and all such non-bank
        subsidiaries, to an aggregate of 20% of such bank subsidiary's capital
        and surplus.  Further, such loans and extensions of credit generally
        are required to be secured by eligible collateral in specified
        amounts. Federal law also prohibits subsidiary banks from purchasing
        "low-quality" assets from affiliates.

        FDIC CROSS-GUARANTEE PROVISIONS  The Corporation's subsidiary
        banks, as FDIC-insured institutions, are subject to the
        "cross-guarantee" provisions under federal law that provide that if one
        depository institution subsidiary of a multi-bank holding company fails
        or requires FDIC assistance, the FDIC may assess a "commonly
        controlled" depository institution for the estimated losses suffered by
        the FDIC. Such liability could have a material adverse effect on the 
        financial condition of any assessed bank and the parent company. While 
        the FDIC's claim is junior to the claims of depositors, holders of 
        secured liabilities, general creditors and subordinated creditors, it 
        is superior to the claims of shareholders and affiliates.

        FDIC INSURANCE ASSESSMENTS  Since the deposits of the
        Corporation's subsidiary banks are insured by the FDIC, the subsidiary
        banks are subject to FDIC insurance assessments. The amount of FDIC
        assessments paid by individual insured depository institutions is based
        on their relative risk as measured by regulatory capital ratios and
        certain other factors.  Under this system, in establishing the
        insurance premium assessment for each bank, the FDIC will take into
        consideration the probability that the deposit insurance fund will
        incur a loss with respect to an institution, and will charge a higher 
        insurance premium to an institution with perceived higher inherent 
        risks.  The FDIC will also consider the different categories and
        concentrations of assets and liabilities of the institution, the
        revenue needs of the deposit insurance fund, and any other factors the
        FDIC deems relevant.  Current regulations provide for a minimum
        assessment of 23 cents per $100 of eligible deposits for the best-
        rated banks, with a maximum of 31 cents per $100 of eligible deposits
        for the weakest-rated institutions. The FDIC's Board of Directors has
        proposed to revise the assessment methodology and reduce the current
        assessments rates for all but the riskiest banks. Under the proposal,
        the best-rated banks would pay 4 cents per $100 of deposits while the
        weakest ones would continue to pay 31 cents per $100 of deposits. At
        this time, assessment rates for savings associations are not proposed
        to be reduced.

        The rate assessed for each of the Corporation's subsidiary
        banks is currently 23 cents per $100 of eligible deposits. The
        assessment rate for the Corporation's savings association deposits is
        also currently 23 cents per $100 of eligible deposits.

        CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS  The federal banking agencies possess broad powers
        to take corrective action as deemed appropriate for an insured 
        depository institution and its holding company. The extent of these 
        powers depends on whether the institution in question is considered 
        "well capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," 
        "significantly undercapitalized" or "critically undercapitalized."  
        Generally, as an institution is deemed to be less than well 
        capitalized, the scope and severity of the agencies' powers increase. 
        The agencies' corrective powers can include, among other things, 
        requiring an insured financial institution to adopt a capital
        restoration plan which cannot be approved unless guaranteed by the
        institution's parent company; placing limits on asset growth and 
        restrictions on activities; placing restrictions on transactions with 
        affiliates; restricting the interest rate the institution may pay
        on deposits; 


        prohibiting the institution from accepting deposits from
        correspondent banks; prohibiting the payment of principal or interest
        on subordinated debt; prohibiting the holding company from making
        capital distributions without prior regulatory approval; and,
        ultimately, appointing a receiver for the institution. Business
        activities may also be influenced by an institution's capital
        classification. For instance, only a "well capitalized" depository
        institution may accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory
        approval and only an "adequately capitalized" depository institution
        may accept brokered deposits with prior regulatory approval. At
        December 31, 1994, all of the Corporation's subsidiary banks exceeded
        the required ratios for classification as "well capitalized."

        The federal bank regulatory authorities have each adopted
        risk-based capital guidelines to which the Corporation's subsidiary
        banks are subject. These guidelines are based on an international
        agreement developed by the Basle Committee on Banking Regulations and
        Supervisory Practices, which consists of representatives of central
        banks and supervisory authorities in 12 countries including the United
        States. The guidelines establish a systematic analytical framework that
        makes regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in
        risk profiles among banking organizations, takes off-balance-sheet
        exposures into explicit account in assessing capital adequacy and
        minimizes disincentives to holding liquid, low-risk assets. The
        risk-based capital ratio is determined by allocating assets and
        specified off-balance-sheet items into four weighted categories, with
        higher levels of capital being required for the categories perceived as
        representing greater risk.

        Under these guidelines, a bank's capital is divided into two
        tiers. The first tier (Tier 1) includes common equity, non-cumulative
        perpetual preferred stock (excluding auction rate issues) and minority
        interests that are held by others in a bank's consolidated
        subsidiaries, less goodwill and any disallowed intangibles.
        Supplementary (Tier 2) capital includes, among other items, cumulative
        and limited-life preferred stock, hybrid capital instruments, mandatory
        convertible securities, qualifying subordinated debt and the allowance
        for loan and lease losses, subject to certain limitations, less
        required deductions as prescribed by regulation.

        All banks are required to maintain a minimum total risk-based
        ratio of 8 percent, of which half (4 percent) must be Tier 1 capital.
        In addition, the federal bank regulators established leverage ratio
        (Tier 1 capital to total adjusted average assets) guidelines providing
        for a minimum leverage ratio of 3 percent for banks meeting certain
        specified criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity,
        low interest rate exposure and the highest regulatory rating.
        Institutions not meeting these criteria are expected to maintain a
        ratio which exceeds the 3 percent minimum by at least 100 to 200 basis
        points. The federal bank regulatory authorities may, however, set
        higher capital requirements when a bank's particular circumstances
        warrant.


        The following table sets forth the capital and leverage ratios of 
        certain of the Corporation's subsidiary banks as of December 31, 1994:
        
        A discussion of the current capital levels of the Corporation,
        is set forth under the caption entitled "Capital" of the "Corporate
        Financial Review" on pages 36 and 37 of the Annual Report to 
        Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                       
        The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
        1991 ("FDICIA") requires each federal banking agency to revise its
        risk-based capital standards, among other things, to ensure that those
        standards take adequate account of interest rate risk, concentration of
        credit risk and the risks of non-traditional activities, as well as
        reflect the actual performance and expected risk of loss on
        multi-family mortgages. By joint rule on December 15, 1994, effective
        January 17, 1995, each of the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, the
        Comptroller and the Office of Thrift Supervision has amended its
        agency's risk-based capital standards by explicitly identifying
        concentration of credit risk and the risk arising from non-traditional
        activities, as well as an institution's ability to manage those risks,
        as important factors to be taken into account by the agency in
        assessing an institution's overall capital adequacy. The Federal
        Reserve Board, the FDIC and the Comptroller have also issued a joint
        notice of proposed rulemaking for implementing the interest rate risk
        component of the risk-based capital guidelines. Under the proposal, an
        institution's assets, liabilities, and off-balance-sheet positions
        would be weighted by risk factors that approximate the instruments'
        price sensitivity to a 100 basis point change in interest rates.
        Institutions with interest rate exposure in excess of a threshold level
        would be required to hold additional capital proportional to that risk.
        A final rule is expected to be adopted during the first half of 1995.
        The Corporation has been advised that any final rule may differ from 
        its currently proposed form.

          NON-BANK SUBSIDIARIES

        The non-bank subsidiaries of the Corporation are subject to
        regulatory restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Board and other
        federal or state regulatory agencies. The Corporation has three
        subsidiaries that are registered broker-dealers. The activities of
        these companies are 


        monitored by the Comptroller in two instances and the Federal
        Reserve Board in the other instance, and each company is subject to
        rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange
        Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., the
        Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, the Securities Investors
        Protection Corporation and various state securities commissions.

        Several other non-bank subsidiaries of the Corporation are
        registered investment advisors and are subject to the regulations of
        the Securities and Exchange Commission and may be subject to
        regulations of one or more state securities commissions. Additionally,
        those investment advisors, as subsidiaries of a national bank, are
        subject to supervision by the Comptroller.

        Other non-bank subsidiaries of the Corporation are regulated under 
        federal and/or state mortgage lending, insurance and consumer laws, 
        among others.

          GOVERNMENTAL POLICIES

        The operations of financial institutions may be affected by the
        policies of various regulatory authorities. In particular, bank holding
        companies and their subsidiaries are affected by the credit and
        monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. An important function
        of the Federal Reserve Board is to regulate the national supply of bank
        credit.  Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal
        Reserve Board to implement its objectives are open market operations
        in U.S. Government securities, changes in the discount rate on bank
        borrowings and changes in reserve requirements on bank deposits.

        These instruments of monetary policy are used in varying
        combinations to influence the overall level of bank loans, investments
        and deposits, the interest rates charged on loans and paid for
        deposits, the price of the dollar in foreign exchange markets and the
        level of inflation. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board
        have had a significant effect on the operating results of banking
        institutions in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the
        future. It is not possible to predict the nature or timing of future
        changes in monetary and fiscal policies, or the effect that they may
        have on the Corporation's business and earnings.


          LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS AND REFORM

        Certain significant legislative proposals and reforms affecting
        the financial services industry are currently being discussed and
        evaluated by Congress. Such proposals include legislation to revise the
        Glass-Steagall Act and the BHC Act to expand permissible activities for
        banks, principally to facilitate the convergence of commercial and
        investment banking. Other proposals under consideration include the
        consolidation and/or jurisdictional realignment of various federal
        banking agencies as well as involve a reassessment of community
        reinvestment and fair lending laws. At this time, it is unclear whether
        any of these proposals, or any form of them, will become law this year
        or ever. Consequently, it is difficult to ascertain what effect they
        may have on the Corporation and its subsidiaries. 

        COMPETITION

        Bank holding companies and their subsidiaries are subject to
        vigorous and intense competition from various financial institutions
        and other "non-bank" or non-regulated companies or firms that engage in
        similar activities. The Corporation's subsidiary banks compete for
        deposits with other commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan
        associations, insurance companies and credit unions, as well as issuers
        of commercial paper and other securities, including shares in mutual
        funds. In making loans, the Corporation's subsidiary banks compete with
        other commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations,
        consumer finance companies, credit unions, leasing companies and other
        non-bank lenders. In addition, various non-bank subsidiaries engaged in
        investment banking and venture capital activities compete with
        commercial banks, investment banking firms, insurance companies and
        venture capital firms. In providing trust and money management
        services, the Corporation's subsidiaries compete with many large
        commercial banks, trust companies, brokerage houses, mutual fund
        managers, registered investment advisors and insurance companies.

        The Corporation and its subsidiaries compete not only with
        financial institutions based in the states in which the subsidiary
        banks are located, but also with a number of large out-of-state and
        foreign banks, bank holding companies and other financial and non-bank
        institutions. Some of the financial and other institutions operating in
        the same markets are engaged in national and international operations
        and have more assets and personnel than the Corporation. Some of the
        Corporation's competitors are not subject to the extensive bank
        regulatory structure and restrictive policies which apply to the
        Corporation and its subsidiaries.

        EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        Information concerning each executive officer of the
        Corporation as of February 28, 1995 is set forth below. Each executive
        officer held the position indicated or another senior executive
        position with the same entity or one of its affiliates or a predecessor
        corporation for the past five years, except as noted on page 16.




    

ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES

        The executive and administrative offices of the Corporation and
        PNC Bank, National Association ("PNC Bank, N.A."), are located in One
        PNC Plaza, located at Fifth Avenue and Wood Street, Pittsburgh,
        Pennsylvania. The thirty-story structure is owned by PNC Bank, N.A. The
        Corporation and PNC Bank, N.A. occupy substantially all of the building.
        In addition, PNC Bank, N.A. owns a thirty-four story structure adjacent
        to One PNC Plaza, known as Two PNC Plaza, that houses additional office
        space. PNC Bank, N.A. also owns a data processing and telecommunications
        center located in a suburb of Pittsburgh.

        The Corporation's subsidiaries also own or lease numerous other
        premises for use in conducting banking and non-banking activities. The
        facilities owned or occupied under lease by the Corporation's
        subsidiaries are considered by management to be adequate.  Neither the
        location of any particular office nor the unexpired term of any lease is
        deemed material to the business of the Corporation.

        For additional information pertaining to the Corporation's
        properties, refer to the information set forth under the caption
        entitled "Premises, Equipment and Leasehold Improvements," included on
        pages 56 and 57 of the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is
        incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

        A consolidated purported class action complaint was filed in March 1995
        in the United States District Court for the Western District of
        Pennsylvania against the Corporation, its Chairman and Chief Executive
        Officer, and its Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, on
        behalf of a purported class of persons who purchased the Corporation's
        securities between April 18, 1994 and November 15, 1994.  The lawsuit
        was consolidated from four lawsuits filed in November and December
        1994.  The consolidated lawsuit alleges violations of federal
        securities laws and common law relating to disclosures regarding the
        Corporation's net interest income, interest rate risk, future
        prospects, and related matters, and seeks, among other things,
        unquantified damages.  Management believes there are meritorious
        defenses to this consolidated lawsuit and intends to defend it
        vigorously.  Management believes that the final disposition will not be
        material to the Corporation's financial position.
        
        In January 1992, a purported class action lawsuit was filed
        against PNC National Bank ("PNCNB"), a national bank subsidiary of the
        Corporation located in Wilmington, Delaware, alleging that PNCNB
        violated Pennsylvania statutes in connection with certain fees charged
        on credit cards issued by PNCNB. The lawsuit is brought on behalf of a
        purported class of resident individuals of Pennsylvania who have
        contracted for, been charged, had reserved, or had paid these fees, and
        seeks, among other things, unquantified compensatory and triple damages
        and injunctive relief. The lawsuit was filed in the Court of Common
        Pleas of Allegheny County and was removed to the United States District
        Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. The district court
        denied plaintiff's motion to remand the case to state court and
        dismissed the lawsuit, holding that Pennsylvania law is preempted by
        federal banking laws. Plaintiff has appealed and PNCNB is vigorously
        defending the district court's 


        decision. The impact of the final disposition of this lawsuit
        cannot be assessed at the present time. In certain cases not involving
        PNCNB, a Pennsylvania intermediate state appellate court has held that
        the application of Pennsylvania law to certain credit card fees, when
        charged to Pennsylvania residents, is not preempted by federal banking
        laws. Further appellate review is being sought in those cases.

        The Corporation, in the normal course of business, is subject
        to various other pending and threatened lawsuits in which claims for
        monetary damages are asserted. Management, after consultation with
        legal counsel, does not anticipate that the ultimate aggregate
        liability, if any, arising out of such other lawsuits will have a
        material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial position.

        At the present time, management is not in a position to
        determine whether any pending or threatened litigation will have a
        material adverse effect on the Corporation's results of operations in
        any future reporting period.

                                   PART II

ITEM 5 - MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED 
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

        The Corporation's common stock is listed on the New York Stock
        Exchange and is traded under the symbol "PNC". At the close of business
        on February 28, 1995, there were 43,925 common shareholders of record.

        Holders of common stock are entitled to receive dividends when 
        declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available
        therefor. The Board of Directors may not pay or set apart dividends on
        the common stock until dividends for all past dividend periods on any
        series of outstanding preferred stock have been paid or declared and
        set apart for payment. The Board presently intends to continue the
        policy of paying quarterly cash dividends. However, the amount of any
        future dividends will depend on earnings, the financial condition of
        the Corporation and other factors including applicable government
        regulations and policies (such as those relating to the ability of the
        subsidiary banks and non-bank subsidiaries to upstream dividends to the
        parent company). The Federal Reserve Board has the power to prohibit
        the Corporation from paying dividends without prior regulatory
        approval. Further discussion concerning dividend restrictions is set
        forth under the caption "Supervision and Regulation" in Part I, Item 1
        of this Form 10-K and in "Regulatory Matters" on page 63 of the Annual
        Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                
        Additional information relating to the common stock is set
        forth under the caption "Common Stock Prices/Dividends Declared" on
        page 81 of the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated
        herein by reference.



ITEM 6 - SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

        "Selected Consolidated Financial Data" on page 67 of the Annual
        Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

        The discussion and analysis of the Corporation's financial
        position and its results of operations set forth under the section
        entitled "Corporate Financial Review" on pages 20 - 44 of the Annual
        Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.
        See also the updated discussion included under the captions
        "Business Overview-Business Strategies"and "Risk Management" in Part I,
        Item 1-Business of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 8 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

        The "Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors,"
        "Consolidated Financial Statements" and "Selected Quarterly Financial
        Data" on pages 45, 46-66 and 68, respectively, of the Annual Report to
        Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.

                                   PART III

ITEM 10 - DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        Information relating to the principal occupations of directors
        of the Corporation, their ages, directorships in other companies, and
        respective terms of office under the heading "Election of Directors -
        Information Concerning Nominees" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated
        herein by reference.

        Information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the
        Securities Exchange Act of 1934 set forth under the heading
        "Certain Reports" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
        reference.

        Information regarding executive officers of the Corporation is
        included in Part I of this Form 10-K under the caption "Executive
        Officers of the Registrant."

ITEM 11 - EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

        Information regarding compensation of directors and executive
        officers under the captions entitled "Election of Directors -
        Compensation of Directors" and "Compensation of Executive Officers",
        excluding the "Personnel and Compensation Committee Report on Executive
        Compensation," in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
        reference.


ITEM 12 - SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

        Information regarding the beneficial ownership of the equity
        securities of the Corporation by all nominees for director, each of the
        five highest compensated executive officers and all directors and
        executive officers of the Corporation as a group under the heading
        "Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers and Certain
        Beneficial Owners-Security Ownership of Directors and Executive
        Officers" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.
        Information regarding ownership of the equity securities of the
        Corporation by certain beneficial owners under the heading "Security
        Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers and Certain Beneficial
        Owners-Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners" in the Proxy
        Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13 - CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

        Information regarding transactions and relationships with
        certain directors and executive officers of the Corporation and their
        associates under the heading "Compensation of Executive
        Officers-Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation"
        in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

                                   PART IV

ITEM 14 - EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

        The following report of independent auditors of the Corporation and 
        consolidated financial statements, included in the Annual Report to 
        Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference.





        REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

        A Form 8-K dated as of October 19, 1994, was filed on October 21, 1994,
        pursuant to Item 5 to report the Corporation's consolidated financial 
        results for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 1994.

        A Form 8-K dated as of November 23, 1994, was filed on December 7, 1994,
        pursuant to Item 5 to report two purported class action
        lawsuits commenced against the Corporation, its Chairman and Chief
        Executive Officer, and, in one case, its Senior Vice President and Chief
        Financial Officer, alleging purported violations of federal securities
        laws relating to disclosures regarding the Corporation's net interest
        income, interest rate risk, and future prospects and related matters.

        A Form 8-K was filed on, and dated as of, January 6, 1995,
        pursuant to Item 5 to report (i) certain actions taken by the
        Corporation to reduce its interest rate sensitivity; (ii) to announce a
        charge to earnings related to the cost of consolidating existing
        telephone banking centers and continued rationalization of the branch
        network; and (iii) the authorization by the Corporation's Board of
        Directors to purchase up to 24 million shares of the Corporation's
        common stock over the next two years.

        A Form 8-K dated as of January 13, 1995, was filed on January 23, 1995,
        pursuant to Item 5 to report (i) the Corporation's consolidated 
        financial results for the three months and twelve months ended December
        31, 1994; and (ii) the completion of the acquisition of Indian River.

        A Form 8-K dated as of February 28, 1995, was filed on March
        14, 1995, pursuant to Item 5 to report (i) the completion of the
        acquisition of BlackRock; (ii) the completion of the acquisition of
        Brentwood; and (iii) the entering into a definitive agreement to
        acquire Chemical Bank New Jersey.

        No financial statements were filed with such reports.

        EXHIBITS

        The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index on pages 25-26 of this Form 
        10-K are filed herewith or are incorporated herein by reference.


                                  SIGNATURES

        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
        Securities Exchange Act of 1934, PNC Bank Corp. has duly caused this
        report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
        authorized. 


                                       PNC BANK CORP. 
                                       (Registrant) 

                                       By:   /s/ THOMAS H. O'BRIEN
                                           --------------------------
                                              Thomas H. O'Brien 
                                              Chairman and Chief
                                               Executive Officer 


                                       Dated:  March 31, 1995


        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
        1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on
        behalf of PNC Bank Corp. and in the capacity and on the dates
        indicated.







                                EXHIBIT INDEX







