
10-K
PNC BANK CORP. 10-K




                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                      
                                  FORM 10-K
             ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
(Mark One)
   [X]       Annual report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the 
                       Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
                                      OR
   [ ]    Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the transaction period
          from                        to
               ----------------------    ----------------------

                                 PNC BANK CORP.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           PENNSYLVANIA                                  25-1435979
 (State or other jurisdiction of                      (I.R.S. Employer  
  incorporation or organization)                     Identification No.)     


                                 ONE PNC PLAZA
                                249 FIFTH AVENUE
                      PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA  15222-2707
                    (Address of principal executive offices)
                                   (Zip Code)

      REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE - (412) 762-1553

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT


INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS REQUIRED
TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DURING
THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE REGISTRANT WAS
REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH FILING
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS. YES  X   NO
                                       ---     ---

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF THE DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM
405 OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE
BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION STATEMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K. [    ]

THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF THE VOTING STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF THE
REGISTRANT AMOUNTED TO APPROXIMATELY $9.85 BILLION AT FEBRUARY 29, 1996.

NUMBER OF SHARES OF REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK OUTSTANDING AT FEBRUARY 29, 1996: 
341,535,524

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

PORTIONS OF PNC BANK CORP.'S ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 1995 ("ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS") ARE INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE INTO PARTS I AND II AND PORTIONS OF THE DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT OF
PNC BANK CORP. FOR THE ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS TO BE HELD ON APRIL 23,
1996 ("PROXY STATEMENT") ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE INTO PART III OF THIS
FORM 10-K. THE INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE HEREIN OF PORTIONS OF THE PROXY
STATEMENT SHALL NOT BE DEEMED TO SPECIFICALLY INCORPORATE BY REFERENCE THE
INFORMATION REFERRED TO IN ITEM 402(a)(8) OF REGULATION S-K.

                                    INDEX




                                       i

                                     PART I

ITEM 1 - BUSINESS


     BUSINESS OVERVIEW

      Introduction

     PNC Bank Corp. ("PNC Bank" or "Corporation") is a bank holding company
     registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended ("BHC
     Act"). PNC Bank was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of
     Pennsylvania in 1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh National
     Corporation and Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, PNC Bank has
     diversified its geographical presence and product capabilities through
     strategic bank and nonbank acquisitions and the formation of various
     nonbanking subsidiaries. At December 31, 1995, the Corporation operated
     banking subsidiaries in Pennsylvania, Delaware, Florida, Indiana,
     Kentucky, Massachusetts, New Jersey and Ohio, and conducted nonbanking
     operations throughout the United States. The Corporation's major
     businesses include consumer banking, corporate banking, real estate
     banking, mortgage banking and asset management. At December 31, 1995, the
     Corporation's consolidated total assets, deposits and shareholders' equity
     were $73.4 billion, $46.9 billion and $5.8 billion, respectively.  Based
     on total assets, PNC Bank was the 12th largest bank holding company in the
     United States at December 31, 1995. During 1995, the Corporation and
     subsidiaries employed approximately 25,400 persons on a full-time
     equivalent basis.

     Effective December 31, 1995, Midlantic Corporation ("Midlantic"), a
     regional bank holding company headquartered in Edison, New Jersey, merged
     with and into PNC Bancorp, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
     Corporation. Approximately 112 million shares of the Corporation's common
     stock were issued in connection with the merger. At closing, Midlantic had
     consolidated total assets, deposits and shareholders' equity of $13.6
     billion, $11.0 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, and 308 branch
     offices in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. The transaction was accounted for
     as a pooling of interests, and accordingly, all financial information has
     been restated as if the entities were combined for all periods presented.
     Midlantic Bank, N.A., Midlantic's principal subsidiary, will continue to
     operate under its present name until integration and consolidation plans
     are fully implemented in the third quarter of 1996. At that time, it is
     expected that Midlantic Bank, N.A. will be merged or otherwise combined
     with PNC Bank, National Association, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
     Corporation.

     The in-market nature of the Midlantic transaction is expected to generate
     substantial economies by reducing costs associated with overlapping and
     duplicative operations and provide opportunities to enhance revenues
     through marketing of the Corporation's products and services to a new
     customer base. The extent and timing of cost savings and revenue
     enhancements are dependent on various factors, some of which are beyond
     the control of the Corporation. Such factors include conversion
     strategies, customer attrition and competitive responses. Therefore, no
     assurances can be given with respect to the ultimate level of cost savings
     and revenue enhancements to be realized, or that such amounts will be
     realized in the time frame initially anticipated.

     Certain other merger and acquisition activities of the Corporation are
     summarized under the section entitled "Mergers and Acquisitions" in the
     "Corporate Financial Review" and in "Note 2 - Mergers and Acquisitions" of
     the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included on pages 23 and
     53, respectively, of the Annual Report to Shareholders, which discussion
     is incorporated herein by reference.

      LINES OF BUSINESS

     PNC Bank delivers a broad range of financial services and products to its
     customers through five lines of business: Consumer Banking, Corporate
     Banking, Real Estate Banking, Mortgage Banking and Asset Management.
     Additional information relating to the lines of business is set forth
     under the caption entitled "Line of Business Results" in the "Corporate
     Financial Review" included on pages 35 through 39 of the Annual Report to
     Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.


     CONSUMER BANKING Consumer Banking provides lending, deposit, personal
     trust, brokerage, investment, payment system access and other financial
     services to individuals and small businesses.  Consumer Banking serves more
     than 3.2 million households and 135,000 small businesses, with an average
     loan portfolio exceeding $15.4 billion and more than $34.2 billion in
     average deposits. The principal focus of Consumer Banking is on providing
     products and services sought by its customers in a cost-effective manner.
     In 1995, Consumer Banking reorganized its delivery channels around customer
     segments. The "Private Bank" serves affluent customers.  The "Community
     Bank" serves traditional retail customers through its "Branch Bank",
     entrepreneurs, community businesses, institutions and nonprofit
     organizations through its "Business Bank" and customers who prefer
     alternative delivery systems through the "Direct Bank". Consumer Banking's
     services are provided through approximately 950 community banking offices
     located in the Corporation's primary markets. In addition, services are
     provided through alternative delivery systems, such as the Corporation's
     telebanking center and automated teller machines ("ATMs"), and regional
     banking centers which offer a wide array of products at each center.
     Alternative delivery systems, such as the telebanking center, are expected
     to allow the Corporation to provide products and services more efficiently
     than traditional banking delivery systems.

     The Corporation continues to invest in operating platforms and alternative
     retail delivery systems, such as The National Financial Services Center,
     its Pittsburgh-based telebanking center, and to consolidate its retail
     branches. The Corporation also continues to evaluate strategic alliances
     to leverage its delivery capabilities. During 1995, the Corporation
     entered into agreements with third parties to provide certain
     administrative, marketing, data processing, customer support and related
     services for the Corporation's credit card and merchant services
     businesses. In addition, an agreement with the American Automobile
     Association announced in February 1996 is designed to offer the
     Corporation's products and services nationally to the organization's more
     than 34 million members through the Corporation's alternative delivery
     capabilities.

     CORPORATE BANKING Corporate Banking provides traditional and asset-based
     financing, liquidity and treasury management, corporate and employee
     benefit trust, capital markets, direct investment, leasing and other
     financial services to businesses and governmental entities. Corporate
     Banking serves businesses with annual revenues of $5 million or more,
     including specialized industries such as communications, health care,
     natural resources, metals, public finance, financial services and
     automobile dealer finance. In addition to serving customers within its
     primary markets, Corporate Banking has offices in several major United
     States cities to reach the national market.  Corporate Banking's focus is
     on developing and delivering specific products and services to build and
     enhance client relationships. This line of business has one of the largest
     market share positions of middle-market companies located in the
     Corporation's primary markets. In addition, Corporate Banking maintains
     banking relationships with many of the largest companies in the United
     States and is a major provider of treasury management products and
     services to large corporate customers.

     REAL ESTATE BANKING Real Estate Banking provides lending, deposit,
     treasury management, syndication, commercial mortgage-backed
     securitizations and other non-credit services to customers that manage and
     develop commercial and residential real estate properties and facilities.
     In 1995, Real Estate Banking focused on expanding its customer base and
     product line. Its customers include developers, builders, investors,
     mortgage bankers, property managers and institutions. In 1995, Real Estate
     Banking formed a joint venture with a leading commercial mortgage banker
     to provide its customers with better access to institutional debt and
     equity markets and introduced a commercial mortgage-backed securitization
     product as a real estate financing alternative. It also formed a team to
     serve the real estate needs of the Corporation's treasury management
     customers. In 1996, Real Estate Banking will further emphasize its
     securitization capabilities and expand private debt/equity placement
     opportunities.

     MORTGAGE BANKING Mortgage Banking activities include acquisition,
     origination, securitization and servicing of residential mortgages, as
     well as retention of selected loans in the portfolio. Mortgage loans are
     originated through PNC Bank's branch network and PNC Mortgage's network of
     85 origination offices in 29 states and nationally by telephone through
     its National Mortgage Center. At December 31, 1995, PNC Mortgage was the
     nation's 13th largest retail mortgage originator and 17th largest mortgage
     servicer. At such date, PNC Mortgage's servicing portfolio totaled $37.3
     billion, including $25.1 billion serviced for others. PNC Mortgage intends
     to continue to develop new ways, using technology and multiple
     distribution channels, to deliver mortgage loans and financial services to
     meet the needs of its customers in the intensely competitive environment
     in which it operates.


     ASSET MANAGEMENT Asset Management provides trust and mutual fund products
     and services including investment management, strategy, research and asset
     servicing. In 1995, the Corporation acquired BlackRock Financial
     Management, L.P. ("BlackRock") to expand its asset management service
     capabilities. At December 31, 1995, PNC Bank ranked as one of the top 20
     investment managers in the United States. PNC Asset Management had
     discretionary authority over $96 billion in assets and over $282 billion
     in assets under administration. It is the second largest bank manager of
     mutual funds and one of the largest mutual fund service providers. It
     manages or acts as sub-advisor to 94 mutual funds with assets of $42
     billion and provides custody services for mutual funds with $130 billion
     in assets. PNC Bank also provides accounting and administrative services
     for funds with over $100 billion in assets, transfer and shareholder
     services for approximately 3.5 million mutual fund shareholder accounts
     and investment research services to more than 250 financial institutions.
     In 1996, the Corporation consolidated the PNC Funds, Midlantic's Compass
     Funds and BlackRock's open-end mutual funds into one $10 billion fund
     family with a portfolio of 28 mutual funds to facilitate broader
     distribution capabilities and attract more customers. Most recently, the
     Corporation established CastleInternational Asset Management Inc., an
     international investment company in Edinburgh, Scotland, to expand
     international equity money management capabilities.

      SUBSIDIARY BANKS

     While the Corporation manages its businesses on a line-of-business basis,
     its corporate legal structure currently consists of 10 bank subsidiaries
     and over 150 active nonbank subsidiaries.  Selected information as of
     December 31, 1995, for the Corporation's banks is set forth below.




     STATISTICAL DISCLOSURES BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES

     The "Statistical Information" contained on pages 73 through 81 of the
     Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

     RISK MANAGEMENT

     In the normal course of business, the Corporation is subject to various
     risks, the most significant of which are credit, liquidity and interest
     rate. Although it cannot eliminate these risks, the Corporation has risk
     management processes designed to provide for risk identification,
     measurement, monitoring and control.

     CREDIT RISK Credit risk represents the possibility that a customer or
     counterparty may not perform in accordance with contractual terms. Credit
     risk results from extending credit to customers, purchasing securities and
     entering into certain off-balance-sheet financial derivative
     transactions. Risk associated with the extension of credit includes
     general risk, which is inherent in the lending business, and risk specific
     to individual borrowers. The Corporation seeks to manage credit risk
     through portfolio diversification, underwriting policies and procedures,
     and loan monitoring practices. Information relating to the distribution of
     the loan portfolio by type of loan, loan maturities and interest
     sensitivity is set forth under the section entitled "Loans" in the
     "Corporate Financial Review" and "Loans" in the "Statistical Information"
     included on pages 27 and 28 and page 77, respectively, of the Annual
     Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.

     Credit Administration, which includes credit policy, loan review and loan
     workout, is responsible for the overall management of credit risk and the
     development, application and enforcement of uniform policies and
     procedures across PNC Bank. One objective is diversification by industry
     concentration, geographic distribution and the type of borrower. Policies
     contain limits on amounts that may be committed for specified categories
     of loans and individual borrowers. These limits are specified for both
     consolidated and individual bank exposure levels. Specific underwriting
     policies have been adopted for many categories of exposure including
     commercial real estate, cable, cellular, broadcasting, health care and
     automobile dealers, as well as general policies covering standards of
     documentation, collateral coverage, guarantee provisions, environmental
     risk protection and approval processes.

     PNC Bank receives collateral to support credit extensions and commitments
     when deemed necessary, the amount of which is based on management's credit
     evaluation of the borrower. The most significant categories of collateral
     include real estate, commercial business assets, cash on deposit and
     marketable securities. In addition, for some loans made on the basis of
     the general creditworthiness of the borrower, additional security in the
     form of real and personal property may be obtained that may not be
     directly related to the purpose of the loan.

     In order to assess and monitor the degree of risk in the loan portfolio, a
     lender-initiated credit risk grading system is used.  A risk grade is
     assigned to each loan at origination based on an assessment of the
     borrower's financial capacity to service the debt and the presence and
     value of collateral. Industry and economic risks are also considered when
     assigning such grades.  Risk grades are maintained by the loan officer
     whose responsibilities include monitoring the risk inherent in such
     individual credits. An independent corporate loan review function assesses
     the credit granting process and reviews risk grades for compliance with
     policies.

     Asset and liability ("A&L") management seeks to minimize the credit risk
     associated with its activities, including financial derivatives, primarily
     by entering into transactions with only a select number of high-quality
     institutions, establishing credit limits, requiring bilateral-netting
     agreements, and in certain instances, requiring segregated collateral.
     Additional information with respect to risk associated with the
     Corporation's financial derivatives is set forth under the section entitled
     "Financial Derivatives" in the "Corporate Financial Review" included on
     pages 31 through 34 of the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is
     incorporated herein by reference.

     LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity represents an institution's ability to generate
     cash or otherwise obtain funds at reasonable rates to satisfy commitments
     to borrowers and demands of depositors and debtholders, and invest in
     strategic initiatives. Liquidity risk represents the likelihood the
     Corporation would be unable to generate cash or otherwise obtain funds at
     reasonable rates for such purposes. Liquidity is managed through the
     coordination of the relative maturities of assets, liabilities and
     off-balance-sheet positions and is enhanced by the ability to raise funds
     in capital markets through direct borrowing or securitization of assets,
     such as automobile and credit card loans.


     As described under "Liquidity" in the "Corporate Financial Review" on page
     41 of the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by
     reference, management believes that the Corporation has sufficient
     liquidity to meet its current commitments and obligations to customers,
     debtholders and others.

     INTEREST RATE RISK Interest rate risk arises primarily through the
     Corporation's normal business activities of extending loans and taking
     deposits. Interest rate risk is the sensitivity of net interest income and
     the market value of financial instruments to the timing, magnitude and
     frequency of changes in interest rates.  Interest rate risk results from
     various repricing frequencies and the maturity structure of assets,
     liabilities, and off-balance-sheet positions. Interest rate risk also
     results from, among other factors, changes in the relationship or spread
     between interest rates. Many factors, including economic and financial
     conditions, general movements in market interest rates and consumer
     preferences, affect the spread between interest earned on assets and
     interest paid on liabilities. Financial derivatives, primarily interest
     rate swaps, caps and floors, are used to alter the interest rate
     characteristics of assets and liabilities. For example, receive-fixed
     interest rate swaps effectively convert variable-rate assets to fixed-rate
     assets.

     In managing interest rate risk, the Corporation seeks to minimize reliance
     on a particular interest rate scenario as a source of earnings.
     Accordingly, wholesale activities including securities, funding, financial
     derivatives and capital market activities are used in managing core
     business exposures within specified guidelines. Interest rate risk is
     centrally managed by A&L management. As part of the overall interest rate
     risk management process, A&L management will initiate various actions to
     manage risks within the Corporation's guidelines. Such actions are
     dependent on costs, existing and expected economic conditions, the
     Corporation's business strategies and various other factors.  A committee
     composed of members of senior management and a committee of the
     Corporation's Board of Directors oversees A&L management and periodically
     reviews interest rate risk exposures.

     The Corporation uses a number of measures to monitor and manage interest
     rate risk, including income simulation and interest sensitivity ("gap")
     analyses. In addition, the Corporation is in the process of developing
     measures of longer-term interest rate sensitivity, including duration of
     equity and equity at risk.  Such models are designed to estimate the
     impact on the value of equity resulting from changes in interest rates and
     supplement the simulation model and gap analyses.

     An income simulation model is the primary tool used by management to
     assess the direction and magnitude of changes in net interest income
     resulting from changes in interest rates. Key assumptions employed in the
     model include interest rate movements, balance sheet growth, prepayment
     speeds on mortgage-related assets, cash flows and maturities of financial
     instruments, changes in market conditions, loan volumes and pricing,
     deposit sensitivity, customer preferences, and management's financial and
     capital plans. The assumptions are developed based on current business and
     A&L management strategies, historical experience, the current economic
     environment, forecasted economic conditions and other analyses. These
     assumptions are inherently uncertain and subject to change as time passes.
     Accordingly, under these scenarios the model is not an estimate of
     expected net interest income nor does it precisely predict the impact of
     higher or lower interest rates on net interest income.

     The Corporation's guidelines provide that net interest income should not
     decrease by more than 3 percent if interest rates gradually increase or
     decrease from current rates by 100 basis points over a twelve month
     period. At December 31, 1995, based on results of the simulation model,
     the Corporation was within these guidelines. The impact of changes in
     interest rates on these measures will differ from simulated results due to
     various factors including timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate
     changes, the relationship or spread between various interest rates,
     changes in market conditions, loan pricing and deposit sensitivity,
     customer preferences and competition. In addition, the actual results will
     be affected by the impact of mergers or acquisitions and business and A&L
     management strategies that differ from those assumed in the model.

     Additional interest rate scenarios are modeled to address a wider range of
     rate movement, yield curve, term structure and basis risk exposures.
     Depending on market conditions and other inherent risks, these scenarios
     may be modeled more or less frequently.  Such analyses are used as
     supplemental measurements only and limits have not been established.

     The Corporation also employs interest sensitivity (gap) analyses.  A gap
     analysis represents a point-in-time net position of assets, liabilities
     and off-balance-sheet instruments subject to repricing in specified time
     periods. A cumulative asset-sensitive gap position indicates the
     Corporation's assets are expected to reprice more quickly than its
     liabilities. Alternatively, a cumulative liability-sensitive gap position
     indicates the Corporation's liabilities are expected to reprice more
     quickly than its assets. The gap analysis does not accurately measure the
     magnitude of changes in net interest income since changes in interest
     rates over time do not impact all categories of assets, liabilities and
     off-balance-sheet instruments equally or simultaneously. The Corporation's
     limit for the cumulative one-year gap position is 10 percent. 


     During January 1996, to reduce exposure to declining interest rates, the
     Corporation added receive-fixed interest rate swaps with a term of two
     years which converted designated assets from variable rates to fixed
     rates.  As a result, the asset sensitivity of the Corporation's cumulative
     one-year gap position was reduced from 7.0 percent at December 31, 1995,
     to 3.8 percent.

     The "Interest Rate Sensitivity (Gap) Analysis" table set forth in the
     "Corporate Financial Review" on page 42 of the Annual Report to
     Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

     EFFECT OF GOVERNMENTAL MONETARY POLICIES

     The earnings and operations of bank holding companies and their
     subsidiaries are affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of the
     United States government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve
     Board. An important function of the Federal Reserve Board is to regulate
     the national supply of bank credit.  The Federal Reserve Board employs
     open market operations in U.S.  Government securities, changes in the
     discount rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements on
     bank deposits to implement its monetary policy objectives. These
     instruments of monetary policy are used in varying combinations to
     influence the overall level of bank loans, investments and deposits, the
     interest rates charged on loans and paid for deposits, the price of the
     dollar in foreign exchange markets and the level of inflation. The
     monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant
     effect on the operating results of banking institutions in the past and
     are expected to continue to do so in the future. It is not possible to
     predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary and fiscal
     policies or the effect that they may have on the Corporation's business
     and earnings.

     SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

      INTRODUCTION

     Bank holding companies, banks and many of their nonbank affiliates are
     extensively regulated under both federal and state law. The following
     information describes certain aspects of that regulation applicable to the
     Corporation and its subsidiaries, and does not purport to be complete. The
     discussion is qualified in its entirety by reference to all particular
     statutory or regulatory provisions.

     The Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from its
     subsidiary banks and its nonbank subsidiaries. Accordingly, the right of
     the Corporation, and consequently the right of creditors and shareholders
     of the Corporation, to participate in any distribution of the assets or
     earnings of any subsidiary is necessarily subject to the prior claims of
     creditors of the subsidiary, except to the extent that claims of the
     Corporation in its capacity as creditor may be recognized. The principal
     source of the Corporation's revenue and cash flow is dividends from its
     subsidiary banks and nonbank subsidiaries. There are legal limitations on
     the extent to which its subsidiary banks can finance or otherwise supply
     funds to the Corporation and its nonbank subsidiaries.

      BANK HOLDING COMPANIES

     GENERAL As a registered holding company, the Corporation is regulated
     under the BHC Act and is subject to supervision and regular inspection by
     the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("Federal Reserve
     Board"). The BHC Act requires, among other things, the prior approval of
     the Federal Reserve Board in any case where the Corporation proposes to
     (i) acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank, (ii)
     acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of
     the voting shares of any bank, or (iii) merge or consolidate with any
     other bank holding company.

     ACQUISITIONS/PERMISSIBLE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES The BHC Act currently permits
     bank holding companies from any state to acquire banks and bank holding
     companies located in any other state, subject to certain conditions,
     including certain nationwide- and state-imposed concentration limits.
     Effective June 1, 1997, the Corporation's subsidiary banks will have the
     ability, subject to certain restrictions, including state opt-out
     provisions, to consolidate with one another or to acquire by acquisition
     or merger branches outside their home states. States may affirmatively
     opt-in to permit these transactions earlier, which Delaware and
     Pennsylvania, among other states, have done.  The establishment of new
     interstate branches also will be possible in those states with laws that
     expressly permit it.  Interstate branches will be subject to certain laws
     of the states in which they are located. Competition may increase further
     as banks branch across state lines and enter new markets.


     Under the BHC Act, the Corporation is prohibited, with certain exceptions,
     from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5
     percent of any class of voting shares of any nonbanking corporation.
     Further, the Corporation may not engage in any business other than
     managing and controlling banks or furnishing certain specified services to
     subsidiaries, and may not acquire voting control of nonbanking
     corporations except those corporations engaged in businesses or furnishing
     services that the Federal Reserve Board deems to be closely related to
     banking.

     COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT Bank holding companies and their subsidiary banks
     are subject to the provisions of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977,
     as amended ("CRA"). Under the terms of the CRA, each subsidiary bank's
     record in meeting the credit needs of the community served by that bank,
     including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, is generally annually
     assessed by that bank's primary regulatory authority. When a bank holding
     company applies for approval to acquire a bank or other bank holding
     company, the Federal Reserve Board will review the assessment of each
     subsidiary bank of the applicant bank holding company, and such records
     may be the basis for denying the application. At December 31, 1995, the
     Corporation's subsidiary banks were rated "Outstanding" or "Satisfactory"
     with respect to CRA.

     SOURCE OF STRENGTH POLICY Under Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank
     holding company is expected to act as a source of financial strength to
     each of its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to support each such
     bank. Consistent with its "source of strength" policy for subsidiary
     banks, the Federal Reserve Board has stated that, as a matter of prudent
     banking, a bank holding company generally should not maintain a rate of
     cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has
     been sufficient to fund fully the dividends, and the prospective rate of
     earnings retention appears to be consistent with the corporation's capital
     needs, asset quality and overall financial condition.

      SUBSIDIARY BANKS

     GENERAL The Corporation's subsidiary banks are subject to supervision and
     examination by applicable federal and state banking agencies, including,
     with respect to national banks, the Office of the Comptroller of the
     Currency ("OCC"). In addition, all of the subsidiary banks are insured by
     and subject to some or all of the regulations of the Federal Deposit
     Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"). The Corporation's subsidiary banks are
     also subject to various requirements and restrictions under federal and
     state law, including requirements to maintain reserves against deposits,
     restrictions on the types, amounts and terms and conditions of loans that
     may be granted and limitations on the types of investments that may be
     made and the types of services that may be offered. Various consumer laws
     and regulations also affect the operations of the subsidiary banks.

     DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS Dividends from the Corporation's subsidiary banks
     constitute the principal source of income to the parent company. The
     Corporation's subsidiary banks are subject to various statutory and
     regulatory restrictions on their ability to pay dividends to the
     Corporation. Under such restrictions, the amount available for payment of
     dividends to the Corporation by all subsidiary banks totaled $650 million
     at December 31, 1995.  In addition, bank regulators may have authority to
     prohibit a bank subsidiary from paying dividends, depending upon the
     subsidiary's financial condition, if such payment is deemed to constitute
     an unsafe or unsound practice. The OCC and the Federal Reserve Board have
     indicated their view that it generally would be an unsafe and unsound
     practice to pay dividends except out of current operating earnings. The
     ability of the subsidiary banks to pay dividends in the future is
     presently, and could be further, influenced by bank regulatory and
     supervisory policies.

     AFFILIATE TRANSACTION RESTRICTIONS The Corporation's subsidiary banks are
     subject to federal laws that limit the transactions by subsidiary banks to
     or on behalf of their parent company and to or on behalf of any nonbank
     subsidiaries. Such transactions by a subsidiary bank to its parent company
     or to any nonbank subsidiary are limited to 10 percent of a bank
     subsidiary's capital and surplus and, with respect to such parent company
     and all such nonbank subsidiaries, to an aggregate of 20 percent of such
     bank subsidiary's capital and surplus. Further, loans and extensions of
     credit generally are required to be secured by eligible collateral in
     specified amounts. Federal law also prohibits subsidiary banks from
     purchasing "low-quality" assets from affiliates.

     FDIC CROSS-GUARANTEE PROVISIONS The Corporation's subsidiary banks are
     subject to the "cross-guarantee" provisions under federal law that provide
     that if one depository institution subsidiary of a multi-bank holding
     company fails or requires FDIC assistance, the FDIC may assess a "commonly
     controlled" depository institution for the estimated losses suffered by
     the FDIC. Such liability could have a material adverse effect on the
     financial condition of any assessed bank and the Corporation.  While the
     FDIC's claim is junior to the claims of depositors, holders of secured
     liabilities, general creditors and subordinated creditors, it is superior
     to the claims of shareholders and affiliates.


     FDIC INSURANCE ASSESSMENTS Deposits of the Corporation's bank subsidiaries
     are insured by the FDIC and are subject to FDIC insurance assessments. The
     amount of FDIC assessments paid by individual insured depository
     institutions is based on their relative risk as measured by regulatory
     capital ratios and certain other factors. During 1995, the FDIC's Board of
     Directors significantly reduced premium rates assessed on deposits insured
     by the Bank Insurance Fund ("BIF"). Under the current regulations, the
     Corporation is not assessed a premium on BIF-insured deposits. The rates
     assessed for deposits insured by the Savings Association Insurance Fund
     ("SAIF") continue to range from 23 cents per $100 of eligible deposits
     to 31 cents per $100 of eligible deposits. Approximately $5.3 billion of
     the Corporation's deposits are insured by the SAIF and assessed 23 cents
     per $100 of eligible deposits. Congress and various governmental agencies
     are considering a number of proposals to recapitalize the SAIF, including
     a significant one-time assessment on all SAIF-insured deposits. Management
     currently cannot predict the outcome of these proposals or the effect, if
     any, on the Corporation or any of its subsidiary banks.

     ENFORCEMENT POWERS OF FEDERAL BANKING AGENCIES Federal banking agencies
     possess broad powers to take corrective action as deemed appropriate for
     an insured depository institution and its holding company. The extent of
     these powers depends on whether the institution in question is considered
     "well capitalized", "adequately capitalized", "undercapitalized",
     "significantly undercapitalized" or "critically undercapitalized". At
     December 31, 1995, all of the Corporation's subsidiary banks exceeded the
     required ratios for classification as "well capitalized." The
     classification of depository institutions is primarily for the purpose of
     applying the federal banking agencies' prompt corrective action powers and
     is not intended to be, and should not be interpreted as, a representation
     of the overall financial condition or prospects of any financial
     institution.

     The agencies' prompt corrective action powers can include, among other
     things, requiring an insured financial institution to adopt a capital
     restoration plan which cannot be approved unless guaranteed by the
     institution's parent company; placing limits on asset growth and
     restrictions on activities; including restrictions on transactions with
     affiliates; restricting the interest rate the institution may pay on
     deposits; prohibiting the payment of principal or interest on subordinated
     debt; prohibiting the holding company from making capital distributions
     without prior regulatory approval; and, ultimately, appointing a receiver
     for the institution. Among other things, only a "well capitalized"
     depository institution may accept brokered deposits without prior
     regulatory approval and only an "adequately capitalized" depository
     institution may accept brokered deposits with prior regulatory approval.

     CAPITAL GUIDELINES Under the risk-based capital guidelines applicable to
     the Corporation and each of its subsidiary banks, the minimum guideline for
     the ratio of total capital to risk- weighted assets (including certain
     off-balance-sheet activities, such as standby letters of credit) is 8.00
     percent. At least half of the total capital must be "Tier 1" capital, which
     primarily includes common shareholders' equity and qualifying preferred
     stock, less goodwill and other disallowed intangibles. "Tier 2" capital 
     includes, among other items, certain cumulative and limited-life
     preferred stock, qualifying subordinated debt and the allowance for credit
     losses, subject to certain limitations, less required deductions as
     prescribed by regulation.

     In addition, the federal bank regulators established leverage ratio (Tier
     1 capital to total adjusted average assets) guidelines providing for a
     minimum leverage ratio of 3 percent for bank holding companies and banks
     meeting certain specified criteria, including that such institutions have
     the highest regulatory examination rating and are not contemplating
     significant growth or expansion. Institutions not meeting these criteria
     are expected to maintain a ratio which exceeds the 3 percent minimum by at
     least 100 to 200 basis points. The federal bank regulatory agencies may,
     however, set higher capital requirements when particular circumstances
     warrant. Under the federal banking laws, failure to meet the minimum
     regulatory capital requirements could subject a bank to a variety of
     enforcement remedies available to federal bank regulatory agencies.

     At December 31, 1995, all of the subsidiary banks' total and Tier 1
     risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratios exceeded the minimum
     regulatory capital requirements.

     Additional discussion of the Corporation's current capital levels is set
     forth under the caption entitled "Capital" in the "Corporate Financial
     Review" on pages 30 and 31 of the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is
     incorporated herein by reference.

     Effective in January 1995, the federal banking agencies revised the
     risk-based capital standards described above to include concentration of
     credit risk and the risks of nontraditional activities. The Federal
     Reserve Board, the FDIC and the OCC also subsequently amended their
     capital standards to include a bank's exposure to declines in economic
     value 


     of its capital due to changes in interest rates. The Corporation
     understands that such agencies intend to continue reviewing the issue of
     interest rate risk as it may affect capital adequacy.

      NONBANK SUBSIDIARIES

     The nonbank subsidiaries of the Corporation are subject to regulatory
     restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Board and other federal or
     state regulatory agencies.

     The Corporation's subsidiaries engaged in securities-related activities
     are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The
     activities of the Corporation's two subsidiaries which are registered
     broker dealers are also monitored by the OCC in one instance and the
     Federal Reserve Board in the other instance. Each such company is also
     subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the National Association
     of Securities Dealers, Inc., the Securities Investors Protection
     Corporation and various state securities commissions, and with respect to
     public finance activities the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.

     Several nonbank subsidiaries of the Corporation are registered investment
     advisers and are subject to the regulations of the SEC and may be subject
     to regulations of one or more state securities commissions. Additionally,
     these investment advisers, as subsidiaries of a national bank, are subject
     to supervision by the OCC. Investment companies (as defined in the
     Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended) advised by a subsidiary of the
     Corporation are registered with the SEC.

     Other nonbank subsidiaries of the Corporation are regulated under federal
     and/or state mortgage lending, insurance and consumer laws, among others.

      LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS AND REFORMS

     Significant legislative proposals and reforms affecting the financial
     services industry have been discussed and evaluated by Congress. In 1995,
     such proposals included legislation to revise the Glass-Steagall Act and
     the BHC Act to expand permissible activities for banks, principally to
     facilitate the convergence of commercial and investment banking. Certain
     proposals also sought to expand insurance activities of banks. It is
     unclear whether any of these proposals, or any form of them, will become
     law. Consequently, it is not possible to determine what effect, if any,
     they may have on the Corporation and its subsidiaries.

     COMPETITION

     Bank holding companies and their subsidiaries are subject to vigorous and
     intense competition from various financial institutions and other
     "nonbank" or non-regulated companies or firms that engage in similar
     activities. The Corporation's subsidiary banks compete for deposits with
     other commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations,
     insurance companies and credit unions, as well as issuers of commercial
     paper and other securities, including shares in mutual funds. In making
     loans, the Corporation's subsidiary banks compete with other commercial
     banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, consumer finance
     companies, credit unions, leasing companies and other nonbank lenders. In
     addition, various nonbank subsidiaries engaged in investment banking and
     venture capital activities compete with commercial banks, investment
     banking firms, insurance companies and venture capital firms. In providing
     asset management services, the Corporation's subsidiaries compete with
     many large commercial banks, trust companies, brokerage houses, mutual
     fund managers, registered investment advisors and insurance companies.

     The Corporation and its subsidiaries compete not only with financial
     institutions based in the states in which the subsidiary banks are
     located, but also with a number of large out-of-state and foreign banks,
     bank holding companies and other financial and nonbank institutions. Some
     of the financial and other institutions operating in the same markets are
     engaged in national and international operations and have more assets and
     personnel than the Corporation. Some of the Corporation's competitors are
     not subject to the extensive bank regulatory structure and restrictive
     policies which apply to the Corporation and its subsidiaries.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information concerning each executive officer of the Corporation as of
     March 1, 1996 is set forth below. Each executive officer held the position
     indicated or another senior executive position with the same entity or one
     of its affiliates or a predecessor corporation for the past five years,
     except as otherwise noted in the footnotes below.




ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES

     The executive and administrative offices of the Corporation and PNC Bank,
     National Association ("PNC Bank, N.A."), are located at One PNC Plaza, 249
     Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The thirty-story structure is
     owned by PNC Bank, N.A. The Corporation and PNC Bank, N.A. occupy
     substantially all of the building. In addition, PNC Bank, N.A. owns a
     thirty-four story structure adjacent to One PNC Plaza, known as Two PNC
     Plaza, 620 Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, that houses
     additional office space. PNC Bank, N.A. also owns a data processing and
     telecommunications center located in a suburb of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

     The Corporation's subsidiaries also own or lease numerous other premises
     for use in conducting banking and nonbanking activities.  The facilities
     owned or occupied under lease by the Corporation's subsidiaries are
     considered by management to be adequate. Neither the location of any
     particular office nor the unexpired term of any lease is deemed material
     to the business of the Corporation.

     Additional information pertaining to the Corporation's properties is set
     forth in "Note 8 - Premises, Equipment and Leasehold Improvements" of the
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included on page 56 of the
     Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     A consolidated purported class action complaint was filed in March 1995 in
     the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania
     against the Corporation, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and its
     Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, on behalf of a
     purported class of persons who purchased the Corporation's securities
     between April 18, 1994 and November 15, 1994. The lawsuit was consolidated
     from four lawsuits filed in November and December 1994. The consolidated
     complaint alleges violations of federal securities laws and common law
     relating to disclosures regarding the Corporation's net interest income,
     interest rate risk, future prospects, and related matters, and seeks,
     among other things, unquantified damages. The magistrate judge has
     recommended that the district court deny the pending motion to dismiss as
     to all claims except a common law claim, and the recommendation has been
     appealed to the district court judge. Management believes there are
     meritorious defenses to this consolidated lawsuit and intends to defend it
     vigorously. Management believes that the final disposition will not be
     material to the Corporation's financial position.

     In January 1992, a purported class action lawsuit was filed against PNC
     National Bank ("PNCNB"), a national bank subsidiary of the Corporation
     located in Wilmington, Delaware, alleging that PNCNB violated Pennsylvania
     law in connection with credit card annual fees, late fees, over-credit
     limit fees, and returned check fees charged to Pennsylvania cardholders.
     The lawsuit is brought on behalf of a purported class of resident
     individuals of Pennsylvania who have contracted for, been charged, had
     reserved, or had paid these fees, and seeks, among other things,
     unquantified compensatory and triple damages and injunctive relief. The
     lawsuit was filed in the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County and was
     removed to the United States District Court for the Western District of
     Pennsylvania. The district court dismissed the lawsuit, holding that
     Pennsylvania law is preempted by federal banking laws. The Third Circuit
     Court of Appeals, after initially holding that there was no federal court
     jurisdiction and remanding the case to state court, has vacated its
     opinion and granted a rehearing.

     The case against PNCNB is one of several similar cases pending against
     other credit card issuers. In cases not involving PNCNB, the Supreme
     Courts of California and Colorado, and one federal appeals court, have
     upheld dismissal on the ground that state law restrictions on credit card
     late fees are preempted by federal law, but the Supreme Court of New
     Jersey has reached a contrary conclusion. The United States Supreme Court
     has agreed to review the California late fee case, the outcome of which
     will resolve the conflict and affect the case against PNCNB. In an appeal
     of Pennsylvania Superior Court decisions against other credit card issuers
     holding that federal law does not preempt Pennsylvania law purportedly
     restricting annual fees, late fees, over-credit limit fees, and returned
     check fees, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court has indicated it will defer
     further proceedings until after the United States Supreme Court renders
     its decision. The impact of the final disposition of the lawsuit brought
     against PNCNB cannot be assessed at this time.

     In March 1996, the Superior Court of New Jersey, Middlesex County,
     dismissed, pursuant to agreement of the parties, the previously reported
     purported class action lawsuit commenced in July 1995 against Midlantic,
     Midlantic's chief executive officer and its directors and the Corporation,
     relating to the merger with Midlantic. No compensation was paid by any
     defendant to plaintiff or plaintiff's attorneys.


     The Corporation, in the normal course of business, is subject to various
     other pending and threatened lawsuits in which claims for monetary damages
     are asserted. Management, after consultation with legal counsel, does not
     anticipate that the ultimate aggregate liability, if any, arising out of
     such other lawsuits will have a material effect on the Corporation's
     financial position.

     At the present time, management is not in a position to determine whether
     any pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect
     on the Corporation's results of operations in any future reporting period.

ITEM 4 - SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     A special meeting of shareholders of the Corporation was held on November
     17, 1995, for the purpose of approving the reorganization agreement and
     related merger agreement with Midlantic. The Midlantic merger was approved
     and the votes cast for, against or abstained and the number of broker
     non-votes were as follows:



     Holders of the Corporation's common stock and preferred stock voted
     together as a single class. The following table sets forth as of September
     29, 1995 record date, the number of shares of each class of stock that was
     issued and outstanding and entitled to vote, the voting power per share
     and the aggregate voting power of each class:




                                    PART II

ITEM 5 - MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The Corporation's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
     and is traded under the symbol "PNC". At the close of business on February
     29, 1996, there were 65,572 common shareholders of record.

     Holders of common stock are entitled to receive dividends when declared by
     the Board of Directors out of funds legally available therefor. The Board
     of Directors may not pay or set apart dividends on the common stock until
     dividends for all past dividend periods on any series of outstanding
     preferred stock have been paid or declared and set apart for payment. The
     Board presently intends to continue the policy of paying quarterly cash
     dividends. However, the amount of any future dividends will depend on
     earnings, the financial condition of the Corporation and other factors
     including applicable government regulations and policies (such as those
     relating to the ability of the subsidiary banks and nonbank subsidiaries
     to upstream dividends to the parent company). The Federal Reserve Board
     has the power to prohibit the Corporation from paying dividends without
     prior regulatory approval. Further discussion concerning dividend
     restrictions is set forth under the caption "Supervision and Regulation"
     in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K and in "Regulatory Matters" on page 65
     of the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by
     reference.

     Additional information relating to the common stock is set forth under the
     caption "Common Stock Prices/Dividends Declared" on page 85 of the Annual
     Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6 - SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     "Selected Consolidated Financial Data" on page 71 of the Annual Report to
     Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The discussion and analysis of the Corporation's financial position and
     its results of operations set forth under the section entitled "Corporate
     Financial Review" on pages 23 through 44 of the Annual Report to
     Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference. See also the additional
     discussion included under the captions "Business Overview" and "Risk
     Management" in Part I, Item 1-Business of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 8 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The "Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors," "Consolidated
     Financial Statements" and "Selected Quarterly Financial Data" on pages 45,
     46 through 70, and 72, respectively, of the Annual Report to Shareholders
     are incorporated herein by reference.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10 - DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information relating to the principal occupations of directors of the
     Corporation, their ages, directorships in other companies, and respective
     terms of office under the heading "Election of Directors - Information
     Concerning Nominees" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
     reference.

     Information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934 set forth under the heading "Certain Reports" in the
     Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

     Information regarding executive officers of the Corporation is included in
     Part I of this Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers of the
     Registrant".

     Information regarding the involvement of the Corporation's Chairman and
     Chief Executive Officer and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
     Officer in a certain legal proceeding set forth under the heading "Legal
     Proceedings" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

                                        

ITEM 11 - EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Information regarding compensation of directors and executive officers
     under the captions entitled "Election of Directors - Compensation of
     Directors", "Election of Directors - Common Stock Purchase Guideline" and
     "Compensation of Executive Officers", excluding the "Personnel and
     Compensation Committee Report on Executive Compensation", in the Proxy
     Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12 - SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Information regarding the beneficial ownership of the equity securities of
     the Corporation by all directors, each of the five highest compensated
     executive officers, all directors and executive officers of the
     Corporation as a group and certain other beneficial owners under the
     heading "Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers and
     Certain Beneficial Owners-Security Ownership of Directors and Executive
     Officers" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13 - CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Information regarding transactions and relationships with certain
     directors and executive officers of the Corporation and their associates
     under the heading "Compensation of Executive Officers-Compensation
     Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" in the Proxy Statement is
     incorporated herein by reference.


                                    PART IV

ITEM 14 - EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     The following report of independent auditors of the Corporation and
     consolidated financial statements, included in the Annual Report to
     Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference.




     The following reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter ended
     December 31, 1995, or thereafter:

     A Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of September 26, 1995, was filed
     pursuant to Item 5 to report the Corporation's consolidated financial
     results for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 1995, the
     receipt of regulatory approvals in connection with the Midlantic merger
     and other Midlantic merger-related matters, and the appointment of an
     additional director to the Corporation's Board of Directors.


     A Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of December 31, 1995, was filed
     pursuant to Item 2 to report the effectiveness of the merger with
     Midlantic and the appointment of 4 additional directors to the
     Corporation's Board of Directors. The Form 8-K also reported pursuant to
     Item 5 the completion of actions that accelerated the repositioning of the
     Corporation's balance sheet and provided an estimate of combined earnings
     for 1995 giving effect to the Midlantic transaction. The following
     financial statements were reported as having been previously filed: (a)
     audited consolidated financial statements of Midlantic as of December 31,
     1994 and 1993, and for each of the three years in the period ended
     December 31, 1994, including the independent auditor's report thereon; (b)
     unaudited consolidated interim financial statements of Midlantic as of
     September 30, 1995 and 1994, and for the three months and nine months
     ended September 30, 1995 and 1994; (c) pro forma consolidated financial
     information (unaudited) as of September 30, 1995 and for the nine months
     ended September 30, 1995 and 1994, giving effect to the Midlantic merger;
     and (d) pro forma consolidated financial information (unaudited) for each
     of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1994, giving effect to
     the Midlantic merger.

     A Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 24, 1996, was filed pursuant to
     Item 5 to report the Corporation's consolidated financial results for the
     three months and year ended December 31, 1995.

     EXHIBITS

     The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index on pages 18 and 19 of this Form
     10-K are filed herewith or are incorporated herein by reference.

                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934, PNC Bank Corp. has duly caused this report to be
     signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                              PNC BANK CORP.
                              (Registrant)

                                   
                              By: /s/ ROBERT L. HAUNSCHILD 
                                 -------------------------
                              Robert L. Haunschild
                              Senior Vice President and 
                              Chief Financial Officer

                              Date:  March 27, 1996


     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
     this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
     PNC Bank Corp. and in the capacity and on the dates indicated.

  
                                        




                                 EXHIBIT INDEX







