
10-K405
PNC BANK CORP.




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

         ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

(Mark One)

    [X]   Annual report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
                              Exchange Act of 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
                                       OR

    [ ] Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
                              Exchange Act of 1934
                        For the transition period from ________ to ________

                                 PNC BANK CORP.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

         PENNSYLVANIA                                    25-1435979
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 incorporation or organization) 

                                  ONE PNC PLAZA
                                249 FIFTH AVENUE
                       PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA 15222-2707
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code - (412) 762-1553
           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
    $1.80 CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK - SERIES A, PAR VALUE $1.00
    $1.80 CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK - SERIES B, PAR VALUE $1.00
               8.25% CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES DUE 2008
               8 1/4% CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES DUE 2010
                   9.875% SUBORDINATED CAPITAL NOTES DUE 1999

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes _X_  No ___

Indicate by check mark if the disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K. _X_

The aggregate market value of the voting common equity held by non-affiliates of
the Registrant amounted to approximately $14.7 billion at January 30, 1998.
There is no non-voting common equity of the Registrant outstanding.

Number of shares of Registrant's common stock outstanding at February 28, 1998:
300,777,025

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of PNC Bank Corp.'s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
December 31, 1997 ("Annual Report to Shareholders") are incorporated by
reference into Parts I and II and portions of the definitive Proxy Statement of
PNC Bank Corp. for the annual meeting of shareholders to be held on April 28,
1998 ("Proxy Statement") are incorporated by reference into Part III of this
Form 10-K. The incorporation by reference herein of portions of the Proxy
Statement shall not be deemed to specifically incorporate by reference the
information referred to in Item 402(a)(8) of Regulation S-K.





PART I                                                       Page
                                                            -------
Item 1      Business                                            2
Item 2      Properties                                          5
Item 3      Legal Proceedings                                   6
Item 4      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security         
              Holders                                           *

PART II
Item 5      Market for Registrant's Common Equity and
              Related Stockholder Matters                       6
Item 6      Selected Financial Data                             6
Item 7      Management's Discussion and Analysis of
              Financial Condition and Results of                
              Operations                                        6
Item 7A     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
              About Market Risk                                 6
Item 8      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data         6
Item 9      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
              on Accounting and Financial Disclosure            *

PART III
Item 10     Directors and Executive Officers of the             
              Registrant                                        6 
Item 11     Executive Compensation                              7
Item 12     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
              Owners and Management                             7
Item 13     Certain Relationships and Related                   
              Transactions                                      7

PART IV
Item 14     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and
              Reports on Form 8-K                               7

SIGNATURES                                                      8

EXHIBIT INDEX                                                 E-1
* Not applicable

PART I

Forward-Looking Statements: From time to time the Corporation has made and may
continue to make forward-looking statements about financial and business
matters. As stated under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements" in the
"Financial Review" on page 39 of the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is
incorporated herein by reference, many factors could cause actual results for
such matters to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. The
Corporation assumes no duty to update forward-looking statements.

ITEM 1 - BUSINESS

BUSINESS OVERVIEW PNC Bank Corp. ("PNC Bank" or "Corporation") is a bank holding
company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended ("BHC
Act"). PNC Bank was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania in 1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh National Corporation
and Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, PNC Bank has diversified its
geographical presence and product capabilities through strategic bank and
nonbank acquisitions and the formation of various nonbanking subsidiaries.

The Corporation is one of the largest diversified financial services companies
in the United States and operates seven lines of business: National Consumer
Banking; Regional Community Banking; Private Banking; Secured Lending; Asset
Management and Servicing; Corporate Banking; and Mortgage Banking. Financial
products and services are customized for specific customer segments and offered
nationally and in PNC Bank's primary geographic markets in Pennsylvania, New
Jersey, Delaware, Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Massachusetts and Florida. At
December 31, 1997, the Corporation's consolidated total assets, deposits and
shareholders' equity were $75.1 billion, $47.6 billion and $5.4 billion,
respectively.

LINES OF BUSINESS Information relating to National Consumer Banking, Regional
Community Banking, Private Banking, Secured Lending, Asset Management and
Servicing, Corporate Banking and Mortgage Banking is set forth under the
captions "Business Strategies" and "Line of Business Review" in the "Financial
Review" included on pages 30 through 31 and 32 through 38, respectively, of the
Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.

SUBSIDIARY BANKS While the Corporation manages seven lines of business, the
corporate legal structure currently consists of five subsidiary banks and over
110 active nonbank subsidiaries. PNC Bank, National Association, headquartered
in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania is the Corporation's only bank subsidiary which is a
significant subsidiary within the meaning of Rule 1-02(v) of Regulation S-X. At
December 31, 1997, PNC Bank, National Association had total consolidated assets
of $69.7 billion, representing 93% of the Corporation's consolidated assets. For
additional information on subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 to this Form 10-K, which
is incorporated herein by reference.






STATISTICAL DISCLOSURES BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES The following statistical
information is included on the indicated pages of the Annual Report to
Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference:

                                                       Page of
                                                        Annual
                                                        Report
- ------------------------------------------------------ --------
Analysis of Year-to-Year Changes in Net Interest             
   Income                                                    77
Average Consolidated Balance Sheet and Net Interest
   Analysis                                               78-79
Book Values of Securities                             51 and 61
Maturities and Weighted-Average Yield of Securities          61
Loan Types                                                   62
Loan Maturities and Interest Sensitivity                     80
Nonaccrual, Past Due and Restructured Loans                  63
Potential Problem Loans                                      45
Summary of Loan Loss Experience                              80
Allocation of Allowance for Credit Losses                    81
Average Amount and Average Rate Paid on Deposits          78-79
Time Deposits of $100,000 or More                            81
Selected Consolidated Financial Data                         75
Short-Term Borrowings                                        81

RISK MANAGEMENT The Corporation's ordinary course of business involves varying
degrees of risk taking, the most significant of which are credit, liquidity and
interest rate risk. Market risk is also inherent in the Corporation's business
operations. Although it cannot eliminate these risks, PNC Bank has risk
management processes designed to provide for risk identification, measurement,
monitoring and control. Information relating to credit, liquidity, interest rate
and market risk and the Corporation's risk management processes is set forth
under the section "Risk Management" in the "Financial Review" included on pages
44 through 47 of the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein
by reference.

EFFECT OF GOVERNMENTAL MONETARY AND OTHER POLICIES The earnings and operations
of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries are affected by monetary, tax
and other policies of the United States government and its agencies, including
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve
Board"). An important function of the Federal Reserve Board is to regulate the
national supply of bank credit. The Federal Reserve Board employs open market
operations in U.S. Government securities, changes in the discount rate on bank
borrowings and changes in reserve requirements on bank deposits to implement its
monetary policy objectives. These instruments of monetary policy are used in
varying combinations to influence the overall level of bank loans, investments
and deposits, the interest rates charged on loans and paid for deposits, the
price of the dollar in foreign exchange markets and the level of inflation. The
monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on
the operating results of banking institutions in the past and are expected to
continue to do so in the future. It is not possible to predict the nature or
timing of future changes in monetary, tax and other policies or the effect that
they may have on the Corporation's business and earnings. 

IMPACT OF INFLATION The assets and liabilities of the Corporation are primarily
monetary in nature. Accordingly, future changes in prices do not affect the
obligations to pay or receive fixed and determinable amounts of money. During
periods of inflation, monetary assets lose value in terms of purchasing power,
and monetary liabilities have corresponding purchasing power gains. The concept
of purchasing power, however, is not an adequate indicator of the effect of
inflation on banks, because it does not take into account changes in interest
rates, which are an important determinant of the Corporation's earnings. A
discussion of interest rate risk is set forth under the section "Interest Rate
Risk" in the "Financial Review" included on pages 46 and 47 of the Annual Report
to Shareholders.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION The Corporation and its subsidiaries are subject to
numerous governmental regulations, some of which are highlighted below and in
"Note 14 - Regulatory Matters" of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements" included on pages 65 and 66 of the Annual Report to Shareholders
("Note 14 - Regulatory Matters"), which is incorporated herein by reference. The
coverage of the regulations includes activity, investment and dividend
limitations on the bank holding company and its subsidiaries and
consumer-related protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary and mutual 
fund customers.

As a bank holding company registered under the BHC Act, the Corporation is
subject to the supervision and regular inspection by the Federal Reserve Board.
Under the BHC Act, the Federal Reserve Board's prior approval is required in any
case the Corporation proposes to acquire all or substantially all of the assets
of any bank, acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of
the voting shares of any bank, or merge or consolidate with any other bank
holding company. The BHC Act also prohibits, with certain exceptions, the
Corporation from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than
5% of any class of voting shares of any nonbanking corporation. Under the BHC
Act, the Corporation may not engage in any business other than managing and
controlling banks or furnishing certain specified services to subsidiaries and
may not acquire voting control of nonbanking corporations unless the Federal
Reserve Board determines such businesses and services to be closely related to
banking. When reviewing bank acquisition applications for approval, the Federal
Reserve Board considers, among other things, each subsidiary bank's record in
meeting the credit needs of the communities it serves in accordance with the
Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended ("CRA"). At December 31, 1997,
the Corporation's subsidiary banks were rated "Outstanding" or "Satisfactory"
with respect to CRA.

The Corporation's subsidiary banks are subject to supervision and examination by
applicable federal and state banking agencies, including such federal agencies
as the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC") with respect to PNC




Bank, National Association and PNC National Bank, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation ("FDIC") with respect to PNC Bank, Delaware and PNC Bank, New
England, and the Office of Thrift Supervision with respect to PNC Bank, FSB. The
Corporation's subsidiary banks are subject to various federal and state
restrictions on their ability to pay dividends to the Corporation, which
constitutes the principal source of income to the parent company as discussed
under the caption "Liquidity Risk" in the "Financial Review" on page 46 of the
Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference. The
Corporation's subsidiary banks are also subject to federal laws limiting
extensions of credit to their parent holding company and nonbank affiliates as
discussed in "Note 14 - Regulatory Matters."

The federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take corrective action as
deemed appropriate for an insured depository institution and its holding
company. The extent of these powers depends upon whether the institution in
question is considered "well capitalized," "adequately capitalized,"
"undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized" or "critically
undercapitalized." Generally, as an institution is deemed to be less well
capitalized, the scope and severity of the agencies' powers increase, ultimately
permitting the agency to appoint a receiver for the institution. Business
activities may also be influenced by an institution's capital classification.
For instance, only a "well capitalized" depository institution may accept
brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval and an "adequately
capitalized" depository institution may accept brokered deposits only with prior
regulatory approval. At December 31, 1997, all of the Corporation's subsidiary
banks exceeded the required ratios for classification as "well capitalized."

Additional discussion of capital adequacy requirements is set forth under the
caption "Capital" in the "Financial Review" on pages 43 and 44 of the Annual
Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.

All of the subsidiary banks are insured by the FDIC and subject to premium
assessments. The amount of FDIC assessments is based on the institution's
relative risk as measured by regulatory capital ratios and certain other
factors. Under current regulations, the Corporation's subsidiary banks are not
assessed a premium on deposits insured by either the Bank Insurance Fund or the
Savings Association Insurance Fund. However, insured depository institutions
continue to pay premiums based on deposit levels to service debt on bonds issued
by a governmental entity.

The Corporation's subsidiary banks are subject to "cross-guarantee" provisions
under federal law that provide if one FDIC-insured depository institution of a
multi-bank holding company fails or requires FDIC assistance, the FDIC may
assess a "commonly controlled" depository institution for the estimated losses
suffered by the FDIC. Such liability could have a material adverse effect on the
financial condition of any assessed bank and the Corporation. While the FDIC's
claim is junior to the claims of depositors, holders of secured liabilities,
general creditors and subordinated creditors, it is superior to the claims of
shareholders and affiliates.

Under Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank holding company is expected to act as
a source of financial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and to commit
resources to support each such bank. Consistent with the "source of strength"
policy for subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve Board has stated that, as a
matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company generally should not maintain
a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders
has been sufficient to fund fully the dividends, and the prospective rate of
earnings retention appears to be consistent with the corporation's capital
needs, asset quality and overall financial condition.

The Corporation's nonbank subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions
imposed by the Federal Reserve Board and other federal and state agencies as
well. The Corporation's four registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are regulated
by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and monitored by the OCC in
three instances and the Federal Reserve Board in the other instance. They are
also subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the National Association of
Securities Dealers, Inc., among others. Several nonbank subsidiaries which are
registered investment advisers are subject to the regulations of the SEC and
other agencies. Investment advisers which are national bank subsidiaries are
also subject to OCC supervision.

Over the past few years, the regulatory framework applicable to the Corporation
and its subsidiaries has been subject to extensive Congressional and agency
review, which has resulted in some liberalization and may result in further
reforms. Current proposals include easing restrictions on insurance and
investment banking activities and easing bank ownership requirements. There are
also proposals to regulate further banking and financial services, some of which
limit finance charges and other fees and charges earned by the Corporation.
Management currently cannot predict the outcome of these proposals or the
effect, if any, on the Corporation.

Since 1995, the BHC Act has permitted bank holding companies from any state to
acquire banks and bank holding companies located in any other state, subject to
certain conditions. Effective June 1, 1997, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
gave the Corporation's subsidiary banks the ability, subject to certain
restrictions, to consolidate with one another or to acquire by acquisition or
merger branches outside their home state. Pursuant to these provisions, the
Corporation merged certain subsidiary banks during 1997. Competition may
increase further as banks branch across state lines and enter new markets.




COMPETITION The Corporation and its subsidiaries are subject to vigorous and
intense competition from various financial institutions and increasingly from
"nonbank" entities that engage in similar activities without being subject to
bank regulatory supervision and restrictions. This is particularly true as the
Corporation expands nationally beyond its primary geographic footprint, where
expansion requires significant investments to penetrate new markets and respond
to competition.

In making loans, the subsidiary banks compete with traditional banking
institutions as well as consumer finance companies, leasing companies and other
nonbank lenders. Loan pricing and credit standards are under competitive
pressure as lenders seek to deploy capital and a broader range of borrowers have
access to capital markets. Traditional deposit activities are subject to pricing
pressures and customer migration as the competition for consumer investment
dollars intensifies among banks and other financial services companies. The
Corporation's subsidiary banks compete for deposits not only with other
commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit
unions, but also insurance companies and issuers of commercial paper and other
securities, including mutual funds. Various nonbank subsidiaries engaged in
investment banking and venture capital activities compete with commercial banks,
investment banking firms, insurance companies and venture capital firms. In
providing asset management services, the Corporation's subsidiaries compete with
many large banks, trust companies, brokerage houses, mutual fund managers, other
registered investment advisers and insurance companies.

The ability to access and use technology is an increasingly important
competitive factor in the financial services industry. Technology is not only
important with respect to delivery of financial services, but in processing
information. Each of the Corporation's lines of business consistently must make
technological investments to remain competitive.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Information concerning each executive
officer of the Corporation as of March 1, 1998 is set forth below. Each
executive officer held the position indicated or another senior executive
position with the same entity or one of its affiliates or a predecessor
corporation for the past five years.

Name                   Age   Position with              Year   
                             Corporation            Employed(1)
- ---------------------- ----- ---------------------- -----------

Thomas H. O'Brien (2)   61   Chairman and Chief          1962
                               Executive Officer and
                               Director

James E. Rohr  (2)      49   President and Director      1972

Walter E. Gregg, Jr.    56   Senior Executive Vice       1974
(2)                            President, Finance and
                               Administration

Richard C. Caldwell     53   Executive Vice President,   1990
                               Asset Management and 
                               Servicing

Frederick J. Gronbacher 55   Executive Vice President,   1976
                               National Consumer
                               Banking

Robert L. Haunschild    48   Senior Vice President and   1990
                               Chief Financial Officer

William J. Johns        50   Senior Vice President and   1974
                               Chief Accounting Officer

Ralph S. Michael III    43   Executive Vice President    1979
                               and Chief Executive
                               Officer, Corporate
                               Banking

Thomas E. Paisley III   50   Senior Vice President and   1972
                               Chairman, Corporate
                               Credit Policy Committee

Helen P. Pudlin         48   Senior Vice President and   1989
                               General Counsel

Bruce E. Robbins        53   Executive Vice President    1973
                               and Chief Executive
                               Officer, Secured Lending
- ---------------------- ----- --------------------------- ------

(1) Where applicable, refers to year first employed by predecessor company or
acquired company. 

(2) Office of the Chairman member.

ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES

The executive and administrative offices of the Corporation and PNC Bank,
National Association ("PNC Bank, N.A."), are located at One PNC Plaza,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The thirty-story structure is owned by PNC Bank, N.A.
The Corporation and PNC Bank, N.A. occupy substantially all of the building. In
addition, PNC Bank, N.A. owns a thirty-four story structure adjacent to One PNC
Plaza, known as Two PNC Plaza, 620 Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
that houses additional office space. PNC Bank, N.A. also owns a data processing
and telecommunications center located in a suburb of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.






The Corporation's subsidiaries own or lease numerous other premises for use in
conducting business activities. The facilities owned or occupied under lease by
the Corporation's subsidiaries are considered by management to be adequate.

Additional information pertaining to the Corporation's properties is set forth
in "Note 8 - Premises, Equipment and Leasehold Improvements" of the "Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements" included on pages 63 and 64 of the Annual
Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1996, included a description of a consolidated class action complaint against
the Corporation, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and its Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer alleging violations of federal securities
laws and related common law claims. The parties have reached an agreement in
principle to settle this action, which is subject to documentation and court
approval. Management believes that the final disposition will not be material to
the Corporation's financial position or results of operations.

The Corporation, in the normal course of business, is subject to various other
pending and threatened lawsuits in which claims for monetary damages and other
relief are asserted. Management, after consultation with legal counsel, does not
anticipate that the ultimate aggregate liability, if any, arising out of such
other lawsuits will have a material effect on the Corporation's financial
position. At the present time, management is not in a position to determine
whether any such pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse
effect on the Corporation's results of operations in any future reporting
period.

PART II

ITEM 5 - MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Corporation's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is
traded under the symbol "PNC". At the close of business on February 28, 1998,
there were 64,438 common shareholders of record.

Holders of common stock are entitled to receive dividends when declared by the
Board of Directors out of funds legally available therefor. The Board of
Directors may not pay or set apart dividends on the common stock until dividends
for all past dividend periods on any series of outstanding preferred stock have
been paid or declared and set apart for payment. The Board presently intends to
continue the policy of paying quarterly cash dividends. However, the amount of
any future dividends will depend on earnings, the financial condition of the
Corporation and other factors, including contractual restrictions and applicable
government regulations and policies (such as those relating to the ability of
the subsidiary banks and nonbank subsidiaries to upstream dividends to the
parent company). The Federal Reserve Board has the power to prohibit the
Corporation from paying dividends without prior regulatory approval. Further
discussion concerning dividend restrictions is set forth under the caption
"Supervision and Regulation" in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K and in "Note 14
- - Regulatory Matters," which sections are incorporated herein by reference.

Additional information relating to the common stock is set forth under the
caption "Common Stock Prices/Dividends Declared" on page 82 of the Annual Report
to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6 - SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

"Selected Consolidated Financial Data" on page 75 of the Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

The discussion of the Corporation's financial position and results of operations
set forth under the section "Financial Review" on pages 30 through 52 of the
Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A - QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information set forth under the sections "Interest Rate Risk", "Market Risk"
and "Financial Derivatives" on pages 46 through 49 of the Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The "Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors," "Consolidated Financial
Statements," "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" and "Selected
Quarterly Financial Data" on pages 53, 54 through 57, 58 through 74, and 76,
respectively, of the Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by
reference.

PART III

ITEM 10 - DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information relating to the principal occupations of directors of the
Corporation, their ages, directorships in other companies, and respective terms
of office, except for C.G. Grefenstette, 




Thomas Marshall, Vincent A. Sarni and Garry J. Scheuring, who are not standing
for reelection, is set forth under the heading "Election of Directors -
Information Concerning Nominees" in the Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by reference. Mr. Grefenstette, age 70, is the Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of The Hillman Company, a company engaged in diversified
operations and investments, and a director of Owens & Minor, Inc. Mr. Marshall,
age 69, is the Retired Chairman of Aristech Chemical Corporation, and a director
of Arch Coal, Inc. Mr. Sarni, age 69, is the Retired Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of PPG Industries Inc., a manufacturer of glass, chemicals,
coatings and resins. He is a director of PPG Industries, Inc., Hershey Foods
Corporation and The LTV Corporation. Mr. Scheuring, age 58, is the Retired Vice
Chairman of PNC Bank Corp., and became a director of the Corporation in
connection with the Midlantic Corporation merger, effective December 31, 1995.
Mr. Scheuring had been the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of
Midlantic Corporation. Each of Messrs. Grefenstette, Marshall and Sarni has been
a director of the Corporation since 1989.

Information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 set forth under the heading "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference.

Information regarding executive officers of the Corporation is included in Part
I of this Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant".

Information regarding the involvement of the Corporation's Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in
certain legal proceedings set forth under the heading "Legal Proceedings" in the
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11 - EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information regarding compensation of directors and executive officers under the
captions "Election of Directors - Compensation of Directors," "Election of
Directors - Common Stock Purchase Guideline" and "Compensation of Executive
Officers," excluding the "Personnel and Compensation Committee Report on
Executive Compensation," in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 12 - SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Information regarding the beneficial ownership of the equity securities of the
Corporation by all directors, each of the five highest compensated executive
officers and all directors and executive officers of the Corporation as a group
under the heading "Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers" in
the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. 

ITEM 13 - CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information regarding transactions and relationships with certain directors and
executive officers of the Corporation and their associates under the heading
"Compensation of Executive Officers-Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference.

PART IV

ITEM 14 - EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following report of independent auditors and
consolidated financial information of the Corporation included in the Annual
Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.

                                                       Page of
                                                       Annual
Financial Statements                                   Report
- ------------------------------------------------------ --------

Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors         53
Consolidated Statement of Income for the three
    years ended December 31, 1997                         54
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1997
    and 1996                                              55
Consolidated Statement of Changes in
    Shareholders' Equity for the three years                
    ended December 31, 1997                               56
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the
    three years ended December 31, 1997                   57
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              58-74
Selected Quarterly Financial Data                         76
- ------------------------------------------------------ --------

No financial statement schedules are being filed.

REPORTS ON FORM 8-K The following reports on Form 8-K were filed during the
quarter ended December 31, 1997, or thereafter:

Form 8-K dated as of October 15, 1997, reporting the Corporation's consolidated
financial results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 1997, filed
pursuant to Item 5.

Form 8-K dated as of January 15, 1998, reporting the Corporation's consolidated
financial results for the three months and year ended December 31, 1997, filed
pursuant to Item 5.

EXHIBITS The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index on pages E-1 and E-2 of this
Form 10-K are filed herewith or are incorporated herein by reference.





SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant, PNC Bank Corp., has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PNC BANK CORP.

(Registrant)

By: /s/ Robert L. Haunschild
- ----------------------------------------------
    Robert L. Haunschild, Senior Vice President
     and Chief Financial Officer
    March 20, 1998

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of PNC Bank Corp. and
in the capacity indicated on March 20, 1998.




*By: /s/ Melanie S. Cibik
    ------------------------------------------
     Melanie S. Cibik, Attorney-in-Fact,
      pursuant to Power of Attorney filed
      herewith



                                  EXHIBIT INDEX




                                      E-1







- -------------------------------------------------------------------- 
+ Except where otherwise expressly noted, incorporated document references are
to Commission File No. 1-9718.
* Denotes management contract or compensatory plan.



                                      E-2

