Item 1.  BUSINESS

Overview

We are the leading operator of discount variety stores offering merchandise at the fixed price of $1.00.  We believe the variety and quality of products we sell for $1.00 sets us apart from our competitors.  AtFebruary 2, 2013, we operated 4,671 discount variety retail stores.  Our stores operate under the names of Dollar Tree, Deal$, Dollar Tree Deal$, Dollar Tree Canada, Dollar Giant and Dollar Bills.  In 4,476 of these stores, we sell substantially all items for $1.00 or less in the United States and $1.25(CAD) or less in Canada.  In substantially all of the remaining stores, operating as Deal$, we sell items for $1.00 or less but also sell items for more than $1.00.

We believe our optimal store size is between 8,000 and 10,000 selling square feet.  This store size provides the appropriate amount of space for our broad merchandise offerings while allowing us to provide ease of shopping to our customers.  As we have been expanding our merchandise offerings, we have added freezers and coolers to approximately 2,550 stores to increase sales and shopping frequency.  At January 31, 2009, we operated 3,591 stores in 48 states.  AtFebruary 2, 2013, we operated 4,531 stores in 48 states and the District of Columbia, as well as 140 stores in Canada.  Our selling square footage increased from approximately 30.3 million square feet in January 2009 to 40.5 million square feet in February 2013.  Our store growth has resulted primarily from opening new stores and the acquisition of Dollar Giant.

Business Strategy

Value Merchandise Offering.  We strive to exceed our customers' expectations of the variety and quality of products that they can purchase for $1.00 by offering items that we believe typically sell for higher prices elsewhere.  We buy approximately 58% to 60% of our merchandise domestically and import the remaining 40% to 42%.  Our domestic purchases include basic, seasonal, closeouts and promotional merchandise.  We believe our mix of imported and domestic merchandise affords our buyers flexibility that allows them to consistently exceed the customer's expectations.  In addition, direct relationships with manufacturers permit us to select from a broad range of products and customize packaging, product sizes and package quantities that meet our customers' needs.

Mix of Basic Variety and Seasonal Merchandise.We maintain a balanced selection of products within traditional variety store categories.  We offer a wide selection of everyday basic products and we supplement these basic, everyday items with seasonal, closeout and promotional merchandise.  We attempt to keep certain basic consumable merchandise in our stores continuously to establish our stores as a destination and we have slightly increased the mix of consumable merchandise in order to increase the traffic in our stores.  Closeout merchandise is purchased opportunistically and represents less than 10% of our purchases.

Our merchandise mix consists of:

•consumable merchandise, which includes candy and food, health and beauty care, and household consumables such as paper, plastics and household chemicals and in select stores, frozen and refrigerated food;

•variety merchandise, which includes toys, durable housewares, gifts,  party goods, greeting cards, softlines, and other items; and

•seasonal goods, which include Easter, Halloween and Christmas merchandise.

We have added freezers and coolers to certain stores and increased the amount of consumable merchandise carried by those stores.  We believe this initiative helps drive additional transactions and allows us to appeal to a broader demographic mix.  We have added freezers and coolers to 330 additional stores in2012.  Therefore, as ofFebruary 2, 2013, we have freezers and coolers in 2,550 of our stores.  We plan to add them to 475 more stores in2013.  As a result of the installation of freezers and coolers in select stores, consumable merchandise has grown as a percentage of purchases and sales and we expect this trend to continue. The following table shows the percentage of sales of each major product group for the years endedFebruary 2, 2013andJanuary 28, 2012:

February 2,January 28,Merchandise Type20132012Consumable51.4%50.8%Variety categories44.2%44.6%Seasonal4.4%4.6%










At any point in time, we carry approximately 6,500 items in our stores and as of the end of2012approximately 3,800 of our basic, everyday items are automatically replenished.  The remaining items are primarily ordered by our store managers on a weekly basis.  Through automatic replenishment and our store managers’ ability to order product, each store manager is able to satisfy the demands of their particular customer base.

Customer Payment Methods.All of our stores in the United States accept cash, checks, debit cards and credit cards.Along with the shift to more consumables and the rollout of freezers and coolers, we have increased the number of stores accepting Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) cards and food stamps (under the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (“SNAP”)) to approximately 4,200 stores as ofFebruary 2, 2013.

Convenient Locations and Store Size.We primarily focus on opening new stores in strip shopping centers anchored by mass merchandisers or grocers, whose target customers we believe to be similar to ours.  Our stores have proven successful in metropolitan areas, mid-sized cities and small towns.  The range of our store sizes allows us to target a particular location with a store that best suits that market and takes advantage of available real estate opportunities.  Our stores are attractively designed and create an inviting atmosphere for shoppers by using bright lighting, vibrant colors and decorative signs.  We enhance the store design with attractive merchandise displays.  We believe this design attracts new and repeat customers and enhances our image as both a destination and impulse purchase store.

For more information on retail locations and retail store leases, see Item 2 "Properties” beginning on page 12 of this Form 10-K.

Profitable Stores with Strong Cash Flow.We maintain a disciplined, cost-sensitive approach to store site selection in order to minimize the initial capital investment required and maximize our potential to generate high operating margins and strong cash flows.  We believe that our stores have a relatively small shopping radius, which allows us to profitably concentrate multiple stores within a single market.  Our ability to open new stores is dependent upon, among other factors, locating suitable sites and negotiating favorable lease terms.

The strong cash flows generated by our stores allow us to self-fund infrastructure investment and new stores.  Over the past five years, cash flows from operating activities have exceeded capital expenditures.

For more information on our results of operations, see Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” beginning on page 19 of this Form 10-K.

Cost Control.  We believe that our substantial buying power and our flexibility in making sourcing decisions contributes to our successful purchasing strategy, which includes targeted merchandise margin goals by category.  We also believe our ability to select quality merchandise helps to minimize markdowns.  We buy products on an order-by-order basis and have no material long-term purchase contracts or other assurances of continued product supply or guaranteed product cost.  No vendor accounted for more than 10% of total merchandise purchased in any of the past five years.

Our supply chain systems continue to provide us with valuable sales information to assist our buyers and improve merchandise allocation to our stores.  Controlling our inventory levels has resulted in more efficient distribution and store operations.

Information Systems.We believe that investments in technology help us to increase sales and control costs.  Our inventory management system has allowed us to improve the efficiency of our supply chain, improve merchandise flow, increase inventory turnover and control distribution and store operating costs.  Our automatic replenishment system replenishes key items, based on actual store level sales and inventory.  At the end of2012, we had approximately 3,800 basic, everyday items on automatic replenishment.

Point-of-sale data allows us to track sales and inventory by merchandise category at the store level and assists us in planning for future purchases of inventory.  We believe that this information allows us to ship the appropriate product to stores at the quantities commensurate with selling patterns.  Using this point-of-sale data to plan purchases of inventory has helped us increase our inventory turns in each of the last five years.  Our inventory turns were 4.3 in2012.

Corporate Culture and Values.We believe that honesty and integrity, doing the right things for the right reasons, and treating people fairly and with respect are core values within our corporate culture.  We believe that running a business, and certainly a public company, carries with it a responsibility to be above reproach when making operational and financial decisions.  Our executive management team visits and shops our stores like every customer, and ideas and individual creativity on the part of our associates are encouraged, particularly from our store managers who know their stores and their customers.  We have standards for store displays, merchandise presentation, and store operations.  We maintain an open door










policy for all associates.  Our distribution centers are operated based on objective measures of performance and virtually everyone in our store support center is available to assist associates in the stores and distribution centers.

Our disclosure committee meets at least quarterly and monitors our internal controls over financial reporting to ensure that our public filings contain discussions about the risks our business faces.  We believe that we have the controls in place to be able to certify our financial statements.  Additionally, we have complied with the listing requirements for the Nasdaq Stock Market.

Growth Strategy

Store Openings and Square Footage Growth.The primary factors contributing to our net sales growth have been new store openings, an active store expansion and remodel program, and selective mergers and acquisitions.  In the last five years, net sales increased at a compound annual growth rate of 12.3%.  We expect that the majority of our future sales growth will come primarily from new store openings and from our store expansion and relocation program.

The following table shows the average selling square footage of our stores and the selling square footage per new store opened over the last five years.  Our growth and productivity statistics are reported based on selling square footage because our management believes the use of selling square footage yields a more accurate measure of store productivity.

YearNumber of StoresAverage Selling Square Footage Per StoreAverage Selling Square Footage Per New Store Opened20083,5918,4408,10020093,8068,4807,95020104,1018,5708,40020114,3518,6408,36020124,6718,6608,060

We expect to increase our selling square footage in the future by opening new stores in underserved markets and strategically increasing our presence in our existing markets via new store openings and store expansions (expansions include store relocations).  In fiscal2013and beyond, we plan to predominantly open stores that are approximately 8,000 - 10,000 selling square feet and we believe this size allows us to achieve our objectives in the markets in which we plan to expand.  AtFebruary 2, 2013, approximately 2,560 of our stores, totaling 65.4% of our selling square footage, were 8,000 selling square feet or larger.

We also continue to grow our Deal$ format, which offers an expanded assortment of merchandise including items that sell for more than $1.00.  These stores provide us an opportunity to leverage our Dollar Tree infrastructure in different merchandise concepts, including higher price points, without disrupting the single-price point model in our Dollar Tree stores.  We operated 194 Deal$ stores as ofFebruary 2, 2013.

In addition to new store openings, we plan to continue our store expansion program to increase our net sales per store and take advantage of market opportunities.  We target stores for expansion based on the current sales per selling square foot and changes in market opportunities.  Stores targeted for expansion are generally less than 6,000 selling square feet in size.  Store expansions generally increase the existing store size by approximately 3,300 selling square feet.

Since 1995, we have added a total of 695 stores through several mergers and acquisitions.  Our acquisition strategy has been to target companies that have a similar single-price point concept that have shown success in operations or companies that provide a strategic advantage.  We evaluate potential acquisition opportunities as they become available.

In November 2010, we completed our acquisition of 86 Dollar Giant stores based in Vancouver, British Columbia.  These stores offer a wide assortment of quality general merchandise, contemporary seasonal goods and everyday consumables, all priced at $1.25 (CAD) or less.  The stores that we acquired operate in the Canadian provinces of British Columbia, Ontario, Alberta and Saskatchewan and we now have stores in Manitoba.  This is the first expansion of our retail operations outside of the United States and provides us with a proven management team and distribution network as well as additional potential store growth in a new market.

From time to time, we also acquire the rights to store leases through bankruptcy or other proceedings.  We will continue to take advantage of these opportunities as they arise depending upon several factors including their fit within our location and selling square footage size parameters.










Merchandising and Distribution.Expanding our customer base is important to our growth plans.  We plan to continue to stock our new stores with a compelling mix of ever-changing merchandise that our customers have come to appreciate.  Consumable merchandise typically leads to more frequent return trips to our stores resulting in increased sales.  The presentation and display of merchandise in our stores are critical to communicating value to our customers and creating a more exciting shopping experience.  We believe our approach to visual merchandising results in higher sales volume and an environment that encourages impulse purchases.

A strong and efficient distribution network is critical to our ability to grow and to maintain a low-cost operating structure.  In July 2012, we began construction on a new 1.0 million square foot distribution center in Windsor, Connecticut which is expected to begin shipping product in 2013.  In 2013, we plan to expand our Marietta, Oklahoma distribution center to 1.0 million square feet and lease an additional 0.4 million square feet at our distribution center in San Bernardino, California.  In 2011, we expanded our Savannah distribution center to 1.0 million square feet.  In 2009, we purchased a new distribution center in San Bernardino, California which began shipping merchandise in April 2010.  This distribution center replaced the Salt Lake City distribution center which closed when its lease expired in April 2010.  We believe our distribution center network is currently capable of supporting approximately $8.0 billion in annual sales in the United States.  Upon completion of the additional distribution center capacity listed above, we believe our distribution center network will support approximately $10.2 billion in annual sales in the United States.  New distribution sites are strategically located to reduce stem miles, maintain flexibility and improve efficiency in our store service areas.  We also are a party to an agreement which provides distribution services from two facilities in Canada.

Our stores receive approximately 90% of their inventory from our distribution centers via contract carriers.  The remaining store inventory, primarily perishable consumable items and other vendor-maintained display items, are delivered directly to our stores from vendors.  For more information on our distribution center network, see Item 2 “Properties” beginning on page 12 of this Form 10-K.

Competition

The retail industry is highly competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future.  We operate in the discount retail merchandise business, which is currently and is expected to continue to be highly competitive with respect to price, store location, merchandise quality, assortment and presentation, and customer service.  Our competitors include single-price dollar stores, multi-price dollar stores, mass merchandisers, discount retailers and variety retailers.  In addition, several competitors have locations with dollar price point merchandise in their stores, which increases competition.  We believe we differentiate ourselves from other retailers by providing high value, high quality, low cost merchandise in attractively designed stores that are conveniently located.  Our sales and profits could be reduced by increases in competition.  There are no significant economic barriers for others to enter our retail sector.

Trademarks

We are the owners of several federal service mark registrations including "Dollar Tree," the "Dollar Tree" logo, the Dollar Tree logo with a “1”, and "One Price...One Dollar."  In addition, we own a concurrent use registration for "Dollar Bill$" and the related logo.  We also acquired the rights to use trade names previously owned by Everything's A Dollar, a former competitor in the $1.00 price point industry.  Several trade names were included in the purchase, including the marks "Everything's $1.00 We Mean Everything!," and "Everything's $1.00."  With the acquisition of Deal$, we became the owners of the trademark        "Deal$”.  With the acquisition of Dollar Giant, we became the owners of the trademark “Dollar Giant” and others in Canada.We have federal trademark registrations for a variety of private labels that we use to market some of our product lines.  Our trademark registrations have various expiration dates; however, assuming that the trademark registrations are properly renewed, they have a perpetual duration.

Employees

We employed approximately 15,380 full-time and 66,540 part-time associates onFebruary 2, 2013.  Part-time associates work an average of less than 35 hours per week.  The number of part-time associates fluctuates depending on seasonal needs.  We consider our relationship with our associates to be good, and we have not experienced significant interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements.



