Item 1.  BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading operator of discount variety stores.  We believe the convenience and value we offer are key factors in growing our base of loyal customers.  AtJanuary 30, 2016, we operated13,851discount variety retail stores.  Our stores operate under the names of Dollar Tree, Family Dollar, Dollar Tree Canada, Deals and Dollar Tree Deals.

OnJuly 6, 2015, we completed our purchase of Family Dollar Stores, Inc. and its more than8,200stores.  This transformational transaction created the largest discount retailer (by stores) in North America.  The Dollar Tree and Family Dollar banners have complementary business models.  Everything is $1.00 at Dollar Tree while Family Dollar is a neighborhood variety store offering merchandise largely for $10 or less.  Also, onOctober 13, 2015, we announced our plans to convert all Deals and Dollar Tree Deals stores to one of ourtwoprimary banners, Dollar Tree or Family Dollar.  OnNovember 1, 2015, we completed the transaction pursuant to which we divested330Family Dollar stores, 325 of which were open at the time of the divestiture, to Dollar Express LLC, a portfolio company of Sycamore Partners, in order to satisfy a condition as required by the Federal Trade Commission in connection with our purchase of Family Dollar.

We operate intworeporting business segments:  Dollar Tree and Family Dollar.

Dollar Tree

Our Dollar Tree segment is the leading operator of discount variety stores offering merchandise at the fixed price point of$1.00.  The Dollar Tree segment includes5,954stores operating under the Dollar Tree, Dollar Tree Canada, Deals and Dollar Tree Deals brands,tendistribution centers in the United States andtwoin Canada and a Store Support Center in Chesapeake, Virginia.  Our stores range from predominantly 8,000 - 10,000 selling square feet.  In the Dollar Tree stores in the United States, we sell all items for$1.00or less and in the Dollar Tree Canada stores, we sell all items for$1.25(CAD) or less.  In our remaining stores, operating as Deals or Dollar Tree Deals, we sell items for$1.00or less but also sell items for more than$1.00.  Our revenue and assets in Canada are not material.

We strive to exceed our customers' expectations of the variety and quality of products that they can purchase for$1.00by offering items that we believe typically sell for higher prices elsewhere.  We buy approximately57%to59%of our merchandise domestically and import the remaining41%to43%.  Our domestic purchases include basic, seasonal, home, closeouts and promotional merchandise.  We believe our mix of imported and domestic merchandise affords our buyers flexibility that allows them to consistently exceed the customer's expectations.  In addition, direct relationships with manufacturers permit us to select from a broad range of products and customize packaging, product sizes and package quantities that meet our customers' needs.

All of our Dollar Tree stores in the United States accept cash, checks, debit cards and credit cards.We added freezers and coolers to certain stores and increased the amount of consumable merchandise carried by those stores.  We believe this initiative helps drive additional transactions and allows us to appeal to a broader demographic mix.  We added freezers and coolers to665additional stores in2015.  As ofJanuary 30, 2016, we have freezers and coolers in4,285of our Dollar Tree stores.  We plan to install them in400additional stores by the end of fiscal2016.  Along with the rollout of freezers and coolers, we have increased the number of stores accepting Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) cards and food stamps (under the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (“SNAP”)) to approximately5,600stores as ofJanuary 30, 2016.

At any point in time, we carry approximately7,100items in our stores and as of the end of2015approximately35%of our items are automatically replenished.  The remaining items are pushed to the stores and a portion can be reordered by our store managers on a weekly basis.  Through automatic replenishment and our store managers’ ability to order product, each store manager is able to satisfy the demands of his or her particular customer base.

We maintain a balanced selection of products within traditional variety store categories.  We offer a wide selection of everyday basic products and we supplement these basic, everyday items with seasonal, closeout and promotional merchandise.  We attempt to keep certain basic consumable merchandise in our stores continuously to establish our stores as a destination and increase the traffic in our stores.  Closeout and promotional merchandise is purchased opportunistically and represents less than10%of our purchases.










Our merchandise mix in our Dollar Tree stores consists of:

•consumable merchandise, which includes candy and food, health and beauty care, and everyday consumables such as

household paper and chemicals, and in select stores, frozen and refrigerated food;

•variety merchandise, which includes toys, durable housewares, gifts, stationery, party goods, greeting cards, softlines, and other items; and

•seasonal goods, which include, among others, Valentine's Day, Easter, Halloween and Christmas merchandise.

The following table shows the percentage of net sales of each major product group for the years endedJanuary 30, 2016andJanuary 31, 2015:

January 30,January 31,Merchandise Type20162015Consumable49.1%49.3%Variety categories46.4%46.4%Seasonal4.5%4.3%

Family Dollar

Our Family Dollar segment operates general merchandise discount retail stores providing consumers with a selection of competitively-priced merchandise in convenient neighborhood stores.  The Family Dollar segment consists of our operations under the Family Dollar brand,elevendistribution centers and a Store Support Center in Matthews, North Carolina.  Our stores range from predominantly 6,000 - 8,000 selling square feet.  In our7,897Family Dollar stores, we sell merchandise at prices that generally range from$1.00to$10.00.

Our Family Dollar stores provide customers with a quality, high-value assortment of basic necessities and seasonal merchandise.  We offer competitively-priced national brands from leading manufacturers alongside name brand equivalent-value priced private labels.  We purchase merchandise from a wide variety of suppliers and generally have not experienced difficulty in obtaining adequate quantities of merchandise.  In the period fromJuly 6, 2015throughJanuary 30, 2016, we purchased approximately16%of our merchandise through our partnership with McLane Company, Inc., which distributes consumable merchandise from multiple manufacturers and approximately23%of our merchandise is imported.

While the number of items in a given store can vary based on the store’s size, geographic location, merchandising initiatives and other factors, our typical store generally carries7,000basic items alongside items that are ever-changing and seasonally-relevant throughout the year.

Our merchandise mix in our Family Dollar stores consists of:

•consumable merchandise, which includes food, tobacco, health and beauty aids, household chemicals, paper

products, hardware and automotive supplies, diapers, batteries, and pet food and supplies;

•home products, which includes housewares, home décor, giftware, and domestics, including blankets, sheets and

towels;

•apparel and accessories merchandise, which includes clothing, fashion accessories and shoes; and

•seasonal and electronics merchandise, which includes Valentine's Day, Easter, Halloween and Christmas merchandise,

personal electronics, including pre-paid cellular phones and services, stationery and school supplies, and toys.










The following table shows the percentage of net sales of each major product group for the period fromJuly 6, 2015throughJanuary 30, 2016:

January 30,Merchandise Type2016Consumable68.4%Home products9.8%Apparel and accessories6.8%Seasonal and electronics15.0%

Business Strategy

Continue to execute our proven and best‑in‑class retail business strategy.We will continue to execute our proven strategies that have generated a history of success and consistent growth for the Company.  Key elements of our strategy include:

•continuously aiming to “Wow” the customer with a compelling, fun and fresh merchandise assortment comprising a

variety of the things you want and things you need, all at incredible values in bright, clean and friendly stores;

•maintaining a flexible sourcing merchandise model that allows a variety of products to be sold as long as desired

merchandise margin hurdles are met;



•growing both the Dollar Tree and Family Dollar banners;

•pursuing a “more, better, faster” approach to the rollout of new Dollar Tree and Family Dollar stores to broaden our

geographic footprint;

•maintaining customer relevance by ensuring that we reinvent ourselves constantly through new merchandise categories;

•leveraging the complementary merchandise expertise of each banner including Dollar Tree's sourcing and product development expertise and Family Dollar's consumer package goods and national brands sourcing expertise; and

•maintaining a prudent approach with our use of capital for the benefit of our shareholders.

Operate a diversified and complementary business model across both fixed‑price and multi‑price point strategies.We plan to operate and grow both the Dollar Tree and Family Dollar banners.  We will utilize the reach and scale of our combined company to serve a broader range of customers in more ways, offering better prices and more value for the customer.  Dollar Tree stores will continue to operate as single price point retail stores.  At Dollar Tree, everything is$1.00, offering the customer a balanced mix of things they need and things they want.  Our shopping experience will remain fun and friendly as we exceed our customers’ expectations for what they can buy for$1.00.  Dollar Tree targets middle income customers in suburban locations.  Family Dollar stores will continue to operate using multiple price points, serving customers as their “neighborhood discount store,” offering great values on everyday items and a convenient shopping experience.  Family Dollar targets a lower income customer in urban and rural locations.  We will benefit from an expanded target customer profile and utilize the store concepts of both Dollar Tree and Family Dollar to serve a broader range of customer demographics to drive further improvements in sales and profitability.

Deliver significant synergy opportunities through integration of Family Dollar.Our recent acquisition of Family Dollar will provide us with significant opportunities to achieve meaningful cost synergies.  We are executing a detailed integration plan and expect to generate approximately$300 millionof estimated run‑rate annual cost synergies by the end of the third full year following the consummation of the acquisition across the areas of:

•sourcing and procurement, through driving scale with common vendors, increasing direct factory sourcing and

reducing usage of domestic importers;

•format optimization, through the re‑bannering of select Dollar Tree and Family Dollar stores to match the banner to

the customer and tailoring merchandise offerings within existing stores to match local customer tastes;

•distribution and logistics, by reducing inbound and outbound freight costs (domestic and international) and optimizing

efficiency within our combined distribution center network; and










•overhead, through the reduction of shared services costs and redundant public company and Board costs.

Take advantage of significant white-space opportunity.Over the past decade we have built a solid and scalable infrastructure, which provides a strong foundation for our future growth.  We are committed to growing our combined business to take advantage of significant white space opportunities that we believe exist for both the Dollar Tree and Family Dollar store concepts.  Using our proven real estate strategy across our combined business, we intend to drive future store openings by capitalizing on data‑driven insights regarding location, target customer profile, competitive dynamics and cost structure.  Over the long-term, we believe that we can operate more than7,000Dollar Tree stores and12,000Family Dollar stores across the United States.

Convenient Locations and Store Size.We primarily focus on opening new Dollar Tree stores in strip shopping centers anchored by large retailers who draw target customers we believe to be similar to ours.  Our stores are successful in metropolitan areas, mid-sized cities and small towns.  The range of our store sizes, 8,000 - 10,000 selling square feet for Dollar Tree and 6,000 - 8,000 selling square feet for Family Dollar, allows us to target a particular location with a store that best suits that market and takes advantage of available real estate opportunities.  Our stores are attractively designed and create an inviting atmosphere for shoppers by using bright lighting, vibrant colors and decorative signs.  We enhance the store design with attractive merchandise displays.  We believe this design attracts new and repeat customers and enhances our image as both a destination and impulse purchase store.

We open new Family Dollar stores in strip shopping centers, freestanding buildings and downtown buildings.  The range of size of our Family Dollar stores allows us to select store locations in neighborhoods convenient to our customers in each of these market areas.

For more information on retail locations and retail store leases, see "Item 2. Properties" beginning on page 18 of this Form 10-K.

Profitable Stores with Strong Cash Flow.We maintain a disciplined, cost-sensitive approach to store site selection in order to minimize the initial capital investment required and maximize our potential to generate high operating margins and strong cash flows.  We believe that our stores have a relatively small shopping radius, which allows us to profitably concentrate multiple stores within a single market.  Our ability to open new stores is dependent upon, among other factors, locating suitable sites and negotiating favorable lease terms.

The strong cash flows generated by our stores allow us to self-fund infrastructure investment and new stores.  Over the past five years, cash flows from operating activities have exceeded capital expenditures.

For more information on our results of operations, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" beginning on page 26 of this Form 10-K.

Cost Control.  We believe that our substantial buying power and our flexibility in making sourcing decisions contributes to our successful purchasing strategy, which includes targeted merchandise margin goals by category.  We also believe our ability to select quality merchandise helps to minimize markdowns.  We buy products on an order-by-order basis and have no material long-term purchase contracts or other assurances of continued product supply or guaranteed product cost.  No vendor accounted for more than10%of total merchandise purchased in any of the past five years.

Our supply chain systems continue to provide us with valuable sales information to assist our buyers and improve merchandise allocation to our stores.  Controlling our inventory levels has resulted in more efficient distribution and store operations.

Information Systems.We believe that investments in technology help us to increase sales and control costs.  Our inventory management system has allowed us to improve the efficiency of our supply chain, improve merchandise flow, increase inventory turnover and control distribution and store operating costs.  It is also used to provide information to calculate our estimate of inventory cost under the retail inventory method, which is widely used in the retail industry.  Our automatic replenishment system replenishes key items, based on actual store-level sales and inventory.

Point-of-sale data allows us to track sales and inventory by merchandise category at the store level and assists us in planning for future purchases of inventory.  We believe that this information allows us to ship the appropriate product to stores at the quantities commensurate with selling patterns.  Using this point-of-sale data to plan purchases of inventory has helped us manage our inventory levels.

Corporate Culture and Values.We believe that honesty and integrity, and treating people fairly and with respect are core values within our corporate culture.  We believe that running a business, and certainly a public company, carries with it a responsibility to be above reproach when making operational and financial decisions.  Our executive management team visits










and shops at our stores like every customer, and ideas and individual creativity on the part of our associates are encouraged, particularly from our store managers who know their stores and their customers.  We have standards for store displays, merchandise presentation, and store operations.  We maintain an open door policy for all associates.  Our distribution centers are operated based on objective measures of performance and virtually everyone in our store support centers is available to assist associates in the stores and distribution centers.

Our disclosure committee meets at least quarterly and monitors our internal controls over financial reporting to ensure that our public filings contain discussions about the risks our business faces.  We believe that we have the controls in place to be able to certify our financial statements.  Additionally, we have complied with the listing requirements for the Nasdaq Stock Market.

Seasonality.For information on the impact of seasonality, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page 12 of this Form 10-K and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" beginning on page 26 of this Form 10-K.

Growth Strategy

Store Openings and Square Footage Growth.The primary factors contributing to our net sales growth have been new store openings, an active store expansion and remodel program, and selective mergers and acquisitions.  In the last five years, net sales increased at a compound annual growth rate of23.6%, including the addition of Family Dollar.  We expect that the majority of our future sales growth will come primarily from new store openings in our Dollar Tree and Family Dollar banners and from our store expansion and relocation program.

AtJanuary 28, 2012, we operated4,351stores in the United States and Canada.  AtJanuary 30, 2016, we operated13,626stores in48states and the District of Columbia, as well as225stores in Canada.  Our selling square footage increased from approximately37.6 millionsquare feet inJanuary 2012to108.4 millionsquare feet inJanuary 2016.  Our store growth has resulted from opening new stores and ourJuly 2015acquisition of more than8,200Family Dollar stores.

The following table shows the average selling square footage of our stores and the selling square footage per new store opened over the last five years.  Our growth and productivity statistics are reported based on selling square footage because our management believes the use of selling square footage yields a more accurate measure of store productivity.

YearNumber of StoresAverage Selling Square Footage Per StoreAverage Selling Square Footage Per New Store Opened20114,3518,6408,36020124,6718,6608,06020134,9928,6608,02020145,3678,6608,060201513,8517,8207,730

We expect to increase the selling square footage in our stores in the future by opening new stores in underserved markets and strategically increasing our presence in our existing markets via new store openings and store expansions (expansions include store relocations).  In fiscal2016and beyond, we plan to predominantly open Dollar Tree stores that are approximately8,000-10,000selling square feet and Family Dollar stores that are approximately6,000-8,000selling square feet.  We believe these store sizes allow us to achieve our objectives in the markets in which we plan to expand.

In addition to new store openings, we plan to continue our Dollar Tree store expansion program to increase our net sales per store and take advantage of market opportunities.  We target stores for expansion based on the current sales per selling square foot and changes in market opportunities.  Stores targeted for expansion are generally less than6,000selling square feet in size.  Store expansions generally increase the existing store size by approximately2,750selling square feet.  AtJanuary 30, 2016, approximately3,243of our Dollar Tree stores, totaling63%of our Dollar Tree banner selling square footage, were8,000selling square feet or larger.

Since1995, we have added a total of695stores through several mergers and acquisitions, excluding our acquisition of Family Dollar.  Our acquisition strategy has been to target companies that have a similar single-price point concept that have shown success in operations or companies that provide a strategic advantage.  We evaluate potential acquisition opportunities as they become available.  OnJuly 6, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Family Dollar which allowed us to create a diversified company with complementary business models.  See "Note 2 - Acquisition" in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” beginning on page 53 of this Form 10-K.










From time to time, we also acquire the rights to store leases through bankruptcy or other proceedings.  We will continue to take advantage of these opportunities as they arise depending upon several factors including their fit within our location and selling square footage size parameters.

Merchandising and Distribution.Expanding our customer base is important to our growth plans.  We plan to continue to stock our stores with a compelling mix of ever-changing merchandise that our customers have come to appreciate.  Consumable merchandise typically leads to more frequent return trips to our stores resulting in increased sales.  The presentation and display of merchandise in our stores are critical to communicating value to our customers and creating a more exciting shopping experience.  We believe our approach to visual merchandising results in higher sales volume and an environment that encourages impulse purchases.

A strong and efficient distribution network is critical to our ability to grow and to maintain a low-cost operating structure.  In2015, we began construction on our Cherokee County, South Carolina distribution center, which will be1.5 millionsquare feet and fully automated.  We expect this facility to be operational in the third quarter of2016.  In addition, we are expanding our Stockton, California distribution center by0.3 millionsquare feet.  We expect this project to be completed during the second quarter of2016.  In2014, we expanded our Joliet, Illinois distribution center to1.5 millionsquare feet.  We are also in the process of enabling our distribution centers to ship merchandise to both Dollar Tree and Family Dollar stores.  We expect our first pilot facility to be operational in the third quarter of2016.  We believe our distribution center network is currently capable of supporting approximately$24.1 billionin annual sales in the United States.  New distribution sites are strategically located to reduce stem miles, maintain flexibility and improve efficiency in our store service areas.  We also are a party to an agreement which provides distribution services fromtwofacilities in Canada.

Our Dollar Tree stores receive approximately90%of their inventory from our distribution centers via contract carriers and our Family Dollar stores receive approximately72%of their inventory from our distribution centers.  The remaining store inventory, primarily perishable consumable items and other vendor-maintained display items, are delivered directly to our stores from vendors.  Our Family Dollar stores receive approximately16%of their merchandise from McLane Company, Inc.  For more information on our distribution center network, see "Item 2. Properties" beginning on page 18 of this Form 10-K.

Competition

Our segment of the retail industry is highly competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future.  We operate in the discount retail business, which is currently and is expected to continue to be highly competitive with respect to price, store location, merchandise quality, assortment and presentation and customer service.  Our competitors include single-price dollar stores, multi-price dollar stores, mass merchandisers, discount retailers, drug stores, convenience stores, independently-operated discount stores, and a wide variety of other retailers.  In addition, several competitors have sections within their stores devoted to "one dollar" price point merchandise, which further increases competition.  We believe we differentiate ourselves from other retailers by providing high-value, high-quality, low-cost merchandise in attractively-designed stores that are conveniently located.  Our sales and profits could be reduced by increases in competition.  There are no significant economic barriers for others to enter our retail sector.

Trademarks

We are the owners of several federal service mark registrations including "Dollar Tree," the "Dollar Tree" logo, the Dollar Tree logo with a “1” and "One Price...One Dollar."  In addition, we own a concurrent use registration for "Dollar Bill$" and the related logo.  We also acquired the rights to use trade names previously owned by Everything's A Dollar, a former competitor in the $1.00 price point industry.  Several trade names were included in the purchase, including the marks "Everything's $1.00 We Mean Everything!" and "Everything's $1.00."  With the acquisition of Deals, we became the owners of the trademark "Deal$.”  With the acquisition of Dollar Giant, we became the owners of the trademark “Dollar Giant” and others in Canada.With the acquisition of Family Dollar, we became the owners of the trademarks "Family Dollar," "Family Dollar Stores" and other names and designs of certain merchandise sold in Family Dollar stores, such as "Family Gourmet," "Family Pet," "Kidgets" and "Outdoors by Design."  We have federal trademark registrations for a variety of private labels that we use to market some of our product lines.  Our trademark registrations have various expiration dates; however, assuming that the trademark registrations are properly renewed, they have a perpetual duration.

Employees

We employed approximately55,300full-time and112,500part-time associates onJanuary 30, 2016.  Part-time associates work an average of less than 30 hours per week.  The number of part-time associates fluctuates depending on seasonal needs.  We consider our relationship with our associates to be good, and we have not experienced significant interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements.












