Item 1.  BUSINESS



Overview

We are
the leading operator of discount variety stores offering merchandise at the
fixed price of $1.00.  We believe the variety and quality of products
we sell for $1.00 sets us apart from our competitors.  At January 30,
2010, we operated 3,806 discount variety retail stores.  Approximately
3,650 of these stores sell substantially all items for $1.00 or
less.  Substantially all of the remaining stores, operating as Deal$,
sell items for $1.00 or less but also sell items for more than
$1.  Our stores operate under the names of Dollar Tree, Deal$ and
Dollar Bills.



We
believe our optimal store is between 8,000 and 10,000 selling square
feet.  This store size reflects our expanded merchandise offerings and
improved service to our customers.  As we have been expanding our
merchandise offerings, we have added freezers and coolers to approximately 1,400
stores during the past five years to increase traffic and transaction
size.  At January 28, 2006, we operated 2,914 stores in 48
states.  At January 30, 2010, we operated 3,806 stores in 48 states
and the District of Columbia.  Our selling square footage increased
from approximately 23.0 million square feet in January 2006 to 32.3 million
square feet in January 2010.  Our store growth has resulted primarily
from opening new stores with additional growth from mergers and acquisitions,
such as Deal$.



Business
Strategy

Value Merchandise
Offering.  We strive to exceed our customers' expectations of
the variety and quality of products that they can purchase for $1.00 by offering
items that we believe typically sell for higher prices elsewhere.  We
buy approximately 55% to 60% of our merchandise domestically and import the
remaining 40% to 45%.  Our domestic purchases include closeouts and
promotional merchandise.  We believe our mix of imported and domestic
merchandise affords our buyers flexibility that allows them to consistently
exceed the customer's expectations.  In addition, direct relationships
with manufacturers permit us to select from a broad range of products and
customize packaging, product sizes and package quantities that meet our
customers' needs.



Mix of Basic Variety and Seasonal
Merchandise.We maintain a balanced selection of products
within traditional variety store categories.  We offer a wide
selection of everyday basic products and we supplement these basic, everyday
items with seasonal, closeout and promotional merchandise.  We attempt
to keep certain basic consumable merchandise in our stores continuously to
establish our stores as a destination and we have slightly increased the mix of
consumable merchandise in order to increase the traffic in our
stores.  Closeout and promotional merchandise is purchased
opportunistically and represents less than 10% of our purchases.



Our
merchandise mix consists of:



·consumable
      merchandise, which includes candy and food, basic health and beauty care,
      and household consumables such as paper, plastics and household chemicals
      and in select stores, frozen and refrigerated food;·variety
      merchandise, which includes toys, durable housewares, gifts, fashion
      health and beauty care, party goods, greeting cards, apparel, and other
      items; and·seasonal
      goods, which include Easter, Halloween and Christmas merchandise, along
      with summer toys and lawn and garden
  merchandise.



We have
added freezers and coolers to certain stores and increased the amount of
consumable merchandise carried by those stores.  We believe this
initiative helps drive additional transactions and allows us to appeal to a
broader demographic mix.  We have added freezers and coolers to
approximately 200 more stores in 2009.  Therefore, as of January 30,
2010, we have freezers and coolers in approximately 1,400 of our
stores.  We plan to add them to approximately 225 more stores in
2010.  As a result of the installation of freezers and coolers in
select stores, consumable merchandise has grown as a percentage of purchases and
sales and we expect this trend to continue. The following table shows the
percentage of purchases of each major product group for the years ended January
30, 2010 and January 31, 2009:






January
      30,January
      31,Merchandise Type20102009Consumable48.1%45.7%Variety
      categories46.9%48.8%Seasonal5.0%5.5%



At any
point in time, we carry approximately 6,000 items in our stores and as of the
end of 2009 approximately 2,200 of our basic, everyday items are automatically
replenished.  The remaining items are primarily ordered by our store
managers on a weekly basis.  Through automatic replenishment and our
store managers’ ability to order product, each store manager is able to satisfy
the demands of their particular customer base.



Customer Payment
Methods.All of our stores accept cash, checks, debit cards,
VISA credit cards and Discover and approximately 1,100 stores accept MasterCard
credit cards.We began
accepting VISA credit cards at all of our stores in the fourth quarter of
2007.  Along with the shift to more consumables and the rollout of
freezers and coolers, we have increased the number of stores accepting
Electronic Benefits Transfer(EBT) cards and food stamps (under the Supplemental
Nutrition Assistance Program (“SNAP”)) to approximately 2,900 stores as of
January 30, 2010.



Convenient Locations and Store
Size.We primarily focus on opening new stores in strip
shopping centers anchored by mass merchandisers, whose target customers we
believe to be similar to ours.  Our stores have proven successful in
metropolitan areas, mid-sized cities and small towns.  The range of
our store sizes allows us to target a particular location with a store that best
suits that market and takes advantage of available real estate
opportunities.  Our stores are attractively designed and create an
inviting atmosphere for shoppers by using bright lighting, vibrant colors,
decorative signs and background music.  We enhance the store design
with attractive merchandise displays.  We believe this design attracts
new and repeat customers and enhances our image as both a destination and
impulse purchase store.



For more
information on retail locations and retail store leases, seeItem 2 "Properties”beginning on page 13 of this Form
10-K.



Profitable Stores with Strong Cash
Flow.We maintain a disciplined, cost-sensitive approach to
store site selection in order to minimize the initial capital investment
required and maximize our potential to generate high operating margins and
strong cash flows.  We believe that our stores have a relatively small
shopping radius, which allows us to profitably concentrate multiple stores
within a single market.  Our ability to open new stores is dependent
upon, among other factors, locating suitable sites and negotiating favorable
lease terms.



The
strong cash flows generated by our stores allow us to self-fund infrastructure
investment and new stores.  Over the past five years, cash flows from
operating activities have exceeded capital expenditures.



For more
information on our results of operations, seeItem 7
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations”beginning on page 18 of this Form 10-K.



Cost Control.  We
believe that our substantial buying power at the $1.00 price point and our
flexibility in making sourcing decisions contributes to our successful
purchasing strategy, which includes disciplined, targeted merchandise margin
goals by category.  We also believe our ability to select quality
merchandise helps to minimize markdowns.  We buy products on an
order-by-order basis and have no material long-term purchase contracts or other
assurances of continued product supply or guaranteed product cost.  No
vendor accounted for more than 10% of total merchandise purchased in any of the
past five years.



Our
supply chain systems continue to provide us with valuable sales information to
assist our buyers and improve merchandise allocation to our
stores.  Controlling our inventory levels has resulted in more
efficient distribution and store operations.



Information
Systems.We believe that investments in technology help us to
increase sales and control costs.  Our inventory management system has
allowed us to improve the efficiency of our supply chain, improve merchandise
flow, increase inventory turnover and control distribution and store operating
costs.  Our automatic replenishment system automatically reorders key
items, based on actual store level sales and inventory.  At the end of
2009, we had approximately 2,200 basic, everyday items on automatic
replenishment.




Point-of-sale
data allows us to track sales and inventory by merchandise category at the store
level and assists us in planning for future purchases of
inventory.  We believe that this information allows us to ship the
appropriate product to stores at the quantities commensurate with selling
patterns.  Using this point-of-sale data to plan purchases of
inventory has helped us decrease our inventory per square foot in the current
year.  Our inventory turns also increased approximately 25 basis
points in 2009 to over 4 turns for the year.  Inventory turnover has
increased in each of the last five years.



Corporate Culture and
Values.We believe that honesty and integrity, doing the right
things for the right reasons, and treating people fairly and with respect are
core values within our corporate culture.  We believe that running a
business, and certainly a public company, carries with it a responsibility to be
above reproach when making operational and financial decisions.  Our
executive management team visits and shops our stores like every customer, and
ideas and individual creativity on the part of our associates are encouraged,
particularly from our store managers who know their stores and their
customers.  We have standards for store displays, merchandise
presentation, and store operations. We maintain an open door policy for all
associates. Our distribution centers are operated based on objective measures of
performance and virtually everyone in our store support center is available to
assist associates in the stores and distribution centers.



Our
disclosure committee meets at least quarterly and monitors our internal controls
over financial reporting to ensure that our public filings contain discussions
about the risks our business faces.  We believe that we have the
controls in place to be able to certify our financial
statements.  Additionally, we have complied with the updated listing
requirements for the Nasdaq Stock Market.



Growth
Strategy

Store Openings and Square Footage
Growth.The primary factors contributing to our net sales
growth have been new store openings, an active store expansion and remodel
program, and selective mergers and acquisitions.  In the last five
years, net sales increased at a compound annual growth rate of
11.4%.  We expect that the majority of our future sales growth will
come primarily from new store openings and from our store expansion and
relocation program.



The
following table shows the average selling square footage of our stores and the
selling square footage per new store opened over the last five
years.  Our growth and productivity statistics are reported based on
selling square footage because our management believes the use of selling square
footage yields a more accurate measure of store productivity.  The
selling square footage statistics for 2005 through 2009 are estimates based on
the relationship of selling to gross square footage.



YearNumber
      of StoresAverage
      Selling Square Footage Per StoreAverage
      Selling Square Footage Per New Store Opened20052,9147,9009,75620063,2198,1608,78020073,4118,3008,48020083,5918,4408,10020093,8068,4808,150





We expect
to increase our selling square footage in the future by opening new stores in
underserved markets and strategically increasing our presence in our existing
markets via new store openings and store expansions (expansions include store
relocations).  In fiscal 2010 and beyond, we plan to predominantly
open stores that are approximately 8,000 - 10,000 selling square feet and we
believe this size allows us to achieve our objectives in the markets in which we
plan to expand.  At January 30, 2010, 1,724 of our stores, totaling
59.0% of our selling square footage, were 8,150 selling square feet or
larger.



In
addition to new store openings, we plan to continue our store expansion program
to increase our net sales per store and take advantage of market
opportunities.  We target stores for expansion based on the current
sales per selling square foot and changes in market
opportunities.  Stores targeted for expansion are generally less than
6,000 selling square feet in size.  Store expansions generally
increase the existing store size by approximately 3,500 selling square
feet.




Since
1995, we have added a total of 609 stores through four mergers and several small
acquisitions.  Our acquisition strategy has been to target companies
that have a similar single-price point concept that has shown success in
operations or companies that provide a strategic advantage.  We
evaluate potential acquisition opportunities in our retail sector as they become
available.



In 2006,
we completed our acquisition of 138 Deal$ stores, which included stores that
offered an expanded assortment of merchandise including items that sell for more
than $1.  These stores provide us an opportunity to leverage our
Dollar Tree infrastructure in the testing of new merchandise concepts, including
higher price points, without disrupting the single-price point model in our
Dollar Tree stores.  Since the acquisition, we have opened new Deal$
stores, including some in new markets, and operate 158 Deal$ stores as of
January 30, 2010.



From time
to time, we also acquire the rights to store leases through bankruptcy
proceedings of certain retailers.  We will take advantage of these
opportunities as they arise in the future.



Merchandising and
Distribution.Expanding our customer base is important to our
growth plans.  We plan to continue to stock our new stores with the
ever-changing merchandise that our current customers have come to appreciate.
Consumable merchandise typically leads to more frequent return trips to our
stores resulting in increased sales.  The presentation and display of
merchandise in our stores are critical to communicating value to our customers
and creating a more exciting shopping experience.  We believe our
approach to visual merchandising results in higher store traffic, higher sales
volume and an environment that encourages impulse purchases.



A strong
and efficient distribution network is critical to our ability to grow and to
maintain a low-cost operating structure.  In November 2009, we
purchased a new distribution center in San Bernardino, California which will
begin shipping merchandise in April 2010.  This distribution center
will replace the Salt Lake City distribution center which will close when its
lease expires in April 2010.  With the inclusion of our San
Bernardino, California distribution center and the exclusion of our Salt Lake
City distribution center, we believe our distribution center network is capable
of supporting approximately $7.5 billion in annual sales. New distribution
sites, like this one in San Bernardino, California, are strategically located to
reduce stem miles, maintain flexibility and improve efficiency in our store
service areas.



Our
stores receive approximately 90% of their inventory from our distribution
centers via contract carriers.  The remaining store inventory,
primarily perishable consumable items and other vendor-maintained display items,
are delivered directly to our stores from vendors.  For more
information on our distribution center network, seeItem 2
“Properties” beginning on page 13 of this Form 10-K.



Competition

The
retail industry is highly competitive and we expect competition to increase in
the future.  The principal methods of competition include closeout
merchandise, convenience and the quality of merchandise offered to the
customer.  We operate in the discount retail merchandise business,
which is currently and is expected to continue to be highly competitive with
respect to price, store location, merchandise quality, assortment and
presentation, and customer service.  Our competitors include
single-price dollar stores, multi-price dollar stores, mass merchandisers,
discount retailers and variety retailers.  In addition, several mass
merchandisers and grocery store chains carry "dollar store" or “dollar zone”
concepts in their stores, which increases competition.  We believe we
differentiate ourselves from other retailers by providing high value, high
quality, low cost merchandise in attractively designed stores that are
conveniently located. Our sales and profits could be reduced by increases in
competition, especially because there are no significant economic barriers for
others to enter our retail sector.



Trademarks

We are
the owners of several federal service mark registrations including "Dollar
Tree," the "Dollar Tree" logo, the Dollar Tree logo with a “1”, and "One
Price...One Dollar."  We also own a concurrent use registration for
"Dollar Bill$" and the related logo.  During 1997, we acquired the
rights to use trade names previously owned by Everything's A Dollar, a former
competitor in the $1.00 price point industry.  Several trade names
were included in the purchase, including the marks "Everything's $1.00 We Mean
Everything," and "Everything's $1.00."  With the acquisition of Deal$,
we became the owners of the trademark “Deal$”. We have federal trademark
registrations for a variety of private labels that we use to market some of our
product lines.




Employees

We
employed approximately 12,480 full-time and 42,000 part-time associates on
January 30, 2010.  Part-time associates work 35 hours per week or
less.  The number of part-time associates fluctuates depending on
seasonal needs.  We consider our relationship with our associates to
be good, and we have not experienced significant interruptions of operations due
to labor disagreements.



