Item 1.  BUSINESS

Overview

We are the leading operator of discount variety stores offering merchandise at the fixed price of $1.00.  We believe the variety and value of products we sell for $1.00 sets us apart from our competitors.  AtFebruary 1, 2014, we operated4,992discount variety retail stores.  Our stores operate under the names of Dollar Tree, Deal$, Dollar Tree Deal$, Dollar Tree Canada, Dollar Giant and Dollar Bills.  In4,778of these stores, we sell substantially all items for $1.00 or less in the United States and $1.25(CAD) or less in Canada.  In substantially all of the remaining stores, operating as Deal$, we sell items for $1.00 or less but also sell items for more than $1.00.

We believe our optimal store size is between8,000and10,000selling square feet.  This store size provides the appropriate amount of space for our broad merchandise offerings while allowing us to provide ease of shopping to our customers.  As we have been expanding our merchandise offerings, we have added freezers and coolers to approximately3,160stores to increase sales and shopping frequency.  AtJanuary 30, 2010, we operated3,806stores in 48 states.  AtFebruary 1, 2014, we operated4,812stores in 48 states and the District of Columbia, as well as180stores in Canada.  Our revenue and assets in Canada are not material.  Our selling square footage increased from approximately32.3 millionsquare feet inJanuary 2010to43.2 millionsquare feet inFebruary 2014.  Our store growth has resulted primarily from opening new stores and the acquisition of Dollar Giant.

Business Strategy

Value Merchandise Offering.  We strive to exceed our customers' expectations of the variety and quality of products that they can purchase for $1.00 by offering items that we believe typically sell for higher prices elsewhere.  We buy approximately58%to60%of our merchandise domestically and import the remaining40%to42%.  Our domestic purchases include basic, seasonal, closeouts and promotional merchandise.  We believe our mix of imported and domestic merchandise affords our buyers flexibility that allows them to consistently exceed the customer's expectations.  In addition, direct relationships with manufacturers permit us to select from a broad range of products and customize packaging, product sizes and package quantities that meet our customers' needs.

Mix of Basic Variety and Seasonal Merchandise.We maintain a balanced selection of products within traditional variety store categories.  We offer a wide selection of everyday basic products and we supplement these basic, everyday items with seasonal, closeout and promotional merchandise.  We attempt to keep certain basic consumable merchandise in our stores continuously to establish our stores as a destination and we have slightly increased the mix of consumable merchandise in order to increase the traffic in our stores.  Closeout and promotional merchandise is purchased opportunistically and represents less than10%of our purchases.

Our merchandise mix consists of:

•consumable merchandise, which includes candy and food, health and beauty care, and everyday consumables such as paper and chemicals, and in select stores, frozen and refrigerated food;

•variety merchandise, which includes toys, durable housewares, gifts,  party goods, greeting cards, softlines, and other items; and

•seasonal goods, which include, among others, Valentine's Day, Easter, Halloween and Christmas merchandise.

We have added freezers and coolers to certain stores and increased the amount of consumable merchandise carried by those stores.  We believe this initiative helps drive additional transactions and allows us to appeal to a broader demographic mix.  We have added freezers and coolers to610additional stores in2013.  Therefore, as ofFebruary 1, 2014, we have freezers and coolers in3,160of our stores.  We plan to add them to320more stores in2014.  The following table shows the percentage of net sales of each major product group for the years endedFebruary 1, 2014andFebruary 2, 2013:

February 1,February 2,Merchandise Type20142013Consumable49.4%49.9%Variety categories46.3%45.8%Seasonal4.3%4.3%










At any point in time, we carry approximately6,700items in our stores and as of the end of2013approximately35%of our items are automatically replenished.  The remaining items are pushed to the stores and many can be reordered by our store managers on a weekly basis.  Through automatic replenishment and our store managers’ ability to order product, each store manager is able to satisfy the demands of their particular customer base.

Customer Payment Methods.All of our stores in the United States accept cash, checks, debit cards and credit cards.Along with the rollout of freezers and coolers, we have increased the number of stores accepting Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) cards and food stamps (under the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (“SNAP”)) to approximately4,620stores as ofFebruary 1, 2014.  SNAP benefits were lowered for recipients after November 1, 2013; however, we do not expect the effect on our sales to be material.

Convenient Locations and Store Size.We primarily focus on opening new stores in strip shopping centers anchored by large retailers who draw target customers we believe to be similar to ours.  Our stores have proven successful in metropolitan areas, mid-sized cities and small towns.  The range of our store sizes allows us to target a particular location with a store that best suits that market and takes advantage of available real estate opportunities.  Our stores are attractively designed and create an inviting atmosphere for shoppers by using bright lighting, vibrant colors and decorative signs.  We enhance the store design with attractive merchandise displays.  We believe this design attracts new and repeat customers and enhances our image as both a destination and impulse purchase store.

For more information on retail locations and retail store leases, see Item 2 "Properties” beginning on page 12 of this Form 10-K.

Profitable Stores with Strong Cash Flow.We maintain a disciplined, cost-sensitive approach to store site selection in order to minimize the initial capital investment required and maximize our potential to generate high operating margins and strong cash flows.  We believe that our stores have a relatively small shopping radius, which allows us to profitably concentrate multiple stores within a single market.  Our ability to open new stores is dependent upon, among other factors, locating suitable sites and negotiating favorable lease terms.

The strong cash flows generated by our stores allow us to self-fund infrastructure investment and new stores.  Over the past five years, cash flows from operating activities have exceeded capital expenditures.

For more information on our results of operations, see Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” beginning on page 18 of this Form 10-K.

Cost Control.  We believe that our substantial buying power and our flexibility in making sourcing decisions contributes to our successful purchasing strategy, which includes targeted merchandise margin goals by category.  We also believe our ability to select quality merchandise helps to minimize markdowns.  We buy products on an order-by-order basis and have no material long-term purchase contracts or other assurances of continued product supply or guaranteed product cost.  No vendor accounted for more than 10% of total merchandise purchased in any of the past five years.

Our supply chain systems continue to provide us with valuable sales information to assist our buyers and improve merchandise allocation to our stores.  Controlling our inventory levels has resulted in more efficient distribution and store operations.

Information Systems.We believe that investments in technology help us to increase sales and control costs.  Our inventory management system has allowed us to improve the efficiency of our supply chain, improve merchandise flow, increase inventory turnover and control distribution and store operating costs.  It is also used to provide information to calculate our estimate of inventory cost under the retail inventory method, which is widely used in the retail industry.  Our automatic replenishment system replenishes key items, based on actual store level sales and inventory.  At the end of2013,  approximately35%of our items are on automatic replenishment.

Point-of-sale data allows us to track sales and inventory by merchandise category at the store level and assists us in planning for future purchases of inventory.  We believe that this information allows us to ship the appropriate product to stores at the quantities commensurate with selling patterns.  Using this point-of-sale data to plan purchases of inventory has helped us manage our inventory levels.

Corporate Culture and Values.We believe that honesty and integrity, doing the right things for the right reasons, and treating people fairly and with respect are core values within our corporate culture.  We believe that running a business, and certainly a public company, carries with it a responsibility to be above reproach when making operational and financial decisions.  Our executive management team visits and shops our stores like every customer, and ideas and individual creativity on the part of our associates are encouraged, particularly from our store managers who know their stores and their










customers.  We have standards for store displays, merchandise presentation, and store operations.  We maintain an open door policy for all associates.  Our distribution centers are operated based on objective measures of performance and virtually everyone in our store support center is available to assist associates in the stores and distribution centers.

Our disclosure committee meets at least quarterly and monitors our internal controls over financial reporting to ensure that our public filings contain discussions about the risks our business faces.  We believe that we have the controls in place to be able to certify our financial statements.  Additionally, we have complied with the listing requirements for the Nasdaq Stock Market.

Seasonality.For information on the impact of seasonality, see Item 1A. "Risk Factors" beginning on page 8 of this Form 10-K and Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" beginning on page 18 of this Form 10-K.

Growth Strategy

Store Openings and Square Footage Growth.The primary factors contributing to our net sales growth have been new store openings, an active store expansion and remodel program, and selective mergers and acquisitions.  In the last five years, net sales increased at a compound annual growth rate of10.6%.  We expect that the majority of our future sales growth will come primarily from new store openings and from our store expansion and relocation program.

The following table shows the average selling square footage of our stores and the selling square footage per new store opened over the last five years.  Our growth and productivity statistics are reported based on selling square footage because our management believes the use of selling square footage yields a more accurate measure of store productivity.

YearNumber of StoresAverage Selling Square Footage Per StoreAverage Selling Square Footage Per New Store Opened20093,8068,4807,95020104,1018,5708,40020114,3518,6408,36020124,6718,6608,06020134,9928,6608,020

We expect to increase our selling square footage in the future by opening new stores in underserved markets and strategically increasing our presence in our existing markets via new store openings and store expansions (expansions include store relocations).  In fiscal2014and beyond, we plan to predominantly open stores that are approximately8,000 - 10,000selling square feet and we believe this size allows us to achieve our objectives in the markets in which we plan to expand.  AtFebruary 1, 2014, approximately2,750of our stores, totaling65%of our selling square footage, were 8,000 selling square feet or larger.

We also continue to grow our Deal$ format, which offers an expanded assortment of merchandise including items that sell for more than $1.00.  These stores provide us an opportunity to leverage our Dollar Tree infrastructure in different merchandise concepts, including higher price points, without disrupting the single-price point model in our Dollar Tree stores.  We operated214Deal$ stores as ofFebruary 1, 2014.

In addition to new store openings, we plan to continue our store expansion program to increase our net sales per store and take advantage of market opportunities.  We target stores for expansion based on the current sales per selling square foot and changes in market opportunities.  Stores targeted for expansion are generally less than6,000selling square feet in size.  Store expansions generally increase the existing store size by approximately2,750selling square feet.

Since 1995, we have added a total of695stores through several mergers and acquisitions.  Our acquisition strategy has been to target companies that have a similar single-price point concept that have shown success in operations or companies that provide a strategic advantage.  We evaluate potential acquisition opportunities as they become available.

From time to time, we also acquire the rights to store leases through bankruptcy or other proceedings.  We will continue to take advantage of these opportunities as they arise depending upon several factors including their fit within our location and selling square footage size parameters.

Merchandising and Distribution.Expanding our customer base is important to our growth plans.  We plan to continue to stock our new stores with a compelling mix of ever-changing merchandise that our customers have come to










appreciate.  Consumable merchandise typically leads to more frequent return trips to our stores resulting in increased sales.  The presentation and display of merchandise in our stores are critical to communicating value to our customers and creating a more exciting shopping experience.  We believe our approach to visual merchandising results in higher sales volume and an environment that encourages impulse purchases.

A strong and efficient distribution network is critical to our ability to grow and to maintain a low-cost operating structure.  In 2013, we completed construction on a new 1.0 million square foot distribution center in Windsor, Connecticut which began shipping merchandise in June 2013 and expanded our Marietta, Oklahoma distribution center to 1.0 million square feet.  In addition, we leased an additional 0.4 million square feet at our San Bernardino, California distribution center in 2013.  In 2011, we expanded our Savannah, Georgia distribution center to 1.0 million square feet.   We believe our distribution center network is currently capable of supporting approximately$10.2 billionin annual sales in the United States.  New distribution sites are strategically located to reduce stem miles, maintain flexibility and improve efficiency in our store service areas.  We also are a party to an agreement which provides distribution services from two facilities in Canada.

Our stores receive approximately90%of their inventory from our distribution centers via contract carriers.  The remaining store inventory, primarily perishable consumable items and other vendor-maintained display items, are delivered directly to our stores from vendors.  For more information on our distribution center network, see Item 2 “Properties” beginning on page 12 of this Form 10-K.

Competition

The retail industry is highly competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future.  We operate in the discount retail merchandise business, which is currently and is expected to continue to be highly competitive with respect to price, store location, merchandise quality, assortment and presentation, and customer service.  Our competitors include single-price dollar stores, multi-price dollar stores, mass merchandisers, discount retailers and variety retailers.  In addition, several competitors have locations with dollar price point merchandise in their stores, which increases competition.  We believe we differentiate ourselves from other retailers by providing high value, high quality, low cost merchandise in attractively designed stores that are conveniently located.  Our sales and profits could be reduced by increases in competition.  There are no significant economic barriers for others to enter our retail sector.

Trademarks

We are the owners of several federal service mark registrations including "Dollar Tree," the "Dollar Tree" logo, the Dollar Tree logo with a “1”, and "One Price...One Dollar."  In addition, we own a concurrent use registration for "Dollar Bill$" and the related logo.  We also acquired the rights to use trade names previously owned by Everything's A Dollar, a former competitor in the $1.00 price point industry.  Several trade names were included in the purchase, including the marks "Everything's $1.00 We Mean Everything!," and "Everything's $1.00."  With the acquisition of Deal$, we became the owners of the trademark        "Deal$”.  With the acquisition of Dollar Giant, we became the owners of the trademark “Dollar Giant” and others in Canada.We have federal trademark registrations for a variety of private labels that we use to market some of our product lines.  Our trademark registrations have various expiration dates; however, assuming that the trademark registrations are properly renewed, they have a perpetual duration.

Employees

We employed approximately17,600full-time and69,800part-time associates onFebruary 1, 2014.  Part-time associates work an average of less than 30 hours per week.  The number of part-time associates fluctuates depending on seasonal needs.  We consider our relationship with our associates to be good, and we have not experienced significant interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements.



