Item 1.    Business



We were incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1994. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are made available free of charge through our website, located athttp://www.davita.com,as soon as reasonably practicable
after the reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The SEC also maintains a website athttp://www.sec.govwhere these reports and other information about us can be obtained. The contents of our
website are not incorporated by reference into this report.



Overview



DaVita is a leading
provider of dialysis services in the United States for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure, also known as end stage renal disease, or ESRD. As of December 31, 2009, we operated or provided administrative services to 1,530 outpatient
dialysis centers located in 43 states and the District of Columbia, serving approximately 118,000 patients. We also provide acute inpatient dialysis services in approximately 720 hospitals and related laboratory services. Our dialysis and related
lab services business accounts for approximately 95% of our consolidated net operating revenues. Other ancillary services and strategic initiatives currently account for approximately 5% of our consolidated net operating revenues and relate
primarily to our core business of providing renal care services.



The dialysis industry



The loss
of kidney function is normally irreversible. ESRD is the stage of advanced kidney impairment that requires continued dialysis treatments or a kidney transplant to sustain life. Dialysis is the removal of toxins, fluids and salt from the blood of
ESRD patients by artificial means. Patients suffering from ESRD generally require dialysis at least three times per week for the rest of their lives.



Since 1972, the federal government has provided universal payment coverage for dialysis treatments under the Medicare ESRD program regardless
of age or financial circumstances. Under this system, Congress establishes Medicare rates for dialysis treatments, related supplies, lab tests and medications. Approximately 88% of our total patients are under government-based programs, with
approximately 80% of our patients under Medicare and Medicare-assigned plans.



ESRD patient base



There are more than 358,000 ESRD dialysis patients in the United States according to the latest information published by the United States Renal Data System. The recent historical compound annual growth
rate in the number of ESRD dialysis patients has been approximately 3%-4%. The growth rate is attributable to the aging of the population, increased incidence rates for diseases that cause kidney failure such as diabetes and hypertension, lower
mortality rates for dialysis patients and growth rates of minority populations with higher than average incidence rates of ESRD.



Treatment options for ESRD



Treatment options for ESRD are dialysis and kidney transplantation.



Dialysis Options



•Hemodialysis



Hemodialysis, the most common form of ESRD treatment, is usually performed in outpatient dialysis centers. It may also be done while a
patient is at home or while hospitalized. The hemodialysis machine uses an artificial kidney, called a dialyzer, to remove toxins, fluids and salt from the patient’s blood. The dialysis process







occurs across a semi-permeable membrane that divides the dialyzer into two distinct chambers. While blood is circulated through one chamber, a pre-mixed fluid is circulated through the other
chamber. The toxins, salt and excess fluids from the blood cross the membrane into the fluid, allowing cleansed blood to return into the patient’s body. Each hemodialysis treatment that occurs in the outpatient dialysis centers typically lasts
approximately three and one-half hours and is usually performed three times per week.



Some ESRD patients may perform home-based hemodialysis in their home or residence through the use of a hemodialysis machine designed for home therapy that is portable, smaller and easier to use. Patients
receive training, support and monitoring from registered nurses, in some cases in our outpatient dialysis centers, in connection with treatments. Home-based hemodialysis is typically performed with greater frequency than dialysis treatments
performed in outpatient dialysis centers and on varying schedules.



Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services are required for patients with acute kidney failure resulting from trauma, patients in early stages of ESRD, and ESRD patients who require hospitalization for
other reasons. Hospital inpatient hemodialysis is generally performed at the patient’s bedside or in a dedicated treatment room in the hospital, as needed.



•Peritoneal dialysis



Peritoneal dialysis uses the patient’s peritoneal, or abdominal, cavity to eliminate fluid and toxins. The most common methods of
peritoneal dialysis are continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis, or CAPD, and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis, or CCPD. A patient generally performs peritoneal dialysis at home. Because it does not involve going to an outpatient dialysis
center three times a week for treatment, peritoneal dialysis is an alternative to hemodialysis for patients who desire more freedom and flexibility in their lifestyle. However, peritoneal dialysis is not a suitable method of treatment for many
patients, including patients who are unable to perform the necessary procedures and those at greater risk of peritoneal infection.



CAPD introduces dialysis solution into the patient’s peritoneal cavity through a surgically placed catheter. Toxins in the blood
continuously cross the peritoneal membrane into the dialysis solution. After several hours, the patient drains the used dialysis solution and replaces it with fresh solution. This procedure is usually repeated four times per day.



CCPD is performed in a manner similar to CAPD, but uses a
mechanical device to cycle dialysis solution through the patient’s peritoneal cavity while the patient is sleeping or at rest.



•Transplantation



Although transplantation, when successful, is generally the most desirable form of therapeutic intervention, the shortage of suitable donors,
side effects of immunosuppressive pharmaceuticals given to transplant recipients and dangers associated with transplant surgery for some patient populations limit the use of this treatment option.



Services we provide



Dialysis and Related Lab Services



Outpatient dialysis services



As of December 31, 2009, we operated or provided
administrative services to 1,530 outpatient dialysis centers in the United States that are designed specifically for outpatient hemodialysis. In 2009, we added a net total of 81 outpatient dialysis centers primarily as a result of acquisitions and
the opening of new centers, net of center closures and divestitures. This represented a total increase of approximately 6% to our overall network of outpatient dialysis centers.



As required by law, we contract with a nephrologist or a group of affiliated nephrologists to provide medical
director services at each of our centers. In addition, other nephrologists may apply for practice privileges to treat







their patients at our centers. Each center has an administrator, typically a registered nurse, who supervises the day-to-day operations of the center and its staff. The staff of each center
typically consists of registered nurses, licensed practical or vocational nurses, patient care technicians, a social worker, a registered dietician, biomedical technician support and other administrative and support personnel.



Many of our outpatient dialysis centers offer services for
dialysis patients who prefer and are able to receive either hemodialysis treatments in their homes or peritoneal dialysis. Home-based dialysis services consist of providing equipment and supplies, training, patient monitoring, on-call support
services and follow-up assistance. Registered nurses train patients and their families or other caregivers to perform either hemodialysis at home or peritoneal dialysis.



Under Medicare regulations, we cannot promote, develop or maintain any kind of contractual relationship with our patients
which would directly or indirectly obligate a patient to use or continue to use our dialysis services, or which would give us any preferential rights other than those related to collecting payments for our services. Our total patient turnover
averages approximately 30% per year. However, in 2009 the overall number of patients that we treated increased by approximately 6%, primarily from continued growth within the industry, lower mortality rates and the opening of new centers and
acquisitions.



Hospital inpatient dialysis
services



We provide hospital inpatient
hemodialysis services, excluding physician services, to patients in approximately 720 hospitals. We render these services for a contracted per-treatment fee that is individually negotiated with each hospital. When a hospital requests our services,
we typically administer the dialysis treatment at the patient’s bedside or in a dedicated treatment room in the hospital, as needed. Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services are required for patients as discussed above. In 2009, hospital
inpatient hemodialysis services accounted for approximately 5% of our total dialysis treatments.



ESRD laboratory services



We own two separately incorporated, licensed, clinical laboratories, both located in Florida, specializing in ESRD patient testing. These
specialized laboratories provide routine laboratory tests primarily covered by the Medicare composite payment rate for dialysis and other physician-prescribed laboratory tests for ESRD patients. Our laboratories provide these tests predominantly for
our network of ESRD patients throughout the United States. These tests are performed to monitor a patient’s ESRD condition, including the adequacy of dialysis, as well as other diseases a patient may have. Our laboratories utilize information
systems which provide information to our dialysis centers regarding critical outcome indicators.



Management services



We currently operate or provide management and administrative services to 32 outpatient dialysis centers that are either wholly-owned by
third parties or centers in which we own an equity investment, under management and administrative services agreements. Management fees are established by contract and are recognized as earned typically based on a percentage of revenues or cash
collections generated by the centers.



Ancillary services and
strategic initiatives



Ancillary services and
strategic initiatives, which currently account for approximately 5% of our total consolidated net operating revenues, consist of the following:



•Pharmacy services.    DaVita Rx is a pharmacy that provides oral medications to DaVita’s patients with ESRD. The main
objectives of the pharmacy are to improve clinical outcomes by facilitating increased patient compliance and to provide our patients a convenient way to fill their prescription needs. Revenues are recognized as prescriptions are filled and shipped
to patients.







•Infusion therapy services.HomeChoice Partners provides personalized infusion therapy services to patients typically in
their own homes as a cost-effective alternative to inpatient hospitalization. Intravenous and nutritional support therapies are typically managed by registered and/or board-certified professionals including pharmacists, nurses and dieticians in
collaboration with the patient’s physician in support of the patient’s ongoing healthcare needs. Revenues are recognized in the period when infusion therapy services are provided.



•Disease management services.VillageHealth provides advanced care management services to health plans and government
agencies for employees/members diagnosed with Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) or ESRD. Through a combination of clinical coordination, medical claims analysis and information technology, we endeavor to assist our customers and patients in obtaining
superior renal health care and improved clinical outcomes, as well as helping to reduce overall medical costs. Revenues are typically based upon an established contract fee and are recognized as earned over the contract period and can include
additional fees for cost savings recognized by certain customers. VillageHealth also provided full service health care plans for ESRD patients during 2009 and 2008. As of December 31, 2009, VillageHealth discontinued providing full service
health care plans for ESRD patients.



•Vascular access services.Lifeline provides management and administrative services to physician-owned vascular access
clinics that provide surgical and interventional radiology services for dialysis patients. Lifeline also is the majority-owner of one vascular access clinic. Management fees generated from providing management and administrative services are
recognized as earned typically based on a percentage of revenues or cash collections generated by the clinics. Revenues associated with the vascular access clinic that is majority-owned are recognized in the period when physician services are
provided.



•ESRD clinical research programs.DaVita Clinical Research conducts research trials principally with dialysis patients and
provides administrative support for research conducted by DaVita-affiliated nephrology practices. Revenues are based upon an established fee per study, as determined by contract with drug companies and other sponsors and are recognized as earned
according to the contract terms.



•Physician services.DaVita Nephrology Partners offers practice management and administrative services to physicians who
specialize in nephrology under management and administrative services agreements. Practice management and administrative services typically include operations management, IT support, billing and collections, credentialing and coding, and other
support functions. Management fees generated from providing practice management and administrative services to physician practices are recognized as earned typically based upon cash collections generated by the practices.



Quality care



We believe our reputation for providing quality care is a key
factor in attracting patients and physicians and in securing contracts with healthcare plans. We engage in organized and systematic efforts through our quality management programs to monitor and improve the quality of services we deliver. These
efforts include the development and implementation of patient care policies and procedures, clinical education and training programs, education and mentoring related to our clinical guidelines and protocols and audits of the quality of services
rendered at each of our centers.



We employ over
160 clinical service specialists. The primary focus of this group is assuring and facilitating processes that aim to achieve superior clinical outcomes at our facilities. Our physician leadership in the Office of the Chief Medical Officer (OCMO)
includes five senior nephrologists, led by our Chief Medical Officer, with a variety of academic, clinical practice, and clinical research backgrounds. Our Physician Council is an advisory body to senior management, composed of seven physicians with
extensive experience in clinical practice in addition to the members of OCMO and five Group Medical Directors. The Physician Council and Group Medical Directors represent both private and academic centers. The Physician Council provides strategic
input regarding the outcomes of current clinical programs and on new programs that should be considered for development.







Sources of revenue—concentrations and risks



Our dialysis and related lab services business revenues
represent 95% of our total consolidated net operating revenues with the balance of our revenues from ancillary services and strategic initiatives. Dialysis and related lab services revenues are derived from providing dialysis treatments, the
administration of pharmaceuticals, related laboratory services and management fees generated from providing management and administrative services to certain outpatient dialysis centers.



The sources of our dialysis and related lab services revenues are principally from government-based programs,
including Medicare and Medicare-assigned plans, Medicaid and Medicaid-assigned plans and commercial insurance plans.



The following table summarizes our dialysis and related lab services revenues by source for the year ended December 31, 2009:



RevenuepercentagesMedicare and Medicare-assigned plans57%Medicaid and Medicaid-assigned plans6%Other government-based programs2%Total government-based programs65%Commercial (including hospital inpatient dialysis services)35%Total dialysis and related lab services revenues100%



The following table summarizes
our dialysis and related lab services revenues by modality for the year ended December 31, 2009:



RevenuepercentagesOutpatient hemodialysis centers84%Peritoneal dialysis and home-based hemodialysis11%Hospital inpatient hemodialysis5%Total dialysis and related lab services revenues100%



Medicare revenue



Under the Medicare ESRD
program, payment rates for dialysis are established by Congress. The Medicare composite rate currently set by CMS, pays dialysis providers for services provided to Medicare beneficiaries under two methods: (1) the composite payment which
includes a base payment, adjusted for case-mix which links payments more closely with illness severity and regional geography differences, and a drug add-on payment, which is updated annually to account for changes in drug prices and utilization and
(2) separately billable drug reimbursement. Thus, dialysis providers receive a composite payment rate per treatment to cover routine dialysis services, certain pharmaceuticals, routine lab work, and other supplies, as well as a separate payment
for pharmaceuticals, which include Epogen®, or EPO (a pharmaceutical used to treat anemia, a common complication
associated with ESRD), vitamin D analogs and iron supplements that are not included in the composite payment rate. Pharmaceuticals are generally paid at average sale price, or ASP, plus 6% based upon prices set by Medicare. The Medicare payment
rates that are paid to us, including payments for separately billable drugs, are not sufficient to cover our average cost of providing a dialysis treatment.



ESRD patients receiving dialysis services become eligible for primary Medicare coverage at various times, depending on their age or
disability status, as well as whether they are covered by an employer group health plan.







Generally, for a patient not covered by an employer group health plan, Medicare becomes the primary payor either immediately or after a three-month waiting period. For a patient covered by an
employer group health plan, Medicare generally becomes the primary payor after 33 months, which includes a three month waiting period, or earlier if the patient’s employer group health plan coverage terminates. When Medicare becomes the primary
payor, the payment rate we receive for that patient shifts from the commercial insurance plan rate to the Medicare payment rate.



For each covered treatment, Medicare pays 80% of the amount set by the Medicare system. The patient is responsible for the remaining 20%. In
most cases, a secondary payor, such as Medicare supplemental insurance, a state Medicaid program or a commercial health plan, covers all or part of these balances. Some patients, who do not qualify for Medicaid but otherwise cannot afford secondary
insurance, can apply for premium payment assistance from charitable organizations through a program offered by the American Kidney Fund. We and other dialysis providers support the American Kidney Fund and similar programs through voluntary
contributions. If a patient does not have secondary insurance coverage, we are generally unsuccessful in our efforts to collect from the patient the 20% portion of the ESRD composite rate that Medicare does not pay. However, we are able to recover
some portion of this outstanding balance from Medicare through an established cost reporting process by filing a Medicare bad debt claim for each center for which Medicare treatments are not profitable according to the center’s Medicare cost
report.



The Medicare composite payment rates set
by Congress for dialysis treatments that were in effect for 2009 were between $150 and $167 per treatment, with an average rate of $159 per treatment. Medicare payment rates for dialysis services, historically, have not been routinely increased to
compensate for the impact of inflation, which negatively impacts our margins as patient care costs continue to rise. In July 2008, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act for 2008, or MIPPA, was passed by Congress. The legislation
provided for an increase in the composite rate of 1% which went into effect on January 1, 2009 and an additional 1% which went into effect on January 1, 2010. MIPPA also introduced a new payment system for dialysis services which in part
provides for a new single bundled payment rate which, as currently proposed, would be adjusted annually for inflation based upon a market basket index, less 1% of such index, beginning in 2012.









We participate in two Medicare demonstration programs through a contract with CMS. One
program is an ESRD demonstration program that started in January 2006. It was originally contracted for a four year term and the term was extended by one year in 2009 until December 2010. The revenue is capitated for all medical services required by
enrollees in the program. We are at risk for all medical costs of the program in excess of the capitation payments. The other program is a CKD/ESRD demonstration program which started in November 2008 and will continue for three years. We are paid a
management fee for program enrollees relating to CKD and ESRD disease states. Management fee revenues are subject to retraction if medical cost savings targets are not met.



Medicaid revenue



Medicaid programs are state-administered programs partially funded by the federal government. These programs
are intended to provide health coverage for patients whose income and assets fall below state-defined levels and who are otherwise uninsured. These programs also serve as supplemental insurance programs for co-insurance payments due from
Medicaid-eligible patients with primary coverage under Medicare. Some Medicaid programs also pay for additional services, including some oral medications that are not covered by Medicare. We are an authorized Medicaid provider in the states in which
we conduct our business.



Commercial revenues



Before Medicare becomes the primary payor, a
patient’s commercial insurance plan, if any, is responsible for payment of the dialysis services provided. Although commercial payment rates vary significantly, average commercial payment rates are generally significantly higher than Medicare
rates. The payments we receive from commercial payors generate nearly all of our profits. Payment methods from commercial payors include a single lump-sum per treatment, referred to as bundled rates and separate payments for treatments and
pharmaceuticals, if used as part of the treatment, referred to as fee for service rates. Commercial payment rates are typically the result of negotiations between us and insurers or third-party administrators, but also include non-contracted or
out-of-network payment rates as well. Our out-of-network payment rates are on average higher than in-network payment rates. We are continuously in the process of negotiating agreements with our commercial payors and if our negotiations result in
overall commercial rate reductions in excess of our commercial rate increases, our revenues and operating results could be negatively impacted. In addition, if there are sustained or increased job losses in the United States as a result of current
economic conditions, or depending upon changes to the healthcare regulatory system, we could experience a decrease in the number of patients under commercial plans.



Approximately 35% of our dialysis and related lab services revenues and 12% of our patients were associated
with commercial payors for the year ended December 31, 2009. Less than 1% of our dialysis and related lab services payments are due directly from patients. No single commercial payor accounted for more than 5% of total dialysis and related lab
services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009.



Revenue from EPO and other pharmaceuticals



Approximately 30% of our total dialysis and related lab services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 are associated with the
administration of physician-prescribed pharmaceuticals that improve clinical outcomes when included with the dialysis treatment. These pharmaceuticals include EPO, vitamin D analogs and iron supplements.



EPO is an erythropoiesis stimulating agent, or ESA, genetically
engineered form of a naturally occurring protein that stimulates the production of red blood cells. EPO is used in connection with all forms of dialysis to treat anemia, a medical complication most ESRD patients experience. The administration of
EPO, which is currently separately billable under the Medicare payment program until January 1, 2011, at which time it will be included as part of the new bundled payment rate, accounted for approximately 20% of our dialysis and related lab
services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. Changes in the levels of physician-prescribed EPO and commercial and government payment rates related to EPO can significantly influence our revenues and operating income.







Furthermore, EPO is produced by a single manufacturer, Amgen, which can unilaterally
increase its price for EPO at any time during the term of our agreement with them. Any interruption of supply or product cost increases could adversely affect our operations. In 2009, we experienced an increase in the cost of EPO of approximately
2%. Our agreement with Amgen also provides for specific rebates based on a combination of factors, including process improvement and data submission.



®



Physician relationships



An ESRD patient generally seeks treatment at an outpatient dialysis center near his or her home and at which his or her treating nephrologist
has practice privileges. Our relationships with local nephrologists and our ability to meet their needs and the needs of their patients are key factors in the success of our outpatient dialysis centers. Over 3,400 nephrologists currently refer
patients to our dialysis centers. As is typical in the dialysis industry, one or a few physicians, including the dialysis center’s medical director, usually account for all or a significant portion of a dialysis center’s patient referral
base. Our medical directors provide a substantial portion of our patient referrals. If a significant number of physicians were to cease referring patients to our dialysis centers, our business could be adversely affected.



Participation in the Medicare ESRD program requires that
dialysis services at an outpatient dialysis center be under the general supervision of a medical director who is a licensed physician. We have engaged physicians or groups of physicians to serve as medical directors for each of our dialysis centers.
At some dialysis centers, we also separately contract with one or more physicians to serve as assistant or associate medical directors or to direct specific programs, such as home dialysis training programs. We have contracts with approximately
1,300 individual physicians and physician groups to provide medical director services.



Medical directors enter into written contracts with us that specify their duties and fix their compensation generally for periods of ten years. The compensation of our medical directors is the result of
arm’s length negotiations and generally depends upon an analysis of various factors such as the physician’s duties, responsibilities, professional qualifications and experience, among others.







Our medical director contracts generally include covenants not to compete. Also, when we
acquire a dialysis center from one or more physicians or where one or more physicians own minority interests in our dialysis centers, these physicians have agreed to refrain from owning interests in other competing centers within a defined
geographic area for various time periods. These agreements not to compete restrict the physicians from owning or providing medical director services to other dialysis centers, but do not prohibit the physicians from referring patients to any
dialysis center, including competing centers. Many of these agreements not to compete continue for a period of time beyond expiration of the corresponding medical director agreements, although some expire at the same time as the medical director
agreement. Occasionally, we experience competition from a new dialysis center established by a former medical director following the termination of his or her relationship with us.



Government regulation



Our dialysis operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. These regulations require us to meet
various standards relating to, among other things, government payment programs, dialysis facilities and equipment, management of centers, personnel qualifications, maintenance of proper records and quality assurance programs and patient care.



Because we are subject to a number of
governmental regulations, our business could be adversely impacted by:



•Loss or suspension of federal certifications;

•Loss or suspension of licenses under the laws of any state or governmental authority from which we generate substantial revenues;

•Exclusion from government healthcare programs including Medicare and Medicaid;

•Significant reductions or lack of inflation-adjusted increases in payment rates or reduction of coverage for dialysis and ancillary services and
related pharmaceuticals;

•Fines, damages and monetary penalties for anti-kickback law violations, Stark Law violations, submission of false claims, civil or criminal liability
based on violations of law or other failures to meet regulatory requirements;

•Claims for monetary damages from patients who believe their protected health information has been used or disclosed in violation of federal and state
patient privacy laws;

•Government mandated practice changes that significantly increase operating expenses; or

•Refunds of payments received from government payors and government health care program beneficiaries because of any failures to meet applicable
requirements.



We expect that
our industry will continue to be subject to substantial regulation, the scope and effect of which are difficult to predict. Our activities could be reviewed or challenged by regulatory authorities at any time in the future. This regulation and
scrutiny could materially adversely impact us.



Licensure and Certification



Our
dialysis centers are certified by CMS, as is required for the receipt of Medicare payments. In some states, our dialysis centers also are required to secure additional state licenses and permits. Governmental authorities, primarily state departments
of health, periodically inspect our centers to determine if we satisfy applicable federal and state standards and requirements, including the conditions of participation in the Medicare ESRD program.



To date, we have not experienced significant difficulty in
maintaining our licenses or our Medicare and Medicaid authorizations. However, we have experienced delays in obtaining certifications from CMS.



CMS continues to study the regulations applicable to Medicare certification to provide dialysis services. On April 15, 2008, CMS issued
new regulations for Medicare certified ESRD facilities to provide dialysis services, referred to as Conditions for Coverage. The Conditions for Coverage were effective October 14, 2008, with some







provisions having a phased in implementation date of February 1, 2009. The new regulations are patient, quality and outcomes focused. Among other things, they establish performance
expectations for facilities and staff, eliminate certain procedural requirements, and promote continuous quality improvement and patient safety measures. We have established an interdisciplinary work group to facilitate implementation of the
Conditions of Coverage and have developed comprehensive auditing processes to monitor ongoing compliance. We continue to assess the impact these changes will have on our operating results.



Federal anti-kickback statute



The “anti-kickback” statute contained in the Social
Security Act imposes criminal and civil sanctions on persons who receive, make, offer or solicit payments in return for:



•The referral of a Medicare or Medicaid patient for treatment;

•The ordering or purchasing of items or services that are paid for in whole or in part by Medicare, Medicaid or similar federal and state programs; or

•Arranging for or recommending the ordering or purchasing of such items.



Federal criminal penalties for the violation of the anti-kickback statute include imprisonment, fines and
exclusion of the provider from future participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Violations of the anti-kickback statute are punishable by imprisonment for up to five years and fines of up to $250,000 or both. Larger fines can be imposed
upon corporations under the provisions of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the Alternate Fines Statute. Individuals and entities convicted of violating the anti-kickback statute are subject to mandatory exclusion from participation in Medicare,
Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs for a minimum of five years. Civil penalties for violation of this law include up to $50,000 in monetary penalties per violation, repayments of up to three times the total payments between the parties
and suspension from future participation in Medicare and Medicaid. Court decisions have also held that the statute is violated whenever one of the purposes of remuneration is to induce referrals.



The Department of Health and Human Services regulations create
exceptions or “safe harbors” for some business transactions and arrangements. Transactions and arrangements structured within these safe harbors are deemed to not violate the anti-kickback statute. A business transaction or arrangement
must satisfy every element of a safe harbor to be protected by that safe harbor. Transactions and arrangements that do not satisfy all elements of a relevant safe harbor do not necessarily violate the statute, but can be subject to greater scrutiny
by enforcement agencies.



Our medical directors
refer patients to our centers and these arrangements, by which we pay them for their medical director services, must be in compliance with the federal anti-kickback statute. Among the available safe harbors is one for personal services furnished for
fair market value. However, most of our agreements with our medical directors do not satisfy all seven of the requirements of the personal services safe harbor. We believe that because of the nature of our medical directors’ duties, it is
impossible to satisfy the anti-kickback safe-harbor requirement that if the services provided under the agreement are on a part-time basis, as they are with our medical directors, the agreement must specify the schedule of intervals of service,
their precise length and the exact charge for such intervals. Accordingly, while we believe that our agreements with our medical directors satisfy as many of the elements of this safe harbor as we believe is reasonably possible, our arrangements do
not qualify for safe harbor protection. We also note that there is little guidance available as to what constitutes fair market value for medical director services. We believe, however, that our agreements do not violate the federal anti-kickback
statute; however, since the arrangements do not satisfy all of the requirements for safe harbor protection, these arrangements could be challenged.



We own a controlling interest in numerous dialysis related joint ventures, which represented approximately 16% of our dialysis and related
lab services revenues. In addition, we also own equity investments in several other dialysis related joint ventures. Our relationships with physicians and other referral sources relating to these joint ventures are required to comply with the
anti-kickback statute. Although there is a safe harbor for certain







investment interests in “small entities,” it is not clear if any of our joint ventures satisfies all of the requirements for protection by this safe harbor. Under current law, physician
joint ventures are not prohibited but instead require a case-by-case evaluation under the anti-kickback statute. We have structured our joint ventures to satisfy as many safe harbor requirements as we believe are reasonably possible and we believe
that these investments are offered on a fair market value basis and provide returns to the physician investors only in proportion to their actual investment in the venture. We believe that our agreements do not violate the federal anti-kickback
statute; however, since the arrangements do not satisfy all of the requirements for safe harbor protection, these arrangements could be challenged.



We lease space for approximately 470 of our centers from entities in which physicians hold ownership interests and we sublease space to
referring physicians at approximately 170 of our dialysis centers. These arrangements must be in compliance with the anti-kickback statute. We believe that we meet the elements of the safe harbor for space rentals in all material respects.



Some medical directors and other referring
physicians may own our common stock. We believe that these interests materially satisfy the requirements of the safe harbor for investments in large publicly traded companies for the anti-kickback statute.



Because we are purchasing and selling items and services in the
operation of our centers that may be paid for, in whole or in part, by Medicare or a state healthcare program and because we acquire certain items and services at a discount, we must structure these arrangements in compliance with the federal
anti-kickback statute. Subject to certain requirements and limitations, discounts representing reductions in the amounts we are charged for items or services based on arm’s-length transactions can qualify for safe harbor protection if we fully
and accurately report the discounts in the applicable Medicare cost reports. While some of the safe harbor criteria are subject to interpretation, we believe that our vendor contracts with discount provisions are in compliance with the anti-kickback
statute.



Stark Law





CMS has adopted implementing regulations under the Stark Law collectively, Stark Regulations. CMS has not yet adopted implementing
regulations regarding application of the Stark Law to Medicaid, but has indicated that it anticipates issuing additional regulations regarding the application of the Stark Law to Medicaid referrals.



The definition of DHS under the Stark Law excludes services paid
under a composite rate, even if some of the components bundled in the composite rate are DHS. Since most services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries provided in our dialysis centers are reimbursed through a composite rate, the services performed in
our facilities generally are not DHS, and the Stark Law referral prohibition does not apply to those services. The definition of







DHS also excludes inpatient dialysis performed in hospitals that are not certified to provide ESRD services. Consequently, our arrangements with such hospitals for the provision of dialysis
services to hospital inpatients do not trigger the Stark Law referral prohibition.



In addition, although prescription drugs are DHS, there is an exception in the Stark Regulations for EPO and other
specifically enumerated dialysis drugs when furnished in or by an ESRD facility, in compliance with the anti-kickback statute and applicable billing requirements. The exception is available only for drugs included on a list of CPT/HCPCS codes
published by CMS, and in the case of home dialysis, the exception applies only to EPO, Aranesp®and equivalent
drugs dispensed by the facility for use at home. While we believe that most drugs furnished by our dialysis centers are covered by the exception, dialysis centers may administer drugs that are not on the list of CPT/HCPCS codes and therefore do not
meet this exception. In order for a physician who has a financial relationship with a dialysis center to order one of these drugs from the center and for the center to obtain Medicare reimbursement, another exception must apply.



We have entered into several types of financial relationships
with referring physicians, including compensation arrangements. We believe that the compensation arrangements under our medical director agreements satisfy the personal services compensation arrangement exception to the Stark Law. While we believe
that compensation under our medical director agreements, which is the result of arm’s length negotiations, results in fair market value payments for medical director services, an enforcement agency could nevertheless challenge the level of
compensation that we pay our medical directors. If the arrangement does not meet a Stark Law exception, we could in the future be required to change our practices, face civil penalties, pay substantial fines, return certain payments received from
Medicare and beneficiaries or otherwise experience a material adverse effect as a result of a challenge to payments made pursuant to referrals from these physicians under the Stark Law.



Some of our dialysis centers are leased from entities in which referring physicians hold interests and we
sublease space to referring physicians at some of our dialysis centers. The Stark Law provides an exception for lease arrangements if specific requirements are met. We believe that our leases and subleases with referring physicians satisfy the
requirements for this exception.



Some medical
directors and other referring physicians may own our common stock. We believe that these interests satisfy the Stark Law exception for investments in large publicly traded companies.



Some of our referring physicians also own equity interests in entities that operate our dialysis centers. None
of the Stark Law exceptions applicable to physician ownership interests in entities to which they make DHS referrals applies to the kinds of ownership arrangements that referring physicians hold in several of our subsidiaries that operate dialysis
centers. Accordingly, these dialysis centers cannot bill Medicare for DHS referrals from physician owners. If the dialysis centers bill for DHS referred by physician owners, the dialysis center would be subject to the Stark Law penalties described
above.



While we believe that most of our
operations do not implicate the Stark Law, and that to the extent that our dialysis centers furnish DHS, they either meet an exception or do not bill for services that do not meet a Stark Law exception, if CMS determined that we have submitted
claims in violation to the Stark Law, we would be subject to the penalties described above. In addition, it might be necessary to restructure existing compensation agreements with our medical directors and to repurchase or to request the sale of
ownership interests in subsidiaries and partnerships held by referring physicians or, alternatively, to refuse to accept referrals for DHS from these physicians. Any such penalties and restructuring could have a material adverse effect on our
operations.



If any of our business transactions
or arrangements, including those described above, were found to violate the federal anti-kickback statute of Stark Law, we could face criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid
and other state and federal healthcare programs. Any findings that we have violated these laws could have a material adverse impact on our earnings.







Fraud and abuse under state law





The False Claims Act



The federal False Claims Act, or FCA, is a means of policing false bills or false requests for payment in the healthcare delivery system. In
part, the FCA authorizes the imposition of up to three times the government’s damages and civil penalties on any person who:



•Knowingly presents or causes to be presented to the federal government, a false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval;

•Knowingly makes, uses or causes to be made or used, a false record or statement to get a false or fraudulent claim paid or approved by the federal
government;

•Conspires to defraud the federal government by getting a false or fraudulent claim allowed or paid; or

•Knowingly makes, uses or causes to be made or used, a false record or statement to conceal, avoid or decrease an obligation to pay or transmit money or
property to the federal government.



In addition, recent amendments to the FCA impose severe penalties for the knowing and improper retention of overpayments collected from government payors. These amendments could subject our procedures for identifying and processing
overpayments to greater scrutiny. We have made significant investments in additional resources to accelerate the time it takes to identify and process overpayments and we may be required to make additional investments in the future. An acceleration
in our ability to identify and process overpayments could result in us refunding overpayments to government or other payors sooner than we have in the past. A significant acceleration of these refunds could have a material adverse affect on our
operating cash flows.



The penalties for a
violation of the FCA range from $5,500 to $11,000 for each false claim plus three times the amount of damages caused by each such claim. The federal government has used the FCA to prosecute a wide variety of alleged false claims and fraud allegedly
perpetrated against Medicare and state healthcare programs, including coding errors, billing for services not rendered, the submission of false cost reports, billing for services at a higher payment rate than appropriate, billing under a
comprehensive code as well as under one or more component codes included in the comprehensive code and billing for care that is not considered medically necessary. Although still subject to dispute, several courts have also determined that a
violation of the federal anti-kickback statute can form the basis for liability under the FCA, and filing claims or failing to refund amounts collected in violation of the Stark Law can form the basis for liability under the FCA. In addition to the







provisions of the FCA, which provide for civil enforcement, the federal government can use several criminal statutes to prosecute persons who are alleged to have submitted false or fraudulent
claims for payment to the federal government.



The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996



The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing privacy and security regulations, as amended by the federal Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical
Health Act (HITECH Act) (collectively referred to as HIPAA), requires us to provide certain protections to patients and their health information (Protected Health Information, or PHI). HIPAA requires us to afford patients certain rights regarding
their PHI, and to limit uses and disclosure of their PHI existing in any media form (electronic and hardcopy). HIPAA also requires us to implement administrative, physical, and technical safeguards with respect to electronic PHI. We believe our
HIPAA Privacy and Security Program sufficiently addresses HIPAA requirements.



Other regulations



Our operations are subject to various state hazardous waste and non-hazardous medical waste disposal laws. These laws do not classify as hazardous most of the waste produced from dialysis services.
Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations require employers to provide workers who are occupationally subject to blood or other potentially infectious materials with prescribed protections. These regulatory requirements apply to all
healthcare facilities, including dialysis centers, and require employers to make a determination as to which employees may be exposed to blood or other potentially infectious materials and to have in effect a written exposure control plan. In
addition, employers are required to provide or employ hepatitis B vaccinations, personal protective equipment and other safety devices, infection control training, post-exposure evaluation and follow-up, waste disposal techniques and procedures and
work practice controls. Employers are also required to comply with various record-keeping requirements. We believe that we are in material compliance with these laws and regulations.



A few states have certificate of need programs regulating the establishment or expansion of healthcare
facilities, including dialysis centers. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable state certificate of need laws.



Corporate compliance program



We have implemented a company-wide corporate compliance program as part of our commitment to comply with all applicable laws and regulations
and to maintain the high standards of conduct we expect from all of our teammates. We continuously review this program and enhance it as necessary. The primary purposes of the program include:



•Increasing, through training and education, the awareness of our teammates and affiliated professionals of the necessity of complying with all
applicable laws and regulations in an increasingly complicated regulatory environment;

•Auditing and monitoring the activities of our dialysis centers, laboratories and billing offices on a regular basis to identify potential instances of
noncompliance in a timely manner; and

•Ensuring that we take steps to resolve instances of noncompliance or to address areas of potential noncompliance as promptly as we become aware of
them.



When evaluating the
effectiveness of our corporate compliance program, we take into consideration a number of factors, including favorable results under various government inquiries and adherence to industry standards.







We have a code of conduct that each of our teammates and affiliated professionals must
follow and we have a confidential toll-free hotline (888-458-5848) for teammates and patients to report potential instances of noncompliance. Our Chief Compliance Officer administers the compliance program. The Chief Compliance Officer reports
directly to our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Operating Officer and to the Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors.



Corporate Integrity Agreement



On December 1, 2004, Gambro Healthcare, Inc, which we acquired in October 2005, entered into a settlement agreement with the Department
of Justice and other agencies of the United States government relating to the Department of Justice’s investigation of Gambro Healthcare’s Medicare and Medicaid billing practices and its relationships with physicians and pharmaceutical
manufacturers. In connection with the settlement agreement, Gambro Healthcare, without admitting liability, entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement with the Office of the Inspector General, U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, or OIG. The centers we acquired from Gambro Healthcare were subject to the corporate integrity agreement. The corporate integrity agreement expired by its own terms on November 30, 2009. We submitted our final annual report to the OIG
on January 14, 2010. On February 16, 2010, we were informed by the OIG that it has reviewed our final annual report and determined that DVA Renal Healthcare (formerly Gambro Healthcare) complied with the terms of the corporate integrity
agreement during the final reporting period and that the Fifth Annual Report is complete. The five year term of the corporate integrity agreement has now concluded and DVA Renal Healthcare is no longer subject to its terms.



Insurance



We maintain insurance for property and general liability, professional liability, directors’ and
officers’ liability, workers compensation and other coverage in amounts and on terms deemed adequate by management based on our claims experience and expectations for future claims. Future claims could, however, exceed our applicable insurance
coverage. Physicians practicing at our dialysis centers are required to maintain their own malpractice insurance and our medical directors are required to maintain coverage for their individual private medical practices. Our liability policies cover
our medical directors for the performance of their duties as medical directors.



Capacity and location of our centers



We are able to increase our capacity by extending hours at our existing centers, expanding our existing centers, relocating our centers, developing new centers and by acquiring centers. The development of
a typical outpatient center by us generally requires approximately $2.0 million for leasehold improvements, equipment and first-year working capital. Based on our experience, a new center typically opens within a year after the property lease is
signed, normally achieves operating profitability in the second year after certification and normally reaches maturity within three to five years. Acquiring an existing center requires a substantially greater initial investment, but profitability
and cash flow are generally initially more predictable. To a limited extent, we enter into agreements to provide management and administrative services to dialysis centers in which we either own an equity investment, or are wholly-owned by third
parties in return for management fees, which are typically based on a percentage of revenues or cash collections of the managed operations.



The table below shows the growth of our Company by number of dialysis centers.



20092008200720062005Number of centers at beginning of year1,4491,3591,3001,233658Acquired centers19201626609(1)Developed centers7886645546Net change in centers with management and administrative services agreements*8(4)1(15)(3)—4(1)Divested and closed centers(8)(9)(4)(5)(2)(72)(1)Merged into existing center**(16)(8)(2)(9)(12)Number of centers at end of year1,5301,4491,3591,3001,233









(1)566 centers were added, including 11 centers under management and administrative services agreements, as a result of the DVA Renal Healthcare acquisition and 74 centers
were divested in connection with this acquisition, including three centers under management and administrative services agreements.

(2)Three centers were divested in connection with the acquisition of DVA Renal Healthcare.

(3)In November 2007, one of our management and administration service agreements was terminated, in which we provided management and administrative services to 20 dialysis
centers.

(4)During 2009, we made equity investments in 6 centers and we entered into 2 additional management and administrative service agreements.



*Represents dialysis centers in which we either own an equity investment, or are wholly-owned by third parties.

**Represents dialysis centers that were closed and the majority of patients were retained and transferred to other existing dialysis centers.



As of December 31, 2009, we operated or provided
administrative services to 1,530 outpatient dialysis centers, of which 1,498 are consolidated in our financial statements. Of the remaining 32 dialysis centers, we own an equity investment in 15 centers and provide management and administrative
services to 17 dialysis centers that are wholly-owned by third parties. The locations of the 1,498 dialysis centers consolidated in our financial statements at December 31, 2009 were as follows:



StateCentersStateCentersStateCentersCalifornia185New York33Nebraska13Florida130Indiana32Wisconsin13Texas121Oklahoma30Massachusetts12Georgia97Colorado28Arkansas9Ohio66Kentucky26District of Columbia9Pennsylvania62Louisiana25Idaho8North Carolina57Arizona23Utah4Virginia55New Jersey23Mississippi3Michigan52South Carolina22New Mexico3Maryland49Washington20South Dakota3Illinois48Connecticut19West Virginia3Minnesota38Kansas18Delaware2Alabama37Nevada16North Dakota2Tennessee36Iowa15New Hampshire1Missouri35Oregon15



Competition



The dialysis industry is highly competitive, particularly in
terms of acquiring existing dialysis centers. We continue to face increased competition in the dialysis industry from large and medium-sized providers which compete directly with us for the acquisition of dialysis businesses, relationships with
physicians to act as medical directors and for individual patients. Acquisitions and patient retention are an important part of our growth strategy and our business could be adversely affected if we are not able to continue to make acquisitions on
reasonable terms or if we face significant patient attrition to our competitors. Competition for qualified physicians to act as medical directors and for inpatient dialysis services agreements with hospitals is also intense. Occasionally, we have
also experienced competition from former medical directors or referring physicians who have opened their own dialysis centers. In addition, we experience competitive pressures in connection with negotiating contracts with commercial healthcare
payors.



The two largest dialysis companies,
Fresenius Medical Care, or Fresenius, and our company, account for approximately 62% of outpatient dialysis patients in the United States. Approximately 42% of the centers not







owned by us or Fresenius are owned or controlled by hospitals or non-profit organizations. Hospital-based and non-profit dialysis units typically are more difficult to acquire than
physician-owned centers. Because of the ease of entry into the dialysis business and the ability of physicians to be medical directors for their own centers, competition for growth in existing and expanding markets is not limited to large
competitors with substantial financial resources.



Fresenius also manufactures a full line of dialysis supplies and equipment in addition to owning and operating dialysis centers. This may give them cost advantages over us because of their ability to manufacture their own products.
Fresenius has been one of our largest suppliers of dialysis products. In January 2010, we entered into an agreement with Fresenius which committed us to purchase a certain amount of dialysis equipment, parts and supplies from them through 2013. In
addition, in August 2006, we also entered into a product supply agreement with Gambro Renal Products that requires us to purchase a certain amount of our hemodialysis non-equipment product supplies, such as dialyzers, at fixed prices through 2015.
Our purchases of products in the categories generally offered by Fresenius and Gambro Renal Products represent approximately 4% of our total operating expenses. During 2009, we purchased hemodialysis products and supplies from Gambro Renal Products
representing approximately 2% of our total operating expenses.



Teammates



As of
December 31, 2009, we had approximately 34,000 teammates:



•   Licensed professional staff (nurses, dieticians and social workers)14,000•   Other patient care and center support staff and laboratory personnel15,000•   Corporate, billing and regional administrative staff5,000



Our dialysis business requires nurses with specialized training for patients with complex care needs. Recruitment and retention of nurses are
continuing concerns for healthcare providers generally because of the disparity between the supply and demand for nurses, which has led to a nursing shortage. We have an active program of investing in our professional healthcare teammates to help
ensure we meet our recruitment and retention targets, including expanded training opportunities, tuition reimbursements and other incentives.







