Item 1.Business

We were
incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1994. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are
made available free of charge through our website, located athttp://www.davita.com,as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC also maintains a
website athttp://www.sec.govwhere these reports and other information about us can be obtained. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this report.

Overview of DaVita HealthCare Partners Inc.

With our recent acquisition of
HealthCare Partners Holdings, LLC (HCP) on November 1, 2012, we believe the Company is well positioned to capitalize on anticipated trends in U.S. healthcare, including our continued growth opportunities in dialysis care services as well as
growth in managed healthcare services, especially to the Medicare-eligible population.

As a result of the acquisition, the
Company now primarily operates two major lines of business and, to a lesser extent, various other ancillary services and strategic initiatives, which includes our international dialysis operations. Our largest line of business is our U.S. dialysis
and related lab services business, which is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services in the U.S. for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure, also known as end stage renal disease (ESRD). Our other major line of business is HCP, which
is a patient- and physician-focused integrated health care delivery and management company with nearly three decades of providing coordinated, outcomes-based medical care in a cost-effective manner.

On November 1, 2012 we completed our acquisition of HCP pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated May 20, 2012, whereby
HCP became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. HCP is one of the country’s largest operators of medical groups and physician networks generating approximately $2.4 billion in annual revenues and approximately $488 million in operating
income for the year ended December 31, 2011. The operating results of HCP are included in our consolidated financial results from November 1, 2012.

The total consideration paid at closing for all of the outstanding common units of HCP was approximately $4.70 billion, which consisted of $3.64 billion in cash, net of cash acquired, and 9,380,312 shares
of our common stock valued at approximately $1.06 billion. The total acquisition consideration is subject to a post-closing working capital adjustment. The acquisition agreement also provides that as further consideration, we will pay the common
unit holders of HCP a total of up to $275 million in cash if certain performance targets are achieved by HCP in 2012 and 2013.

In conjunction with the acquisition, we amended our Senior Secured Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) to allow for additional
borrowings of $3.0 billion and also issued new senior notes for $1.25 billion, all of which was used to finance the acquisition, pay-off a portion of our and HCP’s existing debt, and to pay fees and expenses.

For financial information about our reportable segments please read “Note 24—Segment Reporting” to the consolidated
financial statements included in this report.

U.S. dialysis and related lab services business

Our U.S. dialysis and related lab services business is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services for patients suffering from chronic
kidney failure or ESRD. As of December 31, 2012, we provided dialysis and administrative services through a network of 1,954 outpatient dialysis centers in the U.S. throughout 44 states






and the District of Columbia, serving a total of approximately 153,000 patients. We also provide acute inpatient dialysis services in approximately 970 hospitals and related laboratory services
throughout the U.S. Our U.S. dialysis and related lab services business accounted for approximately 86% of our 2012 consolidated net revenues. On a pro-forma basis, our U.S. dialysis and related lab services business net revenues for fiscal 2012
would have represented approximately 68% of our consolidated net revenues assuming HCP was acquired on January 1, 2012. All references in this document to dialysis and related lab services refer only to our U.S. dialysis and related lab
services business.

HealthCare Partners business

HCP is a patient- and physician-focused integrated health care delivery and management company with nearly three decades of providing
coordinated, outcomes-based medical care in a cost-effective manner. Through capitation contracts with some of the nation’s leading health plans, as of December 31, 2012 HCP had approximately 724,000 current members under its care in
southern California, central and south Florida, and southern Nevada. Of these, approximately 201,000 individuals were patients enrolled in Medicare Advantage. The remaining approximately 523,000 individuals were managed care members whose health
coverage is provided through their employer or who have individually acquired health coverage directly from a health plan or as a result of their eligibility for Medicaid benefits. Additionally, HCP operates in its New Mexico market under a
fee-for-service reimbursement structure. In addition to its managed care business, during the year ended December 31, 2012, HCP provided care in all markets to over 530,000 patients whose health coverage is structured on a fee-for-service
basis, including patients enrolled through traditional Medicare and Medicaid programs, preferred provider organizations and other third-party payors. On a pro-forma basis, HCP’s business net revenues for fiscal 2012 would have represented
approximately 26% of our consolidated net revenues assuming HCP was acquired on January 1, 2012.

The patients of
HCP’s associated physicians, physician groups and independent practice associations (IPAs) benefit from an integrated approach to medical care that places the physician at the center of patient care. As of December 31, 2012, HCP delivered
services to its members via a network of over 2,000 associated group and other network primary care physicians, 145 network hospitals, and several thousand associated group and network specialists. Together with hundreds of case managers, registered
nurses and other care coordinators, these medical professionals utilize a comprehensive information technology system, sophisticated risk management techniques and clinical protocols to provide high-quality, cost-effective care to HCP’s
members.

Ancillary services and strategic initiatives businesses

As of December 31, 2012, our ancillary services and strategic initiatives consisted primarily of pharmacy services, infusion therapy
services, disease management services, vascular access services, ESRD clinical research, physician services, direct primary care and our international dialysis operations. Our ancillary services and strategic initiatives, including our international
operations but excluding discontinued operations, accounted for approximately 8% of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012, and relate primarily to our core business of providing kidney care services. On a pro-forma
basis, our ancillary services and strategic initiatives net revenues for fiscal 2012 would have represented approximately 6% of our consolidated net revenues assuming HCP was acquired on January 1, 2012.

The dialysis and related lab services business

Industry overview

The loss of kidney function is normally
irreversible. Kidney failure is typically caused by Type I and Type II diabetes, high blood pressure, polycystic kidney disease, long-term autoimmune attack on the kidney and prolonged urinary tract obstruction. ESRD is the stage of advanced kidney
impairment that requires continued dialysis treatments or a kidney transplant to sustain life. Dialysis is the removal of toxins, fluids and salt from the blood of ESRD patients by artificial means. Patients suffering from ESRD generally require
dialysis at least three times a week for the rest of their lives.






According to United States Renal Data System, there were approximately 415,000 ESRD dialysis
patients in the U.S. in 2010 and the underlying ESRD dialysis patient population has grown at an approximate compound rate of 4.0% from 2000 to 2010, the latest period for which such data is available. The growth rate is attributable to the aging of
the population, increased incidence rates for diseases that cause kidney failure such as diabetes and hypertension, lower mortality rates for dialysis patients and growth rates of minority populations with higher than average incidence rates of
ESRD.

Since 1972, the federal government has provided health care coverage for ESRD patients under the Medicare ESRD program
regardless of age or financial circumstances. ESRD is the first and only disease state eligible for Medicare coverage both for dialysis and dialysis-related services and for all benefits available under the Medicare program. For patients with
Medicare coverage, all ESRD payments for dialysis treatments are made under a single bundled payment rate. See page 6 for further details.

Although Medicare reimbursement limits the allowable charge per treatment, it provides industry participants with a relatively predictable and recurring revenue stream for dialysis services provided to
patients without commercial insurance. For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 90% of our total dialysis patients were under government-based programs, with approximately 79% of our dialysis patients under Medicare and
Medicare-assigned plans.

Treatment options for ESRD

Treatment options for ESRD are dialysis and kidney transplantation.

Dialysis options



•Hemodialysis

Hemodialysis, the most common form of ESRD treatment, is usually performed at a freestanding outpatient dialysis center, at a hospital-based outpatient center, or at the patient’s home. The
hemodialysis machine uses an artificial kidney, called a dialyzer, to remove toxins, fluids and salt from the patient’s blood. The dialysis process occurs across a semi-permeable membrane that divides the dialyzer into two distinct chambers.
While blood is circulated through one chamber, a pre-mixed fluid is circulated through the other chamber. The toxins, salt and excess fluids from the blood cross the membrane into the fluid, allowing cleansed blood to return into the patient’s
body. Each hemodialysis treatment that occurs in the outpatient dialysis centers typically lasts approximately three and one-half hours and is usually performed three times per week.

Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services are required for patients with acute kidney failure primarily resulting from trauma, patients in
early stages of ESRD, and ESRD patients who require hospitalization for other reasons. Hospital inpatient hemodialysis is generally performed at the patient’s bedside or in a dedicated treatment room in the hospital, as needed.

Some ESRD patients who are healthier and more independent may perform home-based hemodialysis in their home or residence through the use
of a hemodialysis machine designed specifically for home therapy that is portable, smaller and easier to use. Patients receive training, support and monitoring from registered nurses, usually in our outpatient dialysis centers, in connection with
their dialysis treatment. Home-based hemodialysis is typically performed with greater frequency than dialysis treatments performed in outpatient dialysis centers and on varying schedules.



•Peritoneal dialysis

Peritoneal dialysis uses the patient’s peritoneal or abdominal cavity to eliminate fluid and toxins and is typically performed at home. The most common methods of peritoneal dialysis are continuous
ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis (CCPD). Because it does not involve






going to an outpatient dialysis center three times a week for treatment, peritoneal dialysis is an alternative to hemodialysis for patients who are healthier, more independent and desire more
flexibility in their lifestyle. However, peritoneal dialysis is not a suitable method of treatment for many patients, including patients who are unable to perform the necessary procedures and those at greater risk of peritoneal infection.

CAPD introduces dialysis solution into the patient’s peritoneal cavity through a surgically placed catheter. Toxins in
the blood continuously cross the peritoneal membrane into the dialysis solution. After several hours, the patient drains the used dialysis solution and replaces it with fresh solution. This procedure is usually repeated four times per day.

CCPD is performed in a manner similar to CAPD, but uses a mechanical device to cycle dialysis solution through the
patient’s peritoneal cavity while the patient is sleeping or at rest.



•Kidney transplantation

Although kidney transplantation, when successful, is generally the most desirable form of therapeutic intervention, the shortage of suitable donors, side effects of immunosuppressive pharmaceuticals given
to transplant recipients and dangers associated with transplant surgery for some patient populations limit the use of this treatment option.

Dialysis and related lab services we provide

Outpatient
hemodialysis services

As of December 31, 2012, we operated or provided administrative services through a network of
1,954 outpatient dialysis centers in the U.S. that are designed specifically for outpatient hemodialysis. In 2012, our overall network of U.S. outpatient dialysis centers increased by 145 primarily as a result of acquisitions and the opening of new
centers, net of center closures and divestitures, representing a total increase of approximately 8.0%.

As a condition of our
enrollment in Medicare for the provision of dialysis services, we contract with a nephrologist or a group of associated nephrologists to provide medical director services at each of our dialysis centers. In addition, other nephrologists may apply
for practice privileges to treat their patients at our centers. Each center has an administrator, typically a registered nurse, who supervises the day-to-day operations of the center and its staff. The staff of each center typically consists of
registered nurses, licensed practical or vocational nurses, patient care technicians, a social worker, a registered dietician, biomedical technician support and other administrative and support personnel.

Under Medicare regulations, we cannot promote, develop or maintain any kind of contractual relationship with our patients that would
directly or indirectly obligate a patient to use or continue to use our dialysis services, or that would give us any preferential rights other than those related to collecting payments for our services. Our total patient turnover which is based upon
all causes averaged approximately 30% per year for the last two years. However, in 2012, the overall number of patients to whom we provided services in the U.S. increased by approximately 8%, primarily from the opening of new centers and
acquisitions, continued growth within the industry and lower mortality rates.

Home-based hemodialysis services

Many of our outpatient dialysis centers offer certain support services for dialysis patients who prefer and are able to
perform either home-based hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis in their homes. Home-based hemodialysis support services consist of providing equipment and supplies, training, patient monitoring, on-call support services and follow-up assistance.
Registered nurses train patients and their families or other caregivers to perform either home-based hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis.






Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services

As of December 31, 2012, we provided hospital inpatient hemodialysis services, excluding physician services, to patients in
approximately 970 hospitals throughout the U.S. We render these services for a contracted per-treatment fee that is individually negotiated with each hospital. When a hospital requests our services, we typically administer the dialysis treatment at
the patient’s bedside or in a dedicated treatment room in the hospital, as needed. Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services are required for patients as discussed above. In 2012, hospital inpatient hemodialysis services accounted for
approximately 4.5% of our total U.S. dialysis treatments.

ESRD laboratory services

We own two separately incorporated, licensed, clinical laboratories which specialize in ESRD patient testing. These specialized
laboratories provide routine laboratory tests for dialysis and other physician-prescribed laboratory tests for ESRD patients. Our laboratories provide these tests predominantly for our network of ESRD patients throughout the U.S. These tests are
performed to monitor a patient’s ESRD condition, including the adequacy of dialysis, as well as other medical conditions. Our laboratories utilize information systems which provide information to certain members of the dialysis centers’
staff and medical directors regarding critical outcome indicators.

Management services

We currently operate or provide management and administrative services to 25 outpatient dialysis centers located in the U.S. in which we
either own a minority equity investment or are wholly-owned by third parties. These services are provided pursuant to management and administrative services agreements. Management fees are established by contract and are recognized as earned
typically based on a percentage of revenues or cash collections generated by the outpatient dialysis centers.

Quality
care

We employ 239 clinical service teammates in our dialysis and related lab services business. The primary focus of
this group is assuring and facilitating processes that aim to achieve superior clinical outcomes at our centers.

Our
physician leadership in the Office of the Chief Medical Officer (OCMO) for our dialysis and related lab services business includes eight senior nephrologists, led by our Chief Medical Officer, with a variety of academic, clinical practice, and
clinical research backgrounds. Our Physician Council is an advisory body to senior management. The physician counsel is currently composed of ten physicians with extensive experience in clinical practice in addition to the members of OCMO and
currently six Group Medical Directors.

Sources of revenue—concentrations and risks

Our dialysis and related lab services business net revenues represent approximately 86% of our consolidated net revenues for the year
ended December 31, 2012, with the balance of our revenues from HCP and our ancillary services and strategic initiatives which also includes our international dialysis operations. On a pro-forma basis, our dialysis and related lab services
business net revenues for fiscal 2012 would have represented approximately 68% of our consolidated net revenues assuming HCP was acquired on January 1, 2012. Our dialysis and related lab services revenues are derived primarily from our core
business of providing kidney dialysis services, the administration of pharmaceuticals, related laboratory services and to a lesser extent management fees generated from providing management and administrative services to certain outpatient dialysis
centers, as discussed above.






The sources of our dialysis and related lab services revenues are principally from
government-based programs, including Medicare and Medicare-assigned plans, Medicaid and Medicaid-assigned plans and commercial insurance plans.

The following table summarizes our U.S. dialysis and related lab services revenues by source for the year ended December 31, 2012:



RevenuepercentagesMedicare and Medicare-assigned plans59%Medicaid and Medicaid-assigned plans5%Other government-based programs2%Total government-based programs66%Commercial (including hospital inpatient dialysis services)34%Total dialysis and related lab services revenues100%

The following table summarizes our U.S. dialysis and related lab services revenues by modality for the
year ended December 31, 2012:



RevenuepercentagesOutpatient hemodialysis centers80%Peritoneal dialysis and home-based hemodialysis15%Hospital inpatient hemodialysis5%Total dialysis and related lab services revenues100%

Medicare revenue

For patients with Medicare coverage, all ESRD payments for dialysis treatments are made under a single bundled
payment rate which provides a fixed payment rate to encompass all goods and services provided during the dialysis treatment, including pharmaceuticals that were historically separately reimbursed to the dialysis providers, such as Epogen®(EPO), vitamin D analogs and iron supplements, irrespective of the level of pharmaceuticals administered or
additional services performed. Most lab services that used to be paid directly to laboratories are also included in the bundled payment. The bundled payment rate is also adjusted for certain patient characteristics, a geographic usage index and
certain other factors.

Another important provision in the law is an annual adjustment, or market basket update, to the ESRD
Prospective Payment System base rate (PPS). Absent action by Congress the PPS base rate will be automatically updated by a formulaic inflation adjustment.

On November 1, 2011, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) issued the final ESRD PPS rule for 2012, which increased the base rate by 2.1%, representing a market basket increase
of 3.0% less a productivity adjustment of 0.9%.

On November 9, 2012, CMS issued the final ESRD PPS rule for 2013. The
base rate will increase by 2.3%, resulting from a market basket increase of 2.9% less a productivity adjustment of 0.6%. This increase in the ESRD PPS base rate could be reduced by the Budget Control Act of 2011 sequestration, discussed below. The
final rule implements the reduction in bad debt payments to dialysis facilities (as well as to all other providers eligible for bad debt payments) mandated under the Middle Class Tax Extension and Job Creation Act of 2012 and adds new quality
reporting measures.






On December 7, 2012, the U.S. General Accountability Office (GAO) released a letter
report entitled “End-Stage Renal Disease: Reduction in Drug Utilization Suggests Bundled Payment is Too High”. The GAO found ESRD drug utilization in 2011 was about 23% lower, on average, than it was in 2007. This was primarily the result
of a decline in EPO usage. The GAO concluded the bundled payment rate was excessive given the changes in ESRD drug utilization. Because the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) claimed it did not have authority to rebase the bundled payment
rate, GAO recommended Congress should require the Secretary of HHS to take such action.

Subsequently, on January 1, 2013,
Congress passed the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 which includes a provision that incorporates the GAO’s recommendations. This Act directs CMS to compare the utilization of drugs and biologicals (EPO and other former composite drugs)
from 2007 (before the ESRD PPS) to the utilization after the implementation of the ESRD PPS in 2012 and adjust the ESRD PPS rate to account for reductions in utilization of these drugs. The adjustment also must account for the most current data on
average sales prices and changes in prices for drugs reflected in the ESRD market basket percentage increase. The adjustment would apply to services furnished on or after January 1, 2014, which could significantly reduce the Medicare
reimbursements we receive under the bundle payment system. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) projected budget savings of approximately $5 billion over ten years. In addition, GAO is required to produce an updated report to later than
December 31, 2015.

As a result of the Budget Control Act of 2011 and subsequent activity in Congress, the federal
government is faced with a $1.2 trillion sequester (across-the-board spending cuts) in discretionary programs. In particular, Medicare providers face a maximum of a 2% reduction in reimbursements in fiscal year 2013. Under the American Taxpayer
Relief Act of 2012, the sequester was postponed until March 1, 2013. Should Congress fail to act by that date, the sequestration will take effect. The across-the-board cuts pursuant to the sequester will likely have an adverse affect on our
revenues, earnings and cash flows.

In addition, under the original ESRD PPS statute and regulations, beginning
January 1, 2014, certain oral-only ESRD drugs (currently paid separately to pharmacies under Medicare Part D) would have been included in the ESRD bundled payment to dialysis facilities. Under the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, the
inclusion of oral-only medications in the bundled rate will be delayed until January 1, 2016. Inadequate pricing could have a significant negative financial impact on our dialysis facilities given the volume and value of these drugs.

ESRD patients receiving dialysis services become eligible for primary Medicare coverage at various times, depending on their
age or disability status, as well as whether they are covered by a commercial insurance plan. Generally, for a patient not covered by a commercial insurance plan, Medicare becomes the primary payor for ESRD patients receiving dialysis services
either immediately or after a three-month waiting period. For a patient covered by a commercial insurance plan, Medicare generally becomes the primary payor after 33 months, which includes a three month waiting period, or earlier if the
patient’s commercial insurance plan coverage terminates. When Medicare becomes the primary payor, the payment rate we receive for that patient shifts from the commercial insurance plan rate to the Medicare payment rate.

Medicare pays 80% of the amount set by the Medicare system for each covered dialysis treatment. The patient is responsible for the
remaining 20%. In most cases, a secondary payor, such as Medicare supplemental insurance, a state Medicaid program or a commercial health plan, covers all or part of these balances. Some patients, who do not qualify for Medicaid but otherwise cannot
afford secondary insurance, can apply for premium payment assistance from charitable organizations through a program offered by the American Kidney Fund. We and other dialysis providers support the American Kidney Fund and similar programs through
voluntary contributions. If a patient does not have secondary insurance coverage, we are generally unsuccessful in our efforts to collect from the patient the 20% portion of the ESRD composite rate that Medicare does not pay. However, we are able to
recover some portion of this unpaid patient balance from Medicare through an established cost reporting process by identifying these Medicare bad debts on each center’s Medicare cost report. As noted above, the Middle Class Tax Extension and
Job Creation Act of 2012 mandated reductions in the amount of Medicare bad debt that dialysis centers may recover. These reductions begin in 2013 and increase in 2014.






Certain operating expenditures, such as labor and supply costs, are subject to inflation,
and without a compensating inflation-based increase in the bundled payment rate system, could significantly impact our operating results.

Medicaid revenue

Medicaid programs are state-administered programs
partially funded by the federal government. These programs are intended to provide health coverage for patients whose income and assets fall below state-defined levels and who are otherwise uninsured. These programs also serve as supplemental
insurance programs for co-insurance payments due from Medicaid-eligible patients with primary coverage under Medicare. Some Medicaid programs also pay for additional services, including some oral medications that are not covered by Medicare. We are
enrolled in the Medicaid programs in the states in which we conduct our business.

Commercial revenue

Approximately 34% of our dialysis and related lab services revenues and approximately 10% of our dialysis patients were associated with commercial payors for the year ended December 31, 2012. Our
commercial patients as a percentage of our total dialysis patients declined in 2012 and 2011, but the actual number of commercial patients has increased during these same periods. Less than 1% of our dialysis and related lab services revenues are
due directly from patients. No single commercial payor accounted for more than 10% of total dialysis and related lab services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012.

Revenue from EPO and other pharmaceuticals

Approximately 5% of our total dialysis and related lab services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 are associated with the administration of physician-prescribed pharmaceuticals that are
separately billable, which help improve clinical outcomes when included with the dialysis treatment. These pharmaceuticals include EPO, vitamin D analogs and iron supplements.

EPO is an erythropoiesis stimulating agent (ESA), genetically-engineered form of a naturally occurring protein that stimulates the production of red blood cells. EPO is used in connection with all forms
of dialysis to treat anemia, a medical complication most ESRD patients experience. The administration of EPO, when separately billable, accounted for approximately 3% of our dialysis and related lab services revenues for the year ended
December 31, 2012.






The percentage of revenue that we generate from separately billable pharmaceuticals as a
result of operating under Medicare’s single bundled payment rate system, continue to decline, whereby pharmaceuticals, including EPO, are included in a single bundled payment. In addition, we also continue to enter into some commercial
contracts covering certain patients that also pay us under a single bundled rate for all dialysis services provided to these patients.

EPO is produced by a single manufacturer, Amgen. Any interruption of supply or product cost increases could adversely affect our operations. In 2012 and 2011, we experienced an increase in the unit cost
of EPO. In December 2012 we entered into an amendment to our agreement with Amgen that makes non-material changes to certain terms of the agreement for the period from January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013. Under the terms of the
original agreement before the amendment, we were required to purchase EPO in amounts necessary to meet no less than 90% of our requirements of ESAs and are still required to do so after 2013. In addition, all of the other conditions as specified in
the original agreement entered into in November 2011 still apply.

Since late 2006, there has been
significant media discussion and government scrutiny regarding anemia management practices in the U.S., which has created confusion and concern in the nephrology community. In late 2006, the U.S. House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee
held a hearing on the issue of the utilization of ESAs, which include EPO, and in 2007, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) required changes to the labeling of EPO and Aranesp®to include a black box warning, the FDA’s strongest form of warning label. An FDA advisory panel on ESA use met in October 2010, which meeting was similar
to the prior meeting held in 2007 in that there was significant discussion and concern about the safety of ESAs. The panel concluded it would not recommend a change in ESA labeling. However, the FDA is not bound by the panel’s
recommendation. In June 2011, the FDA required that the black box warning be slightly revised and also include more conservative dosing recommendations for patients with CKD. In addition, in June 2011, CMS opened a National Coverage Analysis (NCA),
for ESAs. Further, in January 2011, CMS convened a meeting of the Medicare Evidence Development and Coverage Advisory Committee (MEDCAC), to evaluate evidence for the pending NCA. In June 2011, CMS determined not to issue a national coverage
determination for ESAs due to a lack of available evidence to establish coverage criteria or limitations.

The forgoing
congressional and agency activities and related actions could result in further restrictions on the utilization and reimbursement for ESAs. Commercial payors have also increasingly examined their administration policies for EPO and, in some cases,
have modified those policies. Further changes in labeling of EPO and other pharmaceuticals in a manner that alters physician practice patterns or accepted clinical practices, changes in private and governmental payment criteria, including the
introduction of EPO administration policies or the conversion to alternate types of administration of EPO or other pharmaceuticals that result in further decreases in utilization or reimbursement for EPO and other pharmaceuticals, could have a
material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows.

Physician relationships

An ESRD patient generally seeks treatment at an outpatient dialysis center near his or her home where his or her treating nephrologist has
practice privileges. Our relationships with local nephrologists and our ability to meet their needs and the needs of their patients are key factors in the success of our dialysis operations. Approximately 4,600 nephrologists currently refer patients
to our outpatient dialysis centers. As is typical in the dialysis industry, one or a few physicians, including the outpatient dialysis center’s medical director, usually account for all or a significant portion of an outpatient dialysis
center’s patient base.

Participation in the Medicare ESRD program requires that dialysis services at an outpatient
dialysis center be under the general supervision of a medical director who is a licensed physician. We have engaged physicians or groups of physicians to serve as medical directors for each of our outpatient dialysis centers. At some outpatient
dialysis centers, we also separately contract with one or more other physicians to serve as assistant or associate medical directors or to direct specific programs, such as home dialysis training programs. We have contracts with approximately 1,900
individual physicians and physician groups to provide medical director services.






Medical directors for our dialysis centers enter into written contracts with us that specify
their duties and fix their compensation generally for periods of ten years. The compensation of our medical directors is the result of arm’s length negotiations and generally depends upon an analysis of various factors such as the
physician’s duties, responsibilities, professional qualifications and experience, among others.

Our medical director
contracts for our dialysis centers generally include covenants not to compete. Also, when we acquire an outpatient dialysis center from one or more physicians or where one or more physicians own minority interests in our outpatient dialysis centers,
these physicians have agreed to refrain from owning interests in other competing outpatient dialysis centers within a defined geographic area for various time periods. These non-compete agreements restrict the physicians from owning or providing
medical director services to other outpatient dialysis centers, but do not prohibit the physicians from referring patients to any outpatient dialysis center, including competing centers. Many of these non-compete agreements continue for a period of
time beyond expiration of the corresponding medical director agreements, although some expire at the same time as the medical director agreement. Occasionally, we experience competition from a new outpatient dialysis center established by a former
medical director following the termination of his or her relationship with us.

If a significant number of physicians,
including an outpatient dialysis center’s medical directors, were to cease referring patients to our outpatient dialysis centers, our business could be adversely affected.

Government regulation

Our dialysis operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. These regulations require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, government
payment programs, dialysis facilities and equipment, management of centers, personnel qualifications, maintenance of proper records, and quality assurance programs and patient care.

Because we are subject to a number of governmental regulations, our business could be adversely impacted by:



•Loss or suspension of federal certifications;



•Loss or suspension of licenses under the laws of any state or governmental authority from which we generate substantial revenues;



•Exclusion from government healthcare programs including Medicare and Medicaid;



•Significant reductions or lack of inflation-adjusted increases in payment rates or reduction of coverage for dialysis and ancillary services and
related pharmaceuticals;



•Fines, damages and monetary penalties for anti-kickback law violations, Stark Law violations, submission of false claims, civil or criminal liability
based on violations of law or other failures to meet regulatory requirements;



•Claims for monetary damages from patients who believe their protected health information (PHI) has been used or disclosed in violation of federal and
state patient privacy laws;



•Mandated changes to our practices or procedures that significantly increase operating expenses; or



•Refunds of payments received from government payors and government health care program beneficiaries because of any failures to meet applicable
requirements.

We expect that our industry will continue to be subject to substantial regulation, the scope
and effect of which are difficult to predict. Our activities could be reviewed or challenged by regulatory authorities at any time in the future. This regulation and scrutiny could have a material adverse impact on us.






Licensure and certification

Our dialysis centers are certified by CMS, as is required for the receipt of Medicare payments. In some states, our dialysis centers also
are required to secure additional state licenses and permits. Governmental authorities, primarily state departments of health, periodically inspect our centers to determine if we satisfy applicable federal and state standards and requirements,
including the conditions of participation in the Medicare ESRD program.

To date, we have not experienced significant
difficulty in maintaining our licenses or our Medicare and Medicaid authorizations. However, we have experienced delays in obtaining certifications from CMS.

CMS continues to study the regulations applicable to Medicare certification to provide dialysis services. On April 15, 2008, CMS issued new regulations for Medicare-certified ESRD facilities to
provide dialysis services, referred to as Conditions for Coverage. The Conditions for Coverage were effective October 14, 2008, with some provisions having a phased in implementation date of February 1, 2009. The regulations are patient,
quality and outcome focused. Among other things, they establish performance expectations for facilities and staff, eliminate certain procedural requirements, and promote continuous quality improvement and patient safety measures. We have established
an interdisciplinary work group that includes a comprehensive auditing process to monitor our continued compliance with the Conditions of Coverage.

Federal anti-kickback statute

The anti-kickback statute contained in the
Social Security Act imposes criminal and civil sanctions on persons who receive, make, offer or solicit payments in return for:



•The referral of a Medicare or Medicaid patient for treatment;



•The ordering or purchasing of items or services that are paid for in whole or in part by Medicare, Medicaid or similar federal and state programs; or



•Arranging for or recommending the ordering or purchasing of such items.

The Department of HHS regulations create exceptions or “safe harbors” for some business transactions and arrangements.
Transactions and arrangements structured within these safe harbors are deemed to not violate the anti-kickback statute. A business transaction or arrangement must satisfy every element of a safe harbor to be protected by that safe harbor.
Transactions and arrangements that do not satisfy all elements of a relevant safe harbor do not necessarily violate the statute, but can be subject to greater scrutiny by enforcement agencies.






Our medical directors refer patients to our dialysis centers, and these arrangements, by
which we pay them for their medical director services, must be in compliance with the federal anti-kickback statute. Among the available safe harbors is one for personal services furnished for fair market value. However, most of our agreements with
our medical directors do not satisfy all seven of the requirements of the personal services safe harbor. We believe that because of the nature of our medical directors’ duties, it is impossible to satisfy the anti-kickback safe-harbor
requirement that services provided under an agreement on a part-time basis must specify the schedule of intervals of service, and their precise length and the exact charge for such intervals. Accordingly, while we believe that our agreements with
our medical directors for our dialysis centers satisfy as many of the elements of this safe harbor as we believe is reasonably possible, our arrangements do not qualify for safe harbor protection, as precise scheduling is not possible. We also note
that there is little guidance available as to what constitutes fair market value for medical director services. We believe that our agreements do not violate the federal anti-kickback statute; however, since the arrangements do not satisfy all of
the requirements for safe harbor protection, these arrangements could be challenged.

As of December 31, 2012, we lease space for approximately 610 of our dialysis centers from entities in which physicians, hospitals
or medical groups hold ownership interests and we sublease space to referring physicians at approximately 210 of our dialysis centers. These arrangements must be in compliance with the anti-kickback statute. We believe that we meet the elements of
the safe harbor for space rentals in all material respects.

Some medical directors and other referring physicians may own our
common stock. We believe that these interests materially satisfy the requirements of the safe harbor for investments in large publicly traded companies for the anti-kickback statute.

Because we are purchasing and selling items and services in the operation of our centers that may be paid for, in whole or in part, by
Medicare or a state healthcare program and because we acquire certain items and services at a discount, we must structure these arrangements in compliance with the federal anti-kickback statute. Subject to certain requirements and limitations,
discounts representing reductions in the amounts we are charged for items or services based on arm’s-length transactions can qualify for safe harbor protection if we fully and accurately report the discounts in the applicable Medicare cost
reports. While some of the safe harbor criteria are subject to interpretation, we believe that our vendor contracts with discount provisions are in compliance with the anti-kickback statute.






Stark Law

CMS has adopted implementing regulations under the Stark Law, collectively, Stark Regulations. CMS has not yet adopted implementing
regulations regarding application of the Stark Law to Medicaid, but has indicated that it anticipates issuing additional regulations regarding the application of the Stark Law to Medicaid referrals.

The definition of DHS under the Stark Law excludes services paid under a composite rate, even if some of the components bundled in the
composite rate are DHS. Although the new ESRD bundled payment system is no longer titled a composite rate, we believe that the former composite rate payment system and the current bundled system are both composite systems excluded from the Stark
Law. Since most services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries provided in our dialysis centers are reimbursed through a composite or bundled rate, the services performed in our facilities generally are not DHS, and the Stark Law referral prohibition
does not apply to those services. The definition of DHS also excludes inpatient dialysis performed in hospitals that are not certified to provide ESRD services. Consequently, our arrangements with such hospitals for the provision of dialysis
services to hospital inpatients do not trigger the Stark Law referral prohibition.

In addition, although
prescription drugs are DHS, there is an exception in the Stark Regulations for EPO and other specifically enumerated dialysis drugs when furnished in or by an ESRD facility, in compliance with the anti-kickback statute and applicable billing
requirements. The exception is available only for drugs included on a list of CPT/HCPCS codes published by CMS, and in the case of home dialysis, the exception applies only to EPO, Aranesp®and equivalent drugs dispensed by the facility for use at home. While we believe that most drugs furnished by our dialysis centers are covered by the exception,
dialysis centers may administer drugs that are not on the list of CPT/HCPCS codes and therefore do not meet this exception. In order for a physician who has a financial relationship with a dialysis center to order one of these drugs from the center
and for the center to obtain Medicare reimbursement, another exception must apply.

We have entered into several types of
financial relationships with referring physicians, including compensation arrangements. We believe that the compensation arrangements under our medical director agreements satisfy the personal services compensation arrangement exception to the Stark
Law. While we believe that compensation under our medical director agreements, which is the result of arm’s length negotiations, results in fair market value payments for medical director services, an enforcement agency could nevertheless
challenge the level of compensation that we pay our medical directors. If the arrangement does not meet a Stark Law exception, we could in the future be required to change our practices, face civil penalties, pay substantial fines, return certain
payments received from Medicare and beneficiaries or otherwise experience a material adverse effect as a result of a challenge to payments made pursuant to referrals from these physicians under the Stark Law.






Some of our dialysis centers are leased from entities in which referring physicians hold
interests and we sublease space to referring physicians at some of our dialysis centers. The Stark Law provides an exception for lease arrangements if specific requirements are met. We believe that our leases and subleases with referring physicians
satisfy the requirements for this exception.

Some medical directors and other referring physicians may own our common stock.
We believe that these interests satisfy the Stark Law exception for investments in large publicly traded companies.

Some of
our referring physicians also own equity interests in entities that operate our dialysis centers. None of the Stark Law exceptions applicable to physician ownership interests in entities to which they make DHS referrals applies to the kinds of
ownership arrangements that referring physicians hold in several of our subsidiaries that operate dialysis centers. Accordingly, these dialysis centers cannot bill Medicare for DHS referrals from physician owners. If the dialysis centers bill for
DHS referred by physician owners, the dialysis center would be subject to the Stark Law penalties described above.

While we
believe that most of our operations do not implicate the Stark Law, particularly under the ESRD bundled payment system, and that to the extent that our dialysis centers furnish DHS, they either meet an exception or do not bill for services that do
not meet a Stark Law exception, if CMS determined that we have submitted claims in violation to the Stark Law, we would be subject to the penalties described above. In addition, it might be necessary to restructure existing compensation agreements
with our medical directors and to repurchase or to request the sale of ownership interests in subsidiaries and partnerships held by referring physicians or, alternatively, to refuse to accept referrals for DHS from these physicians. Any such
penalties and restructuring could have a material adverse effect on our operations.

If any of our business transactions or
arrangements, including those described above, were found to violate the federal anti-kickback statute of Stark Law, we could face criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and
other state and federal healthcare programs. Any findings that we have violated these laws could have a material adverse impact on our operations.

Fraud and abuse under state law






The False Claims Act

The False Claims Act (FCA) is a means of policing false bills or false requests for payment in the healthcare delivery system. In part,
the FCA authorizes the imposition of up to three times the government’s damages and civil penalties on any person who:



•Knowingly presents or causes to be presented to the federal government, a false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval;



•Knowingly makes, uses or causes to be made or used, a false record or statement to get a false or fraudulent claim paid or approved by the federal
government;



•Conspires to defraud the federal government by getting a false or fraudulent claim allowed or paid; or



•Knowingly makes, uses or causes to be made or used, a false record or statement to conceal, avoid or decrease an obligation to pay or transmit money or
property to the federal government.

In addition, amendments to the FCA impose severe penalties for the
knowing and improper retention of overpayments collected from government payors. Within 60 days of identifying an overpayment, a provider is required to notify CMS or the Medicare Administrative Contractor of the overpayment and the reason for it
and return the overpayment. These amendments could subject our procedures for identifying and processing overpayments to greater scrutiny. We have made significant investments in additional resources to accelerate the time it takes to identify and
process overpayments and we may be required to make additional investments in the future. An acceleration in our ability to identify and process overpayments could result in us refunding overpayments to government or other payors sooner than we have
in the past. A significant acceleration of these refunds could have a material adverse affect on our operating cash flows.

The penalties for a violation of the FCA range from $5,500 to $11,000 for each false claim plus three times the amount of damages caused
by each such claim which generally means the amount received directly or indirectly from the government. The federal government has used the FCA to prosecute a wide variety of alleged false claims and fraud allegedly perpetrated against Medicare and
state healthcare programs, including coding errors, billing for services not rendered, the submission of false cost reports, billing for services at a higher payment rate than appropriate, billing under a comprehensive code as well as under one or
more component codes included in the comprehensive code and billing for care that is not considered medically necessary. The Health Reform Acts provide that a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute can form the basis for liability under the
FCA. Some courts have held that filing claims or failing to refund amounts collected in violation of the Stark Law can form the basis for liability under the FCA. In addition to the provisions of the FCA, which provide for civil enforcement, the
federal government can use several criminal statutes to prosecute persons who are alleged to have submitted false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government.

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996

The Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996 and its implementing privacy and security regulations, as amended by the federal Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH Act), (collectively referred to
as HIPAA), requires us to provide certain protections to patients and their health information under the Protected Health Information, or PHI. HIPAA requires us to afford patients certain rights regarding their PHI, and to limit uses and disclosure
of their PHI existing in any media form (electronic and hardcopy). HIPAA also requires us to implement administrative, physical, and technical safeguards with respect to electronic PHI. We believe our HIPAA Privacy and Security Program sufficiently
address HIPAA requirements. Penalties for impermissible use or disclosure of PHI were increased by the HITECH Act by imposing tiered penalties of up to $50,000 per violation and up to $1.5 million per year for the same type of violation. In
addition, if PHI of 500 or more individuals is improperly used or disclosed, we would be required to report the improper use or disclosure to the Department of Health and Human Services, which would post the violation on its website. If there were
improper use or disclosure of PHI of more than 500 individuals in the same jurisdiction, we would be required to report the improper use or disclosure to the media. Improper use or disclosure could result in significant fines and reputational
damage.






Healthcare reform

In March 2010, broad health care reform legislation was enacted in the U.S. Although many of the provisions of the legislation did not
take effect immediately and continue to be implemented, and some may be modified before being implemented, the reforms could have an impact on our business in a number of ways. We cannot predict how employers, private payors or persons buying
insurance might react to these changes or what form many of these regulations will take before implementation.

The law
requires that all non-grandfathered individual and small group health plans sold in a state, including plans sold through state exchanges, cover essential health benefits (EHBs) in ten general categories. The scope of the benefits are intended to
equal the scope of benefits under a typical employer plan.

In December 2011, the Center for Consumer Information and
Insurance Oversight published an Essential Health Benefits Bulletin (EHB Bulletin) describing the approach it was taking regarding the implementation of the EHB Bulletin requirement. For the two year transition period (from 2014 through 2015) the
law requires states to define an EHB benchmark plan that must be covered by plans in the state. States that do not define an EHB benchmark plan must use the small group plan with the largest enrollment in the state.

On November 26, 2012, HHS issued a proposed rule governing the standards applicable to EHB Bulletins, new definitions, actuarial
value requirements and methodology, and published a list of plan benchmark options that states can use to develop EHBs. The rule describes specific coverage requirements that: (i) prohibit discrimination against individuals because of
pre-existing or chronic conditions on health plans applicable to EHBs; (ii) ensure network adequacy of essential health providers, and (iii) prohibit benefit designs that limit enrollment and that prohibit access to care for enrollees.

Other regulations

Our dialysis and related lab services operations are subject to various state hazardous waste and non-hazardous medical waste disposal laws. These laws do not classify as hazardous most of the waste
produced from dialysis services. Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations require employers to provide workers who are occupationally subject to blood or other potentially infectious materials with prescribed protections. These
regulatory requirements apply to all healthcare facilities, including dialysis centers, and require employers to make a determination as to which employees may be exposed to blood or other potentially infectious materials and to have in effect a
written exposure control plan. In addition, employers are required to provide or employ hepatitis B vaccinations, personal protective equipment and other safety devices, infection control training, post-exposure evaluation and follow-up, waste
disposal techniques and procedures and work practice controls. Employers are also required to comply with various record-keeping requirements. We believe that we are in material compliance with these laws and regulations.

A few states have certificate of need programs regulating the establishment or expansion of healthcare facilities, including dialysis
centers. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable state certificate of need laws.

Capacity and
location of our U.S. dialysis centers

We are able to increase our capacity by extending hours at our existing dialysis
centers, expanding our existing dialysis centers, relocating our dialysis centers, developing new dialysis centers and by acquiring dialysis centers. The development of a typical outpatient dialysis center by us generally requires approximately $2.5
million for leasehold improvements, equipment and first-year working capital. Based on our experience, a new dialysis center typically opens within a year after the property lease is signed, normally achieves operating profitability in the second
year after certification and normally reaches maturity within three to five years. Acquiring an existing outpatient dialysis center requires a substantially greater initial investment, but profitability and cash flow are generally initially more
predictable. To a limited extent, we enter into agreements to provide






management and administrative services to outpatient dialysis centers in which we either own a minority equity investment, or are wholly-owned by third parties in return for management fees,
which are typically based on a percentage of revenues or cash collections of the managed operations.

The table below shows
the growth of our U.S. dialysis operations by number of dialysis centers.



20122011201020092008Number of centers at beginning of year1,8091,6121,5301,4491,359Acquired centers93170(1)411920Developed centers7065657886Net change in centers with management and administrative services agreements*(8)1—8(2)1Sold and closed centers**(1)(32)(1)(10)(8)(9)Closed centers***(9)(7)(14)(16)(8)Number of centers at end of year1,9541,8091,6121,5301,449



(1)In 2011, we acquired 113 dialysis centers and divested a total of 30 centers in connection with our acquisition of DSI Renal Inc. (DSI).

(2)During 2009, we made minority equity investments in 6 centers and we entered into 2 additional management and administrative service agreements.

*Represents dialysis centers in which we either own a minority equity investment, or are wholly-owned by third parties.

**Represents dialysis centers that were sold and/or closed for which patients were not retained.

***Represents dialysis centers that were closed for which the majority of patients were retained and transferred to one of our other existing outpatient dialysis centers.

As of December 31, 2012, we operated or provided administrative services to a total of 1,954 U.S.
outpatient dialysis centers. A total of 1,929 such centers are consolidated in our financial statements. Of the remaining 25 unconsolidated U.S. outpatient dialysis centers, we own a minority equity investment in 20 centers and provide management
and administrative services to five centers that are wholly-owned by third parties. The locations of the 1,929 U.S. outpatient dialysis centers consolidated in our financial statements at December 31, 2012 were as follows:



StateCentersStateCentersStateCentersCalifornia228New York41Nevada20Texas164Minnesota39Oregon20Florida149New Jersey38Nebraska15Georgia110Wisconsin37Massachusetts13Ohio89Colorado35Mississippi11Pennsylvania84Kentucky34District of Columbia10Illinois74Arkansas32Idaho9Michigan69Oklahoma32Utah4North Carolina65Louisiana27New Mexico4Virginia57South Carolina27West Virginia4Tennessee55Washington27Maine3Maryland54Arizona25South Dakota3Indiana50Kansas24New Hampshire2Missouri50Connecticut23North Dakota2Alabama47Iowa22Rhode Island1






HealthCare Partners business

Industry overview

U.S. healthcare spending
has increased steadily over the past twenty years. These increases have been driven, in part, by the aging population of the baby boomer generation, lack of healthy lifestyle both in terms of exercise and diet, rapidly increasing costs in medical
technology and pharmaceutical research, and provider reimbursement structures that may promote volume over quality in a fee-for-service environment. These factors, as well as the steady growth of the U.S. population, have made the healthcare
industry a growing market. In 2010, CMS reported that health care accounted for 17.9% of the U.S. economy. According to CMS the increase in health spending, from $2.3 trillion in 2008 to $2.5 trillion in 2009, was the largest one-year jump since
1960. Comprising an estimated 14% of the federal budget and more than one-fifth of total national health expenditures in 2010, Medicare is frequently the focus of discussions on how to moderate the growth of both federal spending and health care
spending in the U.S.

Growth in Medicare spending is expected to continue due to demographics. According to the U.S. Census
Bureau from 1970 through 2011, the overall U.S. population grew 52% while the number of Medicare enrollees grew 130% over that time period. As an increasing number of the baby boomers become eligible for Medicare, the senior market is expected to
grow to 79 million by 2030, more than double the number in 2000. UnitedHealth estimates that over the next decade 10,000 people per day will become newly eligible for Medicare. This translates into a Medicare population that makes up
approximately 20% of the total U.S. population by the year 2025, compared to less than 16% currently.

Medicare Advantage is
an alternative to the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program, which permits Medicare beneficiaries to receive benefits from a managed care health plan. Medicare Advantage plans contract with CMS to provide benefits at least comparable to those
offered under the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program in exchange for a fixed monthly premium payment per member from CMS. The monthly premium varies based on the county in which the member resides, as adjusted to reflect the plan
members’ demographics and the members’ risk scores. Individuals who elect to participate in the Medicare Advantage program typically receive greater benefits than traditional fee-for-service Medicare Part B beneficiaries, including
additional preventive services, vision, dental and prescription drug benefits, and typically have lower deductibles and co-payments than traditional fee-for-service Medicare.

Managed care health plans were developed, primarily during the 1980s, in an attempt to mitigate the rising cost of providing healthcare benefits to populations covered by traditional health insurance.
These managed care health plans enroll members through their employers, under federal Medicare benefits or through state Medicaid programs. As a result of the prevalence of these health plans, many seniors now becoming eligible for Medicare have
been interacting with managed care companies through their employers for the last 30 years. Individuals turning 65 now are likely to be far more familiar with the managed care setting than previous Medicare populations. According to the Kaiser
Family Foundation, in 2012, Medicare Advantage represents only 27% of total Medicare members, creating a significant opportunity for additional Medicare Advantage penetration of newly eligible seniors.

In an effort to reduce the number of uninsured and to begin to control healthcare expenditures, President Obama signed The Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the Health Reform Acts) into law in March 2010, which were affirmed, in substantial part, by the U.S. Supreme Court in June 2012. The
Health Reform Acts provide for a reduction of up to 32 million uninsured by 2019, while potentially increasing Medicaid coverage by up to 16 million and net commercial coverage by 16 million. CMS projects that the total number of uninsured
Americans will fall to 23 million in 2021 from 47 million in 2011. These previously uninsured Americans and potentially newly eligible Medicaid beneficiaries represent a significant new market opportunity for health plans. We believe that
health plans looking to cover these newly eligible individuals under fixed premium arrangements will seek provider arrangements that can effectively manage the cost and quality of the care being provided to these newly eligible individuals.






In 2006, Medicare began to pay Medicare Advantage health plans under a bidding process.
Plans bid against county-level benchmarks established by Medicare based on the prior year’s Medicare Advantage county payment rate and increased by the projected national growth rate in per capita Medicare spending. Those payment rates were at
least as high as per capita fee-for-service Medicare spending in each county and often substantially higher because Congress set floors to raise the lowest rates to stimulate plan growth in areas where plans historically had not found it profitable
to enter. If a plan’s bid is higher than the benchmark, enrollees pay the difference in the form of a monthly premium. If the bid is lower than the benchmark, the Medicare program retains 25% of the difference as savings and the plan receives
75% as a rebate, which must be returned to enrollees in the form of additional benefits or reduced premiums. Plan payments are also adjusted based on enrollees’ risk profiles. The formula for base payment is a combination of the base rate for
the enrollee’s county of residence, multiplied by the enrollee’s risk score.

One of the primary ways in which the
Health Reform Acts will fund increased health insurance coverage is through cuts in Medicare Advantage reimbursement. County benchmarks are transitioning to a system in which each county’s benchmark in 2017 will be a certain percentage (ranging
from 95% to 115%) of fee-for-service. Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) estimated that 2012 Medicare Advantage benchmarks, bids, and payments will average 112%, 98%, and 107% of fee-for-service spending, respectively. As a result, plans
on average would have to bid 36% lower than fee-for-service or 43% lower than the Medicare Advantage benchmark for CMS to begin to save money on Medicare Advantage. As result of the transition of county benchmarks to 95% to 115% of fee-for-service,
Medicare Advantage benchmarks on average are expected to be reduced to parity with fee-for-service as compared to 112% of fee for-service today. Given that CMS will retain 25% of the difference of any plans bid below benchmark, the overall Medicare
Advantage program should realize savings as compared to fee-for-service in 2017, which would result in lower payments to Medicare Advantage plans and to HCP.

Integrated medical systems, such as HCP, that have scale are positioned to
spread an individual member’s cost experience across a wider population and realize the benefits of pooling medical risk among large numbers of patients. In addition, integrated medical systems with years of managed care experience can utilize
their sizeable medical experience data to identify specific medical care and quality management strategies and interventions for potential high cost cases and aggressively manage them to improve the health of its population base and, thus, lower
cost. Many integrated medical systems, like HCP, have also established physician performance metrics that allow them to monitor quality and service outcomes achieved by participating physicians in order to reward efficient, high quality care
delivered to members and initiate improvement efforts for physicians whose results can be enhanced.






Healthcare reform

The U.S. healthcare system, including the Medicare Advantage program, is subject to a broad array of new laws and regulations as a result
of the Health Reform Acts. The Health Reform Acts are considered by some to be the most dramatic change to the U.S. healthcare system in decades. The Supreme Court recently found that the individual mandate to obtain health insurance
coverage under this legislation is constitutional and also found that the expanded Medicaid benefit included in the legislation is constitutional if states can opt out of the expanded Medicaid benefit without losing their funding under the current
Medicaid program. This legislation made significant changes to the Medicare program and to the health insurance market overall. The Health Reform Acts reflect sweeping legislation that, once fully implemented, may have a significant impact on
the U.S. health care system generally and the operations of HCP’s business. There are numerous steps required to implement the Health Reform Acts, and Congress may seek to alter or eliminate some of their provisions.

One provision of the Health Reform Acts required CMS to establish a Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) that promotes accountability
and coordination of care through the creation of Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs). The program allows certain providers and suppliers (including hospitals, physicians and other designated professionals) to voluntarily form ACOs and work
together along with other ACO participants to invest in infrastructure and redesign delivery processes to achieve high quality and efficient delivery of services.

In addition, beginning January 1, 2012, CMS authorized 32 organizations to participate in the Pioneer ACO program, which is similar to, but separate from, the ACOs created under the MSSP regulations.
HCP has been designated as a Pioneer ACO in three geographic regions—Florida, California and Nevada. The Pioneer ACO designation is designed for health care organizations and providers, like HCP, that are already experienced in coordinating
care for patients across care settings. It allows designated provider groups to move more rapidly from a shared savings payment model to a population-based payment model on a track consistent with, but separate from, the MSSP. The Pioneer ACO
program is designed to work in coordination with private payors by aligning provider incentives. This alignment of provider incentives is intended to improve quality and medical outcomes for patients across the ACO, and achieve cost savings for
Medicare and patients. As the initial participants for the MSSP, Pioneer ACOs face significant uncertainty. CMS authorized an additional 27 ACOs in April 2012 to begin services April 1, 2012 and an additional 88 ACOs in July 2012 to begin
services as of July 1, 2012. See “—Government regulation” below for a discussion of some of these issues.

Payor environment

Government programs

HCP derives a significant portion of its
revenues from services rendered to beneficiaries of Medicare (including Medicare Advantage), Medicaid, and other governmental healthcare programs.

Medicare.The Medicare program was established in 1965 and became effective in 1967 as a federally funded U.S. health insurance program for persons aged 65 and older, and it was later
expanded to include individuals with ERSD and certain disabled persons, regardless of income or age. Since its formation, Medicare has grown to a $560 billion program in 2011, covering approximately 48 million Americans and, based on the
growing number of eligible beneficiaries and increases in the cost of health care, CMS projects that Medicare program funding will grow to $1.1 trillion by 2022.

Initially, Medicare was offered only on a fee-for-service basis. Under the Medicare fee-for-service payment system, an individual can choose any licensed physician enrolled in Medicare and use the
services of any hospital, health care provider or facility certified by Medicare. CMS reimburses providers, based on a fee schedule, if Medicare covers the service and CMS considers it medically necessary.

Fee-for-service Medicare is paid according to a physician fee schedule (PFS) set each year by CMS in accordance with formulas mandated by
Congress. CMS is required to limit the growth in spending under the PFS






by a predetermined sustained growth rate (SGR). If implemented as mandated, the SGR would result in significant payment reductions under the PFS. For 2013 it would be approximately 27%. Every
year since 2003, Congress has delayed application of the SGR but we cannot predict whether they will continue to do so. There is pressure for Congress to implement a permanent solution to the SGR reductions. We cannot predict whether the SGR will be
repealed or if another formula would be substituted and what form that might take. Repeal of the SGR could be offset by further reductions in Medicare payments.

Medicare Advantage.Medicare Advantage is a Medicare health plan program developed and administered by CMS as an alternative to the original fee-for-service Medicare program. Under the
Medicare Advantage program, Medicare beneficiaries may choose to receive benefits under a managed care health plan that provides benefits at least comparable to those offered under the original Medicare fee-for-service payment system in exchange for
which the health plan receives a monthly per patient premium payment from CMS. The Medicare Advantage monthly premium varies based on the county in which the member resides, and is adjusted to reflect the demographics and estimated risk profile of
the members that enroll. Once a person is authorized by CMS to participate in Medicare Advantage, health plans compete for enrollment based on benefit design differences such as co-payments or deductibles, availability of preventive care,
attractiveness of and access to a network of hospitals, physicians and ancillary providers and premium contribution or, most often in Medicare Advantage plans, the absence of any monthly premium. In certain parts of the country, many health plans
that provide Medicare Advantage benefits subcontract with integrated medical systems such as HCP to transfer the responsibility for managing patient care.

In 2004, CMS adopted a risk adjustment payment system for Medicare Advantage health plans in which the participating health plans’ premiums are adjusted based on the actual illness burden of the
members that enroll. The model bases a portion of the total CMS reimbursement payments on various clinical and demographic factors, including hospital inpatient diagnoses, additional diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings, hospital
outpatient department and physician visits, gender, age and Medicaid eligibility. CMS requires that all managed care companies capture, collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to CMS twice a year for reconciliation with
CMS’s internal database. Medical providers, such as HCP, provide this diagnosis code information to health plan customers for submission to CMS. Under this system, the risk-adjusted portion of the total CMS payment to the Medicare Advantage
plans will equal the local rate set forth in the traditional demographic rate book, adjusted to reflect the plan members’ gender, age and morbidity. See “—Governmental regulation” below.

Medicaid.Medicaid is a federal entitlement program administered by the states that provides
health care and long-term care services and support to low-income Americans. Medicaid is funded jointly by the states and the






federal government. The federal government guarantees matching funds to states for qualifying Medicaid expenditures based on each state’s federal medical assistance percentage, which is
calculated annually and varies inversely with average personal income in the state. Subject to federal rules, each state establishes its own eligibility standards, benefit packages, payment rates and program administration within broad federal
statutory and regulatory guidelines. Every state Medicaid program must balance a number of potentially competing demands, including the need for quality care, adequate provider access, and cost-effectiveness. In an effort to improve quality and
provide more uniform and cost-effective care, many states have implemented Medicaid managed care programs to improve access to coordinated health care services, including preventative care, and to control health care costs. Under Medicaid managed
care programs, a health plan receives capitation payments from the state. The health plan, in turn, arranges for the provision of health care services by contracting with a network of medical providers, such as HCP. HCP has entered into capitation
agreements with health plans to manage approximately 80,000 Medicaid managed care members in its southern California and Florida markets.

Commercial payors

According to the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation,
in 2009, approximately 61% of non-elderly U.S. citizens received their health care benefits through their employer, which contracted with health plans to administer these health care benefits. Patients enrolled in health plans offered through an
employment setting are generally referred to as commercial members. Nationally, commercial health plan enrollment was approximately 166 million as of 2011. Under the Health Reform Acts, beginning in 2014, many uninsured individuals and many
individuals who receive their health insurance benefits through small employers may purchase their health care benefits through insurance exchanges in which health plans compete directly for individual or small group members enrollment. HCP derives
a significant amount of its revenues from commercial payors; however, these payors represent a disproportionately small share of HCP’s operating profits.

Whether in the Medicare Advantage, commercial or Medicaid market, managed care health plans seek to provide a coordinated and efficient approach to managing the health care needs of their enrolled
populations. By negotiating with providers, such as pharmacies, hospitals and physicians, and indirectly trying to influence physicians’ behavior through various incentive and penalty schemes, managed care companies attempt to enhance their
profitability by limiting their medical costs. These health plans have shown success in mitigating certain components of medical cost, but we believe they are limited by their indirect relationship with physicians, who in the aggregate direct most
of their patients’ health care costs. We believe that physician-led and professionally-managed integrated medical systems such as HCP’s have a greater opportunity to influence cost and improve quality due to the close coordination of care
at the most effective point of contact with the patient—the primary care physician.

Capitation and fee-for-service
revenue

There are a number of different models under which an integrated medical system receives payment for managing
and providing health care services to its members.

Fee-for-service structure. Under traditional fee-for-service
reimbursement, physicians are paid a specified fee for services they provide during a patient visit. Under this structure, physician compensation is solely related to the volume of patient visits and procedures performed, thus offering limited
financial incentive to focus on cost containment and preventative care.

Capitation structure. Under capitation,
payors pay a fixed amount per enrolled member, thereby subcontracting a significant portion of the responsibility for managing patient care to physicians. Global capitation represents a prospective budget from which the provider system then manages
care-related expenses including payments to associated providers outside the group, such as hospitals and specialists. Compared to traditional fee-for-service models, we believe that capitation arrangements better align provider incentives with both
quality and efficiency of care for a population of patients. We believe that this approach improves the quality of the experience for patients and the potential profitability for efficient care providers.






Since premiums paid represent a significant amount per person, the revenue and, when costs
are effectively managed, profit opportunity available to an integrated medical system under a capitated arrangement can be significant. This is particularly the case for patients with multiple diseases and senior members. We believe that the
advantages, savings and efficiencies made possible by the capitated model are most pronounced when the care demands of the population are the most severe and require the most coordination, such as for the senior population or patients with chronic,
complex and follow-on diseases. While organized coordination of care is central to the capitated model, it is also well suited to the implementation of preventative care and disease management over the long-term since physicians have a financial
incentive to improve the overall health of their population.

The inherent risk in assumption of global care risk relates to
potential losses if a number of individual patients’ medical costs exceed the expected amount. This risk is especially significant to individual practitioners or smaller physician groups who lack the scale required to spread the risk over a
broad population. HCP has the scale, comprehensive medical delivery resources, significant infrastructure to support practicing physicians, and demonstrated care management know-how to spread the risk of losses over a large patient population.

Global model

.

Risk-share model.In California, HCP utilizes a capitation model in several different forms. While there are variations specific to each arrangement, HCP generally contracts with
health plans to receive a PMPM fee for professional (physician) services and assumes the financial responsibility for professional services only. In some cases, the health plans separately enter into capitation contracts with third parties
(typically hospitals) who receive directly a portion of the PMPM fee and assume contractual financial responsibility for institutional (hospital) services. In other cases, the health plan does not pay any portion of the PMPM fee to the hospital, but
rather simply administers claims for hospital expenses itself. In both cases, HCP is responsible for managing the care dollars associated with both the professional and institutional services provided for the PMPM fee, but in the case of
institutional services and as a result of its managed care-related administrative services agreements with hospitals, HCP recognizes a percentage of the surplus of institutional revenues less institutional expense as HCP revenues and is also
responsible for any short-fall in the event that institutional expenses exceed institutional revenues.

Government
regulation

In addition to the laws and regulations to which our dialysis and related lab services business is subject,
the internal operations of HCP and its contractual relationships with healthcare providers such as hospitals, other healthcare facilities, and healthcare professionals are subject to extensive and increasing regulation by numerous federal, state,
and local government entities. These laws and regulations often are interpreted broadly and






enforced aggressively by multiple government agencies, including the Office of Inspector General (OIG), the U.S. Department of Justice, and various state authorities. Many of these laws and
regulations are the same as those that impact our dialysis and related lab services business. For example:



•HCP’s financial relationships with healthcare providers including physicians and hospitals could subject HCP to sanctions and penalties under the
federal anti-kickback statute;



•The referral of Medicare patients by HCP-associated physicians for the provision of DHS may subject the parties to sanctions and penalties under the
federal Stark Law;



•HCP’s financial relationships and those of its associated physicians may subject the parties to penalties and sanctions under state fraud and
abuse law;



•HCP’s submission of claims to governmental payors such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs for services provided by its associated physicians
and clinical personnel may subject HCP to sanction and penalties under the federal FCA; and



•HCP’s handling of electronic PHI may subject HCP to sanctions and penalties under the federal HIPAA of 1996 and its implementing privacy and
security regulations, as amended by the HITECH Act, collectively referred to as HIPAA, and state medical privacy laws which often include penalties and restrictions that are more severe than those which arise under HIPAA.

A finding that claims for services were not covered or not payable, or the imposition of sanctions
associated with a violation of any of these healthcare laws and regulations, could result in criminal or civil penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs and could have a material
adverse effect on HCP’s business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot guarantee that the arrangements or business practices of HCP will not be subject to government scrutiny or be found to violate certain healthcare laws.
Government audits, investigations and prosecutions, even if we are ultimately found to be without fault, can be costly and disruptive to HCP’s business. Moreover, changes in healthcare legislation or government regulation may restrict
HCP’s existing operations, limit their expansion or impose additional compliance requirements and costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on HCP’s business, financial condition and results of operations.

The following includes brief descriptions of some, but not all, of the laws and regulations that, in addition to those described in
relation to our dialysis and related lab services business, affect HCP. For a discussion of the laws and regulations to which the U.S. dialysis and related lab services business is subject that also affect HCP, see “The dialysis and related lab
services business—Government regulation” above.

Licensing, certification, accreditation and related laws and
guidelines.HCP clinical personnel are subject to numerous federal, state and local licensing laws and regulations, relating to, among other things, professional credentialing and professional ethics. Since HCP clinical personnel perform
services in medical office settings, hospitals and other types of healthcare facilities, HCP may indirectly be subject to laws applicable to those entities as well as ethical guidelines and operating standards of professional trade associations and
private accreditation commissions, such as the American Medical Association and the Joint Commission. There are penalties for non-compliance with these laws and standards, including loss of professional license, civil or criminal fines and
penalties, loss of hospital admitting privileges, federal health care program disenrollment, loss of billing privileges, and exclusion from participation in various governmental and other third-party healthcare programs.

Professional licensing requirements.HCP’s clinical personnel including physicians must satisfy and maintain their
professional licensing in the states where they practice medicine. Activities that qualify as professional misconduct under state law may subject them to sanctions, including the loss of their licenses and could, possibly, subject HCP to sanctions
as well. Some state boards of medicine impose reciprocal discipline, that is, if a physician is disciplined for having committed professional misconduct in one state where he or she is licensed, another state where he or she is also licensed may
impose the same discipline even though the conduct






occurred in another state. Therefore, if an HCP-associated physician is licensed in multiple states, sanctions or loss of licensure in one state may result in sanction or the loss of licensure in
another state. Professional licensing sanctions may also result in exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as other third-party programs.

Corporate practice of medicine and fee splitting.Two states in which HCP operates, California and Nevada have laws that
prohibit business entities, such as our Company and our subsidiaries, from practicing medicine, employing physicians to practice medicine or exercising control over medical decisions by physicians, known collectively as the corporate practice of
medicine. These states also prohibit entities from engaging in certain arrangements, such as fee-splitting, with physicians. In some states these prohibitions are expressly stated in a statute or regulation, while in other states the prohibition is
a matter of judicial or regulatory interpretation. In California, a violation of the corporate practice of medicine prohibition constitutes the unlawful practice of medicine, which is a public offense punishable by fines and other criminal
penalties. In addition, any physician who participates in a scheme that violates California’s corporate practice of medicine prohibition may be punished for aiding and abetting a lay entity in the unlawful practice of medicine. In Nevada,
violation of the corporate practice of medicine rules by a lay entity also constitutes the unlawful practice of medicine. This violation is a felony punishable by fines and other criminal penalties. Physicians in Nevada can similarly be punished for
aiding and abetting in the unlicensed practice of medicine.

In California and Nevada, where the corporate practice of
medicine is prohibited, HCP operates by maintaining long-term management contracts with multiple associated professional organizations which, in turn, employ or contract with physicians to provide those professional medical services required by the
enrollees of the payors with which the professional organizations contract. Under these management arrangements, HCP performs only non-medical administrative services, does not represent that it offers medical services, and does not exercise
influence or control over the practice of medicine by the physicians or the associated physician groups with which it contracts. For example, in California, HCP has full-service management contracts with HealthCare Partners Affiliates Medical Group
and HealthCare Partners Associates Medical Group, Inc. (collectively HCPAMG). The HCPAMG entities are owned by California-licensed physicians and professional medical corporations and contract with physicians to provide professional medical
services. In Nevada, HCP’s Nevada subsidiaries have similar management arrangements with Nevada professional corporations that employ and contract with physicians to provide professional medical services.

Some of the relevant laws, regulations, and agency interpretations in California and Nevada have been subject to limited judicial and
regulatory interpretation. Moreover, state laws are subject to change. Regulatory authorities and other parties, including HCP’s associated physicians, may assert that, despite the management contracts under which HCP operates, we are engaged
in the prohibited corporate practice of medicine or that HCP’s arrangements constitute unlawful fee-splitting. If this were to occur, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, HCP’s contracts could be found legally invalid and
unenforceable (in whole or in part), or we could be required to restructure its contractual arrangements.

If we were required
to restructure its management arrangements in California or Nevada due to determination that a corporate practice of medicine violation existed, such a restructuring might include revisions of the management services agreements, which might include
a modification of the management fee, and/or establishing an alternative structure, such as obtaining a California Knox-Keene license (as described below) or its Nevada equivalent which would permit HCP to contract with a physician network without
violating the corporate practice of medicine prohibition.

The Knox-Keene Act.The California Department of
Managed Health Care (DMHC) licenses and regulates health care service plans (HCSPs) such as health plans pursuant to the Knox-Keene Act. In addition to administering the Knox-Keene Act’s various patient’s rights protections for
HCSP-enrolled individuals, the DMHC is responsible for ensuring the financial sustainability over time of HCSPs and other regulated entities. As such, the DMHC is charged with continually monitoring the financial health of regulated entities. The






The DMHC interprets the Knox-Keene Act to apply to both HCSPs and downstream contracting entities, including provider groups, that enter
into global risk contracts with licensed HCSPs. A global risk contract is a health care services contract in which a downstream contracting entity agrees to provide both professional (e.g., medical group) services and institutional (e.g., hospital)
services subject to an at-risk or capitated reimbursement methodology. According to DMHC, entities that accept global risk must obtain a restricted or limited Knox-Keene license (limited Knox-Keene license).

Under a limited Knox-Keene license, entities may enter into global risk contracts with other licensed HCSPs. Holders of limited
Knox-Keene licenses must comply with the same financial requirements as HCSPs with full licenses, including demonstrating specific levels of TNE, but are granted waivers from meeting marketing and other terms of full Knox-Keene licensure. The
consequences of operating without a license include civil penalties, criminal penalties and the issuance of cease and desist orders.

We do not hold a limited Knox-Keene license. Instead of operating under such a license which would allow us to directly enter risk contracts with HCSPs for the provision of both professional and
institutional services, HCP utilizes arrangements with hospital and its associated physician organizations. If (i) DMHC were to determine that HCP has been inappropriately taking global risk for institutional and professional services as a
result of its various hospital and physician arrangements without having a limited Knox-Keene license or (ii) the California Board of Medicine were to conclude that the current HCP physician arrangements present a violation of the corporate
practice of medicine, we may be required to obtain a limited Knox-Keene license to resolve such violations and we could be subject to civil and criminal liability. Alternatively, HCP might voluntarily elect to obtain a limited Knox-Keene license for
various reasons including to permit it to contract directly with HCSPs, to simplify its current contractual and financial structure and to facilitate expansion into new markets. If HCP were to obtain a limited Knox-Keene license, certain of the
primary impacts would be the TNE requirements described above and additional regulatory oversight.

Although obtaining such a
limited Knox-Keene license would ameliorate risks under the Knox-Keene Act and California’s corporate practice of medicine prohibition, there are disadvantages associated with obtaining such a license. These disadvantages include:
(i) regulatory oversight of operations, (ii) the need to seek approval for all material business changes, (iii) significant requirements to maintain certain TNE levels, and (iv) other operating limitations imposed by the
Knox-Keene Act and its regulations.

HCP services

Approximately 88% of HCP’s operating revenues for the period November 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012 were derived from
multi-year capitation contracts with health plans. Under these contracts, HCP’s health plan customers delegate full responsibility for member care to physicians and health care facilities that are part of






HCP’s network. In return, HCP receives a PMPM fee for each HCP member. As a result, HCP has financial and clinical accountability for a population of members. In California, HCP does not
assume direct financial risk for institutional (hospital) services, but is responsible for managing the care dollars associated with both the professional (physician) and institutional services being provided for the PMPM fee attributable to both
professional and institutional services. In those cases and as a result of its managed care-related administrative services agreements with hospitals, HCP recognizes the surplus of institutional revenues less institutional expense as HCP revenues
and is also responsible for any short-fall in the event that institutional expenses exceed institutional revenues. In addition to revenues recognized for financial reporting purposes, HCP measures its total care dollars under management which
includes the PMPM fee payable to third parties for institutional (hospital) services where HCP manages the care provided to its members by hospitals and other institutional provides, which fees are not included in Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (GAAP) revenues. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2012, HCP’s total consolidated operating revenues were $2.7 billion, total care dollars under management were $3.6 billion and adjusted operating income was $524 million.

HCP provides complete medical care through a network of participating physicians and other health care professionals. Through
its group model, HCP employs, directly (where permitted by state law) and through its associated physician groups, approximately 455 associated group full-time primary care physicians who practice in clinics that are operated by HCP. Through its IPA
model, HCP contracts with approximately 1,800 additional network primary care physicians who provide care for HCP’s members in an independent office setting. These physicians are complemented by a network of several thousand specialists and
ancillary providers and 145 network hospitals that provide specialty or institutional care to the patients of HCP’s associated physicians, physician groups and IPAs.

In order to comply with local regulations prohibiting the corporate practice of medicine, many of HCP’s group physicians are employed by associated medical groups with which HCP has entered into
long-term management agreements, while, in other states, the physicians are employed directly by HCP. The largest of these HCP managed medical groups is HCPAMG, which employs, directly or indirectly, over 600 full-time primary care physicians,
specialists and hospitalists. See “—Governmental Regulations—Corporate Practice of Medicine and Fee Splitting” above.

HCP does not own hospitals, although hospitals are an essential part of its provider network. In most cases, however, HCP contracts or otherwise aligns with hospitals to manage the utilization,
readmission and cost of hospital services. Most HCP patients receive specialty care through HCP’s network based on referrals made by their primary care physician. These specialists may be reimbursed based on capitation, case rates or on a
discounted fee-for-service rate.






HCP’s information technology system, including HCP’s electronic health record and
data warehouse, is designed to support the HCP delivery model with data-driven opportunities to improve the quality and cost effectiveness of the care received by its members. Using informatics technology, HCP has created disease registries that
track large numbers of patients with defined medical conditions. HCP applies the data from these registries to manage the care for patients with similar medical conditions which we believe leads to a better medical outcome. We believe its approach
to using this data is effective because the information is communicated by the patient’s physician rather than the health plan or disease management companies.

HCP employs a wide variety of other information applications in order to service IPA and network providers using web connectivity. The HCP Connect! on-line portal provides web-based eligibility,
referrals, electronic claims submission and explanation of benefits, and other communication vehicles for individual physician offices. The success of this suite of applications has enhanced HCP’s ability to manage its IPA networks, and has
resulted in significant back-office efficiencies for HCP and its associated physician groups. HCP has further expanded its ability to share key utilization and clinical data with its internal and contracted physicians and specialists through the
Physician Information Portal and the Clinical Viewer. Through these secure web portals, a physician is able to obtain web-based, point of care information regarding a patient, including diagnosis history, provide quality indicators, historical
risk-adjustment coding information, pharmacy medication history, and other key information. In addition to its web-portals geared towards physicians, HCP has recently introduced a patient on-line portal to enable HCP’s patients to securely
view their own clinical information, schedule physician appointments and interact electronically with their physicians. HCP believes these tools help to lead to high quality clinical outcomes, create internal efficiencies, and enhance the
satisfaction of its associated physicians and patients.

In addition, HCP uses its data to carefully track high utilizing
patients through robust data warehousing and data mining technologies. HCP filters the data warehouse to identify and reach out to patients with high-utilization patterns who are inefficiently using resources such as visiting an emergency room when
either a same-day appointment or urgent care center would be more appropriate and satisfactory for the member. High utilizing patients are identified and tracked as part of HCP’s electronic health record by their physician and HCP’s care
management staff. Specific care plans are attached to each of these patients and tracked carefully for full compliance. The objective is to proactively manage their care at times when these patients are either not compliant with the care plan or
when changing circumstances require care managers to develop new and more suitable care plans. By using these resources, HCP has achieved improvements in quality of care, satisfaction and cost.

We believe HCP is well positioned to profitably leverage marketplace demands for greater provider accountability, measurable quality
results and cost effective medical care. We believe that HCP’s business model is likely to continue to be an attractive alternative for health plans looking for high quality, cost effective delivery systems, physicians seeking an attractive
practice environment and patients interested in a highly integrated approach to managing their medical care. Additionally, we believe that the scale of HCP’s business allows it to spread capitation risk over a large population of members,
invest in comprehensive analytic and health care information tools as well as clinical and quality measurement infrastructure, and recognize administrative and operating efficiencies. For these reasons, we believe that HCP offers patients,
physicians and health plans a proven platform for addressing many of the most pressing challenges facing the U.S. health care system, including rising medical costs.

We also believe HCP has the ability to demonstrably improve medical outcomes and patient satisfaction while effectively managing costs through the following unique competitive strategies and internal
progress and systems:



•HCP’s clinical leadership and associated group and network physicians denote significant effects to ensuring that HCP’s members receive the
most appropriate care in the most appropriate manner.



•HCP is committed to maximizing its patients’ satisfaction levels.






•HCP has the scale and combined with its strong reputation and high quality patient care, makes it an attractive partner for health plans compared to
smaller provider groups that may have a higher risk of default and may not have the same resources to devote to HCP’s techniques.



•HCP has nearly three decades of experience in managing complex disease cases for its population of patients. As a result, HCP has developed a rich
dataset of patient care experiences and outcomes which permits HCP to proactively monitor and intervene in improving the care of its members.



•HCP’s senior management team possesses substantial experience with the healthcare industry with average experience of nearly 35 years.

Locations of HCP clinics

As of December 31, 2012, HCP operated a total of 184 medical clinics, of which 69 clinics were located in California, 54 clinics were
located in Florida, 43 clinics were located in Nevada and 18 clinics were located in New Mexico.

Ancillary services and strategic
initiatives business

Ancillary services and strategic initiatives, which include our international dialysis operations, as
described below, accounted for approximately 8% of our total consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 excluding the divestiture of HomeChoice Partners that has been reported as discontinued operations for all periods
presented. On a pro-forma basis our ancillary services and strategic initiatives net revenues for fiscal 2012 would have represented approximately 6% of our consolidated net revenues assuming HCP was acquired on January 1, 2012 and consist
primarily of the following as of December 31, 2012:



•Pharmacy services. DaVita Rx is a pharmacy that provides oral medications to DaVita’s patients with ESRD. The main objectives of the
pharmacy are to improve clinical outcomes by facilitating increased patient compliance and to provide our patients a convenient way to fill their prescription needs by delivering the prescriptions to the center where they are treated. Revenues are
recognized as prescriptions are filled and shipped to patients. On January 8, 2013, we entered into an agreement with Fresenius Medical Care (FMC) to provide certain pharmacy services to FMC’s Medicare patients in the U.S. beginning in
late 2013.



•Infusion therapy services.HomeChoice Partners (HomeChoice) provides comprehensive personalized infusion therapy services to patients
typically in their own homes as a cost-effective alternative to inpatient hospitalization. Intravenous and nutritional support therapies are typically managed by registered and/or board-certified professionals including pharmacists, nurses and
dieticians in collaboration with the patient’s physician in support of the patient’s ongoing health care needs. Revenues are recognized in the period when infusion therapy services are provided. See “Divestiture of HomeChoice Partners
Inc.” for further details regarding the divestiture of this business on February 1, 2013.



•Disease management services.VillageHealth provides advanced care management services to health plans and government agencies for
employees/members diagnosed with CKD or ESRD. Through a combination of clinical coordination, medical claims analysis and information technology, we endeavor to assist our customers and patients in obtaining superior renal health care and improved
clinical outcomes, as well as helping to reduce overall medical costs. Revenues are typically based upon an established contract fee and are recognized as earned over the contract period and can include additional fees for cost savings recognized by
certain customers. In 2012, VillageHealth operated a Medicare Advantage ESRD Special Needs Plan in partnership with a payor that works with CMS to provide ESRD patients full service health care. We are at risk for all medical costs of the program in
excess of the capitation payments. We also completed the final reconciliation calculation for a Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD)/ESRD demonstration program that was terminated in April 2011. Based on the May 2012 final reconciliation report prepared for
CMS, we retained a portion of our management fee






for program enrollees relating to CKD and ESRD disease states for one managed group but also had to refund our management fees to CMS for other managed group as certain Medicare cost savings
targets were not met.



•Vascular access services.Lifeline provides management and administrative services to physician-owned vascular access clinics that provide
surgical and interventional radiology services for dialysis patients. Lifeline also is the majority-owner of one vascular access clinic. Management fees generated from providing management and administrative services are recognized as earned
typically based on a percentage of revenues or cash collections generated by the clinics. Revenues associated with the vascular access clinic that is majority-owned are recognized in the period when physician services are provided.



•ESRD clinical research programs.DaVita Clinical Research conducts research trials principally with dialysis patients and provides
administrative support for research conducted by DaVita-associated nephrology practices. Revenues are based upon an established fee per study, as determined by contract with drug companies and other sponsors and are recognized as earned according to
the contract terms.



•Physician services.DaVita Nephrology Partners offers practice management and administrative services to physicians who specialize in
nephrology under management and administrative services agreements. Practice management and administrative services typically include operations management, IT support, billing and collections, credentialing and coding, and other support functions.
Management fees generated from providing practice management and administrative services to physician practices are recognized as earned typically based upon cash collections generated by the practices.



•Direct primary care.Paladina Health, including ModernMed, is a healthcare services organization that operates membership-based primary
care clinics mainly through employer-based on-site and newer-site clinics. The clinics offer patients more personalized and improved access to primary care physicians, including unlimited visits and same-day or next-day appointments. Physicians
focus on clinical outcomes and patient satisfaction. Revenues are recognized over the membership period.

International dialysis operations

As of December 31, 2012, we operated or provided administrative services to a total of 36 outpatient dialysis centers located in eight countries outside of the U.S. serving approximately 2,200
patients. Our international dialysis operations are still in a start-up phase in which we have been developing and acquiring dialysis centers in various strategic markets, since the commencement of our international operations during the fourth
quarter of 2011. Our overall net revenues generated from our international operations were not material to our consolidated results during 2012. Our international operations are included as a component of our ancillary services and strategic
initiatives.

The table below summarizes the number and locations of our international outpatient dialysis centers.



20122011Number of centers at beginning of year11—Acquired centers138Developed centers9—Managed centers33Number of centers end of year3611






The locations of our international outpatient dialysis centers are as follows:



China2Singapore2Malaysia3Saudi Arabia3Germany4Poland5Portugal4India1336

Competition

U.S. and International dialysis competition

The U.S. dialysis
industry has consolidated significantly over time but still remains highly competitive, particularly in terms of acquiring existing outpatient dialysis centers. We continue to face increased competition in the U.S. dialysis industry from large and
medium-sized providers who compete directly with us for the acquisition of dialysis businesses, relationships with physicians to act as medical directors and for individual patients. In addition, as we continue our international dialysis expansion
into various international markets, we will face competition from large and medium-sized providers for these acquisition targets as well. Acquisitions, developing new outpatient dialysis centers, patient retention and physician relationships are an
important part of our growth strategy and our business could be adversely affected if we are not able to continue to make acquisitions on reasonable terms, experience significant patient attrition to our competitors and are not able to maintain or
establish new relationships with physicians. Competition for qualified physicians to act as medical directors and for inpatient dialysis services agreements with hospitals is also intense. Occasionally, we have also experienced competition from
former medical directors or referring physicians who have opened their own dialysis centers. In addition, we experience competitive pressures in connection with negotiating contracts with commercial healthcare payors.

The two largest dialysis companies, Fresenius Medical Care (Fresenius), and our company, account for approximately two-thirds of
outpatient dialysis patients in the U.S. with our company serving approximately 34% of the total outpatient dialysis patients. Approximately 46% of the centers not owned by us or Fresenius are owned or controlled by hospitals or non-profit
organizations. Hospital-based and non-profit dialysis units typically are more difficult to acquire than physician-owned centers. Because of the ease of entry into the dialysis business and the ability of physicians to be medical directors for their
own centers, competition for growth in existing and expanding markets is not limited to large competitors with substantial financial resources.

Fresenius also manufactures a full line of dialysis supplies and equipment in addition to owning and operating outpatient dialysis centers. This may give them cost advantages over us because of their
ability to manufacture their own products. However, Fresenius has been one of our largest suppliers of dialysis products. In January 2010, we entered into an agreement with Fresenius which committed us to purchase a certain amount of dialysis
equipment, parts and supplies from them through 2013. In addition, in August 2006 in connection with the DVA Renal Healthcare acquisition, we also entered into a product supply agreement with Gambro Renal Products that requires us to purchase a
certain amount of our hemodialysis non-equipment product supplies, such as dialyzers, at fixed prices through 2015. Our purchases of products in these categories generally offered by both Fresenius and Gambro Renal Products represent approximately
5% of our total U.S. dialysis operating expenses. During 2012, we purchased hemodialysis products and supplies from Gambro Renal Products representing approximately 3% of our total U.S. dialysis operating expenses.






HCP’s competition

HCP’s business is highly competitive. HCP competes with managed care organizations, hospitals, medical groups and individual
physicians in its markets. HCP competes with other primary care groups or physicians contracted with health plans for membership. Health plans contract with care providers on the basis of costs, reputation, scope, efficiency and stability.
Individual members select a primary care physician at the time of membership with the health plan. Location, name recognition, quality indicators and other factors go into that decision. For example, in California HCP competes with both Permanente
Medical Group, which is the exclusive provider for Kaiser, and Heritage Provider Network. However, HCP’s principal competitors for members and health plan contracts vary by market.

Corporate compliance program

Our businesses are subject to extensive
federal, state and local government regulations. Management has designed and implemented a corporate compliance program as part of our commitment to comply fully with all applicable laws and regulations and to maintain the high standards of conduct
we expect from all of our teammates. We continuously review this program and enhance it as necessary. The primary purposes of the program include:



•Assessing and identifying risks for existing and new businesses, such as HCP;



•Increasing, through training and education, the awareness of our teammates and affiliated professionals of the necessity of complying with all
applicable laws, regulations and company policies and procedures;



•Auditing and monitoring the activities of our operating units and business support functions on a regular basis to identify potential instances of
noncompliance in a timely manner; and



•Ensuring that we take steps to resolve instances of noncompliance or to address areas of potential noncompliance as promptly as we become aware of
them.

We have a code of conduct that each of our teammates and affiliated professionals must follow and we
have a confidential toll-free hotline for teammates and patients to report potential instances of noncompliance. Our Chief Compliance Officer administers the compliance program. The Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to our Chief Operating
Officer and to the Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors.

Insurance

We maintain insurance for property and general liability, professional liability, directors’ and officers’ liability, workers
compensation and other coverage in amounts and on terms deemed adequate by management based on our actual claims experience and expectations for future claims. Future claims could, however, exceed our applicable insurance coverage. Physicians
practicing at our dialysis centers are required to maintain their own malpractice insurance and our medical directors are required to maintain coverage for their individual private medical practices. Our liability policies cover our medical
directors for the performance of their duties as medical directors at our outpatient dialysis centers. HCP also maintains general and professional liability insurance through various independent and related parties. HCP has purchased its primary
general and professional liability insurance from California Medical Group Insurance (CMGI) in which HCP owns a 67% equity interest.






Teammates

As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 53,400 teammates:



•   Licensed professional staff (physicians, nurses and other healthcare professionals)22,000•   Other patient care and center support staff and laboratory personnel21,900•   Corporate, billing and regional administrative staff9,500

Our businesses require skilled healthcare professionals with specialized training for treating patients
with complex care needs. Recruitment and retention of nurses are continuing concerns for healthcare providers due to short supply. We have an active program of investing in our professional healthcare teammates to help ensure we meet our recruitment
and retention targets, including expanded training opportunities, tuition reimbursements and other incentives.






