Item 1.    Business

We were incorporated as a
Delaware corporation in 1994. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are made available
free of charge through our website, located athttp://www.davita.com,as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The SEC also maintains a website athttp://www.sec.govwhere these reports and other information about us can be obtained. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this report.

Overview

DaVita is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services in the
United States for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure, also known as end stage renal disease, or ESRD. As of December 31, 2010, we operated or provided administrative services to 1,612 outpatient dialysis centers located in 42 states
and the District of Columbia, serving approximately 125,000 patients. We also provide acute inpatient dialysis services in approximately 750 hospitals and related laboratory services. Our dialysis and related lab services business accounts for
approximately 94% of our consolidated net operating revenues. Our other ancillary services and strategic initiatives currently account for approximately 6% of our consolidated net operating revenues and relate primarily to our core business of
providing kidney dialysis services.

The dialysis industry

The loss of kidney function is normally irreversible. Kidney failure is typically caused by Type I and Type II diabetes, high blood pressure, polycystic kidney disease, long-term autoimmune attack on the
kidney and prolonged urinary tract obstruction. ESRD is the stage of advanced kidney impairment that requires continued dialysis treatments or a kidney transplant to sustain life. Dialysis is the removal of toxins, fluids and salt from the blood of
ESRD patients by artificial means. Patients suffering from ESRD generally require dialysis at least three times a week for the rest of their lives.

According to United States Renal Data System, there were 382,000 ESRD dialysis patients in the United States in 2008 and the underlying ESRD dialysis patient population has grown at an approximate
compound rate of 3.8% from 2000 to 2008, the latest period for which such data is available. The growth rate is attributable to the aging of the population, increased incidence rates for diseases that cause kidney failure such as diabetes and
hypertension, lower mortality rates for dialysis patients and growth rates of minority populations with higher than average incidence rates of ESRD.

Since 1972, the federal government has provided health care coverage for ESRD patients under the Medicare ESRD program regardless of age or financial circumstances. ESRD is the first and only disease
state eligible for Medicare coverage both for dialysis and dialysis-related services and for all benefits available under the Medicare program. Under this system, Congress established Medicare rates for dialysis treatments, related supplies, lab
tests and medications. Although Medicare reimbursement limits the allowable charge per treatment, it provides industry participants with a relatively predictable and recurring revenue stream for dialysis services provided to patients without
commercial insurance. Approximately 89% of our total patients are under government-based programs, with approximately 80% of our patients under Medicare and Medicare-assigned plans.

Prior to January 2011, dialysis providers operating under the Medicare ESRD program received a composite payment rate to cover routine
dialysis treatments and certain supplies. There was a separate payment for laboratory testing and pharmaceuticals such as erythropoietin, or EPO, vitamin D analogs and iron supplements






that were not included in the composite payment rate. However, beginning in January 2011, Medicare implemented a new payment system in which all ESRD payments are now made under a single bundled
payment rate that provides for an annual inflation adjustment based upon a market basket index, less a productivity improvement factor. The bundled payment rate provides a fixed rate to encompass all goods and services provided during the dialysis
treatment, including pharmaceuticals that were historically separately reimbursed to the dialysis providers, such as EPO, vitamin D analogs and iron supplements, irrespective of the level of pharmaceuticals administered or additional services
performed. Most lab services that used to be paid directly to laboratories are also included in the new payment bundle.

Treatment options for ESRD

Treatment options for ESRD are dialysis and kidney transplantation.

Dialysis Options



•Hemodialysis

Hemodialysis, the most common form of ESRD treatment, is usually performed at a freestanding outpatient dialysis center, a hospital-based outpatient center, or at the patient’s home. The hemodialysis
machine uses an artificial kidney, called a dialyzer, to remove toxins, fluids and salt from the patient’s blood. The dialysis process occurs across a semi-permeable membrane that divides the dialyzer into two distinct chambers. While blood is
circulated through one chamber, a pre-mixed fluid is circulated through the other chamber. The toxins, salt and excess fluids from the blood cross the membrane into the fluid, allowing cleansed blood to return into the patient’s body. Each
hemodialysis treatment that occurs in the outpatient dialysis centers typically lasts approximately three and one-half hours and is usually performed three times per week.

Some ESRD patients who are healthier and more independent may perform home-based hemodialysis in their home or residence through the use of a hemodialysis machine designed for home therapy that is
portable, smaller and easier to use. Patients receive training, support and monitoring from registered nurses, in some cases in our outpatient dialysis centers, in connection with treatments. Home-based hemodialysis is typically performed with
greater frequency than dialysis treatments performed in outpatient dialysis centers and on varying schedules.

Hospital
inpatient hemodialysis services are required for patients with acute kidney failure resulting from trauma, patients in early stages of ESRD, and ESRD patients who require hospitalization for other reasons. Hospital inpatient hemodialysis is
generally performed at the patient’s bedside or in a dedicated treatment room in the hospital, as needed.



•Peritoneal dialysis

Peritoneal dialysis uses the patient’s peritoneal or abdominal cavity to eliminate fluid and toxins and is typically performed at home. The most common methods of peritoneal dialysis are continuous
ambulatory peritoneal dialysis, or CAPD, and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis, or CCPD. Because it does not involve going to an outpatient dialysis center three times a week for treatment, peritoneal dialysis is an alternative to hemodialysis
for patients who are healthier, more independent and desire more flexibility in their lifestyle. However, peritoneal dialysis is not a suitable method of treatment for many patients, including patients who are unable to perform the necessary
procedures and those at greater risk of peritoneal infection.

CAPD introduces dialysis solution into the patient’s
peritoneal cavity through a surgically placed catheter. Toxins in the blood continuously cross the peritoneal membrane into the dialysis solution. After several hours, the patient drains the used dialysis solution and replaces it with fresh
solution. This procedure is usually repeated four times per day.






CCPD is performed in a manner similar to CAPD, but uses a mechanical device to cycle
dialysis solution through the patient’s peritoneal cavity while the patient is sleeping or at rest.



•Kidney transplantation

Although kidney transplantation, when successful, is generally the most desirable form of therapeutic intervention, the shortage of suitable donors, side effects of immunosuppressive pharmaceuticals given
to transplant recipients and dangers associated with transplant surgery for some patient populations limit the use of this treatment option.

Services we provide

Dialysis and
Related Lab Services

Outpatient dialysis services

As of December 31, 2010, we operated or provided administrative services to 1,612 outpatient dialysis centers in the United States
that are designed specifically for outpatient hemodialysis. In 2010, we added a net total of 82 outpatient dialysis centers primarily as a result of acquisitions and the opening of new centers, net of center closures and divestitures. This
represented a total increase of approximately 5% to our overall network of outpatient dialysis centers.

As a condition of our
enrollment in Medicare, we contract with a nephrologist or a group of affiliated nephrologists to provide medical director services at each of our centers. In addition, other nephrologists may apply for practice privileges to treat their patients at
our centers. Each center has an administrator, typically a registered nurse, who supervises the day-to-day operations of the center and its staff. The staff of each center typically consists of registered nurses, licensed practical or vocational
nurses, patient care technicians, a social worker, a registered dietician, biomedical technician support and other administrative and support personnel.

Many of our outpatient dialysis centers offer services for dialysis patients who prefer and are able to perform either home-based hemodialysis in their homes or peritoneal dialysis. Home-based
hemodialysis services consist of providing equipment and supplies, training, patient monitoring, on-call support services and follow-up assistance. Registered nurses train patients and their families or other caregivers to perform either home-based
hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis.

Under Medicare regulations, we cannot promote, develop or maintain any kind of
contractual relationship with our patients which would directly or indirectly obligate a patient to use or continue to use our dialysis services, or which would give us any preferential rights other than those related to collecting payments for our
services. Our total patient turnover averaged approximately 30% per year for the last two years. However, in 2010 the overall number of patients to whom we furnished services increased by approximately 6%, primarily from continued growth within
the industry, lower mortality rates and the opening of new centers and acquisitions.

Hospital inpatient hemodialysis
services

We provide hospital inpatient hemodialysis services, excluding physician services, to patients in approximately
750 hospitals. We render these services for a contracted per-treatment fee that is individually negotiated with each hospital. When a hospital requests our services, we typically administer the dialysis treatment at the patient’s bedside or in
a dedicated treatment room in the hospital, as needed. Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services are required for patients as discussed above. In 2010, hospital inpatient hemodialysis services accounted for approximately 4% of our total dialysis
treatments.






ESRD laboratory services

We own two separately incorporated, licensed, clinical laboratories specializing in ESRD patient testing. These specialized laboratories
provide routine laboratory tests for dialysis and other physician-prescribed laboratory tests for ESRD patients. Our laboratories provide these tests predominantly for our network of ESRD patients throughout the United States. These tests are
performed to monitor a patient’s ESRD condition, including the adequacy of dialysis, as well as other medical conditions. Our laboratories utilize information systems which provide information to our dialysis centers regarding critical outcome
indicators.

Management services

We currently operate or provide management and administrative services to 32 outpatient dialysis centers in which we either own a minority equity investment or are wholly-owned by third parties. These
services are provided pursuant to management and administrative services agreements. Management fees are established by contract and are recognized as earned typically based on a percentage of revenues or cash collections generated by the centers.

Ancillary services and strategic initiatives

Ancillary services and strategic initiatives, which currently account for approximately 6% of our total consolidated net operating revenues, consist of the following:



•Pharmacy services.    DaVita Rx is a pharmacy that provides oral medications to DaVita’s patients with ESRD. The main
objectives of the pharmacy are to improve clinical outcomes by facilitating increased patient compliance and to provide our patients a convenient way to fill their prescription needs by delivering the prescriptions to the center where they are
treated. Revenues are recognized as prescriptions are filled and shipped to patients.



•Infusion therapy services.HomeChoice Partners provides personalized infusion therapy services to patients typically in
their own homes as a cost-effective alternative to inpatient hospitalization. Intravenous and nutritional support therapies are typically managed by registered and/or board-certified professionals including pharmacists, nurses and dieticians in
collaboration with the patient’s physician in support of the patient’s ongoing health care needs. Revenues are recognized in the period when infusion therapy services are provided.



•Disease management services.VillageHealth provides advanced care management services to health plans and government
agencies for employees/members diagnosed with Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) or ESRD. Through a combination of clinical coordination, medical claims analysis and information technology, we endeavor to assist our customers and patients in obtaining
superior renal health care and improved clinical outcomes, as well as helping to reduce overall medical costs. Revenues are typically based upon an established contract fee and are recognized as earned over the contract period and can include
additional fees for cost savings recognized by certain customers.



•Vascular access services.Lifeline provides management and administrative services to physician-owned vascular access
clinics that provide surgical and interventional radiology services for dialysis patients. Lifeline also is the majority-owner of one vascular access clinic. Management fees generated from providing management and administrative services are
recognized as earned typically based on a percentage of revenues or cash collections generated by the clinics. Revenues associated with the vascular access clinic that is majority-owned are recognized in the period when physician services are
provided.



•ESRD clinical research programs.DaVita Clinical Research conducts research trials principally with dialysis patients and
provides administrative support for research conducted by DaVita-affiliated nephrology practices. Revenues are based upon an established fee per study, as determined by contract with drug companies and other sponsors and are recognized as earned
according to the contract terms.






•Physician services.DaVita Nephrology Partners offers practice management and administrative services to physicians who
specialize in nephrology under management and administrative services agreements. Practice management and administrative services typically include operations management, IT support, billing and collections, credentialing and coding, and other
support functions. Management fees generated from providing practice management and administrative services to physician practices are recognized as earned typically based upon cash collections generated by the practices.

Quality care

We employ 180 clinical service specialists. The primary focus of this group is assuring and facilitating processes that aim to achieve superior clinical outcomes at our centers.

Our physician leadership in the Office of the Chief Medical Officer (OCMO) includes eight senior nephrologists, led by our Chief Medical
Officer, with a variety of academic, clinical practice, and clinical research backgrounds. Our Physician Council is an advisory body to senior management, composed of nine physicians with extensive experience in clinical practice in addition to the
members of OCMO and five Group Medical Directors.

Sources of revenue—concentrations and risks

Our dialysis and related lab services business revenues represent approximately 94% of our consolidated net operating revenues for the
year ended December 31, 2010, with the balance of our revenues from ancillary services and strategic initiatives. Dialysis and related lab services revenues are derived primarily from our core business of providing kidney dialysis services, the
administration of pharmaceuticals, related laboratory services and to a lesser extent management fees generated from providing management and administrative services to certain outpatient dialysis centers.

The sources of our dialysis and related lab services revenues are principally from government-based programs, including Medicare and
Medicare-assigned plans, Medicaid and Medicaid-assigned plans and commercial insurance plans.

The following table summarizes
our dialysis and related lab services revenues by source for the year ended December 31, 2010:



RevenuepercentagesMedicare and Medicare-assigned plans57%Medicaid and Medicaid-assigned plans6%Other government-based programs3%Total government-based programs66%Commercial (including hospital inpatient dialysis services)34%Total dialysis and related lab services revenues100%

The following table summarizes our dialysis and related lab services revenues by modality for the year ended
December 31, 2010:



RevenuepercentagesOutpatient hemodialysis centers83%Peritoneal dialysis and home-based hemodialysis12%Hospital inpatient hemodialysis5%Total dialysis and related lab services revenues100%






Medicare revenue

Under the Medicare ESRD program, payment rates for dialysis are established by the U.S. Congress. Prior to January 2011, the Medicare
composite rate set by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, paid dialysis providers for services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries in two parts: (1) the composite payment which included a base payment, adjusted for case-mix
which linked payments more closely with illness severity and regional geography differences, and a drug add-on payment, which was updated annually to account for changes in drug prices and utilization and (2) separately billable reimbursement
for certain drugs. Thus, dialysis providers received a composite payment rate per treatment to cover routine dialysis services, certain pharmaceuticals, routine lab work, and other supplies, as well as a separate payment for pharmaceuticals, which
include EPO (a pharmaceutical used to treat anemia, a common complication associated with ESRD), vitamin D analogs and iron supplements that are not included in the composite payment rate. Pharmaceuticals were generally paid at average sale price,
or ASP, plus 6% based upon prices set by Medicare. The Medicare payment rates that were paid to us, including payments for separately billable drugs, were not sufficient to cover our average cost of providing a dialysis treatment.

ESRD patients receiving dialysis services become eligible for primary Medicare coverage at various times, depending on their age or
disability status, as well as whether they are covered by an employer group health plan. Generally, for a patient not covered by an employer group health plan, Medicare becomes the primary payor either immediately or after a three-month waiting
period. For a patient covered by an employer group health plan, Medicare generally becomes the primary payor after 33 months, which includes a three month waiting period, or earlier if the patient’s employer group health plan coverage
terminates. When Medicare becomes the primary payor, the payment rate we receive for that patient shifts from the commercial insurance plan rate to the Medicare payment rate.

Medicare pays 80% of the amount set by the Medicare system for each covered treatment. The patient is responsible for the remaining 20%. In most cases, a secondary payor, such as Medicare supplemental
insurance, a state Medicaid program or a commercial health plan, covers all or part of these balances. Some patients, who do not qualify for Medicaid but otherwise cannot afford secondary insurance, can apply for premium payment assistance from
charitable organizations through a program offered by the American Kidney Fund. We and other dialysis providers support the American Kidney Fund and similar programs through voluntary contributions. If a patient does not have secondary insurance
coverage, we are generally unsuccessful in our efforts to collect from the patient the 20% portion of the ESRD composite rate that Medicare does not pay. However, we are able to recover some portion of this unpaid patient balance from Medicare
through an established cost reporting process by identifying these Medicare bad debts on each center’s Medicare cost report.

The Medicare composite payment rates set by Congress for dialysis treatments that were in effect for 2010 were between $151 and $169 per treatment, with an average rate of $161 per treatment.
Historically, Medicare payment rates for dialysis services have not been routinely increased to compensate for the impact of inflation, which negatively impacted our margins as patient care costs continued to rise. The Medicare Improvements for
Patients and Providers Act for 2008, or MIPPA, provided dialysis providers with an increase in the composite rate of 1% that went into effect on January 1, 2009 and an additional 1% that went into effect on January 1, 2010. This
legislation also changed the way Medicare pays for dialysis services beginning in January 2011, as further described below. The new payment system also provides for an annual inflation adjustment based upon a market basket index, less a productivity
adjustment, beginning in 2012. Also beginning in 2012, the rule provides for up to a 2% annual payment withhold that can be earned back by facilities that meet certain defined clinical performance standards.

The new payment system reimburses providers based on a single bundled or average payment for each Medicare treatment provided. The new
bundled payment amount is designed to cover all dialysis services that were historically included in the composite rate and all separately billable ESRD services such as pharmaceuticals and laboratory tests. This new bundled payment rate is adjusted
for certain patient characteristics, a geographic wage






index and certain other factors. The initial 2011 bundled payment rate includes reductions of 2% and 3.1%, respectively, to conform to the provisions of MIPPA and to establish budget neutrality.
Further, there is a 5.94% reduction tied to an expanded list of case mix adjustors which can be earned back based upon the presence of these certain patient characteristics and co-morbidities at the time of treatment. There are also other provisions
which may impact payment including an outlier pool and a low volume facility adjustment. Historically, services that were separately billable accounted for approximately 30% of our total dialysis and related lab revenues. Now the dialysis providers
are at risk for variations in pharmaceutical utilization since reimbursement set at a fixed average reimbursement rate. With regard to the expanded list of case-mix adjustors, these are difficult or, in some cases, have been impossible for our
dialysis clinics to document and track, which could result in a reduction in the reimbursement amounts that we would otherwise be entitled to receive.

We are attempting to reduce our operating costs to minimize the overall negative financial impact from the reductions in reimbursement for services we provide to Medicare patients. However, certain
operating expenditures, such as labor and supply costs, are subject to inflation, and without a compensating inflation-based increase in the new bundled payment rate system, could significantly impact our operating results.

We participated in two Medicare demonstration programs through a contract with CMS in 2010. One program was an ESRD demonstration program
that started in January 2006 and terminated in December 2010. This program was converted into a full service health care plan for ESRD patients in 2011, which is referred to as a Medicare Advantage ESRD Special Needs Plan that works with CMS to
provide ESRD patients full service health care. The revenue in 2010 was capitated for all medical services required by enrollees in the program. We are still at risk for all medical costs of the program in excess of the capitation payments. The
other program is a CKD/ESRD demonstration program which started in November 2008 and will continue for three years. We are paid a management fee for program enrollees relating to CKD and ESRD disease states. Management fee revenues are subject to
retraction if medical cost savings targets are not met.

Medicaid revenue

Medicaid programs are state-administered programs partially funded by the federal government. These programs are intended to provide
health coverage for patients whose income and assets fall below state-defined levels and who are otherwise uninsured. These programs also serve as supplemental insurance programs for co-insurance payments due from Medicaid-eligible patients with
primary coverage under Medicare. Some Medicaid programs also pay for additional services, including some oral medications that are not covered by Medicare. We are enrolled in the Medicaid programs in the states in which we conduct our business.

Commercial revenues






are sustained or increased job losses in the United States as a result of current economic conditions, or depending upon changes to the healthcare regulatory system, we could experience a
decrease in the number of patients covered under commercial plans.

Approximately 34% of our dialysis and related lab services
revenues and approximately 11% of our patients were associated with commercial payors for the year ended December 31, 2010. Less than 1% of our dialysis and related lab services revenues are due directly from patients. No single commercial
payor accounted for more than 5% of total dialysis and related lab services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010.

Revenue from EPO and other pharmaceuticals

Approximately 26% of our total dialysis and related lab services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 are associated with the administration of physician-prescribed pharmaceuticals that
improve clinical outcomes when included with the dialysis treatment. These pharmaceuticals include EPO, vitamin D analogs and iron supplements. However, as described above, the majority of these pharmaceuticals will no longer be separately billable
as a result of the new Medicare single bundled payment rate system effective in January 2011 as well as some of our new commercial contracts that implemented a single bundled payment rate.

EPO is an erythropoiesis stimulating agent, or ESA, genetically-engineered form of a naturally occurring protein that stimulates the
production of red blood cells. EPO is used in connection with all forms of dialysis to treat anemia, a medical complication most ESRD patients experience. The administration of EPO, which was separately billable under the Medicare payment program
through 2010, accounted for approximately 18% of our dialysis and related lab services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010.

Furthermore, EPO is produced by a single manufacturer, Amgen, who can unilaterally increase its price for EPO at any time during the term of our agreement with them. Any interruption of supply or product
cost increases could adversely affect our operations. In 2010, we experienced an increase in the cost of EPO of approximately 2%. In December 2010, we entered into a new Dialysis Organization Agreement (the “Agreement”) with Amgen USA
Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Amgen Inc. The Agreement sets forth the terms under which we and certain of our affiliates will purchase EPO. The Agreement, among other things, provides for discount pricing and rebates for EPO. Some of the
rebates are subject to various qualification requirements based on a variety of factors including process improvement targets, patient outcome targets and data submission. The term of the Agreement commenced January 1, 2011 and ends
June 30, 2011.

®






Physician relationships

An ESRD patient generally seeks treatment at an outpatient dialysis center near his or her home where his or her treating nephrologist has practice privileges. Our relationships with local nephrologists
and our ability to meet their needs and the needs of their patients are key factors in the success of our dialysis operations. Over 3,900 nephrologists currently refer patients to our outpatient dialysis centers. As is typical in the dialysis
industry, one or a few physicians, including the outpatient dialysis center’s medical director, usually account for all or a significant portion of an outpatient dialysis center’s patient base. If a significant number of physicians,
including an outpatient dialysis center’s medical directors, were to cease referring patients to our outpatient dialysis centers, our business could be adversely affected.

Participation in the Medicare ESRD program requires that dialysis services at an outpatient dialysis center be under the general
supervision of a medical director who is a licensed physician. We have engaged physicians or groups of physicians to serve as medical directors for each of our outpatient dialysis centers. At some outpatient dialysis centers, we also separately
contract with one or more physicians to serve as assistant or associate medical directors or to direct specific programs, such as home dialysis training programs. We have contracts with approximately 1,400 individual physicians and physician groups
to provide medical director services.

Medical directors enter into written contracts with us that specify their duties and
fix their compensation generally for periods of ten years. The compensation of our medical directors is the result of arm’s length negotiations and generally depends upon an analysis of various factors such as the physician’s duties,
responsibilities, professional qualifications and experience, among others.

Our medical director contracts generally include
covenants not to compete. Also, when we acquire an outpatient dialysis center from one or more physicians or where one or more physicians own minority interests in our outpatient dialysis centers, these physicians have agreed to refrain from owning
interests in other competing outpatient dialysis centers within a defined geographic area for various time periods. These agreements not to compete restrict the physicians from owning or providing medical director services to other outpatient
dialysis centers, but do not prohibit the physicians from referring patients to any outpatient dialysis center, including competing centers. Many of these agreements not to compete continue for a period of time beyond expiration of the corresponding
medical director agreements, although some expire at the same time as the medical director agreement. Occasionally, we experience competition from a new outpatient dialysis center established by a former medical director following the termination of
his or her relationship with us.

Government regulation

Our dialysis operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. These regulations require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, government
payment programs, dialysis facilities and equipment, management of centers, personnel qualifications, maintenance of proper records and quality assurance programs and patient care.

Because we are subject to a number of governmental regulations, our business could be adversely impacted by:



•Loss or suspension of federal certifications;

•Loss or suspension of licenses under the laws of any state or governmental authority from which we generate substantial revenues;

•Exclusion from government healthcare programs including Medicare and Medicaid;

•Significant reductions or lack of inflation-adjusted increases in payment rates or reduction of coverage for dialysis and ancillary services and
related pharmaceuticals;

•Fines, damages and monetary penalties for anti-kickback law violations, Stark Law violations, submission of false claims, civil or criminal liability
based on violations of law or other failures to meet regulatory requirements;






•Claims for monetary damages from patients who believe their protected health information has been used or disclosed in violation of federal and state
patient privacy laws;

•Mandated changes to our practices or procedures that significantly increase operating expenses; or

•Refunds of payments received from government payors and government health care program beneficiaries because of any failures to meet applicable
requirements.

We expect that our industry will continue to be subject to substantial regulation, the scope
and effect of which are difficult to predict. Our activities could be reviewed or challenged by regulatory authorities at any time in the future. This regulation and scrutiny could have a material adverse impact on us.

Licensure and Certification

Our dialysis centers are certified by CMS, as is required for the receipt of Medicare payments. In some states, our dialysis centers also are required to secure additional state licenses and permits.
Governmental authorities, primarily state departments of health, periodically inspect our centers to determine if we satisfy applicable federal and state standards and requirements, including the conditions of participation in the Medicare ESRD
program.

To date, we have not experienced significant difficulty in maintaining our licenses or our Medicare and Medicaid
authorizations. However, we have experienced delays in obtaining certifications from CMS.

CMS continues to study the
regulations applicable to Medicare certification to provide dialysis services. On April 15, 2008, CMS issued new regulations for Medicare-certified ESRD facilities to provide dialysis services, referred to as Conditions for Coverage. The
Conditions for Coverage were effective October 14, 2008, with some provisions having a phased in implementation date of February 1, 2009. The new regulations are patient, quality and outcomes focused. Among other things, they establish
performance expectations for facilities and staff, eliminate certain procedural requirements, and promote continuous quality improvement and patient safety measures. We have established an interdisciplinary work group to facilitate implementation of
the Conditions of Coverage and have developed comprehensive auditing processes to monitor ongoing compliance. We continue to assess the impact these changes will have on our operating results.

Federal anti-kickback statute

The “anti-kickback” statute contained in the Social Security Act imposes criminal and civil sanctions on persons who receive, make, offer or solicit payments in return for:



•The referral of a Medicare or Medicaid patient for treatment;

•The ordering or purchasing of items or services that are paid for in whole or in part by Medicare, Medicaid or similar federal and state programs; or

•Arranging for or recommending the ordering or purchasing of such items.

Federal criminal penalties for the violation of the anti-kickback statute include imprisonment, fines and exclusion of the provider from
future participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Violations of the anti-kickback statute are punishable by imprisonment for up to five years and fines of up to $250,000 or both. Larger fines can be imposed upon corporations under the
provisions of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the Alternate Fines Statute. Individuals and entities convicted of violating the anti-kickback statute are subject to mandatory exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal
healthcare programs for a minimum of five years. Civil penalties for violation of this law include up to $50,000 in monetary penalties per violation, repayments of up to three times the total payments between the parties and suspension from future
participation in Medicare and Medicaid. Court decisions have also held that the statute is violated whenever one of the purposes of remuneration is to induce referrals.






The Department of Health and Human Services regulations create exceptions or “safe
harbors” for some business transactions and arrangements. Transactions and arrangements structured within these safe harbors are deemed to not violate the anti-kickback statute. A business transaction or arrangement must satisfy every element
of a safe harbor to be protected by that safe harbor. Transactions and arrangements that do not satisfy all elements of a relevant safe harbor do not necessarily violate the statute, but can be subject to greater scrutiny by enforcement agencies.

Our medical directors refer patients to our centers, and these arrangements, by which we pay them for their medical director
services, must be in compliance with the federal anti-kickback statute. Among the available safe harbors is one for personal services furnished for fair market value. However, most of our agreements with our medical directors do not satisfy all
seven of the requirements of the personal services safe harbor. We believe that because of the nature of our medical directors’ duties, it is impossible to satisfy the anti-kickback safe-harbor requirement that if the services provided under
the agreement are on a part-time basis, as they are with our medical directors, the agreement must specify the schedule of intervals of service, their precise length and the exact charge for such intervals. Accordingly, while we believe that our
agreements with our medical directors satisfy as many of the elements of this safe harbor as we believe is reasonably possible, our arrangements do not qualify for safe harbor protection. We also note that there is little guidance available as to
what constitutes fair market value for medical director services. We believe that our agreements do not violate the federal anti-kickback statute; however, since the arrangements do not satisfy all of the requirements for safe harbor protection,
these arrangements could be challenged.

We own a controlling interest in numerous dialysis related joint ventures. These
joint ventures represented approximately 18% of our dialysis and related lab services revenues. In addition, we also own minority equity investments in several other dialysis related joint ventures. Our relationships with physicians and other
referral sources relating to these joint ventures are required to comply with the anti-kickback statute. Although there is a safe harbor for certain investment interests in “small entities,” it is not clear if any of our joint ventures
satisfies all of the requirements for protection by this safe harbor. Under current law, physician joint ventures are not prohibited but instead require a case-by-case evaluation under the anti-kickback statute. We have structured our joint ventures
to satisfy as many safe harbor requirements as we believe are reasonably possible. We believe that these investments are offered on a fair market value basis and provide returns to the physician investors only in proportion to their actual
investment in the venture. We believe that our agreements do not violate the federal anti-kickback statute; however, since the arrangements do not satisfy all of the requirements for safe harbor protection, these arrangements could be challenged.

We lease space for approximately 450 of our centers from entities in which physicians hold ownership interests and we
sublease space to referring physicians at approximately 200 of our dialysis centers. These arrangements must be in compliance with the anti-kickback statute. We believe that we meet the elements of the safe harbor for space rentals in all material
respects.

Some medical directors and other referring physicians may own our common stock. We believe that these interests
materially satisfy the requirements of the safe harbor for investments in large publicly traded companies for the anti-kickback statute.

Because we are purchasing and selling items and services in the operation of our centers that may be paid for, in whole or in part, by Medicare or a state healthcare program and because we acquire certain
items and services at a discount, we must structure these arrangements in compliance with the federal anti-kickback statute. Subject to certain requirements and limitations, discounts representing reductions in the amounts we are charged for items
or services based on arm’s-length transactions can qualify for safe harbor protection if we fully and accurately report the discounts in the applicable Medicare cost reports. While some of the safe harbor criteria are subject to interpretation,
we believe that our vendor contracts with discount provisions are in compliance with the anti-kickback statute.






Stark Law

CMS has adopted implementing regulations under the Stark Law, collectively, Stark Regulations. CMS has not yet adopted implementing
regulations regarding application of the Stark Law to Medicaid, but has indicated that it anticipates issuing additional regulations regarding the application of the Stark Law to Medicaid referrals.

The definition of DHS under the Stark Law excludes services paid under a composite rate, even if some of the components bundled in the
composite rate are DHS. Since most services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries provided in our dialysis centers are reimbursed through a composite rate, the services performed in our facilities generally are not DHS, and the Stark Law referral
prohibition does not apply to those services. The definition of DHS also excludes inpatient dialysis performed in hospitals that are not certified to provide ESRD services. Consequently, our arrangements with such hospitals for the provision of
dialysis services to hospital inpatients do not trigger the Stark Law referral prohibition.

In addition,
although prescription drugs are DHS, there is an exception in the Stark Regulations for EPO and other specifically enumerated dialysis drugs when furnished in or by an ESRD facility, in compliance with the anti-kickback statute and applicable
billing requirements. The exception is available only for drugs included on a list of CPT/HCPCS codes published by CMS, and in the case of home dialysis, the exception applies only to EPO, Aranesp®and equivalent drugs dispensed by the facility for use at home. While we believe that most drugs furnished by our dialysis centers are covered by the exception,
dialysis centers may administer drugs that are not on the list of CPT/HCPCS codes and therefore do not meet this exception. In order for a physician who has a financial relationship with a dialysis center to order one of these drugs from the center
and for the center to obtain Medicare reimbursement, another exception must apply.

We have entered into several types of
financial relationships with referring physicians, including compensation arrangements. We believe that the compensation arrangements under our medical director agreements satisfy the personal services compensation arrangement exception to the Stark
Law. While we believe that compensation under our medical director agreements, which is the result of arm’s length negotiations, results in fair market value payments for medical director services, an enforcement agency could nevertheless
challenge the level of compensation that we pay our medical directors. If the arrangement does not meet a Stark Law exception, we could in the future be required to change our practices, face civil penalties, pay substantial fines, return certain
payments received from Medicare and beneficiaries or otherwise experience a material adverse effect as a result of a challenge to payments made pursuant to referrals from these physicians under the Stark Law.

Some of our dialysis centers are leased from entities in which referring physicians hold interests and we sublease space to referring
physicians at some of our dialysis centers. The Stark Law provides an exception for lease arrangements if specific requirements are met. We believe that our leases and subleases with referring physicians satisfy the requirements for this exception.






Some medical directors and other referring physicians may own our common stock. We believe
that these interests satisfy the Stark Law exception for investments in large publicly traded companies.

Some of our
referring physicians also own equity interests in entities that operate our dialysis centers. None of the Stark Law exceptions applicable to physician ownership interests in entities to which they make DHS referrals applies to the kinds of ownership
arrangements that referring physicians hold in several of our subsidiaries that operate dialysis centers. Accordingly, these dialysis centers cannot bill Medicare for DHS referrals from physician owners. If the dialysis centers bill for DHS referred
by physician owners, the dialysis center would be subject to the Stark Law penalties described above.

While we believe that
most of our operations do not implicate the Stark Law, and that to the extent that our dialysis centers furnish DHS, they either meet an exception or do not bill for services that do not meet a Stark Law exception, if CMS determined that we have
submitted claims in violation to the Stark Law, we would be subject to the penalties described above. In addition, it might be necessary to restructure existing compensation agreements with our medical directors and to repurchase or to request the
sale of ownership interests in subsidiaries and partnerships held by referring physicians or, alternatively, to refuse to accept referrals for DHS from these physicians. Any such penalties and restructuring could have a material adverse effect on
our operations.

If any of our business transactions or arrangements, including those described above, were found to violate
the federal anti-kickback statute of Stark Law, we could face criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other state and federal healthcare programs. Any findings that we
have violated these laws could have a material adverse impact on our operations.

Fraud and abuse under state law

The False Claims Act

The federal False Claims Act, or FCA, is a means of policing false bills or false requests for payment in the healthcare
delivery system. In part, the FCA authorizes the imposition of up to three times the government’s damages and civil penalties on any person who:



•Knowingly presents or causes to be presented to the federal government, a false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval;






•Knowingly makes, uses or causes to be made or used, a false record or statement to get a false or fraudulent claim paid or approved by the federal
government;

•Conspires to defraud the federal government by getting a false or fraudulent claim allowed or paid; or

•Knowingly makes, uses or causes to be made or used, a false record or statement to conceal, avoid or decrease an obligation to pay or transmit money or
property to the federal government.

In addition, recent amendments to the FCA impose severe penalties for
the knowing and improper retention of overpayments collected from government payors. These amendments could subject our procedures for identifying and processing overpayments to greater scrutiny. We have made significant investments in additional
resources to accelerate the time it takes to identify and process overpayments and we may be required to make additional investments in the future. An acceleration in our ability to identify and process overpayments could result in us refunding
overpayments to government or other payors sooner than we have in the past. A significant acceleration of these refunds could have a material adverse affect on our operating cash flows.

The penalties for a violation of the FCA range from $5,500 to $11,000 for each false claim plus three times the amount of damages caused
by each such claim. The federal government has used the FCA to prosecute a wide variety of alleged false claims and fraud allegedly perpetrated against Medicare and state healthcare programs, including coding errors, billing for services not
rendered, the submission of false cost reports, billing for services at a higher payment rate than appropriate, billing under a comprehensive code as well as under one or more component codes included in the comprehensive code and billing for care
that is not considered medically necessary. Although still subject to dispute, several courts have also determined that a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute can form the basis for liability under the FCA, and filing claims or failing to
refund amounts collected in violation of the Stark Law can form the basis for liability under the FCA. In addition to the provisions of the FCA, which provide for civil enforcement, the federal government can use several criminal statutes to
prosecute persons who are alleged to have submitted false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government.

The
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996 and its implementing privacy and security regulations, as amended by the federal Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH Act) (collectively referred to as HIPAA), requires us to provide certain protections to
patients and their health information (Protected Health Information, or PHI). HIPAA requires us to afford patients certain rights regarding their PHI, and to limit uses and disclosure of their PHI existing in any media form (electronic and
hardcopy). HIPAA also requires us to implement administrative, physical, and technical safeguards with respect to electronic PHI. We believe our HIPAA Privacy and Security Program sufficiently address HIPAA requirements.

Other regulations

Our operations are subject to various state hazardous waste and non-hazardous medical waste disposal laws. These laws do not classify as hazardous most of the waste produced from dialysis services.
Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations require employers to provide workers who are occupationally subject to blood or other potentially infectious materials with prescribed protections. These regulatory requirements apply to all
healthcare facilities, including dialysis centers, and require employers to make a determination as to which employees may be exposed to blood or other potentially infectious materials and to have in effect a written exposure control plan. In
addition, employers are required to provide or employ hepatitis B vaccinations, personal protective equipment and other safety devices, infection control training, post-exposure evaluation and follow-up, waste disposal techniques and procedures and
work practice controls. Employers are also required to comply with various record-keeping requirements. We believe that we are in material compliance with these laws and regulations.






A few states have certificate of need programs regulating the establishment or expansion of
healthcare facilities, including dialysis centers. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable state certificate of need laws.

Corporate compliance program

Our dialysis operations are subject to
extensive federal, state and local government regulations. Management has designed and implemented a company-wide corporate compliance program as part of our commitment to comply fully with all applicable laws and regulations and to maintain the
high standards of conduct we expect from all of our teammates. We continuously review this program and enhance it as necessary. The primary purposes of the program include:



•Increasing, through training and education, the awareness of our teammates and affiliated professionals of the necessity of complying with all
applicable laws and regulations;

•Auditing and monitoring the activities of our dialysis centers, laboratories and billing offices on a regular basis to identify potential instances of
noncompliance in a timely manner;

•Establishing guidelines around physicians roles and responsibilities that require our physicians attest to their adherence to these guidelines on a
periodic basis; and

•Ensuring that we take steps to resolve instances of noncompliance or to address areas of potential noncompliance as promptly as we become aware of
them.

When evaluating the effectiveness of our corporate compliance program, we take into consideration a
number of factors, including favorable results under various government inquiries and adherence to industry standards.

We
have a code of conduct that each of our teammates and affiliated professionals must follow and we have a confidential toll-free hotline (888-458-5848) for teammates and patients to report potential instances of noncompliance. Our Chief Compliance
Officer administers the compliance program. The Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Operating Officer and to the Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors.

Insurance

We maintain
insurance for property and general liability, professional liability, directors’ and officers’ liability, workers compensation and other coverage in amounts and on terms deemed adequate by management based on our claims experience and
expectations for future claims. Future claims could, however, exceed our applicable insurance coverage. Physicians practicing at our dialysis centers are required to maintain their own malpractice insurance and our medical directors are required to
maintain coverage for their individual private medical practices. Our liability policies cover our medical directors for the performance of their duties as medical directors.

Capacity and location of our centers

We are able to increase our capacity
by extending hours at our existing centers, expanding our existing centers, relocating our centers, developing new centers and by acquiring centers. The development of a typical outpatient dialysis center by us generally requires approximately $2.0
million for leasehold improvements, equipment and first-year working capital. Based on our experience, a new center typically opens within a year after the property lease is signed, normally achieves operating profitability in the second year after
certification and normally reaches maturity within three to five years. Acquiring an existing outpatient dialysis center requires a substantially greater initial investment, but profitability and cash flow are generally initially more predictable.
To a limited extent, we enter into agreements to provide management and administrative services to outpatient dialysis centers in which we either own a minority equity investment, or are wholly-owned by third parties in return for management fees,
which are typically based on a percentage of revenues or cash collections of the managed operations.






The table below shows the growth of our company by number of dialysis centers.



20102009200820072006Number of centers at beginning of year1,5301,4491,3591,3001,233Acquired centers4119201626Developed centers6578866455Net change in centers with management and administrative services agreements*—8(3)1(15)(2)—Sold and closed centers**(10)(8)(9)(4)(5)(1)Closed centers***(14)(16)(8)(2)(9)Number of centers at end of year1,6121,5301,4491,3591,300



(1)Three centers were divested in connection with the acquisition of DVA Renal Healthcare.

(2)In November 2007, one of our management and administration service agreements was terminated, in which we provided management and administrative services to 20 dialysis
centers.

(3)During 2009, we made minority equity investments in 6 centers and we entered into 2 additional management and administrative service agreements.



*Represents dialysis centers in which we either own a minority equity investment, or are wholly-owned by third parties.

**Represents dialysis centers that were sold and/or closed in which patients were not retained.

***Represents dialysis centers that were closed and the majority of patients were retained and transferred to other existing dialysis centers.

As of December 31, 2010, we operated or provided administrative services to 1,612 outpatient dialysis centers, of which 1,580 are
consolidated in our financial statements. Of the remaining 32 unconsolidated outpatient dialysis centers, we own a minority equity investment in 18 centers and provide management and administrative services to 14 centers that are wholly-owned by
third parties. The locations of the 1,580 outpatient dialysis centers consolidated in our financial statements at December 31, 2010 were as follows:



StateCentersStateCentersStateCentersCalifornia203Indiana33Oregon15Florida133New York33Nebraska13Texas129Oklahoma30Massachusetts12Georgia100Colorado29Arkansas9Ohio73Kentucky29District of Columbia9Pennsylvania71Louisiana26Idaho8North Carolina59South Carolina26Utah4Illinois56Arizona23Mississippi3Michigan55New Jersey23New Mexico3Virginia55Washington21South Dakota3Maryland48Connecticut19West Virginia3Tennessee40Kansas18New Hampshire2Minnesota38Wisconsin17North Dakota2Missouri38Iowa16Alabama37Nevada16

Competition

The dialysis industry has consolidated significantly over time but remains highly competitive, particularly in terms of acquiring existing outpatient dialysis centers. We continue to face increased
competition in the dialysis industry from large and medium-sized providers who compete directly with us for the acquisition of dialysis businesses, relationships with physicians to act as medical directors and for individual patients. Acquisitions,






patient retention and relationships with physicians are an important part of our growth strategy and our business could be adversely affected if we are not able to continue to make acquisitions
on reasonable terms, experience significant patient attrition to our competitors and are not able to maintain or establish new relationships with physicians. Competition for qualified physicians to act as medical directors and for inpatient dialysis
services agreements with hospitals is also intense. Occasionally, we have also experienced competition from former medical directors or referring physicians who have opened their own dialysis centers. In addition, we experience competitive pressures
in connection with negotiating contracts with commercial healthcare payors.

The two largest dialysis companies, Fresenius
Medical Care, or Fresenius, and our company, account for approximately two-thirds of outpatient dialysis patients in the United States with our company serving approximately 30% of the total outpatient dialysis patients. Approximately 40% of the
centers not owned by us or Fresenius are owned or controlled by hospitals or non-profit organizations. Hospital-based and non-profit dialysis units typically are more difficult to acquire than physician-owned centers. Because of the ease of entry
into the dialysis business and the ability of physicians to be medical directors for their own centers, competition for growth in existing and expanding markets is not limited to large competitors with substantial financial resources.

Fresenius also manufactures a full line of dialysis supplies and equipment in addition to owning and operating dialysis centers. This may
give them cost advantages over us because of their ability to manufacture their own products. Fresenius has been one of our largest suppliers of dialysis products. In January 2010, we entered into an agreement with Fresenius which committed us to
purchase a certain amount of dialysis equipment, parts and supplies from them through 2013. In addition, in August 2006 in connection with the DVA Renal Healthcare acquisition, we also entered into a product supply agreement with Gambro Renal
Products that requires us to purchase a certain amount of our hemodialysis non-equipment product supplies, such as dialyzers, at fixed prices through 2015. Our purchases of products in these categories generally offered by both Fresenius and Gambro
Renal Products represent approximately 4% of our total operating expenses. During 2010, we purchased hemodialysis products and supplies from Gambro Renal Products representing approximately 2% of our total operating expenses.

Teammates

As of
December 31, 2010, we had approximately 36,500 teammates:



•    Licensed professional staff (nurses, dieticians and social workers)15,500•    Other patient care and center support staff and laboratory personnel16,000•    Corporate, billing and regional administrative staff5,000

Our dialysis business
requires nurses with specialized training for treating patients with complex care needs. Recruitment and retention of nurses are continuing concerns for healthcare providers due to short supply. We have an active program of investing in our
professional healthcare teammates to help ensure we meet our recruitment and retention targets, including expanded training opportunities, tuition reimbursements and other incentives.






