Item 1.Business

We were
incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1994. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are
made available free of charge through our website, located athttp://www.davita.com,as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The SEC also maintains a
website athttp://www.sec.govwhere these reports and other information about us can be obtained. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this report.

Overview

DaVita is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services
primarily in the United States for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure, also known as end stage renal disease, or ESRD. As of December 31, 2011, we provided dialysis and administrative services through a network of 1,809 outpatient
dialysis centers located in the United States throughout 43 states and the District of Columbia, serving a total of approximately 142,000 patients. We also provide acute inpatient dialysis services in approximately 900 hospitals and related
laboratory services throughout the United States. Our U.S. dialysis and related lab services business accounts for approximately 93% of our consolidated net operating revenues. Our other ancillary services and strategic initiatives accounted for
approximately 7% of our consolidated net operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, and relate primarily to our core business of providing kidney dialysis services.

In addition, as of December 31, 2011, we provided dialysis and administrative services to a total of 11 outpatient dialysis centers
located in three countries outside of the United States. Our international dialysis operations are currently in a start-up phase in which we primarily commenced operations during the fourth quarter of 2011. The total net operating revenues generated
from our international operations were not material during 2011 and are included as a component of our ancillary services and strategic initiatives. Therefore, all references in this document to dialysis and related lab services continue to refer
only to our U.S. dialysis and related lab services business for the year ended December 31, 2011.

The dialysis industry

The loss of kidney function is normally irreversible. Kidney failure is typically caused by Type I and Type II diabetes,
high blood pressure, polycystic kidney disease, long-term autoimmune attack on the kidney and prolonged urinary tract obstruction. ESRD is the stage of advanced kidney impairment that requires continued dialysis treatments or a kidney transplant to
sustain life. Dialysis is the removal of toxins, fluids and salt from the blood of ESRD patients by artificial means. Patients suffering from ESRD generally require dialysis at least three times a week for the rest of their lives.

According to United States Renal Data System, there were approximately 399,000 ESRD dialysis patients in the United States in 2009 and
the underlying ESRD dialysis patient population has grown at an approximate compound rate of 4.0% from 2000 to 2009, the latest period for which such data is available. The growth rate is attributable to the aging of the population, increased
incidence rates for diseases that cause kidney failure such as diabetes and hypertension, lower mortality rates for dialysis patients and growth rates of minority populations with higher than average incidence rates of ESRD.

Since 1972, the federal government has provided health care coverage for ESRD patients under the Medicare ESRD program regardless of age
or financial circumstances. ESRD is the first and only disease state eligible for Medicare coverage both for dialysis and dialysis-related services and for all benefits available under the Medicare program. Beginning in January 2011, Congress
established a new single bundled Medicare






payment rate system in which all ESRD payments are now made under a single bundled payment rate that provides for an annual inflation adjustment beginning in 2012, based upon a market basket
index, less a productivity improvement factor. The bundled payment rate provides a fixed payment rate to encompass all goods and services provided during the dialysis treatment, including pharmaceuticals that were historically separately reimbursed
to the dialysis providers, such as Epogen®, or EPO, vitamin D analogs and iron supplements, irrespective of the
level of pharmaceuticals administered or additional services performed. Most lab services that used to be paid directly to laboratories are also included in the new bundled payment. The new bundled payment rate is also adjusted for certain patient
characteristics, a geographic usage index and certain other factors.

Also, beginning January 1, 2014, certain oral-only
ESRD drugs (currently paid separately to pharmacies under Medicare Part D) will be included in the ESRD bundled payment to dialysis facilities. It is currently unclear how CMS will “price” the oral-only drugs for inclusion in the ESRD
bundle in 2014.

Although Medicare reimbursement limits the allowable charge per treatment, it provides industry participants
with a relatively predictable and recurring revenue stream for dialysis services provided to patients without commercial insurance. For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 89% of our total patients were under government-based
programs, with approximately 80% of our patients under Medicare and Medicare-assigned plans.

Treatment options for ESRD

Treatment options for ESRD are dialysis and kidney transplantation.

Dialysis Options



•Hemodialysis

Hemodialysis, the most common form of ESRD treatment, is usually performed at a freestanding outpatient dialysis center, at a hospital-based outpatient center, or at the patient’s home. The
hemodialysis machine uses an artificial kidney, called a dialyzer, to remove toxins, fluids and salt from the patient’s blood. The dialysis process occurs across a semi-permeable membrane that divides the dialyzer into two distinct chambers.
While blood is circulated through one chamber, a pre-mixed fluid is circulated through the other chamber. The toxins, salt and excess fluids from the blood cross the membrane into the fluid, allowing cleansed blood to return into the patient’s
body. Each hemodialysis treatment that occurs in the outpatient dialysis centers typically lasts approximately three and one-half hours and is usually performed three times per week.

Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services are required for patients with acute kidney failure resulting from trauma, patients in early
stages of ESRD, and ESRD patients who require hospitalization for other reasons. Hospital inpatient hemodialysis is generally performed at the patient’s bedside or in a dedicated treatment room in the hospital, as needed.

Some ESRD patients who are healthier and more independent may perform home-based hemodialysis in their home or residence through the use
of a hemodialysis machine designed specifically for home therapy that is portable, smaller and easier to use. Patients receive training, support and monitoring from registered nurses, usually in our outpatient dialysis centers, in connection with
their dialysis treatment. Home-based hemodialysis is typically performed with greater frequency than dialysis treatments performed in outpatient dialysis centers and on varying schedules.



•Peritoneal dialysis

Peritoneal dialysis uses the patient’s peritoneal or abdominal cavity to eliminate fluid and toxins and is typically performed at home. The most common methods of peritoneal dialysis are continuous
ambulatory peritoneal dialysis, or CAPD, and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis, or CCPD. Because it does not involve






going to an outpatient dialysis center three times a week for treatment, peritoneal dialysis is an alternative to hemodialysis for patients who are healthier, more independent and desire more
flexibility in their lifestyle. However, peritoneal dialysis is not a suitable method of treatment for many patients, including patients who are unable to perform the necessary procedures and those at greater risk of peritoneal infection.

CAPD introduces dialysis solution into the patient’s peritoneal cavity through a surgically placed catheter. Toxins in
the blood continuously cross the peritoneal membrane into the dialysis solution. After several hours, the patient drains the used dialysis solution and replaces it with fresh solution. This procedure is usually repeated four times per day.

CCPD is performed in a manner similar to CAPD, but uses a mechanical device to cycle dialysis solution through the
patient’s peritoneal cavity while the patient is sleeping or at rest.

Kidney transplantation

Although kidney transplantation, when successful, is generally the most desirable form of therapeutic intervention, the shortage of
suitable donors, side effects of immunosuppressive pharmaceuticals given to transplant recipients and dangers associated with transplant surgery for some patient populations limit the use of this treatment option.

Services we provide

Dialysis and
Related Lab Services

Outpatient dialysis services

As of December 31, 2011, we operated or provided administrative services through a network of 1,809 outpatient dialysis centers
located in the United States and 11 outpatient dialysis centers located outside the United States that are designed specifically for outpatient hemodialysis. In 2011, our overall network of outpatient dialysis centers increased by 208 primarily as a
result of acquisitions and the opening of new centers, net of center closures and divestitures, representing a total increase of approximately 13%. A large portion of this increase was driven from the acquisition of DSI, a medium sized dialysis
provider that we acquired in September 2011, that contributed a net 83 outpatient dialysis centers.

As a condition of our
enrollment in Medicare, we contract with a nephrologist or a group of affiliated nephrologists to provide medical director services at each of our centers. In addition, other nephrologists may apply for practice privileges to treat their patients at
our centers. Each center has an administrator, typically a registered nurse, who supervises the day-to-day operations of the center and its staff. The staff of each center typically consists of registered nurses, licensed practical or vocational
nurses, patient care technicians, a social worker, a registered dietician, biomedical technician support and other administrative and support personnel.

Many of our outpatient dialysis centers offer certain support services for dialysis patients who prefer and are able to perform either home-based hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis in their homes.
Home-based hemodialysis support services consist of providing equipment and supplies, training, patient monitoring, on-call support services and follow-up assistance. Registered nurses train patients and their families or other caregivers to perform
either home-based hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis.

Under Medicare regulations, we cannot promote, develop or maintain any
kind of contractual relationship with our patients which would directly or indirectly obligate a patient to use or continue to use our dialysis services, or which would give us any preferential rights other than those related to collecting payments
for our services. Our total patient turnover which is based upon all causes averaged approximately 30% per year for the last two years. However, in 2011 the overall number of patients to whom we furnished services in the U.S. increased by
approximately 13%, primarily from new centers and acquisitions, as well as continued growth within the industry and lower mortality rates.






Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services

As of December 31, 2011, we provided hospital inpatient hemodialysis services, excluding physician services, to patients in
approximately 900 hospitals throughout the United States. We render these services for a contracted per-treatment fee that is individually negotiated with each hospital. When a hospital requests our services, we typically administer the dialysis
treatment at the patient’s bedside or in a dedicated treatment room in the hospital, as needed. Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services are required for patients as discussed above. In 2011, hospital inpatient hemodialysis services accounted
for approximately 4.5% of our total U.S. dialysis treatments.

ESRD laboratory services

We own two separately incorporated, licensed, clinical laboratories which specialize in ESRD patient testing. These specialized
laboratories provide routine laboratory tests for dialysis and other physician-prescribed laboratory tests for ESRD patients. Our laboratories provide these tests predominantly for our network of ESRD patients throughout the United States. These
tests are performed to monitor a patient’s ESRD condition, including the adequacy of dialysis, as well as other medical conditions. Our laboratories utilize information systems which provide information to certain members of the dialysis
centers’ staff and medical directors regarding critical outcome indicators.

Management services

We currently operate or provide management and administrative services to 33 outpatient dialysis centers located in the United States and
3 outpatient dialysis centers located outside of the United States in which we either own a minority equity investment or are wholly-owned by third parties. These services are provided pursuant to management and administrative services agreements.
Management fees are established by contract and are recognized as earned typically based on a percentage of revenues or cash collections generated by the centers.

Ancillary services and strategic initiatives

Ancillary services and
strategic initiatives, which include our international dialysis operations, as described above, accounted for approximately 7% of our total consolidated net operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, consist primarily of the
following:



•Pharmacy services. DaVita Rx is a pharmacy that provides oral medications to DaVita’s patients with ESRD. The main objectives of the
pharmacy are to improve clinical outcomes by facilitating increased patient compliance and to provide our patients a convenient way to fill their prescription needs by delivering the prescriptions to the center where they are treated. Revenues are
recognized as prescriptions are filled and shipped to patients.



•Infusion therapy services.HomeChoice Partners provides comprehensive personalized infusion therapy services to patients typically in their
own homes as a cost-effective alternative to inpatient hospitalization. Intravenous and nutritional support therapies are typically managed by registered and/or board-certified professionals including pharmacists, nurses and dieticians in
collaboration with the patient’s physician in support of the patient’s ongoing health care needs. Revenues are recognized in the period when infusion therapy services are provided.



•Disease management services.VillageHealth provides advanced care management services to health plans and government agencies for
employees/members diagnosed with Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) or ESRD. Through a combination of clinical coordination, medical claims analysis and information technology, we endeavor to assist our customers and patients in obtaining superior renal
health care and improved clinical outcomes, as well as helping to reduce overall medical costs. Revenues are typically based upon an established contract fee and are recognized as earned over the contract period and can include additional fees for
cost savings recognized by certain customers.






•Vascular access services.Lifeline provides management and administrative services to physician-owned vascular access clinics that provide
surgical and interventional radiology services for dialysis patients. Lifeline also is the majority-owner of one vascular access clinic. Management fees generated from providing management and administrative services are recognized as earned
typically based on a percentage of revenues or cash collections generated by the clinics. Revenues associated with the vascular access clinic that is majority-owned are recognized in the period when physician services are provided.



•ESRD clinical research programs.DaVita Clinical Research conducts research trials principally with dialysis patients and provides
administrative support for research conducted by DaVita-affiliated nephrology practices. Revenues are based upon an established fee per study, as determined by contract with drug companies and other sponsors and are recognized as earned according to
the contract terms.



•Physician services.DaVita Nephrology Partners offers practice management and administrative services to physicians who specialize in
nephrology under management and administrative services agreements. Practice management and administrative services typically include operations management, IT support, billing and collections, credentialing and coding, and other support functions.
Management fees generated from providing practice management and administrative services to physician practices are recognized as earned typically based upon cash collections generated by the practices.

Quality care

We employ
200 clinical service teammates. The primary focus of this group is assuring and facilitating processes that aim to achieve superior clinical outcomes at our centers.

Our physician leadership in the Office of the Chief Medical Officer (OCMO) includes nine senior nephrologists, led by our Chief Medical Officer, with a variety of academic, clinical practice, and clinical
research backgrounds. Our Physician Council is an advisory body to senior management, currently composed of ten physicians with extensive experience in clinical practice in addition to the members of OCMO and currently six Group Medical Directors.

Sources of revenue—concentrations and risks

Our dialysis and related lab services business net operating revenues represent approximately 93% of our consolidated net operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, with the balance of
our revenues from ancillary services and strategic initiatives which also includes our international dialysis operations. Our dialysis and related lab services revenues are derived primarily from our core business of providing kidney dialysis
services, the administration of pharmaceuticals, related laboratory services and to a lesser extent management fees generated from providing management and administrative services to certain outpatient dialysis centers.

The sources of our dialysis and related lab services revenues are principally from government-based programs, including Medicare and
Medicare-assigned plans, Medicaid and Medicaid-assigned plans and commercial insurance plans.






The following table summarizes our dialysis and related lab services revenues by source for
the year ended December 31, 2011:



RevenuepercentagesMedicare and Medicare-assigned plans58%Medicaid and Medicaid-assigned plans5%Other government-based programs3%Total government-based programs66%Commercial (including hospital inpatient dialysis services)34%Total dialysis and related lab services revenues100%

The following table summarizes our dialysis and related lab services revenues by modality for the year
ended December 31, 2011:



RevenuepercentagesOutpatient hemodialysis centers81%Peritoneal dialysis and home-based hemodialysis14%Hospital inpatient hemodialysis5%Total dialysis and related lab services revenues100%

Medicare revenue

ESRD patients receiving dialysis services become eligible for
primary Medicare coverage at various times, depending on their age or disability status, as well as whether they are covered by an employer group health plan. Generally, for a patient not covered by an employer group health plan, Medicare becomes
the primary payor either immediately or after a three-month waiting period. For a patient covered by an employer group health plan, Medicare generally becomes the primary payor after 33 months, which includes a three month waiting period, or earlier
if the patient’s employer group health plan coverage terminates. When Medicare becomes the primary payor, the payment rate we receive for that patient shifts from the commercial insurance plan rate to the Medicare payment rate.






Medicare pays 80% of the amount set by the Medicare system for each covered treatment. The
patient is responsible for the remaining 20%. In most cases, a secondary payor, such as Medicare supplemental insurance, a state Medicaid program or a commercial health plan, covers all or part of these balances. Some patients, who do not qualify
for Medicaid but otherwise cannot afford secondary insurance, can apply for premium payment assistance from charitable organizations through a program offered by the American Kidney Fund. We and other dialysis providers support the American Kidney
Fund and similar programs through voluntary contributions. If a patient does not have secondary insurance coverage, we are generally unsuccessful in our efforts to collect from the patient the 20% portion of the ESRD composite rate that Medicare
does not pay. However, we are able to recover some portion of this unpaid patient balance from Medicare through an established cost reporting process by identifying these Medicare bad debts on each center’s Medicare cost report.

In 2011 we experienced a decrease in our operating costs primarily from a decline in the utilization of physician-prescribed
pharmaceuticals due to continued evolution of clinical practices which helped minimize the overall negative financial impact that we incurred from reductions in our reimbursement amounts for services we provide to Medicare patients. However, certain
operating expenditures, such as labor and supply costs, are subject to inflation, and without a compensating inflation-based increase in the new bundled payment rate system, could significantly impact our operating results. Our operating results can
also be impacted by the cost of physician-prescribed pharmaceuticals.

In 2011, we operated a Medicare Advantage ESRD Special
Needs Plan in partnership with a payor that works with CMS to provide ESRD patients full service health care. We are at risk for all medical costs of the program in excess of the capitation payments. We also participated in a CKD/ESRD demonstration
program until April 2011, when we terminated the program. We were paid a management fee for program enrollees relating to CKD and ESRD disease states, which are subject to retraction if certain medical cost savings targets were not met. The
demonstration program is still in the process of evaluating costs to determine whether these targets were actually met.

Medicaid revenue

Medicaid programs are state-administered programs partially funded by the federal government. These programs are intended to provide health coverage for patients whose income and assets fall below
state-defined levels and who are otherwise uninsured. These programs also serve as supplemental insurance programs for co-insurance payments due from Medicaid-eligible patients with primary coverage under Medicare. Some Medicaid programs also pay
for additional services, including some oral medications that are not covered by Medicare. We are enrolled in the Medicaid programs in the states in which we conduct our business.

Commercial revenues






are sustained or increased job losses in the United States as a result of current economic conditions, or depending upon changes to the healthcare regulatory system, we could experience a
decrease in the number of patients covered under commercial plans.

Approximately 34% of our dialysis and related lab services
revenues and approximately 11% of our patients were associated with commercial payors for the years ended December 31, 2011. Our commercial patients as a percentage of our total patients declined in 2011 and 2010, but the actual number of
commercial patients has increased during these same periods. In the fourth quarter of 2011, our actual percentage of commercial patients was approximately 10%. Less than 1% of our dialysis and related lab services revenues are due directly from
patients. No single commercial payor accounted for more than 6% of total dialysis and related lab services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011.

Revenue from EPO and other pharmaceuticals

Approximately 4% of our total
dialysis and related lab services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 are associated with the administration of physician-prescribed pharmaceuticals that are separately billable, which help improve clinical outcomes when included with
the dialysis treatment. These pharmaceuticals include EPO, vitamin D analogs and iron supplements.

EPO is an erythropoiesis
stimulating agent, or ESA, genetically-engineered form of a naturally occurring protein that stimulates the production of red blood cells. EPO is used in connection with all forms of dialysis to treat anemia, a medical complication most ESRD
patients experience. The administration of EPO, when separately billable, accounted for approximately 3% of our dialysis and related lab services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011.

These percentages represent a significant decrease from prior years in the amount of revenue that we generated from separately billable
pharmaceuticals as a result of implementing Medicare’s new single bundled payment rate system, whereby pharmaceuticals, including EPO, are now included in a single bundled payment. In addition, we also entered into some commercial contracts
covering certain patients that also pay us under a single bundled rate for all dialysis services provided to these patients.

EPO is produced by a single manufacturer, Amgen. Any interruption of supply or product cost increases could adversely affect our
operations. As an example, in 2011 we experienced an increase in the cost of EPO of approximately 5%. In November 2011, we entered into a seven year Sourcing and Supply Agreement with Amgen USA Inc. that expires on December 31, 2018. Under the
terms of the agreement we will purchase EPO in amounts necessary to meet no less than 90% of our requirements for erythropoiesis stimulations agents. The agreement replaces in its entirety the prior one-year supply agreement between us and Amgen
that expired on December 31, 2011. As long as certain conditions are met by us, the agreement limits Amgen’s ability to unilaterally decide to increase the price it charges us for EPO. The agreement, among other things, provides for
discounted pricing and rebates for EPO. Some of the rebates are subject to various conditions including future pricing levels of EPO by Amgen and data submission by us. In the initial years of the agreement the total rebate opportunity is less than
what was provided for in the agreement that expired as the end of 2011, however, the opportunity for us to earn discounts and rebates increases over the term of the agreement.

Since late 2006, there has been significant media discussion and government scrutiny regarding anemia management
practices in the United States, which has created confusion and concern in the nephrology community. In late 2006, the U.S. House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee held a hearing on the issue of the utilization of ESAs, which include EPO,
and in 2007, the FDA required changes to the labeling of EPO and Aranesp®to include a black box warning, the
FDA’s strongest form of warning label. An FDA advisory panel on ESA use met in October 2010, which meeting was similar to the prior meeting held in 2007 in that there was significant discussion and concern about the safety of ESAs. The
panel concluded it would not recommend a change in ESA labeling. However, the FDA is not bound by the panel’s recommendation. In June






2011, the FDA required that the black box warning be slightly revised and also include more conservative dosing recommendations for patients with chronic kidney disease. In addition, in June
2011, CMS opened a National Coverage Analysis, or NCA, for ESAs. Further, in January 2011, CMS convened a meeting of the Medicare Evidence Development and Coverage Advisory Committee, or MEDCAC, to evaluate evidence for the pending NCA. In June
2011, CMS determined not to issue a national coverage determination for ESAs due to a lack of available evidence to establish coverage criteria or limitations.

The forgoing congressional and agency activities and related actions could result in further restrictions on the utilization and reimbursement for ESAs. Commercial payors have also increasingly examined
their administration policies for EPO and, in some cases, have modified those policies. Further changes in labeling of EPO and other pharmaceuticals in a manner that alters physician practice patterns or accepted clinical practices, changes in
private and governmental payment criteria, including the introduction of EPO administration policies or the conversion to alternate types of administration of EPO or other pharmaceuticals that result in further decreases in utilization or
reimbursement for EPO and other pharmaceuticals, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows.

Physician
relationships

An ESRD patient generally seeks treatment at an outpatient dialysis center near his or her home where his or
her treating nephrologist has practice privileges. Our relationships with local nephrologists and our ability to meet their needs and the needs of their patients are key factors in the success of our dialysis operations. Approximately 4,300
nephrologists currently refer patients to our outpatient dialysis centers. As is typical in the dialysis industry, one or a few physicians, including the outpatient dialysis center’s medical director, usually account for all or a significant
portion of an outpatient dialysis center’s patient base. If a significant number of physicians, including an outpatient dialysis center’s medical directors, were to cease referring patients to our outpatient dialysis centers, our business
could be adversely affected.

Participation in the Medicare ESRD program requires that dialysis services at an outpatient
dialysis center be under the general supervision of a medical director who is a licensed physician. We have engaged physicians or groups of physicians to serve as medical directors for each of our outpatient dialysis centers. At some outpatient
dialysis centers, we also separately contract with one or more other physicians to serve as assistant or associate medical directors or to direct specific programs, such as home dialysis training programs. We have contracts with approximately 1,700
individual physicians and physician groups to provide medical director services.

Medical directors enter into written
contracts with us that specify their duties and fix their compensation generally for periods of ten years. The compensation of our medical directors is the result of arm’s length negotiations and generally depends upon an analysis of various
factors such as the physician’s duties, responsibilities, professional qualifications and experience, among others.

Our
medical director contracts generally include covenants not to compete. Also, when we acquire an outpatient dialysis center from one or more physicians or where one or more physicians own minority interests in our outpatient dialysis centers, these
physicians have agreed to refrain from owning interests in other competing outpatient dialysis centers within a defined geographic area for various time periods. These non-compete agreements restrict the physicians from owning or providing medical
director services to other outpatient dialysis centers, but do not prohibit the physicians from referring patients to any outpatient dialysis center, including competing centers. Many of these non-compete agreements continue for a period of time
beyond expiration of the corresponding medical director agreements, although some expire at the same time as the medical director agreement. Occasionally, we experience competition from a new outpatient dialysis center established by a former
medical director following the termination of his or her relationship with us.






Government regulation

Our dialysis operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. These regulations require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, government
payment programs, dialysis facilities and equipment, management of centers, personnel qualifications, maintenance of proper records and quality assurance programs and patient care.

Because we are subject to a number of governmental regulations, our business could be adversely impacted by:



•Loss or suspension of federal certifications;



•Loss or suspension of licenses under the laws of any state or governmental authority from which we generate substantial revenues;



•Exclusion from government healthcare programs including Medicare and Medicaid;



•Significant reductions or lack of inflation-adjusted increases in payment rates or reduction of coverage for dialysis and ancillary services and
related pharmaceuticals;



•Fines, damages and monetary penalties for anti-kickback law violations, Stark Law violations, submission of false claims, civil or criminal liability
based on violations of law or other failures to meet regulatory requirements;



•Claims for monetary damages from patients who believe their protected health information has been used or disclosed in violation of federal and state
patient privacy laws;



•Mandated changes to our practices or procedures that significantly increase operating expenses; or



•Refunds of payments received from government payors and government health care program beneficiaries because of any failures to meet applicable
requirements.

We expect that our industry will continue to be subject to substantial regulation, the scope
and effect of which are difficult to predict. Our activities could be reviewed or challenged by regulatory authorities at any time in the future. This regulation and scrutiny could have a material adverse impact on us.

Licensure and Certification

Our dialysis centers are certified by CMS, as is required for the receipt of Medicare payments. In some states, our dialysis centers also are required to secure additional state licenses and permits.
Governmental authorities, primarily state departments of health, periodically inspect our centers to determine if we satisfy applicable federal and state standards and requirements, including the conditions of participation in the Medicare ESRD
program.

To date, we have not experienced significant difficulty in maintaining our licenses or our Medicare and Medicaid
authorizations. However, we have experienced delays in obtaining certifications from CMS.

CMS continues to study the
regulations applicable to Medicare certification to provide dialysis services. On April 15, 2008, CMS issued new regulations for Medicare-certified ESRD facilities to provide dialysis services, referred to as Conditions for Coverage. The
Conditions for Coverage were effective October 14, 2008, with some provisions having a phased in implementation date of February 1, 2009. The regulations are patient, quality and outcome focused. Among other things, they establish
performance expectations for facilities and staff, eliminate certain procedural requirements, and promote continuous quality improvement and patient safety measures. We have established an interdisciplinary work group that includes a comprehensive
auditing process to monitor our continued compliance with the Conditions of Coverage.






Federal anti-kickback statute

The “anti-kickback” statute contained in the Social Security Act imposes criminal and civil sanctions on persons who receive,
make, offer or solicit payments in return for:



•The referral of a Medicare or Medicaid patient for treatment;



•The ordering or purchasing of items or services that are paid for in whole or in part by Medicare, Medicaid or similar federal and state programs; or



•Arranging for or recommending the ordering or purchasing of such items.

Federal criminal penalties for the violation of the anti-kickback statute include imprisonment, fines and exclusion of the provider from
future participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Violations of the anti-kickback statute are punishable by imprisonment for up to five years and fines of up to $250,000 or both. Larger fines can be imposed upon corporations under the
provisions of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the Alternate Fines Statute. Individuals and entities convicted of violating the anti-kickback statute are subject to mandatory exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal
healthcare programs for a minimum of five years. Civil penalties for violation of this law include up to $50,000 in monetary penalties per violation, repayments of up to three times the total payments between the parties and suspension from future
participation in Medicare and Medicaid. Court decisions have also held that the statute is violated whenever one of the purposes of remuneration is to induce referrals.

The Department of Health and Human Services regulations create exceptions or “safe harbors” for some business transactions and arrangements. Transactions and arrangements structured within these
safe harbors are deemed to not violate the anti-kickback statute. A business transaction or arrangement must satisfy every element of a safe harbor to be protected by that safe harbor. Transactions and arrangements that do not satisfy all elements
of a relevant safe harbor do not necessarily violate the statute, but can be subject to greater scrutiny by enforcement agencies.

Our medical directors refer patients to our centers, and these arrangements, by which we pay them for their medical director services, must be in compliance with the federal anti-kickback statute. Among
the available safe harbors is one for personal services furnished for fair market value. However, most of our agreements with our medical directors do not satisfy all seven of the requirements of the personal services safe harbor. We believe that
because of the nature of our medical directors’ duties, it is impossible to satisfy the anti-kickback safe-harbor requirement that services provided under an agreement on a part-time basis must specify the schedule of intervals of service, and
their precise length and the exact charge for such intervals. Accordingly, while we believe that our agreements with our medical directors satisfy as many of the elements of this safe harbor as we believe is reasonably possible, our arrangements do
not qualify for safe harbor protection, as precise scheduling is not possible. We also note that there is little guidance available as to what constitutes fair market value for medical director services. We believe that our agreements do not violate
the federal anti-kickback statute; however, since the arrangements do not satisfy all of the requirements for safe harbor protection, these arrangements could be challenged.

We own a controlling interest in numerous dialysis related joint ventures. These joint ventures represented approximately 18% of our dialysis and related lab services revenues. In addition, we also own
minority equity investments in several other dialysis related joint ventures. Our relationships with physicians and other referral sources relating to these joint ventures are required to comply with the anti-kickback statute. Although there is a
safe harbor for certain investment interests in “small entities,” it is not clear if any of our joint ventures satisfies all of the requirements for protection by this safe harbor. Under current law, physician joint ventures are not
prohibited but instead require a case-by-case evaluation under the anti-kickback statute. We have structured our joint ventures to satisfy as many safe harbor requirements as we believe are reasonably possible. We believe that these investments are
offered on a fair market value basis and provide returns to the physician investors only in proportion to their actual investment in the venture. We believe that our agreements do not violate the federal anti-kickback statute; however, since the
arrangements do not satisfy all of the requirements for safe harbor protection, these arrangements could be challenged.






We lease space for approximately 560 of our centers from entities in which physicians hold
ownership interests and we sublease space to referring physicians at approximately 220 of our dialysis centers. These arrangements must be in compliance with the anti-kickback statute. We believe that we meet the elements of the safe harbor for
space rentals in all material respects.

Some medical directors and other referring physicians may own our common stock. We
believe that these interests materially satisfy the requirements of the safe harbor for investments in large publicly traded companies for the anti-kickback statute.

Because we are purchasing and selling items and services in the operation of our centers that may be paid for, in whole or in part, by Medicare or a state healthcare program and because we acquire certain
items and services at a discount, we must structure these arrangements in compliance with the federal anti-kickback statute. Subject to certain requirements and limitations, discounts representing reductions in the amounts we are charged for items
or services based on arm’s-length transactions can qualify for safe harbor protection if we fully and accurately report the discounts in the applicable Medicare cost reports. While some of the safe harbor criteria are subject to interpretation,
we believe that our vendor contracts with discount provisions are in compliance with the anti-kickback statute.

Stark Law

CMS has adopted implementing regulations under the Stark Law,
collectively, Stark Regulations. CMS has not yet adopted implementing regulations regarding application of the Stark Law to Medicaid, but has indicated that it anticipates issuing additional regulations regarding the application of the Stark Law to
Medicaid referrals.

The definition of DHS under the Stark Law excludes services paid under a composite rate, even if some of
the components bundled in the composite rate are DHS. Although the new ESRD bundled payment system is no longer titled a “composite rate”, we believe that the former composite rate payment system and the current bundled system are both
composite systems excluded from the Stark Law. Since most services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries provided in our dialysis centers are reimbursed through a composite or bundled rate, the services performed in our facilities generally are not
DHS, and the Stark Law referral prohibition does not apply to those services. The definition of DHS also excludes inpatient dialysis performed in hospitals that are not certified to provide ESRD services. Consequently, our arrangements with such
hospitals for the provision of dialysis services to hospital inpatients do not trigger the Stark Law referral prohibition.

In
addition, although prescription drugs are DHS, there is an exception in the Stark Regulations for EPO and other specifically enumerated dialysis drugs when furnished in or by an ESRD facility, in compliance with the






anti-kickback statute and applicable billing requirements. The exception is available only for drugs included on a list of CPT/HCPCS codes published by CMS, and in the case of home dialysis, the
exception applies only to EPO, Aranesp®and equivalent drugs dispensed by the facility for use at home. While we
believe that most drugs furnished by our dialysis centers are covered by the exception, dialysis centers may administer drugs that are not on the list of CPT/HCPCS codes and therefore do not meet this exception. In order for a physician who has a
financial relationship with a dialysis center to order one of these drugs from the center and for the center to obtain Medicare reimbursement, another exception must apply.

We have entered into several types of financial relationships with referring physicians, including compensation arrangements. We believe that the compensation arrangements under our medical director
agreements satisfy the personal services compensation arrangement exception to the Stark Law. While we believe that compensation under our medical director agreements, which is the result of arm’s length negotiations, results in fair market
value payments for medical director services, an enforcement agency could nevertheless challenge the level of compensation that we pay our medical directors. If the arrangement does not meet a Stark Law exception, we could in the future be required
to change our practices, face civil penalties, pay substantial fines, return certain payments received from Medicare and beneficiaries or otherwise experience a material adverse effect as a result of a challenge to payments made pursuant to
referrals from these physicians under the Stark Law.

Some of our dialysis centers are leased from entities in which referring
physicians hold interests and we sublease space to referring physicians at some of our dialysis centers. The Stark Law provides an exception for lease arrangements if specific requirements are met. We believe that our leases and subleases with
referring physicians satisfy the requirements for this exception.

Some medical directors and other referring physicians may
own our common stock. We believe that these interests satisfy the Stark Law exception for investments in large publicly traded companies.

Some of our referring physicians also own equity interests in entities that operate our dialysis centers. None of the Stark Law exceptions applicable to physician ownership interests in entities to which
they make DHS referrals applies to the kinds of ownership arrangements that referring physicians hold in several of our subsidiaries that operate dialysis centers. Accordingly, these dialysis centers cannot bill Medicare for DHS referrals from
physician owners. If the dialysis centers bill for DHS referred by physician owners, the dialysis center would be subject to the Stark Law penalties described above.

While we believe that most of our operations do not implicate the Stark Law, particularly under the new ESRD bundled payment system, and that to the extent that our dialysis centers furnish DHS, they
either meet an exception or do not bill for services that do not meet a Stark Law exception, if CMS determined that we have submitted claims in violation to the Stark Law, we would be subject to the penalties described above. In addition, it might
be necessary to restructure existing compensation agreements with our medical directors and to repurchase or to request the sale of ownership interests in subsidiaries and partnerships held by referring physicians or, alternatively, to refuse to
accept referrals for DHS from these physicians. Any such penalties and restructuring could have a material adverse effect on our operations.

If any of our business transactions or arrangements, including those described above, were found to violate the federal anti-kickback statute of Stark Law, we could face criminal, civil or administrative
sanctions, including possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other state and federal healthcare programs. Any findings that we have violated these laws could have a material adverse impact on our operations.

Fraud and abuse under state law

Many states in which we operate dialysis centers have statutes prohibiting physicians from holding financial interests in various types of medical facilities to which they refer patients. Some of these
statutes could be interpreted as prohibiting physicians who hold shares of our publicly traded stock from referring patients to our






The False Claims Act

The federal False Claims Act, or FCA, is a means of
policing false bills or false requests for payment in the healthcare delivery system. In part, the FCA authorizes the imposition of up to three times the government’s damages and civil penalties on any person who:



•Knowingly presents or causes to be presented to the federal government, a false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval;



•Knowingly makes, uses or causes to be made or used, a false record or statement to get a false or fraudulent claim paid or approved by the federal
government;



•Conspires to defraud the federal government by getting a false or fraudulent claim allowed or paid; or



•Knowingly makes, uses or causes to be made or used, a false record or statement to conceal, avoid or decrease an obligation to pay or transmit money or
property to the federal government.

In addition, recent amendments to the FCA impose severe penalties for
the knowing and improper retention of overpayments collected from government payors. These amendments could subject our procedures for identifying and processing overpayments to greater scrutiny. We have made significant investments in additional
resources to accelerate the time it takes to identify and process overpayments and we may be required to make additional investments in the future. An acceleration in our ability to identify and process overpayments could result in us refunding
overpayments to government or other payors sooner than we have in the past. A significant acceleration of these refunds could have a material adverse affect on our operating cash flows.

The penalties for a violation of the FCA range from $5,500 to $11,000 for each false claim plus three times the amount of damages caused
by each such claim. The federal government has used the FCA to prosecute a wide variety of alleged false claims and fraud allegedly perpetrated against Medicare and state healthcare programs, including coding errors, billing for services not
rendered, the submission of false cost reports, billing for services at a higher payment rate than appropriate, billing under a comprehensive code as well as under one or more component codes included in the comprehensive code and billing for care
that is not considered medically necessary. Although still subject to dispute, several courts have also determined that a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute can form the basis for liability under the FCA, and filing claims or failing to
refund amounts collected in violation of the Stark Law can form the basis for liability under the FCA. In addition to the provisions of the FCA, which provide for civil enforcement, the federal government can use several criminal statutes to
prosecute persons who are alleged to have submitted false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government.






The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing privacy and security regulations, as amended by the
federal Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH Act) (collectively referred to as HIPAA), requires us to provide certain protections to patients and their health information (Protected Health Information, or PHI).
HIPAA requires us to afford patients certain rights regarding their PHI, and to limit uses and disclosure of their PHI existing in any media form (electronic and hardcopy). HIPAA also requires us to implement administrative, physical, and technical
safeguards with respect to electronic PHI. We believe our HIPAA Privacy and Security Program sufficiently address HIPAA requirements.

Other regulations

Our operations are subject to various state hazardous
waste and non-hazardous medical waste disposal laws. These laws do not classify as hazardous most of the waste produced from dialysis services. Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations require employers to provide workers who are
occupationally subject to blood or other potentially infectious materials with prescribed protections. These regulatory requirements apply to all healthcare facilities, including dialysis centers, and require employers to make a determination as to
which employees may be exposed to blood or other potentially infectious materials and to have in effect a written exposure control plan. In addition, employers are required to provide or employ hepatitis B vaccinations, personal protective equipment
and other safety devices, infection control training, post-exposure evaluation and follow-up, waste disposal techniques and procedures and work practice controls. Employers are also required to comply with various record-keeping requirements. We
believe that we are in material compliance with these laws and regulations.

A few states have certificate of need programs
regulating the establishment or expansion of healthcare facilities, including dialysis centers. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable state certificate of need laws.

Corporate compliance program

Our dialysis operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulations. Management has designed and implemented a company-wide corporate compliance program as part of our
commitment to comply fully with all applicable laws and regulations and to maintain the high standards of conduct we expect from all of our teammates. We continuously review this program and enhance it as necessary. The primary purposes of the
program include:



•Increasing, through training and education, the awareness of our teammates and affiliated professionals of the necessity of complying with all
applicable laws and regulations;



•Auditing and monitoring the activities of our dialysis centers, laboratories and billing offices on a regular basis to identify potential instances of
noncompliance in a timely manner;



•Establishing guidelines around physicians roles and responsibilities that require our physicians attest to their adherence to these guidelines on a
periodic basis; and



•Ensuring that we take steps to resolve instances of noncompliance or to address areas of potential noncompliance as promptly as we become aware of
them.

When evaluating the effectiveness of our corporate compliance program, we take into consideration a
number of factors, including favorable results under various government inquiries and adherence to industry standards.

We
have a code of conduct that each of our teammates and affiliated professionals must follow and we have a confidential toll-free hotline (888-458-5848) for teammates and patients to report potential instances of noncompliance. Our Chief Compliance
Officer administers the compliance program. The Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Operating Officer and to the Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors.






Insurance

We maintain insurance for property and general liability, professional liability, directors’ and officers’ liability, workers compensation and other coverage in amounts and on terms deemed
adequate by management based on our actual claims experience and expectations for future claims. Future claims could, however, exceed our applicable insurance coverage. Physicians practicing at our dialysis centers are required to maintain their own
malpractice insurance and our medical directors are required to maintain coverage for their individual private medical practices. Our liability policies cover our medical directors for the performance of their duties as medical directors at our
outpatient dialysis centers.

Capacity and location of our centers

We are able to increase our capacity by extending hours at our existing centers, expanding our existing centers, relocating our centers,
developing new centers and by acquiring centers. The development of a typical outpatient dialysis center by us generally requires approximately $2.5 million for leasehold improvements, equipment and first-year working capital. Based on our
experience, a new center typically opens within a year after the property lease is signed, normally achieves operating profitability in the second year after certification and normally reaches maturity within three to five years. Acquiring an
existing outpatient dialysis center requires a substantially greater initial investment, but profitability and cash flow are generally initially more predictable. To a limited extent, we enter into agreements to provide management and administrative
services to outpatient dialysis centers in which we either own a minority equity investment, or are wholly-owned by third parties in return for management fees, which are typically based on a percentage of revenues or cash collections of the managed
operations.

The table below shows the growth of our company by number of dialysis centers.



20112010200920082007Number of centers at beginning of year1,6121,5301,4491,3591,300Acquired centers178(1)41192016Developed centers6565788664Net change in centers with management and administrative services agreements*4—8(2)1(15)(3)Sold and closed centers**(32)(1)(10)(8)(9)(4)Closed centers***(7)(14)(16)(8)(2)Number of centers at end of year1,8201,6121,5301,4491,359



(1)In 2011, we acquired 113 dialysis centers and divested a total of 30 centers in connection with the acquisition of DSI.

(2)During 2009, we made minority equity investments in 6 centers and we entered into 2 additional management and administrative service agreements.

(3)In November 2007, one of our management and administration service agreements was terminated, in which we provided management and administrative services to 20 dialysis
centers.

*Represents dialysis centers in which we either own a minority equity investment, or are wholly-owned by third parties.

**Represents dialysis centers that were sold and/or closed in which patients were not retained.

***Represents dialysis centers that were closed and the majority of patients were retained and transferred to one of our other existing outpatient dialysis centers.






As of December 31, 2011, we operated or provided administrative services to a total of
1,820 outpatient dialysis centers, of which 1,809 are located in the United States and 11 are located in three countries outside of the United States. A total of 1,784 are consolidated in our financial statements. Of the remaining 36 unconsolidated
outpatient dialysis centers, we own a minority equity investment in 19 centers and provide management and administrative services to 17 centers, of which three centers are located outside of the United States, that are wholly-owned by third parties.
The locations of the 1,784 outpatient dialysis centers consolidated in our financial statements at December 31, 2011 were as follows:



StateCentersStateCentersStateCentersCalifornia216New York40Kansas19Texas151Minnesota39Nevada18Florida139Kentucky32Nebraska14Georgia105Oklahoma31Massachusetts13Ohio84Colorado30Mississippi11Pennsylvania75New Jersey30District of Columbia9Illinois70Wisconsin28Idaho9North Carolina62Louisiana27Utah4Michigan56South Carolina26New Mexico4Virginia55Arizona25West Virginia4Maryland51Washington25South Dakota3Indiana48Connecticut21New Hampshire2Tennessee47Iowa20North Dakota2Missouri46Oregon20Rhode Island1Alabama44Arkansas20InternationalCentersIndia6Germany2

Competition

The U.S. dialysis industry has consolidated significantly over time but still remains highly competitive, particularly in terms of acquiring existing outpatient dialysis centers. We continue to face
increased competition in the U.S. dialysis industry from large and medium-sized providers who compete directly with us for the acquisition of dialysis businesses, relationships with physicians to act as medical directors and for individual patients.
In addition, as we continue our international dialysis expansion into various international markets, we will face competition from large and medium-sized providers for these acquisition targets as well. Acquisitions, developing new outpatient
dialysis centers, patient retention and physician relationships are an important part of our growth strategy and our business could be adversely affected if we are not able to continue to make acquisitions on reasonable terms, experience significant
patient attrition to our competitors and are not able to maintain or establish new relationships with physicians. Competition for qualified physicians to act as medical directors and for inpatient dialysis services agreements with hospitals is also
intense. Occasionally, we have also experienced competition from former medical directors or referring physicians who have opened their own dialysis centers. In addition, we experience competitive pressures in connection with negotiating contracts
with commercial healthcare payors.

The two largest dialysis companies, Fresenius Medical Care, or Fresenius, and our company,
account for approximately two-thirds of outpatient dialysis patients in the United States with our company serving approximately 32% of the total outpatient dialysis patients. Approximately 47% of the centers not owned by us or Fresenius are owned
or controlled by hospitals or non-profit organizations. Hospital-based and non-profit dialysis units typically are more difficult to acquire than physician-owned centers. Because of the ease of entry into the dialysis business and the ability of
physicians to be medical directors for their own centers, competition for growth in existing and expanding markets is not limited to large competitors with substantial financial resources.






Fresenius also manufactures a full line of dialysis supplies and equipment in addition to
owning and operating outpatient dialysis centers. This may give them cost advantages over us because of their ability to manufacture their own products. However, Fresenius has been one of our largest suppliers of dialysis products. In January 2010,
we entered into an agreement with Fresenius which committed us to purchase a certain amount of dialysis equipment, parts and supplies from them through 2013. In addition, in August 2006 in connection with the DVA Renal Healthcare acquisition, we
also entered into a product supply agreement with Gambro Renal Products that requires us to purchase a certain amount of our hemodialysis non-equipment product supplies, such as dialyzers, at fixed prices through 2015. Our purchases of products in
these categories generally offered by both Fresenius and Gambro Renal Products represent approximately 4% of our total operating expenses. During 2011, we purchased hemodialysis products and supplies from Gambro Renal Products representing
approximately 2% of our total operating expenses.

Teammates

As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 41,000 teammates:



•     Licensed professional staff (nurses, dieticians and social workers)18,000•     Other patient care and center support staff and laboratory personnel17,500•     Corporate, billing and regional administrative staff5,500

Our dialysis business requires nurses with specialized training for treating patients with complex care
needs. Recruitment and retention of nurses are continuing concerns for healthcare providers due to short supply. We have an active program of investing in our professional healthcare teammates to help ensure we meet our recruitment and retention
targets, including expanded training opportunities, tuition reimbursements and other incentives.






