Item 1A — Risk Factors

Oversight of Risk and Related Processes

The goal of Xcel Energy's risk management process is to understand and manage material risk; management is responsible for
identifying and managing the risks, while directors oversee and hold management accountable. Our risk management process has three parts: identification and analysis, management and mitigation, and
communication and disclosure. Xcel Energy management identifies and analyzes risks to determine materiality and other attributes like timing, probability and controllability.

Management
broadly considers our business, the utility industry, the domestic and global economy, and the environment to identify risks. Identification and analysis occurs formally through a key risk
assessment process conducted by senior management, the securities disclosure process, the hazard risk management process, and internal auditing and compliance with financial and operational controls.
Management also identifies and analyzes risk through its business planning process and development of goals and key performance indicators, which include risk identification to determine barriers to
implementing Xcel Energy's strategy. At the same time, the business planning process identifies areas where a business area may take inappropriate risk to meet goals.

The
goal of the risk management process is to mitigate the risks inherent in the implementation of Xcel Energy's strategy. The process for risk management and mitigation includes our code of conduct
and other compliance policies, formal structures and groups, and overall business management. At a threshold level, Xcel Energy has developed a robust compliance program and promotes a culture of
compliance, which mitigates risk. In addition to the code of conduct, Xcel Energy has a robust compliance program, including policies, training and reporting options.

Building
on the culture of compliance, Xcel Energy manages and mitigates risks through formal structures and groups, including management councils, risk committees, and the services of corporate areas
such as internal audit, the corporate controller and legal services. While Xcel Energy has developed a number of formal structures for risk management, many material risks affect the business as a
whole and are managed across business areas.

Xcel
Energy confronts legislative and regulatory policy and compliance risks, including risks related to climate change and emission of CO2and risks for recovery of capital and operating
costs; resource planning and other long-term planning risks, including resource acquisition risks; financial risks, including credit, interest rate and capital market risks; and
macroeconomic risks, including risks related to economic conditions and changes in demand for Xcel Energy's products and services. Cross-cutting risks such as these are discussed and managed across
business areas and coordinated by Xcel Energy's senior management.

Management
provides information to the Board in presentations and communications over the course of the Board calendar. Senior management presents an assessment of key risks to the Board annually. The
presentation of the key risks and the discussion provides the Board with information on the risks management believes are material, including the earnings impact, timing, likelihood and
controllability. Based on this presentation, the Board reviews risks at an enterprise level and confirms risk management and mitigation are included in Xcel Energy's strategy.

The
guidelines on corporate governance and committee charters define the scope of review and inquiry for the Board and committees. The standing committees also oversee risk management as part of their
charters. Each committee has responsibility for overseeing aspects of risk and Xcel Energy's management and mitigation of the risk. The Board has overall responsibility for risk oversight. As
described above, the Board reviews the key risk assessment process presented by senior management. This key risk assessment analyzes the most likely areas of future risk to Xcel Energy. The Board also
reviews the performance and annual goals of each business area. This review, when combined with the oversight of specific risks by the committees, allows the Board to confirm risk is considered in the
development of goals and that risk has been adequately considered and mitigated in the execution of corporate strategy.

Risks Associated with Our Business

Our profitability depends in part on the ability of our utility subsidiaries to recover their costs from their customers and there may be changes in circumstances or in the
regulatory environment that impair the ability of our utility subsidiaries to recover costs from their customers.

We are subject to comprehensive regulation by federal and state utility regulatory agencies. The utility commissions in the states where we operate
our utility subsidiaries regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that we can charge customers. The FERC has
jurisdiction, among other things, over wholesale rates for electric transmission service, the sale of electric energy in interstate commerce and certain natural gas transactions in interstate
commerce.









Management
currently believes these prudently incurred costs are recoverable given the existing regulatory mechanisms in place. However, changes in regulations or the imposition of additional
regulations, including additional environmental regulation or regulation related to climate change, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and hence could materially and adversely
affect our ability to meet our financial obligations, including debt payments and the payment of dividends on our common stock.

Any reductions in our credit ratings could increase our financing costs and the cost of maintaining certain contractual relationships.

We cannot be assured that any of our current ratings or our subsidiaries' ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating
will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. In addition, our credit ratings may change as a result of the differing methodologies or change in the methodologies used by the various
rating agencies. For example, Standard & Poor's calculates an imputed debt associated with capacity payments from purchase power contracts. An increase in the overall level of capacity payments
would increase the amount of imputed debt, based on Standard & Poor's methodology. Therefore, Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries credit ratings could be adversely affected based on the level of
capacity payments associated with purchase power contracts or changes in how imputed debt is determined. Any downgrade could lead to higher borrowing costs.

We are subject to interest rate risk.

If interest rates increase, we may incur increased interest expense on variable interest rate debt, short-term borrowings or incremental
long-term debt, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results.

We are subject to capital market risk.

Utility operations require significant capital investment in property, plant and equipment; consequently, we are an active participant in debt and
equity markets. Any disruption in capital markets could have a material impact on our ability to fund our operations. Capital markets are global in nature and are impacted by numerous events
throughout the world economy. Capital market disruption events, such as the collapse in the U. S. sub-prime mortgage market and subsequent broad financial market stress, could prevent us
from issuing new securities or cause us to issue securities with less than ideal terms and conditions, such as higher interest rates.

We are subject to credit risks.

Credit risk includes the risk that our retail customers will not pay their bills, which may lead to a reduction in liquidity and an eventual increase
in bad debt expense. Retail credit risk is comprised of numerous factors including the overall economy and the price of products and services provided.

Credit
risk also includes the risk that various counterparties that owe us money or product will breach their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be
forced to enter into alternative arrangements. In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected and we could incur losses.









One
alternative available to address counterparty credit risk is to transact on liquid commodity exchanges. The credit risk is then socialized through the exchange central clearinghouse function.
While exchanges do remove counterparty credit risk, all participants are subject to margin requirements, which create an additional need for liquidity to post margin as exchange positions change value
daily. Additional margin requirements could impact our liquidity.

We
may at times have direct credit exposure in our short-term wholesale and commodity trading activity to various financial institutions trading for their own accounts or issuing
collateral support on behalf of other counterparties. We may also have some indirect credit exposure due to participation in organized markets such as the PJM Interconnection and MISO in which any
credit losses are socialized to all market participants.

We
do have additional indirect credit exposures to various financial institutions in the form of letters of credit provided as security by power suppliers under various long-term physical
purchased power contracts. If any of the credit ratings of the letter of credit issuers were to drop below the designated investment grade rating stipulated in the underlying long-term
purchased power contracts, the supplier would need to replace that security with an acceptable substitute. If the security were not replaced, the party would be in technical default under the
contract, which would enable us to exercise our contractual rights.

We are subject to commodity risks and other risks associated with energy markets and energy production.

We engage in wholesale sales and purchases of electric capacity, energy and energy-related products and are subject to market supply and commodity
price risk. Commodity price changes can affect the value of our commodity trading derivatives. We mark certain derivatives to estimated fair market value on a daily basis
(mark-to-market accounting), which may cause earnings volatility. Actual settlements can vary significantly from these estimates, and significant changes from the assumptions
underlying our fair value estimates could cause significant earnings variability.

If
we encounter market supply shortages, we may be unable to fulfill contractual obligations to our retail, wholesale and other customers at previously authorized or anticipated costs. Any such supply
shortages could cause us to seek alternative supply services at potentially higher costs or suffer increased liability for unfulfilled contractual obligations. Any significantly higher energy or fuel
costs relative to corresponding sales commitments would have a negative impact on our cash flows and could potentially result in economic losses. Potential market supply shortages may not be fully
resolved through alternative supply sources and such interruptions may cause short-term disruptions in our ability to provide electric and/or natural gas services to our customers. The
impact of these cost and reliability issues vary in magnitude for each operating subsidiary depending upon unique operating conditions such as generation fuels mix, availability of water for cooling,
availability of fuel transportation, electric generation capacity, transmission, etc.

We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, with which compliance could be difficult and costly.

We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that affect many aspects of our past, present and future operations, including air emissions,
water quality, wastewater discharges and the generation, transport and disposal of solid wastes and hazardous substances. These laws and regulations require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety
of environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Environmental laws and regulations can also require us to restrict or limit the output of certain facilities or the
use of certain fuels, to install pollution control equipment at our facilities, clean up spills and correct environmental hazards and other contamination. Both public officials and private individuals
may seek to enforce the applicable environmental laws and regulations against us. We may be required to pay all or a portion of the cost to remediate (i.e. clean-up) sites where our
past activities, or the activities of certain other parties, caused environmental contamination. At Dec. 31, 2009, these sites included:

•Sites of former MGPs operated by our subsidiaries, predecessors, or other entities; and•Third party sites, such as landfills, for which we are alleged to be a potentially responsible party that sent hazardous
materials and wastes.

We
are also subject to mandates to provide customers with clean energy, renewable energy and energy conservation offerings. These mandates are designed in part to mitigate the potential environmental
impacts of utility operations. Failure to meet the requirements of these mandates may result in fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If our
regulators do not allow us to recover all or a part of the cost of capital investment or the O&M costs incurred to comply with the mandates, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.









In
addition, existing environmental laws or regulations may be revised, new laws or regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to us, including but not limited
to regulation of mercury, NOx, SO2, CO2, particulates and coal ash. We may also incur additional unanticipated obligations or liabilities under existing environmental laws and
regulations.

We are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change.

To
the extent climate change impacts a region's economic health, it may also impact our revenues. Our financial performance is tied to the health of the regional economies we serve. The price of
energy, as a factor in a region's cost of living as well as an important input into the cost of goods and services, has an impact on the economic health of our communities. The cost of additional
regulatory requirements, such as a tax on GHGs or additional environmental regulation could impact the availability of goods and prices charged by our suppliers which would normally be borne by
consumers through higher prices for energy and purchased goods. To the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of GHGs as a financial risk, this could negatively affect our ability
to access capital markets or cause us to receive less than ideal terms and conditions.

We may be subject to legislative and regulatory responses to climate change, with which compliance could be difficult and costly.

Legislative and regulatory responses related to climate change and new interpretations of existing laws through climate change litigation create
financial risk. Increased public awareness and concern may result in more regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of GHGs. Numerous states have announced or adopted
programs to stabilize and reduce GHG and federal legislation has been introduced in both houses of Congress. Our electric generating facilities are likely to be subject to regulation under climate
change laws introduced at either the state or federal level within the next few years.

The
EPA has taken steps to regulate GHGs under the CAA. On Dec. 7, 2009, the EPA issued a finding that GHG emissions endanger public health and welfare and that motor vehicle emissions
contribute to the GHGs in the
atmosphere. This endangerment finding creates a mandatory duty for the EPA to regulate GHGs from light duty motor vehicles. The EPA has proposed to finalize GHG efficiency standards for light duty
vehicles by spring 2010. Thereafter, the EPA anticipates phasing-in permit requirements and regulation of GHGs for large stationary sources, such as power plants, in calendar year 2011. We
are also currently a party to climate change lawsuits and may be subject to additional climate change lawsuits, including lawsuits similar to those described in Note 17, Commitments and
Contingent Liabilities, in our notes to the consolidated financial statements. While we believe such lawsuits are without merit, an adverse outcome in any of these cases could require substantial
capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties or damages. Defense costs associated with such litigation can also be
significant. Such payments or expenditures could affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.









For
further discussion, see Management's Discussion and Analysis and Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.

Our subsidiary, NSP-Minnesota, is subject to the risks of nuclear generation.

NSP-Minnesota's two nuclear stations, Prairie Island and Monticello, subject it to the risks of nuclear generation, which
include:

•The risks associated with storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials and the current lack of a
long-term disposal solution for radioactive materials;•Limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection
with nuclear operations; and•Uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of
licensed lives.

The
NRC has authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to
impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised NRC safety requirements could necessitate substantial
capital expenditures at NSP-Minnesota's nuclear plants. In addition, the Institute for Nuclear Power Operations (INPO) reviews our nuclear operations and nuclear generation facilities.
Compliance with INPO recommendations could result in substantial capital expenditures or a substantial increase in operating expenses.

If
an incident did occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Furthermore, the non-compliance of other nuclear facilities operators
with applicable regulations or the occurrence of a serious nuclear incident at other facilities could result in increased regulation of the industry as a whole, which could then increase
NSP-Minnesota's compliance costs and impact the results of operations of its facilities.

Economic conditions could negatively impact our business.

Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions. The consequences of a prolonged recession may include a lower level
of economic activity and uncertainty with respect to energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may
adversely affect our revenues and future growth. Instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, also may affect the cost of capital and our ability to raise capital,
which are discussed in greater detail in the capital market risk section above.

Current
economic conditions may be exacerbated by insufficient financial sector liquidity leading to potential increased unemployment, and may impact customers' ability to pay timely, increase
customer bankruptcies, and may lead to increased bad debt. It is expected that commercial and industrial customers will be impacted first with residential customers following, if such circumstances
occur. See credit risk section for more related information.









Further,
worldwide economic activity has an impact on the demand for basic commodities needed for utility infrastructure, such as steel, copper, aluminum, etc., which may impact our ability to acquire
sufficient supplies. Additionally, the cost of those commodities may be higher than expected.

Our utility operations are subject to long-term planning risks.

On a periodic basis, or as needed, our utility operations file long-term resource plans with our regulators. These plans are based on
numerous assumptions over the relevant planning horizon such as: sales growth, economic activity, costs, regulatory mechanisms, impact of technology on sales and production, customer response and
continuation of the existing utility business model. Given the uncertainty in these planning assumptions, there is a risk that the magnitude and timing of resource additions and demand may not
coincide. This could lead to under recovery of costs or insufficient resources to meet customer demand.

Our operations could be impacted by war, acts of terrorism, threats of terrorism or disruptions in normal operating conditions due to localized or regional events.

Our generation plants, fuel storage facilities, transmission and distribution facilities and information systems may be targets of terrorist
activities that could disrupt our ability to produce or distribute some portion of our energy products. Any such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant
additional costs to repair and insure our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The potential for terrorism has subjected our
operations to increased risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have already incurred increased costs for security and capital expenditures in response to these risks,
we may experience additional capital and operating costs to implement security for our plants, including our nuclear power plants under the NRC's design basis threat requirements, such as additional
physical plant security and additional security personnel. We have also already incurred increased costs for compliance with NERC reliability standards associated with critical infrastructure
protection, and may experience additional capital and operating costs to implement the NERC critical infrastructure protection standards as they are implemented and clarified.

The
insurance industry has also been affected by these events and the availability of insurance covering risks we and our competitors typically insure against may decrease. In addition, the insurance
we are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms.

A
disruption of the regional electric transmission grid, interstate natural gas pipeline infrastructure or other fuel sources, could negatively impact our business. Because our generation,
transmission systems and local natural gas distribution companies are part of an interconnected system, we face the risk of possible loss of business due to a disruption caused
by the actions of a neighboring utility or an event (severe storm, severe temperature extremes, generator or transmission facility outage, pipeline rupture, railroad disruption, sudden and significant
increase or decrease in wind generation, or any disruption of work force such as may be caused by flu epidemic) within our operating systems or on a neighboring system. Any such disruption could
result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results.

We are subject to business continuity risks associated with our ability to respond to unforeseen events.

The term business continuity refers to the ability of an entity to maintain day-to-day operations in response to unforeseen
events. While the immediate response to such events may be part of a pre-existing disaster recovery plan, business continuity is a broader concept that refers to how well the company
responds to subsequent pressures on its day-to-day operations. The company's response may have been initially triggered by an event, but when combined with other factors, it
has an even greater and longer lasting impact on the firm's on going business operations.

Our
response to unforeseen events will, in part, determine the financial impact of the event on our financial condition and results. It's difficult to predict the magnitude of such events and
associated impacts.

We are subject to information security risks.

A security breach of our information systems could subject us to financial harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of
information, including, but not limited to, customer or system operating information. We are unable to quantify the potential impact of such an event.











Rising energy prices could negatively impact our business.

Higher fuel costs could significantly impact our results of operations if requests for recovery are unsuccessful. In addition, higher fuel costs
could reduce customer demand or increase bad debt expense, which could also have a material impact on our results of operations. Delays in the timing of the collection of fuel cost recoveries as
compared with expenditures for fuel purchases could have an impact on our cash flows. We are unable to predict future prices or the ultimate impact of such prices on our results of operations or cash
flows.

Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and can be adversely affected by milder weather.

Our electric and natural gas utility businesses are seasonal businesses, and weather patterns can have a material impact on our operating
performance. Demand for electricity is often greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial heating,
the demand for this product depends heavily upon weather patterns throughout our service territory, and a significant amount of natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters
related to the heating season. Accordingly, our operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are milder in the winter and cooler in the summer. Unusually
mild winters and summers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Our natural gas distribution activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs.

There are inherent in our natural gas distribution activities a variety of hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, explosions and mechanical
problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our
operations and substantial losses to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses.

The
occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. For our distribution lines located near
populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damages resulting from these risks is greater.

Increased risks of regulatory penalties could negatively impact our business.

The Energy Act increased the FERC's civil penalty authority for violation of FERC statutes, rules and orders. The FERC can now impose penalties of
$1 million per violation per day. In addition, more than 120 electric reliability standards that were historically subject to voluntary compliance are now mandatory and subject to potential
financial penalties by NERC or FERC for violations. If a serious reliability incident did occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial results.

Increasing costs associated with our defined benefit retirement plans and other employee benefits may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or
liquidity.

We have defined benefit pension and postretirement plans that cover substantially all of our employees. Assumptions related to future costs, return
on investments, interest rates and other actuarial assumptions have a significant impact on our funding requirements related to these plans. These estimates and assumptions may change based on
economic conditions, actual stock market performance, changes in interest rates and changes in governmental regulations. In addition, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 changed the minimum funding
requirements for defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2008. Therefore, our funding requirements and related contributions may change in the future.

Increasing costs associated with health care plans may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or liquidity.

The costs of providing health care benefits to our employees and retirees have increased substantially in recent years. We believe that our employee
benefit costs, including costs related to health care plans for our employees and former employees, will continue to rise. The increasing costs and funding requirements associated with our health care
plans may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or liquidity.











We must rely on cash from our subsidiaries to make dividend payments.

We are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. Substantially all of our operations are conducted by our
subsidiaries. Consequently, our operating cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and pay dividends depends upon the operating cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds by
them to us in the form of dividends. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that have no obligation to pay any amounts due pursuant to our obligations or to make any funds available for that
purpose or for dividends on our common stock, whether by dividends or otherwise. In addition, each subsidiary's ability to pay dividends to us depends on any statutory and/or contractual restrictions
that may be applicable to such subsidiary, which may include requirements to maintain minimum levels of equity ratios, working capital or assets. Also, our utility subsidiaries are regulated by
various state utility commissions, which generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are being met.

If
our utility subsidiaries were to cease making dividend payments, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and preferred stock or otherwise meet our financial obligations could be adversely
affected.

