ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties relating to future events and the future performance of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Regeneron," "Company," "we," "us," and "our"), and actual events or results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Words such as "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "estimate," variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. These statements concern, and these risks and uncertainties include, among others, the nature, timing, and possible success and therapeutic applications of our products, product candidates, and research and clinical programs now underway or planned, including without limitation Regeneron's human genetics initiative; unforeseen safety issues resulting from the administration of products and product candidates in patients, including serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our product candidates in clinical trials; the likelihood and timing of possible regulatory approval and commercial launch of our late-stage product candidates and new indications for marketed products, including without limitation EYLEA

®

, PRALUENT

TM

General

Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious medical conditions. We commercialize medicines for eye diseases, colorectal cancer, and a rare inflammatory condition and have product candidates in development in other areas of high unmet medical need, including hypercholesterolemia, oncology, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), asthma, and atopic dermatitis.

Our total revenues were$2,819.6 millionin2014, compared to$2,104.7 millionin2013and$1,378.5 millionin2012. Our net income was$348.1 million, or$3.07per diluted share, in2014, compared to$424.4 million, or$3.81per diluted share, in2013, and$750.3 million, or$6.75per diluted share, in2012. Net income in 2012 included an income tax benefit of $335.8 million, primarily attributable to the release of substantially all of the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Refer to Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations" below for further details of our financial results.

We currently have three marketed products:

•EYLEA (aflibercept) Injection, known in the scientific literature as VEGF Trap-Eye, which is available in the United States, European Union (EU), Japan, and certain other countries outside the United States for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration (wet AMD) and macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO). In addition, in July 2014, August 2014, and November 2014, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), European Commission, and Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW), respectively, approved EYLEA for the treatment of diabetic macular edema (DME). In September 2014, the Japanese MHLW approved EYLEA for myopic choroidal neovascularization (mCNV). In October 2014, the FDA approved EYLEA for the treatment of macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (RVO), which includes macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO). In November 2014, the FDA accepted for priority review the supplemental biologics application (sBLA) for EYLEA for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME, with a target action date of March 30, 2015. We are collaborating with Bayer HealthCare on the global development and commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States. Regulatory applications have been submitted for EYLEA in Europe and Japan for the treatment of macular edema following BRVO.









In January 2015, the European Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) recommended EYLEA for approval for the treatment of visual impairment due to macular edema secondary to CRVO or BRVO.

•ZALTRAP®(ziv-aflibercept) Injection for Intravenous Infusion, known in the scientific literature as VEGF Trap, which is available in the United States, EU, and certain other countries for treatment, in combination with 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan (FOLFIRI), of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen. Regulatory applications for marketing authorization of ZALTRAP for the treatment of previously treated mCRC patients in other countries have also been submitted and are currently under review by the respective regulatory agencies. We and Sanofi globally collaborate on the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP.

•ARCALYST®(rilonacept) Injection for Subcutaneous Use, which is available in the United States for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS), including Familial Cold Auto-inflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) and Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), in adults and children 12 years and older.

We have 17 product candidates in clinical development, all of which were discovered in our research laboratories. These consist of two Trap-based clinical programs and 15 fully human monoclonal antibody product candidates, as summarized below. Each of the antibodies in the table below was generated using ourVelocImmune®technology.





Trap-based Clinical Programs

EYLEA

In Phase 3 clinical development for the treatment of wet AMD (Asia) and DME (Asia) in collaboration with Bayer HealthCare. As described below, EYLEA is also being studied in combination with (i) an antibody to Platelet Derived Growth Factor Receptor Beta (PDGFR-beta), and (ii) an antibody to angiopoietin-2 (Ang2).

ZALTRAP

In Phase 3 clinical development in metastatic colorectal cancer in the Asia-Pacific region (in collaboration with Sanofi).

Antibody-based Clinical Programs in Collaboration with Sanofi

PRALUENT (alirocumab/REGN727)

Antibody to PCSK9. In Phase 3 clinical development for low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol reduction and for the prevention of cardiovascular events.

Sarilumab (REGN88)

Antibody to the interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R). In clinical development in rheumatoid arthritis (Phase 3) and non-infectious uveitis (Phase 2).

Dupilumab (REGN668)

Antibody to the interleukin-4 receptor (IL-4R) alpha subunit. In clinical development in atopic dermatitis (Phase 3), asthma (Phase 2b), chronic sinusitis with nasal polyps (CSwNP) (Phase 2), and eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) (Phase 2).

REGN1033

Antibody to myostatin (GDF8). In Phase 2 clinical development in skeletal muscle disorders.

REGN2222

Antibody against respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). Phase 1 clinical study initiated in the second quarter of 2014. In the fourth quarter of 2014, Sanofi provided notice to Regeneron that it had elected not to continue co-development of REGN2222 effective December 2015, and will be entitled to receive royalties on any future sales of the product candidate.

Antibody-based Clinical Programs in Collaboration with Bayer HealthCare

REGN2176-3

Combination product comprised of an antibody to PDGFR-beta co-formulated with EYLEA for use in ophthalmology, via intravitreal administration. Phase 1 clinical study for the treatment of wet AMD initiated in the first quarter of 2014.









Antibody-based Clinical Programs Developing IndependentlyREGN1908-1909*Antibody combination in Phase 1/Phase 2 clinical development against allergic disease.REGN1400Antibody to ErbB3. In Phase 1 clinical development in oncology.REGN1154*Antibody against an undisclosed target. Phase 1 clinical study in Australia completed.REGN1500*Antibody to Angptl-3 in Phase 1 clinical development. Studies are ongoing under a partial clinical hold by the FDA that excludes women of childbearing potential.REGN1193*Antibody in Phase 1 clinical development against an undisclosed target.REGN1979Bispecific antibody against both CD20 and CD3 for use in oncology. Phase 1 clinical study initiated in the third quarter of 2014.REGN910-3**Combination product comprised of an antibody to Ang2 co-formulated with EYLEA for use in ophthalmology, via intravitreal administration. Phase 1 clinical study initiated in the fourth quarter of 2014.REGN2810Antibody to PD-1. Phase 1 clinical study in oncology initiated in the first quarter of 2015.Fasinumab (REGN475)*Antibody to Nerve Growth Factor (NGF). In development for the treatment of pain; currently on partial clinical hold by the FDA limiting duration of trials in osteoarthritis to 16 weeks.

*Sanofi did not opt-in to or elected not to continue to co-develop the product candidate and we have sole global rights. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of the product candidate.**We acquired from Sanofi full exclusive rights to antibodies targeting the Ang2 receptor and ligand in ophthalmology, which were previously included in our antibody collaboration with Sanofi. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive a potential development milestone and royalties on any future sales of the product candidate.

Development of REGN2009, which was an antibody in Phase 1 clinical development against an undisclosed target, was discontinued in the second quarter of 2014. In addition, nesvacumab (REGN910), an antibody to Ang2, and enoticumab (REGN421), an antibody to Delta-like ligand-4 (Dll4), both of which were previously in Phase 1 studies in oncology, are no longer in clinical development.

Our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, and to combine that foundation with our clinical development, manufacturing, and commercial capabilities. We are executing our long-term objective to build a successful, integrated, multi-product biopharmaceutical company that provides patients and medical professionals with innovative options for preventing and treating human diseases.

We believe that our ability to develop product candidates is enhanced by the application of ourVelociSuite®technology platforms. Our discovery platforms are designed to identify specific proteins of therapeutic interest for a particular disease or cell type and validate these targets through high-throughput production of genetically modified mice using ourVelociGene®technology to understand the role of these proteins in normal physiology, as well as in models of disease. Our human monoclonal antibody technology (VelocImmune) and cell line expression technologies (VelociMab®) may then be utilized to discover and produce new product candidates directed against the disease target. Our antibody product candidates currently in clinical trials were developed usingVelocImmune. We continue to invest in the development of enabling technologies to assist in our efforts to identify, develop, manufacture, and commercialize new product candidates.

In early 2014, we launched a new human genetics initiative via a wholly owned subsidiary, Regeneron Genetics Center LLC (RGC). RGC performs sequencing and genotyping to generate de-identified genomic data. The objective of RGC is to expand the use of human genetics for discovering and validating genetic factors that cause or influence a range of diseases where there are major unmet medical needs, with the prospect of improving the drug discovery and development process. RGC is undertaking both large population-based efforts as well as family-based approaches. RGC leverages laboratory automation and an innovative approach to cloud computing to achieve high-quality throughput at a rate that exceeds 50,000 unique samples per year.









Marketed Products

EYLEA (aflibercept) Injection

In September 2014, based on data from the VIVID-DME and VISTA-DME trials, the FDA granted EYLEA Breakthrough Therapy designation for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME. In November 2014, the FDA accepted for priority review the sBLA for EYLEA for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME, with a target action date of March 30, 2015.

We are collaborating with Bayer HealthCare on the global development and commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States. Bayer HealthCare markets, and records revenue from sales of, EYLEA outside the United States, where, for countries other than Japan, the companies share equally the profits and losses from sales of EYLEA. In Japan, we are entitled to receive a percentage of the sales of EYLEA. We maintain exclusive rights to EYLEA in the United States and are entitled to all profits from such sales.

Net product sales of EYLEA in the United States were$1,736.4 millionin 2014,$1,408.7 millionin 2013, and$837.9 millionin 2012. Bayer HealthCare records revenue from sales of EYLEA outside the United States. EYLEA net product sales outside of the United States were$1,038.5 millionin 2014,$472.1 millionin 2013, and$19.0 millionin 2012.

ZALTRAP (ziv-aflibercept) Injection for Intravenous Infusion

We and Sanofi globally collaborate on the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP, and share profits and losses from commercialization of ZALTRAP, except for Japan, where we are entitled to receive a percentage of the sales of ZALTRAP. ZALTRAP net product sales, which are recorded by Sanofi, commenced in the United States in August 2012 and in Europe in the first quarter of 2013, and were$91.4 millionin 2014,$70.2 millionin 2013, and$31.7 millionin 2012. Regulatory applications for marketing authorization of ZALTRAP for the treatment of previously treated mCRC patients in other countries have also been submitted and are currently under review by the respective regulatory agencies.

ARCALYST (rilonacept) Injection for Subcutaneous Use

ARCALYST is available in the United States for the treatment of CAPS in adults and children 12 years and older. CAPS are a group of rare, inherited, auto-inflammatory conditions characterized by life-long, recurrent symptoms of rash, fever/chills, joint pain, eye redness/pain, and fatigue. Intermittent, disruptive exacerbations or flares can be triggered at any time by exposure to cooling temperatures, stress, exercise, or other unknown stimuli. Net product sales of ARCALYST were$14.4 millionin 2014,$17.1 millionin 2013, and$20.2 millionin 2012.









Trap-based Clinical Programs

EYLEA - Ophthalmologic Diseases

Overview

Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) is a naturally occurring protein in the body. Its normal role in a healthy organism is to trigger formation of new blood vessels (angiogenesis) supporting the growth of the body's tissues and organs. However, in certain diseases, such as wet AMD, it is also associated with the growth of abnormal new blood vessels in the eye, which exhibit abnormal increased permeability that leads to edema. Scarring and loss of fine-resolution central vision often results. CRVO is caused by obstruction of the central retinal vein that leads to a back-up of blood and fluid in the retina. Release of VEGF contributes to increased vascular permeability in the eye and macular edema. In BRVO, a blockage occurs in the blood vessels branching from the main vein draining the retina, resulting in the release of VEGF and consequent retinal edema. For centrally involved DME, VEGF-mediated leakage of fluid from blood vessels in the eye results in interference with vision. Wet AMD, diabetic retinopathy (which includes DME), and retinal vein occlusion are three of the leading causes of adult blindness in the developed world. In these conditions, severe visual loss is caused by neovascular proliferation and/or retinal edema.

EYLEA is a recombinant fusion protein, consisting of portions of human VEGF receptors 1 and 2 extracellular domains fused to the Fc portion of human IgG1 and formulated as an iso-osmotic solution for intravitreal administration. EYLEA acts as a soluble decoy receptor that binds VEGF-A and placental growth factor (PlGF) and thereby can inhibit the binding and activation of these cognate VEGF receptors. EYLEA is specially purified and contains iso-osmotic buffer concentrations, allowing for injection into the eye.

DME

Phase 3 VISTA-DME and VIVID-DME Trials.  We are conducting the VISTA-DME study in the United States. Bayer HealthCare is conducting the VIVID-DME study in Europe, Japan, and Australia. Patients in both trials were randomized to receive either EYLEA 2 mg monthly, EYLEA 2 mg every two months (after 5 initial monthly injections), or the comparator treatment of laser photocoagulation.

Based on the results of the Phase 3 VISTA-DME and VIVID-DME trials of EYLEA for the treatment of DME at 52 weeks, we submitted an sBLA for U.S. regulatory approval of EYLEA in DME and in July 2014, the FDA approved EYLEA for the treatment of DME. Bayer HealthCare also submitted an application for marketing approval for the treatment of DME in the EU, and the European Commission approved EYLEA for the treatment of visual impairment due to DME in August 2014. Bayer HealthCare has made regulatory submissions in other markets within Asia Pacific and Latin America.

Both the VIVID-DME and VISTA-DME trials will continue as planned up to 148 weeks.

In September 2014, based on data from the VIVID-DME and VISTA-DME trials, the FDA granted EYLEA Breakthrough Therapy designation for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME. In November 2014, the FDA accepted for priority review the sBLA for EYLEA for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME, with a target action date of March 30, 2015.

Phase 3 VIVID-Japan and VIVID EAST-DME Studies.In the first quarter of 2014, Bayer HealthCare reported positive results from an additional Phase 3 safety study in Japan (VIVID-Japan), which did not change the overall safety profile for EYLEA in DME. The Japanese MHLW approved EYLEA for the treatment of DME in November 2014. In February 2013, we and Bayer HealthCare also initiated another Phase 3 study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of EYLEA in DME in Russia, China, and other Asian countries (VIVID EAST-DME). This trial is fully enrolled.

Macular Edema Following RVO

Phase 3 VIBRANT Study. Based on the results of the VIBRANT study, a supplemental BLA for U.S. regulatory approval of EYLEA in BRVO was submitted, and the FDA approved EYLEA for the treatment of macular edema following RVO, which includes macular edema following BRVO, in October 2014.

In January 2014, Bayer HealthCare exercised its right to opt-in to the global development and commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States for the treatment of macular edema following BRVO as described below under "Collaborations with Bayer HealthCare -EYLEA outside the United States." Bayer HealthCare has also submitted applications to the EMA and the Japanese MHLW seeking marketing authorization in the EU and Japan, respectively, for EYLEA for the treatment of macular edema following BRVO.









ZALTRAP (ziv-aflibercept) - Oncology

ZALTRAP is a fusion protein that is designed to bind all forms of VEGF-A, VEGF-B, and PlGF, and prevent their interaction with cell surface receptors. VEGF-A (and to a lesser degree, PlGF) is required for angiogenesis that is needed for tumors to grow.  ZALTRAP is in Phase 3 clinical development in metastatic colorectal cancer in the Asia-Pacific region.

Late-Stage Antibody-based Clinical Programs

PRALUENT (alirocumab; PCSK9 Antibody) for LDL cholesterol reduction

Overview

Elevated LDL cholesterol ("bad cholesterol") level is a validated risk factor leading to cardiovascular disease. Statins are a class of drugs that lower LDL through inhibition of HMG-CoA, an enzyme regulating the early and rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis that ultimately results in an increase in LDL receptors to increase the uptake of plasma LDL lipoproteins. PCSK9 is a secreted protein that plays a key role in modulating LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) levels in the body. PCSK9 binds to and induces the destruction of the LDL receptor, thereby interfering with cellular uptake and increasing circulating levels of LDL cholesterol. In a landmark study published in theNew England Journal of Medicinein March 2006, patients with lower than normal PCSK9 levels due to a genetic abnormality not only had significantly lower levels of LDL-C, but also a significant reduction in the risk of coronary heart disease. We used ourVelocImmunetechnology to generate a fully human monoclonal antibody inhibitor of PCSK9, called PRALUENT, that is intended to lower LDL cholesterol.

Clinical Programs

Phase 3 ODYSSEY Program. We and Sanofi initiated the global Phase 3 ODYSSEY program for PRALUENT in the second quarter of 2012. The ODYSSEY program consists of more than 23,500 patients, and includes eleven clinical trials evaluating the effect of PRALUENT, dosed every two weeks, on lowering LDL cholesterol. In addition, the potential of PRALUENT to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit is being prospectively assessed in the ongoing 18,000-patient ODYSSEY OUTCOMES trial. LDL cholesterol reduction is the primary efficacy endpoint for initial regulatory filings. Additionally, the ODYSSEY program includes two trials of PRALUENT dosed every four weeks, ODYSSEY CHOICE I, which was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2013, and ODYSSEY CHOICE II, which was initiated in the first quarter of 2014. Patients in the ODYSSEY CHOICE I trial receive PRALUENT 300 mg (most in combination with statins) each month and patients in the CHOICE II trial receive PRALUENT 150 mg monotherapy and in combination with non-statin lipid lowering therapy each month. The ODYSSEY studies are being conducted in clinical centers around the world including North America, Western and Eastern Europe, South America, Australia, and Asia.

In 2013, we and Sanofi reported data from the ODYSSEY MONO trial, which evaluated the efficacy and safety of PRALUENT  monotherapy versus ezetimibe monotherapy in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia. In 2014, we and Sanofi reported detailed positive results from nine additional Phase 3 ODYSSEY studies. All ten studies (ODYSSEY MONO, LONG TERM, FH I, FH II, HIGH FH, COMBO I, COMBO II, OPTIONS I, OPTIONS II, and ALTERNATIVE) met their primary efficacy endpoint of a greater percent reduction from baseline in LDL-C at 24 weeks compared to placebo or active comparator. Based on the positive results of these studies, a BLA for U.S. regulatory approval of PRALUENT was submitted, and accepted by the FDA in January 2015. As described further below, an FDA rare pediatric disease priority review voucher was utilized in connection with this BLA submission, as a result of which the submission was accepted by the FDA for priority review; the target date for an FDA decision on the BLA is July 24, 2015. In addition, the EMA recently accepted for review the Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) for PRALUENT.

All patients in the ten trials received PRALUENT in addition to standard-of care lipid-lowering therapy, with the exception of patients in ODYSSEY MONO and some patients in ODYSSEY ALTERNATIVE. The trials included patients with LDL-C not at goal with or without a documented history of cardiovascular disease (CVD), including hypercholesterolemic patients who were at high cardiovascular (CV) risk, had an inherited form of high cholesterol known as heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH), and/or a history of intolerance to two or more statins, including one at the lowest dose. The trials evaluated two distinct dosing regimens: 150 mg every two weeks or 75 mg every two weeks increasing to 150 mg if needed to reach protocol-specified LDL-C targets. In the trials that used an individualized approach with 75 mg and 150 mg doses, the majority of patients reached their LDL-C goals while remaining on the 75 mg dose. The 75 mg and the 150 mg doses were delivered with a single, self-administered one-milliliter (mL) injection. A summary of primary efficacy endpoints and most common AEs are as follows:

















StudyPatient groupPrimary efficacy endpoint(percent change from baseline in LDL-C at 24 weeks)Most common AEsa

PRALUENTComparator

LONGTERMPRALUENT (n=1,553) vs. placebo (n=788)150 mg doseAll patients (high CV risk)(total n=2,341)61% reduction1% increase (placebo)bNasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, injection site reactions, influenza, diarrhea, urinary tract infection, bronchitis, myalgia, headache, back pain, arthralgia

- HeFH subgroup(n=416)56% reduction7% increase (placebo)c

- Non-HeFH subgroup(n=1,894)62% reduction0.5% reduction (placebo)d

COMBO IPRALUENT (n=209) vs. placebo (n=107)75 mg/150 mg doseHigh CV risk48% reduction2% reduction (placebo)bUpper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitis, urinary tract infection, dizziness, sinusitis, injection-site reaction

COMBO IIPRALUENT (n=479) vs. ezetimibe (n=241)75 mg/150 mg doseHigh CV risk51% reduction21% reduction (ezetimibe)bUpper respiratory tract infection, accidental overdose, dizziness, myalgia

OPTIONS I[Baseline statin = atorvastatin 20/40 mg]PRALUENT (n=104) vs. ezetimibe (n=102) or double atorvastatin (n=104) or switch to rosuvastatine(n=45)75 mg / 150 mg doseHigh CV risk44% - 54% reduction•21% - 23% reduction (ezetimibe)f•5% reduction (double statin dose)b•21% reduction (statin switch)bNasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, hypertension, back pain

OPTIONS II[Baseline statin = rosuvastatin 10/20 mg]PRALUENT (n=103) vs. ezetimibe (n=101) or double rosuvastatin (n=101)75 mg / 150 mg doseHigh CV risk36% - 51% reduction•11% -14% reduction (ezetimibe)g•16% reduction (statin switch)gNasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, hypertension, back pain

ALTERNATIVEPRALUENT (n=126) vs. ezetimibe (n=125)[Validation arm = atorvastatin 20 mg (n=63)]75 mg / 150 mg doseHigh CV risk and history of intolerance to two or more statins45% reduction15% reduction (ezetimibe)bMyalgia, nasopharyngitis, arthralgia, upper respiratory tract infection, headache, fatigue

HIGH FHPRALUENT (n=72) vs. placebo (n=35)150 mg doseHeFH46% reduction7% reduction (placebo)bNasopharyngitis, injection-site reaction, diarrhea, sinusitis, bronchitis, headache, fatigue

FH IPRALUENT (n=323) vs. placebo (n=163)75 mg / 150 mg doseHeFH49% reduction9% increase (placebo)bInjection site reactions, nasopharyngitis, influenza, headache

FH IIPRALUENT (n=167) vs. placebo (n=82)75 mg / 150 mg doseHeFH49% reduction3% increase (placebo)b











(continued)StudyPatient groupPrimary efficacy endpoint(percent change from baseline in LDL-C at 24 weeks)Most common AEsaPRALUENTComparatorMONOPRALUENT (n=52) vs. ezetimibe (n=51)75 mg/150 mg doseModerate CV risk48% reduction16% reduction (ezetimibe)bNasopharyngitis,influenza, upper respiratory tract infection

a.Occurred in at least 5% of PRALUENT-treated patients. Rare allergic reactions have also been reported.

b.P < 0.0001

c.95% confidence interval of the least squares (LS) mean difference vs. placebo: 57.5% - 69% reduction

d.95% confidence interval of the LS mean difference vs. placebo: 59% - 64% reduction

e.45 patients on atorvastatin 40 mg starting dose switched to rosuvastatin 40 mg

f.For patients on atorvastatin 20 mg starting dose p=0.0004; for patients on atorvastatin 40 mg starting dose p < 0.0001

g.For patients on rosuvastatin 10 mg starting dose p < 0.0001; patients on rosuvastatin 20 mg starting dose did not reach statistical significance

The ODYSSEY ALTERNATIVE trial reassessed statin intolerance, as measured by skeletal muscle AEs, by including a validation arm (atorvastatin 20 mg). Although the study was not designed to demonstrate differences in adverse events between treatment groups, in this trial, there were fewer skeletal muscle AEs in the PRALUENT group compared to patients treated with atorvastatin (32.5% versus 46%, hazard ratio = 0.61; nominal p value = 0.042), and fewer compared to ezetimibe (41%). In addition, there were numerically fewer discontinuations for skeletal muscle AEs in the PRALUENT group (PRALUENT 16%, ezetimibe 20%, atorvastatin 22%). In comparison, the overall rate of discontinuations for skeletal muscle AEs across the Phase 2 and 3 PRALUENT placebo-controlled studies, where the majority of patients were also on statins, was 0.4% for PRALUENT (n=2,476) and 0.5% for placebo (n=1,276).

In January 2015, we and Sanofi announced that the ODYSSEY CHOICE I and ODYSSEY CHOICE II studies met their primary efficacy endpoints. The trials compared the reduction from baseline in LDL-C at 24 weeks with PRALUENT versus placebo in patients with hypercholesterolemia. In these monthly dosing trials, the mean percent reduction in LDL-C from baseline was consistent with that seen in previous Phase 3 trials evaluating PRALUENT in every other week dosing. The most common AEs in the trials (occurring in at least 5% of PRALUENT-treated patients) were injection site reactions, headache, upper respiratory tract infection, arthralgia, nausea, sinusitis, pain in extremity, and fatigue. Injection site reactions occurred more frequently in the PRALUENT groups compared to placebo. Detailed data will be presented at an upcoming medical conference.

In July 2014, we purchased a priority review voucher from a third party, which had received it through the FDA's Rare Pediatric Disease Priority Review Voucher Program. The priority review voucher entitles the holder to designate a human drug application for priority review. The FDA's goal for reviewing a human drug application with priority review is to take action within 6 months instead of 10 months under standard review. We and Sanofi equally shared the voucher's purchase price of $67.5 million. The FDA rare pediatric disease priority review voucher was utilized in connection with the recent BLA submission for PRALUENT  and was the basis for FDA's granting priority review for the application.

Phase 2 Studies. In the first quarter of 2014, the first Phase 2 study with PRALUENT in Japanese patients met its primary endpoint. The results demonstrated that the mean LDL-C percentage reduction from baseline to week 12, the primary efficacy endpoint of the study, was significantly greater in patients randomized to receive one of three doses of PRALUENT  administered every other week (Q2W) - 150 mg, 75 mg, and 50 mg, in combination with statin therapy, compared to patients receiving placebo. At week 12, the mean percentage reduction in LDL-C from baseline in patients receiving PRALUENT  50 mg Q2W was 55%, PRALUENT 75 mg Q2W was 62% and PRALUENT 150 mg Q2W was 72%, compared to 3% in the placebo group. TEAEs in this study were reported by 52% of patients in the PRALUENT  50 mg group, 48% of patients in the 75 mg group, and 64% of patients in the 150 mg group, compared to 32% in the placebo group. The most frequently reported TEAEs were nasopharyngitis, injection site reaction, back pain, cystitis and ligament sprain.

Sarilumab (REGN88; IL-6R Antibody) for inflammatory diseases

Overview

IL-6 is a key cytokine involved in the pathogenesis of RA, causing inflammation and joint destruction. Sarilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to IL-6R generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology.









Rheumatoid Arthritis

Phase 3 SARIL-RA-MOBILITY Trial. In the fourth quarter of 2013, we and Sanofi announced that in the SARIL-RA-MOBILITY Phase 3 clinical trial in adult patients with active RA who were inadequate responders to methotrexate (MTX) therapy, sarilumab treatment in combination with MTX improved disease signs and symptoms as well as physical function, and inhibited progression of joint damage. The 52 week SARIL-RA-MOBILITY Phase 3 trial enrolled approximately 1,200 patients with active, moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, and who were inadequate responders to MTX therapy. Patients were randomized to one of three subcutaneous treatment groups, all in combination with MTX and dosed every other week: sarilumab 200 mg, sarilumab 150 mg, or placebo. Both sarilumab groups showed clinically relevant and statistically significant improvements compared to the placebo group in all three co-primary endpoints (p < 0.0001).

In the SARIL-RA-MOBILITY trial, infections were the most frequently reported adverse events and were reported with a higher incidence in the sarilumab groups compared to placebo, all in combination with MTX. Among patients treated with sarilumab, a dose dependent decrease in mean neutrophil counts was observed. Serious infections were not associated with grades 3 and 4 neutropenia in this study. Increases in mean LDL cholesterol and transaminases were observed.

In June 2014, efficacy and safety data from the SARIL-RA-MOBILITY study was presented at the annual meeting of The European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR). Additional data from the study was presented at the American College of Rheumatology in November 2014.

Additional Phase 3 Studies. We and Sanofi have also initiated additional Phase 3 studies, SARIL-RA-TARGET, SARIL-RA-ASCERTAIN, SARIL-RA-ONE, SARIL-RA-MONARCH, and SARIL-RA-EASY. A Phase 3 trial in Japan, SARIL-RA-KAKEHASI, was also initiated in the fourth quarter of 2014. All these trials, with the exception of SARIL-RA-MONARCH and SARIL-RA-KAKEHASI, are fully enrolled. The broad SARIL-RA clinical development program is focused on adult populations with moderate-to-severe RA who are inadequate responders to either MTX or tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) inhibitor therapy. Patients who complete SARIL-RA-MOBILITY, SARIL-RA-TARGET, SARIL-RA-ASCERTAIN, SARIL-RA-COMPARE, or SARIL-RA-ONE are offered enrollment into the ongoing SARIL-RA-EXTEND, which is an open-label, long-term safety study of sarilumab. The SARIL-RA-COMPARE Phase 3 study has been discontinued due to slower than anticipated enrollment; this discontinuation will not impact planned global regulatory filings.

Non-infectious Uveitis

Phase 2 SARIL-NIU-SATURN Study. A Phase 2 study, SARIL-NIU-SATURN, was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2013 and is a placebo-controlled proof-of-concept study evaluating the safety and efficacy of sarilumab in non-infectious uveitis.

Dupilumab (REGN668; IL-4R Antibody) for allergic and inflammatory conditions

Overview

IL-4R is required for signaling by the cytokines IL-4 and IL-13. Both of these cytokines are critical mediators of immune response, which, in turn, drives the formation of Immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies and the development of allergic responses, as well as the atopic state that underlies atopic (allergic) dermatitis, asthma, and chronic sinusitis with nasal polyposis. Dupilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology that is designed to bind to IL-4R alpha subunit and block signaling from both IL-4 and IL-13.

Atopic Dermatitis

Phase 2a Trial.Data from four Phase 1 and Phase 2 studies of dupilumab in adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis, a severe chronic form of eczema, were published in theNew England Journal of Medicinein July 2014. In the Phase 2a study of 109 patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis, dupilumab 300 mg administered weekly was associated with rapid and marked sustained improvements in several endpoints such as Eczema Severe Score Index (EASI), Scoring of Atopic Dermatitis (SCORAD), Investigator's Global Assessment Score (IGA), baseline Body Surface Area (BSA), and pruritus. After 12 weeks of treatment, patients receiving dupilumab achieved statistically superior clinical outcomes compared to patients in the placebo group in all measures of disease activity and pruritus.  There were notably fewer patients with skin infections associated with dupilumab treatment (5.5%), compared with placebo (24.1%). There were no infection related serious AEs or eczema herpeticum in the dupilumab group. In the placebo group, three patients with skin infections and four patients with atopic dermatitis exacerbations required hospitalization. The most common TEAEs were nasopharyngitis, headache, and conjunctivitis.

Phase 2b Trial. In July 2014,we and Sanofi announced positive results from a Phase 2b dose-ranging study of dupilumab in adult patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. All doses of dupilumab met the primary endpoint of a greater improvement in EASI scores from baseline compared to placebo. In the Phase 2b trial, all five subcutaneous doses of dupilumab showed a dose-dependent improvement in the primary endpoint, the mean percent change in EASI score from baseline to week 16. The improvements in EASI score ranged from a high of 74% for patients in the highest dose group, who received 300 mg weekly, to









a low of 45% in patients who received the lowest dose of 100 mg monthly, compared to 18% for patients in the placebo group (p<0.0001 for all doses). The most common AE in the Phase 2b study was nasopharyngitis, which was balanced across dupilumab treatment groups (18.5% to 23%) compared to placebo (21%). Injection site reactions were more frequent in the dupilumab group (5% to 9.5%) compared to placebo (3%), as was headache (12% to 15%) compared to placebo (8%).

Dupilumab-treated patients showed highly statistically significant and dose-dependent improvements in additional key efficacy measures compared to placebo after 16 weeks of treatment:

•12% to 33% of dupilumab-treated patients achieved clearing or near-clearing of skin lesions, as measured by an IGA score of 0 or 1, compared to 2% with placebo (p=0.02 to p<0.0001).

•Dupilumab-treated patients experienced a 16.5% to 47% mean reduction in itching, as measured by the pruritus numerical-rating scale (NRS) score, compared to an increase of 5% in the placebo group (p=0.0005 to p<0.0001).

This Phase 2b double-blind, placebo-controlled, 16-week, dose-ranging study randomized 380 patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis, who could not be adequately controlled with topical medication or for whom topical treatment was not advisable. Patients were randomized to receive one of five doses of dupilumab (300 mg weekly, 300 mg every other week, 300 mg monthly, 200 mg every other week, 100 mg monthly) or placebo. Patients in the study had approximately 50% of their skin affected by atopic dermatitis at baseline. In the year preceding enrollment in the study, approximately 35% of patients received an oral corticosteroid and approximately 20% received a systemic non-steroid immunosuppressant for atopic dermatitis. Approximately 60% of patients had another allergic condition, including approximately 40% of patients who had a history of asthma. The follow-up period of the study is ongoing and patients will be followed for 16 weeks after treatment.

Phase 3 Study. In the fourth quarter of 2014, four Phase 3 trials in atopic dermatitis, LIBERTY AD CHRONOS, LIBERTY AD SOLO 1, LIBERTY AD SOLO 2, and LIBERTY AD Open label Extension, were initiated and are currently enrolling patients. LIBERTY AD CHRONOS is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-national study with the primary objective of demonstrating the efficacy of dupilumab in adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis when administered concomitantly with topical corticosteroids through 16 weeks. Secondary objectives of the LIBERTY AD CHRONOS study will evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of dupilumab up to 52 weeks. The LIBERTY AD Phase 3 clinical program will consist of patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis at sites worldwide.

In November 2014, the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation to dupilumab for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis who are not adequately controlled with topical prescription therapy and/or for whom these treatments are not appropriate. This designation is based on positive results from Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials, and the determination that atopic dermatitis is a serious disease and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies.

Asthma

Phase 2b Trial. In the fourth quarter of 2014, we and Sanofi announced positive results from the interim analysis of a dose-ranging Phase 2b study of dupilumab in adult patients with uncontrolled moderate-to-severe asthma. In the study, the three highest doses of dupilumab in combination with standard-of-care therapy met the primary endpoint of a statistically significant improvement from baseline in FEV1at 12 weeks in patients with high blood eosinophils (greater than or equal to 300 cells/microliter), as compared to placebo in combination with standard-of-care therapy. In addition, two doses of dupilumab (200 mg every other week and 300 mg every other week) showed a statistically significant improvement in mean percent change in FEV1, as well as a reduction in severe exacerbations, in both the high eosinophils and overall study population.  Key results included:

•In the high eosinophils patient group - mean improvements from baseline in FEV1(and mean percent change in FEV1) at 12 weeks, the primary (and a secondary) endpoint of the study were: 390 ml (26%) dupilumab 300 mg every other week (Q2W); 430 ml (26%) dupilumab 200 mg Q2W; 180 ml (10%) placebo. (p<0.01)

•In the overall population - mean improvements from baseline in FEV1at 12 weeks (and mean percent change in FEV1) were: 280 ml (18%) dupilumab 300 mg Q2W; 310 ml (18%) dupilumab 200 mg Q2W; 120 ml (6%) placebo. (p<0.001)

•In both the high eosinophils patient group and overall patient group - dupilumab showed a reduction in adjusted annualized rate of severe exacerbations compared to placebo (64% to 75% reduction, p<0.05 for high eosinophils group and p<0.01 for the overall population)

These results were based on a pre-specified interim analysis, which occurred when all patients had reached week 12 of the 24-week treatment period; the average treatment duration at the time of the analysis was 21.5 weeks. The final analyses on exacerbations and safety will occur at 24 weeks. The most common adverse event was injection site reaction, which was more frequent in the four dupilumab dose groups (13% to 25%) compared to placebo (12%). Other common adverse events in the study included upper respiratory tract infection (10% to 13% dupilumab; 13% placebo), headache (5% to 10% dupilumab; 8% placebo), nasopharyngitis (3% to 10% dupilumab; 6% placebo) and bronchitis (5% to 8% dupilumab; 8% placebo). The incidence of infections was balanced









across treatment groups (42% to 45% dupilumab; 46% placebo), as was the incidence of serious adverse events (3% to 7% dupilumab; 5% placebo).

The double-blind, placebo-controlled, 24-week, dose-ranging study enrolled 776 adult patients with moderate-to-severe uncontrolled asthma, as defined by the Global Initiative for Asthma 2014 Guidelines. Trial participants were randomized to receive one of four doses of dupilumab (300 mg every other week, 200 mg every other week, 300 mg monthly, 200 mg monthly) or placebo. Approximately 40 percent of patients had high eosinophils across the dose groups. During the treatment period, patients continue their stable medium- or high-dose inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta agonist (ICS/LABA) combination product. Patients can administer inhaled rescue medication as needed during the study. A severe exacerbation event during the study is defined as a deterioration of asthma requiring the use of systemic corticosteroids for three or more days, or hospitalization or an emergency room visit. Approximately 77% of randomized patients have a history of atopic disease, which includes atopic dermatitis, allergic conjunctivitis, allergic rhinitis, chronic rhinosinusitis, nasal polyposis, food allergy, and/or hives history.

The 24-week treatment period of the study is ongoing, and patients will be followed for 16 weeks after treatment. Full results of the trial will be presented at an upcoming scientific meeting.

A Phase 3 trial in patients with moderate-to-severe asthma is expected to be initiated during 2015.

Chronic Sinusitis with Nasal Polyps

Phase 2 Study. In the third quarter of 2013, a Phase 2 trial in nasal polyposis was initiated. In September 2014, we and Sanofi announced positive results from the Phase 2 proof-of-concept study of dupilumab in patients with moderate-to-severe CSwNP who did not respond to intranasal corticosteroids. The randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study enrolled 60 adult patients with moderate-to-severe CSwNP. Patients in the study received 300 mg of dupilumab or placebo administered once per week subcutaneously for 16 weeks, following an initial loading dose of 600 mg. All patients in the study also received a standard-of-care nasal corticosteroid spray. Patients were eligible for the study if they continued to have severe CSwNP despite standard treatment for at least one month. Fifty percent of patients in the study had received prior surgery for their condition. Asthma was also present in 58 percent of CSwNP patients in the study. The conditions are often co-morbid and symptoms/exacerbations are frequently interdependent.

In the study, dupilumab resulted in a statistically-significant improvement in the size of nasal polyps, as measured by endoscopic Nasal Polyp Score (NPS), the primary endpoint of the study. Statistically significant improvements in all secondary efficacy endpoints were also observed, including objective measures of sinusitis by CT scan, nasal air flow, and patient-reported symptoms (sense of smell, congestion, postnasal drip, runny nose and sleep disturbance). In a pre-specified exploratory analysis, dupilumab-treated patients who also had asthma demonstrated significant improvements in asthma control. The safety profile was consistent with previous studies. The most common AEs with dupilumab were injection site reactions, nasopharyngitis, oropharyngeal pain, epistaxis, headache, and dizziness. Detailed results of the study will be presented at an upcoming medical conference.

Eosinophilic Esophagitis

Phase 2 Study.A Phase 2 study of dupilumab in eosinophilic esophagitis was initiated in the first quarter of 2015. EoE is a chronic allergic inflammatory disease that is considered a major cause of gastrointestinal illness. Eosinophils are a type of white blood cell that, due to allergens, can accumulate in the esophagus, causing inflammation and tissue injuries that create difficulty swallowing. People with eosinophilic esophagitis may also have allergies, asthma, atopic dermatitis, or chronic respiratory disease.

Research Programs

Our preclinical research programs are in the areas of oncology, angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related diseases, muscle diseases and disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone and cartilage, pain, cardiovascular diseases, and infectious diseases.









Research and Development Technologies

Many proteins that are either on the surface of or secreted by cells play important roles in biology and disease. One way that a cell communicates with other cells is by releasing specific signaling proteins, either locally or into the bloodstream. These proteins have distinct functions and are classified into different "families" of molecules, such as peptide hormones, growth factors, and cytokines. All of these secreted (or signaling) proteins travel to and are recognized by another set of proteins, called "receptors," which reside on the surface of responding cells. These secreted proteins impact many critical cellular and biological processes, causing diverse effects ranging from the regulation of growth of particular cell types to inflammation mediated by white blood cells. Secreted proteins can at times be overactive and thus result in a variety of diseases. In these disease settings, blocking the action of specific secreted proteins can have clinical benefit. In other cases, proteins on the cell-surface can mediate the interaction between cells, such as the processes that give rise to inflammation and autoimmunity.

Our scientists have developed two different technologies to design protein therapeutics to block the action of specific cell surface or secreted proteins. The first technology, termed the "Trap" technology, was used to generate our three approved products, EYLEA, ZALTRAP, and ARCALYST. These novel "Traps" are composed of fusions between two distinct receptor components and the constant region of an antibody molecule called the "Fc region," resulting in high affinity product candidates.VelociSuiteis our second technology platform; it is used for discovering, developing, and producing fully human monoclonal antibodies that can address both secreted and cell-surface targets.

VelociSuite.VelociSuiteconsists ofVelocImmune, VelociGene, VelociMouse®,andVelociMab. TheVelocImmunemouse platform is utilized to produce fully human monoclonal antibodies.VelocImmunewas generated by exploiting ourVelociGenetechnology (see below), in a process in which six megabases of mouse immune gene loci were replaced, or "humanized," with corresponding human immune gene loci.VelocImmunemice can be used to generate efficiently fully human monoclonal antibodies to targets of therapeutic interest.VelocImmuneand our entireVelociSuiteoffer the potential to increase the speed and efficiency through which human monoclonal antibody therapeutics may be discovered and validated, thereby improving the overall efficiency of our early stage drug development activities. We are utilizing theVelocImmunetechnology to produce our next generation of drug candidates for preclinical and clinical development.

OurVelociGeneplatform allows custom and precise manipulation of very large sequences of DNA to produce highly customized alterations of a specified target gene, or genes, and accelerates the production of knock-out and transgenic expression models without using either positive/negative selection or isogenic DNA. In producing knock-out models, a color or fluorescent marker may be substituted in place of the actual gene sequence, allowing for high-resolution visualization of precisely where the gene is active in the body during normal body functioning as well as in disease processes. For the optimization of preclinical development and pharmacology programs,VelociGeneoffers the opportunity to humanize targets by replacing the mouse gene with the human homolog. Thus,VelociGeneallows scientists to rapidly identify the physical and biological effects of deleting or over-expressing the target gene, as well as to characterize and test potential therapeutic molecules.

OurVelociMousetechnology platform allows for the direct and immediate generation of genetically altered mice from embryonic stem cells (ES cells), thereby avoiding the lengthy process involved in generating and breeding knockout mice from chimeras. Mice generated through this method are normal and healthy and exhibit a 100% germ-line transmission. Furthermore, mice developed using ourVelociMousetechnology are suitable for direct phenotyping or other studies. We have also developed ourVelociMabplatform for the rapid screening of antibodies and rapid generation of expression cell lines for our Traps and ourVelocImmunehuman monoclonal antibodies.

We have utilized ourVelociSuitetechnologies to develop a class of potential drug candidates, known as bi-specific antibodies. In the area of immunotherapies in oncology, we are exploring the use of bi-specific antibodies that target tumor antigens and the CD3 receptor on T-cells to harness the oncolytic properties of T-cells. Our first such bi-specific antibody, which entered into clinical development in 2014, targets CD20 and CD3.

Regeneron Genetics Center.In early 2014,we launched a new human genetics initiative via a wholly owned subsidiary, Regeneron Genetics Center LLC. RGC leverages de-identified clinical and molecular data from human volunteers for medically relevant associations in a blinded fashion designed to preserve patients' privacy. The objective of RGC is to expand the use of human genetics for discovering and validating genetic factors that cause or influence a range of diseases where there are major unmet medical needs, with the prospect of improving the drug discovery and development process. RGC is undertaking both large population-based efforts as well as family-based approaches. RGC utilizes laboratory automation and an innovative approach to cloud computing to achieve high-quality throughput at a rate that exceeds 50,000 unique samples per year.

Central to the work of RGC is a collaboration with the Geisinger Health System of Pennsylvania. During the initial five-year collaboration term, Geisinger plans to collect samples from more than 100,000 consented patient volunteers, while RGC will perform sequencing and genotyping to generate de-identified genomic data. RGC has expanded on its foundational population-based collaboration with Geisinger Health Systems with new partners with other institutions such as Columbia University Medical









Center, the Clinic for Special Children, Baylor College of Medicine, Sick Kids Foundation, and the National Institutes of Health (NIH).

Acquisition of Ophthalmology Development Programs from Sanofi

In May 2013, we acquired from Sanofi full exclusive rights to two families of novel antibodies invented at Regeneron and previously included in our antibody collaboration with Sanofi. We acquired full rights to antibodies targeting the PDGF family of receptors and ligands in ophthalmology and all other indications and to antibodies targeting the Ang2 receptor and ligand in ophthalmology. As described further below, in January 2014, we entered into an agreement with Bayer HealthCare governing the joint development and commercialization outside the United States of an antibody product candidate to PDGFR-beta for the treatment of ocular diseases or disorders.

With respect to PDGF antibodies, we made a $10.0 million up-front payment to Sanofi in May 2013, two $5.0 million development milestone payments to Sanofi in 2014, and are obligated to pay up to $30.0 million in additional potential development milestones and royalties on any future sales. With respect to Ang2 antibodies in ophthalmology, we also made a $10.0 million up-front payment to Sanofi in May 2013, and are obligated to pay a potential $5.0 million development milestone payment and royalties on any future sales.

Collaboration Agreements

Collaborations with Sanofi

ZALTRAP.Since September 2003, we and Sanofi have been parties to a global collaboration for the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP. Under the current terms of our collaboration agreement we and Sanofi share co-promotion rights and share profits and losses from commercialization of ZALTRAP outside of Japan. In Japan, we are entitled to receive a percentage of approximately 35% on sales of ZALTRAP, subject to certain potential adjustments.

Under the collaboration agreement, agreed upon worldwide development expenses incurred by both companies during the term of the agreement are funded by Sanofi. We are obligated to reimburse Sanofi out of our share of ZALTRAP profits, if any, for 50% of the development expenses that they funded. The reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the ZALTRAP profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse Sanofi at a faster rate. As a result, we expect that, for the foreseeable future, our share of any ZALTRAP profits will be used to reimburse Sanofi for this repayment obligation.

Antibodies.Since November 2007, we and Sanofi have been parties to a global, strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize fully human monoclonal antibodies. The collaboration is governed by a Discovery and Preclinical Development Agreement and a License and Collaboration Agreement (each as amended). Pursuant to the collaboration, Sanofi is funding up to $160 million per year of our antibody discovery activities over the period from 2010-2017 to identify and validate potential drug discovery targets and develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against these targets. We lead the design and conduct of research activities under the collaboration, including target identification and validation, antibody development, research and preclinical activities through filing of an Investigational New Drug application (IND) or its equivalent, toxicology studies, and manufacture of preclinical and clinical supplies. Sanofi has an option to extend certain antibody development and preclinical activities relating to selected program targets for up to an additional three years after 2017.

For each drug candidate identified through discovery research under the discovery agreement, Sanofi has the option to license rights to the candidate under the license agreement. If it elects to do so, Sanofi will co-develop the drug candidate with us through product approval. Development costs for the drug candidate are shared between the companies, with Sanofi generally funding these costs up front, except that following receipt of the first positive Phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, subsequent Phase 3 trial-related costs for that drug candidate are shared 80% by Sanofi and 20% by us. We are generally responsible for reimbursing Sanofi for half of the total development costs for all collaboration antibody products from our share of profits from commercialization of collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. However, we are not required to apply more than 10% of our share of the profits from collaboration products in any calendar quarter towards reimbursing Sanofi for these development costs.

Under our collaboration agreement, Sanofi will record product sales and cost of sales for commercialized products, and Regeneron has the right to co-promote such products. We and Sanofi will equally share profits and losses from sales within the United States. We and Sanofi will share profits outside the United States on a sliding scale based on sales starting at 65% (Sanofi)/35% (us) and ending at 55% (Sanofi)/45% (us), and will share losses outside the United States at 55% (Sanofi)/45% (us). In addition to profit sharing, we are entitled to receive up to $250 million in sales milestone payments, with milestone payments commencing after aggregate annual sales outside the United States exceed $1.0 billion on a rolling 12-month basis.









Collaborations with Bayer HealthCare

EYLEA outside the United States.Since October 2006, we and Bayer HealthCare have been parties to a license and collaboration agreement for the global development and commercialization outside the United States of EYLEA. Under the agreement, we and Bayer HealthCare collaborate on, and share the costs of, the development of EYLEA through an integrated global plan. Bayer HealthCare markets EYLEA outside the United States, where, for countries other than Japan, the companies share equally in profits and losses from sales of EYLEA. In Japan, we are entitled to receive a tiered percentage of between 33.5% and 40.0% of EYLEA net sales.

In January 2014, Bayer HealthCare decided to participate in the global development and commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States for the treatment of macular edema following BRVO. In connection with this decision, Bayer HealthCare reimbursed us for a defined share of the EYLEA global development costs that we had incurred prior to February 2014 for the BRVO indication. In addition, all future agreed upon global EYLEA development expenses incurred in connection with BRVO are being shared equally, and profits or losses on sales of EYLEA outside of the United States for the treatment of macular edema following BRVO will also be shared (for countries other than Japan). As described above, we are entitled to receive a tiered percentage of EYLEA net sales in Japan.

Since inception of the agreement, we have earned $110.0 million of development milestone payments and $150.0 million of sales milestone payments from Bayer HealthCare. In addition, we may earn a $15.0 million additional sales milestone payment if twelve-month sales of specific commercial supplies of EYLEA outside the United States achieve a certain specified level.

Commencing with the first commercial sale of EYLEA in a major market country outside the United States, we became obligated to reimburse Bayer HealthCare for 50% of the development costs that it has incurred under the agreement from our share of the collaboration profits (including payments to us based on sales in Japan). The reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the collaboration profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse Bayer HealthCare at a faster rate. As a result, we expect that, initially, a portion of our share of EYLEA profits outside the United States will be used to reimburse Bayer HealthCare for this repayment obligation.

Within the United States, we retain exclusive commercialization rights to EYLEA and are entitled to all profits from any such sales.

PDGFR-beta antibody outside the United States.In January 2014, we entered into an agreement with Bayer HealthCare governing the joint development and commercialization outside the United States of an antibody product candidate to PDGFR-beta, including in combination with EYLEA, for the treatment of ocular diseases or disorders. REGN2176-3, a combination product candidate comprised of an antibody to PDGFR-beta co-formulated with EYLEA, is being developed under the agreement. Under the agreement, we will conduct the initial development of the PDGFR-beta antibody through completion of the first proof-of-concept study, upon which Bayer HealthCare will have a right to opt-in to license and collaborate on further development and commercialization outside the United States.

In connection with the agreement, Bayer HealthCare made a $25.5 million non-refundable upfront payment to us in January 2014, and is obligated to pay 25% of global development costs and 50% of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the United States under the initial development plan. In addition, Bayer HealthCare is obligated to reimburse us for 50% of development milestone payments to Sanofi related to our acquisition of rights to antibodies targeting the PDGF family of receptors in May 2013. In that regard, Bayer HealthCare made two $2.5 million development milestone payments to us in the first quarter of 2014. Further, in connection with our initial development of the PDGFR-beta antibody through completion of the first proof-of-concept study, we are eligible to receive up to $15.0 million in future development milestone payments from Bayer HealthCare, although certain of these development milestone payments could be reduced by half if Bayer HealthCare does not opt-in to the collaboration.

If Bayer HealthCare exercises its right to opt-in to the collaboration, they will obtain exclusive commercialization rights to the product outside the United States, continue to pay for 25% of global development costs and 50% of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the United States, pay a $20.0 million opt-in payment to us, pay a $20.0 million development milestone to us upon receipt of the first marketing approval in the European Union or Japan, share profits and losses from sales outside the United States equally with us, and be responsible for the payment of royalties on sales outside the United States to Sanofi.

Within the United States, we have exclusive commercialization rights and will retain all of the profits from sales. If Bayer HealthCare does not opt-in to the collaboration, we will have exclusive rights to develop and commercialize PDGFR-beta antibodies (except as a combination product with EYLEA) for use outside the United States.

We also have the right to opt-out of the collaboration upon completion of the first proof-of-concept study for the PDGFR-beta antibody. If we opt-out of the collaboration and Bayer HealthCare exercises its right to opt-in to the collaboration, Bayer HealthCare will obtain exclusive rights to the PDGFR-beta antibody (except as a combination product with EYLEA) outside of the United









States, be responsible for all development costs outside of the United States, be responsible for all royalty and milestone payments to a third party, and will retain all of the profits from sales of the PDGFR-beta antibody outside of the United States.

Unless terminated earlier in accordance with its provisions, the agreement will continue to be in effect until such time as neither party or its respective affiliates or sublicensees is developing or commercializing a PDGFR-beta antibody in the specified field outside of the United States and such discontinuation is acknowledged as permanent by both us and Bayer HealthCare in writing.

Collaboration with Avalanche Biotechnologies, Inc.

In May 2014, we entered into a research collaboration and license agreement with Avalanche Biotechnologies, Inc. to discover, develop, and commercialize novel gene therapy products for the treatment of ophthalmologic diseases. In connection with the agreement, we made a $2.0 million upfront payment and a $6.0 million pre-payment of collaboration research costs, and are obligated to pay potential additional research costs, an aggregate amount of up to $80.0 million per product upon meeting certain potential development and regulatory milestones (for products directed to as many as eight therapeutic targets, or up to an aggregate of $640.0 million), and royalties on any future sales of such products. We also purchased an aggregate of $5.0 million of Avalanche preferred stock. Under the agreement, we collaborate with Avalanche to conduct research for the discovery of novel gene therapy vectors. Subsequent to the filing of an IND with the FDA for a product candidate, we may exercise our right to obtain exclusive worldwide rights to further research, develop, and commercialize such product candidates directed to the applicable therapeutic target. In addition, Avalanche has the option to share in development costs and profits for products directed toward up to two therapeutic targets of its choice.

In July 2014, Avalanche commenced an initial public offering (IPO) of its common stock and thereby triggered our obligation under the research collaboration and license agreement to purchase up to$10.0 millionof Avalanche common stock in a concurrent private placement. As part of the concurrent private placement, we purchased from Avalanche at the closing of its IPO shares of Avalanche common stock for an aggregate purchase price of$10.0 million. In addition, at the closing of its IPO, Avalanche preferred stock, including the Avalanche preferred stock held by us, automatically converted on a one-for-one basis into Avalanche common stock.

Manufacturing

Our manufacturing facilities are located in Rensselaer, New York and consist of approximately490,000square feet of owned research, manufacturing, office, and warehouse space. We currently have approximately 74,000 liters of cell culture capacity at these facilities. These amounts include the impact of an expansion project completed in 2014 which added 20,000 liters of cell culture capacity and65,000additional square feet of space. AtDecember 31, 2014, we employed approximately 1,015 people at our Rensselaer facilities. We also depend on a limited number of third party providers for other services with respect to our clinical and commercial product supply requirements, including product packaging, filling, and labeling.

In May 2014, we entered into an agreement to acquire a 400,000 square foot facility in Limerick, Ireland. We are renovating this facility to accommodate and support our growth, primarily in connection with expanding our manufacturing capacity to support our global supply chain.

Certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of EYLEA, ZALTRAP, ARCALYST, and our product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. In addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform filling, finishing, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of EYLEA, ZALTRAP, ARCALYST, and our product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Manufacturing and Supply" for further information.

Among the conditions for regulatory marketing approval of a medicine is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer's quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to the good manufacturing practice (GMP) regulations of the health authority. In complying with standards set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the areas of production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. Manufacturing establishments, both foreign and domestic, are also subject to inspections by or under the authority of the FDA and by other national, federal, state, and local agencies. We are approved to manufacture our marketed products at our Rensselaer facilities.

Sales and Marketing

We have a New Products Marketing and Planning group and a Market Research group to evaluate commercial opportunities for our targets and drug candidates, assess the competitive environment, and analyze the commercial potential of our product portfolio, and prepare for market launch of new products. This group works in close collaboration with our collaborators for co-developed products to develop marketing plans and forecasts and to develop and execute pre-launch market development programs.









We also have a full-service commercialization group to handle various aspects of our EYLEA program. The group includes experienced professionals in the fields of marketing, communications, professional education, patient education and advocacy, reimbursement and managed markets, trade and distribution, commercial operations, commercial analytics, market research, and forecasting. Moreover, we have hired, trained, and deployed a field-based organization including regional sales directors, medical sales specialists, and reimbursement managers, each typically with 7 or more years of experience in the biopharmaceutical industry in a variety of therapeutic areas including oncology, ophthalmology, immunology, and inflammation. We outsource the warehousing and distribution of our finished drug products. We are in the process of significantly expanding the commercialization group to support the potential launch of PRALUENT in 2015, and also to prepare for the potential future launches of sarilumab and dupilumab.

In connection with the sales and marketing of ARCALYST for CAPS, we have a marketing, trade, reimbursement, and distribution group to provide case management and reimbursement services to patients with CAPS and their treating physicians.

In connection with the U.S. marketing of ZALTRAP, we have a marketing and market access group to work in collaboration with Sanofi.

Customers

We sell EYLEA in the United States to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. We sell ARCALYST in the United States to two specialty pharmacies. Under these distribution models, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product. For EYLEA, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers, whereas for ARCALYST, the specialty pharmacies sell the product directly to patients. For the years ended December 31,2014,2013, and 2012, we recorded73%,76%, and78%, respectively, of our total gross product revenue from sales to a single distributor, Besse Medical, which is a subsidiary of AmerisourceBergen Corporation.

Competition

We face substantial competition from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. Our competitors include Genentech (a member of the Roche Group), Roche, Novartis AG, Pfizer Inc., Bayer HealthCare, Allergan, Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, AbbVie Inc., Sanofi, Merck & Co., Inc., Amgen Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Johnson & Johnson, GlaxoSmithKline plc, and others. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical, and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. Competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. Even if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us or may have obtained or obtain patent protection that dominates or adversely affects our activities or products. Our ability to compete  depends, to a great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. Competition among product candidates approved for sale is based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position, and other factors.









EYLEA.The following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for EYLEA:





CompetitorProduct/ProductCandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusCompetitorIndicationTerritory

Lucentis®(ranibizumab)ApprovedNovartis/GenentechWet AMD, DME, macular edema following RVO, choroidal neovascularization secondary to pathologic myopia, diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME, and other eye indicationsWorldwide

Avastin®(bevacizumab)(off-label)Used to treat wet AMD, DME, and macular edema following RVOGenentechWet AMD, DME, and macular edema following RVOSold worldwideBeing evaluated in trials in the United Kingdom,  Canada, Brazil, Germany, and other countries

ConberceptApproved in China for wet AMDIn development for other eye indicationsChengdu Kanghong Pharmaceutical GroupWet AMDChina

FovistaTM, an aptamer directed against PDGF-BIn development (Phase 3 trials initiated in 2013 evaluating multiple combinations of FovistaTM, including Lucentis®+ FovistaTM, Avastin®+ FovistaTM, and EYLEA + FovistaTM)Ophthotech CorporationWet AMD—

RTH258 (ESBA1008), a single chain antibody fragment directed against VEGF-AIn development (non-inferiority Phase 3 trial initiated in 2014 comparing RTH258 (ESBA1008) and EYLEA)NovartisWet AMD—

Abicipar pegol (anti-VEGF-A-DARPin®)In development (Phase 2)AllerganWet AMD and related conditions—

Bi-specific antibodyR06867461In development (Phase 1)GenentechWet AMD—

Lucentis®Sustained Delivery SystemIn development (Phase 1)GenentechWet AMD and related conditions—

PF582, a biosimilar to Lucentis®In development (Phase 1/2)Pfenex Inc.Wet AMD and related conditions—

The table above is not exhaustive. For additional information regarding the substantial competition EYLEA faces, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of EYLEA -The commercial success of EYLEA is subject to strong competition" and Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Products -Our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition."









ZALTRAP.The following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for ZALTRAP:

Competitor Product/Product CandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusCompetitorIndicationTerritoryAvastin®(bevacizumab)Approved and launched in 2004GenentechCertain cancersWorldwideOral medications that target tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels growth of tumorsBeing sold and marketedPfizer, Amgen (together with its partner Bayer HealthCare), GlaxoSmithKline, and Bayer HealthCareCertain cancersWorldwideOther VEGF antagonistsIn various phases of developmentNovartis, Amgen, Imclone LLC/Eli Lilly, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, and Aveo Pharmaceuticals, Inc.Certain cancers—

The table above is not exhaustive. For additional information regarding the substantial competition ZALTRAP faces, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Products -Our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition."

Monoclonal Antibodies.Our clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies which were generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology. Our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. Numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. Companies such as Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca, Amgen, Biogen Idec, Inc., Novartis, Genentech, Bristol-Myers Squibb, AbbVie, and GlaxoSmithKline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant DNA that comprise human antibody sequences. Astellas has licensed ourVelocImmunetechnology as part of their internal antibody development programs.

The following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for our antibody programs that are in late-stage clinical development.

Regeneron AntibodyProgramCompetitorCompetitorProduct/ProductCandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusTargetPRALUENT (Phase 3)Target: PCSK9AmgenEvolocumab (AMG-145)In development (Phase 3)Antibody against PCSK9PfizerBococizumab (RN316 / PF-04950615In development (Phase 3)Antibody against PCSK9Eli LillyLY3015014In development (Phase 2)Antibody against PCSK9Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (in partnership with The Medicines Company)ALN-PCSIn development (Phase 1)RNAi against PCSK9









(continued)Regeneron AntibodyProgramCompetitorCompetitorProduct/ProductCandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusTargetSarilumab (Phase 3)Target: IL-6RRocheActemra®(Tocilizumab)ApprovedAntibody against IL-6R for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritisJohnson & Johnson (in partnership with GlaxoSmithKline)SirukumabIn development (Phase 3)Antibody  against IL-6Alder Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.ClazakizumabIn development (Phase 2)Antibody  against IL-6Ablynx (in partnership with AbbVie)ALX-0061In development (Phase 2)Antibody  against IL-6RR-PharmOlokizumabIn development (Phase 2)Antibody  against IL-6PfizerPF-04236921In development (Phase 1/Phase 2)Antibody  against IL-6RocheSA 237In development (Phase 1/Phase 3)Antibody against IL-6RDupilumab (Phase 2/Phase 3)Target: IL-4RRocheLebrikizumabIn development (Phase 3)Antibody against IL-13TevaReslizumabIn development (Phase 3)Antibody against IL-5GlaxoSmithKlineMepolizumabIn development (Phase 3)Antibody against IL-5AstraZenecaBenralizumabIn development (Phase 3)Antibody against IL-5RAstraZenecaTralokinumabIn development (Phase 3)Antibody against IL-13NovartisQBX258In development (Phase 2)Fixed dose combination of antibodies against IL-4 and IL-13

The table above is not exhaustive.  For additional information regarding our antibody programs and the substantial competition they face, see "Clinical Programs" above and Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Products -Our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition."

Other Areas.Many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. In these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. A number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. Many firms and entities are engaged in research and development in the areas of cytokines, interleukins, angiogenesis, and muscle conditions. Some of these competitors are currently conducting









advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. These and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages.

If any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future prospects.

We also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. These institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. Products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. We also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations.

Patents, Trademarks, and Trade Secrets

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity -We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, patents or other proprietary rights of others"). Our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. We hold an ownership interest in a number of issued patents in the United States and foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. In addition, we hold an ownership interest in hundreds of patent applications in the United States and foreign countries.

Our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering ourVelociSuitetechnologies, including ourVelocImmunemouse platform which produces fully human monoclonal antibodies. Our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2027. However, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms.

Our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to our marketed products,  EYLEA, ZALTRAP, and ARCALYST, and our product candidates in clinical development. These patents cover the proteins and DNA encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions, as well as various methods of using the products. For each of EYLEA, ZALTRAP, and ARCALYST, these patents generally expire between 2020 and 2027. However, the projected patent terms may be subject to extension based on potential patent term extensions in countries where such extensions are available.

We also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. In December 2011, we and Genentech entered into a Non-Exclusive License and Partial Settlement Agreement relating to ophthalmic sales of EYLEA in the United States. Pursuant to this agreement, we received a non-exclusive license to certain patents relating to VEGF receptor proteins, known as the Davis-Smyth patents, and other technology patents. In May 2013, we entered into an Amended and Restated Non-Exclusive License and Settlement Agreement with Genentech; under the amended agreement, we received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the Davis-Smyth patents, and certain other patents, owned or co-owned by Genentech for the prevention or treatment of human eye diseases and eye disorders through administration of EYLEA to the eye. Also in May  2013, we entered into a Non-Exclusive License and Settlement Agreement with Genentech and Sanofi under which we and Sanofi received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the Davis-Smyth patents, and certain other patents, in all indications for human use other than the prevention or treatment of eye diseases and eye disorders through administration to the eye.

In July 2008 we entered into an Amended and Restated Non-Exclusive License Agreement with Cellectis S.A. pursuant to which we licensed certain patents and patent applications relating to a process for the specific replacement of a copy of a gene in the receiver genome by homologous recombination.

We also have non-exclusive license agreements with Amgen and other organizations for patent rights related to ARCALYST.

Patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. The degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the United States and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. There is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit.

Others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. We expect to continue,









when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. However, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. Patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others.

Defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. It is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity -We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, patents or other proprietary rights of others").

Government Regulation

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of EYLEA, ZALTRAP, ARCALYST, and our product candidates (see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of EYLEA -

We are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to EYLEA. If we fail to maintain regulatory compliance for EYLEA, we may lose marketing approval, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition.

"



and "Risks Related to the Development and Approval of Our Product Candidates and New Indications for Our Marketed Products -

If we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products and product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition."

). All of our product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the FDA and foreign authorities. Many aspects of the structure and substance of the FDA and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices have been reformed during recent years, and continued reform is under consideration in a number of jurisdictions. The ultimate outcome and impact of such reforms and potential reforms cannot be predicted.

The activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the United States begin with preclinical tests. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. The results of these studies must be submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must be reviewed by the FDA before proposed clinical testing can begin. Typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. In Phase 1, trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. In Phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. In Phase 3, large-scale clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the FDA. The results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product candidate are then submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for commercial sale. In responding to a BLA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application.

Any approval required by the FDA for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. The designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. The results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans.

Approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. The approval procedure varies among countries and may involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for FDA approval.

Various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of pharmaceutical product candidates. The lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue.

In addition to the foregoing, our present and future business will be subject to regulation under the United States Atomic Energy Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations.









Business Segments

We manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery, development, and commercialization of pharmaceutical products for the treatment of serious medical conditions.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2014, we had approximately 2,925 full-time employees, of whom approximately 490 held a Ph.D. and/or M.D., or PharmD degree. We believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. None of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our management considers its relations with our employees to be good.

Corporate Information

We were incorporated in the State of New York in 1988 and publicly listed in 1991. Our principal executive offices are located at 777 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York 10591, and our telephone number at that address is (914) 847-7000.

We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website (http://www.regeneron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



