ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties relating to future events and the future performance of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Regeneron,” “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our”), and actual events or results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Words such as “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. These statements concern, and these risks and uncertainties include, among others, the nature, timing, and possible success and therapeutic applications of our products, product candidates, and research and clinical programs now underway or planned; unforeseen safety issues resulting from the administration of products and product candidates in patients, including serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our product candidates in clinical trials; the likelihood and timing of possible regulatory approval and commercial launch of our late-stage product candidates and new indications for marketed products, including without limitation EYLEA

®

General

Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious medical conditions. Our total revenues were$2,104.7 millionin2013, compared to$1,378.5 millionin2012and$445.8 millionin2011. Our net income was$424.4 million, or$3.81per diluted share, in2013, compared to net income of$750.3 million, or$6.75per diluted share, in2012, and a net loss of$221.8 million, or$2.45per diluted share, in2011. Net income in 2012 included an income tax benefit of $335.8 million, primarily attributable to the release of substantially all of the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Refer to Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations" below for further details of our financial results.

We currently have three marketed products:

•EYLEA (aflibercept) Injection, known in the scientific literature as VEGF Trap-Eye, which is available in the United States, European Union (EU), Japan, and certain other countries outside the United States for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration (wet AMD) and macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO). Net product sales of EYLEA in the United States were$1,408.7 millionin 2013, $837.9 million in 2012, and $24.8 million in 2011. Bayer HealthCare records revenue from sales of EYLEA outside the United States. EYLEA net product sales outside of the United States commenced in the fourth quarter of 2012, and were$472.1 millionin 2013 and $19.0 million in 2012.

We commenced sales of EYLEA for the treatment of wet AMD in November 2011 and for the treatment of macular edema following CRVO in September 2012, following receipt of regulatory approval in the United States. Bayer HealthCare commenced sales of EYLEA for the treatment of wet AMD in the fourth quarter of 2012 following receipt of regulatory approvals outside the United States, and for the treatment of macular edema secondary to CRVO in the fourth quarter of 2013 following receipt of regulatory approvals in the EU and Japan.  Bayer HealthCare has additional regulatory applications for EYLEA for the treatment of wet AMD and macular edema secondary to CRVO pending in other countries.









In August 2013, we and Bayer HealthCare announced positive week 52 results from the Phase 3 VISTA-DME and VIVID-DME trials of EYLEA for the treatment of diabetic macular edema (DME), as described below under “Clinical Programs:EYLEA - Ophthalmologic Diseases.” Based on the positive results of these studies, we submitted a supplemental Biologics License Application (BLA) for U.S. regulatory approval of EYLEA in DME in the fourth quarter of 2013; the target date for an FDA decision on the supplemental BLA is August 18, 2014. An application for marketing approval for the treatment of DME in the EU was also submitted by Bayer HealthCare during the fourth quarter of 2013. In addition, in February 2014, we and Bayer HealthCare announced positive week 100 results from the Phase 3 VISTA-DME trial, as described below under “Clinical Programs:EYLEA - Ophthalmologic Diseases.”

In October 2013, we announced positive week 24 results from the Phase 3 VIBRANT trial of EYLEA for the treatment of macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO), as described below under “Clinical Programs:EYLEA - Ophthalmologic Diseases.”

We are collaborating with Bayer HealthCare on the global development and commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States. Bayer HealthCare markets, and records revenue from sales of, EYLEA outside the United States, where, for countries other than Japan, the companies share equally the profits and losses from sales of EYLEA. In Japan, we are entitled to receive a percentage of the sales of EYLEA, as described below. We maintain exclusive rights to EYLEA in the United States and are entitled to all profits from any such sales.

•ZALTRAP®(ziv-aflibercept) Injection for Intravenous Infusion, known in the scientific literature as VEGF Trap, which is available in the United States, EU, and certain other countries for treatment, in combination with 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan (FOLFIRI), of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen. Regulatory applications for marketing authorization of ZALTRAP for the treatment of previously treated mCRC patients in other countries have also been submitted and are currently under review by the respective regulatory agencies. We and Sanofi globally collaborate on the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP, and share profits and losses from commercialization of ZALTRAP, except for Japan, where we are entitled to receive a percentage of the sales of ZALTRAP, as described below. ZALTRAP net product sales, which are recorded by Sanofi, commenced in the United States in August 2012 and in Europe in the first quarter of 2013, and were$70.2 millionin 2013 and $31.7 million in 2012.

•ARCALYST®(rilonacept) Injection for Subcutaneous Use, which is available in the United States for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS), including Familial Cold Auto-inflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) and Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), in adults and children 12 and older. CAPS are a group of rare, inherited, auto-inflammatory conditions characterized by life-long, recurrent symptoms of rash, fever/chills, joint pain, eye redness/pain, and fatigue. Intermittent, disruptive exacerbations or flares can be triggered at any time by exposure to cooling temperatures, stress, exercise, or other unknown stimuli. Net product sales of ARCALYST totaled$17.1 millionin2013, $20.2 millionin2012, and $19.9 millionin2011.

We have 16 product candidates in clinical development, all of which were discovered in our research laboratories. Our Trap-based clinical programs are:

•EYLEA, which is in clinical trials for the treatment of DME and macular edema following BRVO in collaboration with Bayer HealthCare; and

•ZALTRAP, which is being studied in combination with our angiopoietin-2 inhibitor (nesvacumab) in oncology in collaboration with Sanofi.

Our antibody-based clinical programs include 14 fully human monoclonal antibody product candidates. The following seven are being developed in collaboration with Sanofi:

•Sarilumab (REGN88), an antibody to the interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R), which is being developed in rheumatoid arthritis and non-infectious uveitis;

•Alirocumab (REGN727), an antibody to Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin type 9 (PCSK9), which is being developed for low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol reduction;

•Dupilumab (REGN668), an antibody to the interleukin-4 receptor alpha (IL-4R), which is being developed in atopic dermatitis, asthma, and nasal polyposis;

•Enoticumab (REGN421), an antibody to Delta-like ligand-4 (Dll4), a novel angiogenesis target, which is being developed in oncology;

•Nesvacumab (REGN910), an antibody to angiopoietin-2 (Ang2), another novel angiogenesis target, which is being developed in oncology;

•REGN1033, an antibody to myostatin (GDF8), which is being developed in skeletal muscle disorders; and

•REGN2009, an antibody in clinical development against an undisclosed target.









We are developing the following six antibody product candidates independently:

•REGN1400, an antibody to ErbB3, which is being developed in oncology;

•REGN1154, an antibody in clinical development against an undisclosed target;

•REGN1500, an antibody in clinical development against an undisclosed target;

•REGN1193, an antibody in clinical development against an undisclosed target;

•REGN1908-1909, an antibody combination in clinical development against an undisclosed target; and

•Fasinumab (REGN475), an antibody to Nerve Growth Factor (NGF), which is being developed for the treatment of pain and is currently on clinical hold by the FDA.



In addition, REGN2176-3, a combination product that is comprised of an antibody to Platelet Derived Growth Factor Receptor Beta (PDGFR-beta) co-formulated with EYLEA for use in ophthalmology, entered clinical development in the first quarter of 2014, and is being developed in collaboration with Bayer HealthCare.

Development of REGN846, which completed a Phase 1 study against an undisclosed target, was discontinued in the second quarter of 2013.

Our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, and to combine that foundation with our clinical development, manufacturing, and commercial capabilities. Our long-term objective is to build a successful, integrated, multi-product biopharmaceutical company that provides patients and medical professionals with innovative options for preventing and treating human diseases.

We believe that our ability to develop product candidates is enhanced by the application of ourVelociSuite®technology platforms. Our discovery platforms are designed to identify specific proteins of therapeutic interest for a particular disease or cell type and validate these targets through high-throughput production of genetically modified mice using ourVelociGene®technology to understand the role of these proteins in normal physiology, as well as in models of disease. Our human monoclonal antibody technology (VelocImmune®) and cell line expression technologies (VelociMab®) may then be utilized to discover and produce new product candidates directed against the disease target. Our antibody product candidates currently in clinical trials were developed usingVelocImmune. We continue to invest in the development of enabling technologies to assist in our efforts to identify, develop, manufacture, and commercialize new product candidates.

We recently launched a new human genetics initiative via a wholly owned subsidiary, Regeneron Genetics Center LLC (RGC). RGC will perform sequencing and genotyping to generate de-identified genomic data. The objective of RGC is to expand the use of human genetics for discovering and validating genetic factors that cause or influence a range of diseases where there are major unmet medical needs, with the prospect of improving the drug discovery and development process. RGC intends to pursue both large population-based efforts as well as family-based approaches.

Clinical Programs:

1. EYLEA - Ophthalmologic Diseases

Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) is a naturally occurring protein in the body. Its normal role in a healthy organism is to trigger formation of new blood vessels (angiogenesis) supporting the growth of the body's tissues and organs. However, in certain diseases, such as wet AMD, it is also associated with the growth of abnormal new blood vessels in the eye, which exhibit abnormal increased permeability that leads to edema. Scarring and loss of fine-resolution central vision often results. In CRVO and BRVO, a blockage occurs in the main blood vessel that transports deoxygenated blood away from the retina. VEGF levels are elevated in response, contributing to macular edema. For clinically significant DME, VEGF-mediated leakage of fluid from blood vessels in the eye results in interference with vision.

EYLEA is a recombinant fusion protein, consisting of portions of human VEGF receptors 1 and 2 extracellular domains fused to the Fc portion of human IgG1 and formulated as an iso-osmotic solution for intravitreal administration. EYLEA acts as a soluble decoy receptor that binds VEGF-A and placental growth factor (PlGF) and thereby can inhibit the binding and activation of these cognate VEGF receptors. EYLEA is specially purified and contains iso-osmotic buffer concentrations, allowing for injection into the eye.

EYLEA is being evaluated in Phase 3 programs in patients with DME and macular edema following BRVO. Wet AMD, diabetic retinopathy (which includes DME), and retinal vein occlusion are three of the leading causes of adult blindness in the developed world. In these conditions, severe visual loss is caused by neovascular proliferation and/or retinal edema.

In August 2013, we and Bayer HealthCare announced that in the Phase 3 VISTA-DME and VIVID-DME trials of EYLEA for the treatment of DME, EYLEA 2 milligrams (mg) dosed monthly and EYLEA 2 mg dosed every two months (after 5 initial monthly injections) achieved the primary endpoint of a significantly greater improvement in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) from









baseline compared to laser photocoagulation at 52 weeks. Both EYLEA treatment arms demonstrated similar improvements in BCVA. Based on the positive results of these studies, during the fourth quarter of 2013, we submitted a supplemental BLA for U.S. regulatory approval of EYLEA in DME. the target date for an FDA decision on the supplemental BLA is August 18, 2014. Bayer HealthCare also submitted an application for marketing approval for the treatment of DME in the EU in the fourth quarter of 2013.

We are conducting the VISTA-DME study in the United States. Bayer HealthCare is conducting the VIVID-DME study in Europe, Japan, and Australia. Both of these Phase 3 trials were initiated in the second quarter of 2011, and are similarly designed, randomized, double-masked, active control trials to evaluate the safety and efficacy of EYLEA in patients with DME. Patients in both trials were randomized to receive either EYLEA 2 mg monthly, EYLEA 2 mg every two months (after 5 initial monthly injections), or the comparator treatment of laser photocoagulation.

In the VISTA-DME trial, after one year patients receiving EYLEA 2 mg monthly had a mean change from baseline in BCVA of 12.5 letters (p<0.0001 compared to laser) and patients receiving EYLEA 2 mg every other month (after 5 initial monthly injections) had a mean change from baseline in BCVA of 10.7 letters (p<0.0001 compared to laser), compared to patients receiving laser photocoagulation who had a mean change from baseline in BCVA of 0.2 letters. In the VIVID-DME trial, after one year patients receiving EYLEA 2 mg monthly had a mean change from baseline in BCVA of 10.5 letters (p<0.0001 compared to laser) and patients receiving EYLEA 2 mg every other month (after 5 initial monthly injections) had a mean change from baseline in BCVA of 10.7 letters (p<0.0001 compared to laser), compared to patients receiving laser photocoagulation who had a mean change from baseline in BCVA of 1.2 letters.

In addition, in February 2014, we and Bayer HealthCare announced that in the Phase 3 VISTA-DME trial of EYLEA for the treatment of DME, EYLEA 2 mg dosed monthly and EYLEA 2 mg dosed every two months (after 5 initial monthly injections) showed a sustained improvement from baseline in BCVA at week 100, compared to laser photocoagulation. After two years, patients receiving EYLEA 2 mg monthly had a mean change from baseline in BCVA of 11.5 letters and patients receiving EYLEA 2 mg every other month (after 5 initial monthly injections) had a mean change from baseline in BCVA of 11.1 letters, compared to patients receiving laser photocoagulation who had a mean change from baseline in BCVA of 0.9 letters.

In these trials, EYLEA was generally well tolerated with a similar overall incidence of adverse events (AEs), ocular serious AEs, and non-ocular serious AEs across the treatment groups and the laser control group. Arterial thromboembolic events as defined by the Anti-Platelet Trialists' Collaboration (non-fatal stroke, non-fatal myocardial infarction, and vascular death) also occurred at similar rates across the treatment groups and the laser control group. AEs were typical of those seen in other studies in patients with diabetes receiving intravitreal anti-VEGF therapy. The most frequent ocular treatment emergent AEs (TEAEs) observed in the VIVID-DME and VISTA-DME trials included conjunctival hemorrhage, eye pain, and vitreous floaters. The most frequent non-ocular TEAEs included hypertension, nasopharyngitis, anemia, and urinary tract infection, which occurred with similar frequency in the treatment groups and the laser control group.

Full one-year data from the VIVID-DME and VISTA-DME trials were presented at the Retina Society and EURETINA medical conferences in September 2013. Both trials are planned to continue up to 148 weeks. An additional Phase 3 safety study in Japan (VIVID-Japan) was initiated in the first quarter of 2012 and is required for approval in Japan. In February 2013, we and Bayer HealthCare also initiated another Phase 3 study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of EYLEA in DME in Russia, China, and other Asian countries (VIVID EAST-DME).

In the fourth quarter of 2011, we and Bayer HealthCare initiated a Phase 3 trial in China evaluating the efficacy and safety of EYLEA in wet AMD (SIGHT). The trial is fully enrolled.

In the second quarter of 2012, we initiated a multinational study (VIBRANT) of EYLEA in patients with macular edema following BRVO. In October 2013, we reported positive, top line results from the VIBRANT trial. In this trial, 53% of patients who received EYLEA 2 mg every four weeks gained at least 15 letters in vision from baseline at week 24, the primary endpoint of the study, compared to 27% of patients who received laser, a standard-of-care treatment (p<0.001). Patients who received EYLEA 2 mg every four weeks achieved a 17.0 letter mean improvement over baseline in BCVA compared to a 6.9 letter mean improvement in patients who received laser (p<0.0001), a key secondary endpoint. VIBRANT is the first Phase 3 trial in this indication in which an anti-VEGF agent was directly compared to an active comparator. The incidence of serious AEs (SAEs) was 9.9% in the EYLEA group and 9.8% in the laser group. One death and one Anti-Platelet Trialists’ Collaboration (APTC) defined event (non-fatal stroke) occurred during the trial, both in patients in the laser group. The most common ocular adverse events in the EYLEA treated patients were conjunctival hemorrhage and eye pain. There were no cases of intraocular inflammation. There was one ocular SAE in a patient in the EYLEA group, which was a traumatic cataract. The Phase 3 VIBRANT results were presented during the annual meeting of the American Academy of Ophthalmology (AAO) held in November 2013 in New Orleans.

In the fourth quarter of 2012, we initiated a study (RE-VIEW) to fulfill a post-marketing requirement by the FDA, which is evaluating the effect of EYLEA on corneal endothelium. The trial is fully enrolled.









In June 2013, we and Bayer HealthCare announced positive top-line results for EYLEA from the Phase 3 MYRROR study in myopic choroidal neovascularization (mCNV). In this trial, patients receiving EYLEA at an initial dose of 2 mg, followed by treatment on an as-needed (PRN) basis, had a mean improvement in BCVA from baseline at week 24 of 12.1 letters, compared to a loss of 2.0 letters in patients receiving sham injections (p < 0.0001). The most common adverse events observed in the MYRROR trial that occurred with a frequency of 2% or more were conjunctival hemorrhage, dry eye, eye pain, headache, and nasopharyngitis. Bayer HealthCare submitted its first application for regulatory approval for this indication in Japan in the fourth quarter of 2013.

2. ZALTRAP (ziv-aflibercept) - Oncology

ZALTRAP is a fusion protein that is designed to bind all forms of VEGF-A, VEGF-B, and P1GF, and prevent their interaction with cell surface receptors. VEGF-A (and to a lesser degree, P1GF) is required for angiogenesis that is needed for tumors to grow.

During the third quarter of 2012, we and Sanofi initiated a Phase 1b study of a combination of ZALTRAP and our angiopoietin-2 inhibitor (nesvacumab) in patients with advanced solid malignancies.

3. Sarilumab (REGN88; IL-6R Antibody) for inflammatory diseases

IL-6 is a key cytokine involved in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), causing inflammation and joint destruction. A therapeutic antibody to IL-6R, ACTEMRA®(tocilizumab), a registered trademark of Chugai Seiyaku Kabushiki Kaisha, has been approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Sarilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to IL-6R generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology.

In the fourth quarter of 2013, we and Sanofi announced that in the SARIL-RA-MOBILITY Phase 3 clinical trial in adult patients with active RA who were inadequate responders to MTX therapy, sarilumab treatment in combination with MTX improved disease signs and symptoms as well as physical function, and inhibited progression of joint damage. The 52 week SARIL-RA-MOBILITY Phase 3 trial enrolled approximately 1,200 patients with active, moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, and who were inadequate responders to MTX therapy. Patients were randomized to one of three subcutaneous treatment groups, all in combination with MTX and dosed every other week: sarilumab 200 mg, sarilumab 150 mg, or placebo. Both sarilumab groups showed clinically relevant and statistically significant improvements compared to the placebo group in all three co-primary endpoints (p < 0.0001).

In the SARIL-RA-MOBILITY trial, there was a higher incidence of treatment emergent adverse events leading to withdrawal in the sarilumab treatment groups compared to placebo (13.9 percent in 200 mg, 12.5 percent in 150 mg and 4.7 percent in placebo).  Infections were the most frequently reported adverse events and were reported with a higher incidence in the sarilumab groups compared to placebo, all in combination with MTX (39.6 percent for 200 mg, 40.1 percent for the 150 mg group and 31.1 percent for placebo). The incidence of serious infections was 4.0 percent in the 200 mg + MTX group, 2.6 percent in the 150 mg + MTX group, and 2.3 percent in the placebo + MTX group. Among patients treated with sarilumab, a dose dependent decrease in mean neutrophil counts was observed. Serious infections were not associated with grades 3 and 4 neutropenia in this study. Increases in mean LDL cholesterol, and transaminases were observed. These safety findings were consistent with those observed in prior investigational studies with sarilumab.

Additional analyses of efficacy and safety data from the SARIL-RA-MOBILITY study will be presented at a future medical conference.

We and Sanofi have also initiated additional Phase 3 studies, SARIL-RA-TARGET, SARIL-RA-COMPARE, and SARIL-RA- ASCERTAIN. The broad SARIL-RA clinical development program is focused on adult populations with moderate-to-severe RA who are inadequate responders to either MTX or tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) inhibitor therapy. SARIL-RA-TARGET is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating sarilumab in combination with non-biologic, disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDS) in moderate-to-severe active RA patients with inadequate responses to, or who are intolerant of, one or more TNF-alpha inhibitors. The SARIL-RA-COMPARE study is evaluating the safety and efficacy of sarilumab plus MTX compared to etanercept (a TNF-alpha inhibitor) plus MTX in adult patients with moderate-to-severe RA who demonstrate an inadequate response to adalimumab as their first TNF-alpha inhibitor therapy. The SARIL-RA-ASCERTAIN study is a safety study evaluating the safety and tolerability of sarilumab versus a calibrator, tocilizumab, both in combination with MTX, in patients with RA who are inadequate responders to, or intolerant of, TNF-alpha inhibitors. Patients who complete SARIL-RA-MOBILITY, SARIL-RA-TARGET, or SARIL-RA-ASCERTAIN are offered enrollment into the ongoing SARIL-RA-EXTEND, which is an open-label, long-term safety study of sarilumab.

A Phase 1 study was initiated in the second quarter of 2013 in Japan assessing the safety and tolerability of sarilumab in patients with RA.

In addition, a Phase 2 study, SARIL-NIU-SATURN, was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2013 and is a placebo-controlled proof of concept study evaluating the safety and efficacy of sarilumab in non-infectious uveitis.









4. Alirocumab (REGN727; PCSK9 Antibody) for LDL cholesterol reduction

Elevated LDL cholesterol (“bad cholesterol”) level is a validated risk factor leading to cardiovascular disease. Statins are a class of drugs that lower LDL through inhibition of HMG-CoA, an enzyme regulating the early and rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis that ultimately results in an increase in LDL receptors to increase the uptake of plasma LDL lipoproteins. PCSK9 is a secreted protein that plays a key role in modulating LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) levels in the body. PCSK9 binds to and induces the destruction of the LDL receptor, thereby interfering with cellular uptake and increasing circulating levels of LDL cholesterol. In a landmark study published in theNew England Journal of Medicinein March 2006, patients with lower than normal PCSK9 levels due to a genetic abnormality not only had significantly lower levels of LDL cholesterol, but also a significant reduction in the risk of coronary heart disease. We used ourVelocImmunetechnology to generate a fully human monoclonal antibody inhibitor of PCSK9, called alirocumab, that is intended to lower LDL cholesterol.

Alirocumab has been studied in three Phase 2 clinical studies, two in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia and one in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (heFH). In the Phase 2 studies, alirocumab significantly reduced LDL-C from baseline up to 72% on top of standard of care statin therapy. Consistent and robust reductions in other lipid parameters, including a reduction in lipoprotein-a (Lp(a)) were also observed. Lp(a) is another form of bad cholesterol which is believed to be a risk factor for coronary heart disease and strokes when elevated. In the Phase 2 program, injection site reactions were the most common adverse events with alirocumab, and were rare. Rare cases of hypersensitivity reaction were also reported. Serious adverse events were reported in 1.8% of patients in the active treatment arms and 2.6% of patients in the placebo groups.

We and Sanofi initiated the global Phase 3 ODYSSEY program for alirocumab in the second quarter of 2012. The ODYSSEY program is expected to enroll more than 23,000 patients. This includes eleven clinical trials evaluating the effect of alirocumab, dosed every two weeks, on lowering LDL cholesterol. In addition, the 18,000 patient ODYSSEY OUTCOMES trial, assessing reduction in serious cardiovascular events, is currently enrolling patients, while the other trials exploring every two week dosing in the ODYSSEY program are fully enrolled. LDL cholesterol reduction is expected to be the primary efficacy endpoint for initial regulatory filings. Also, two trials of alirocumab dosed every four weeks, ODYSSEY CHOICE I and CHOICE II, were initiated in the fourth quarter of 2013 and the first quarter of 2014, respectively. The ODYSSEY studies are being conducted in clinical centers around the world including the United States, Canada, Western and Eastern Europe, South America, Australia, and Asia.

The first trial to report data from the Phase 3 ODYSSEY program was the ODYSSEY MONO trial (in the fourth quarter of 2013), which evaluated the efficacy and safety of alirocumab monotherapy versus ezetimibe monotherapy in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia. The study achieved its primary efficacy endpoint and demonstrated that patients randomized to receive alirocumab monotherapy experienced a mean reduction in LDL-C levels of 47.2% from baseline to week 24, compared to 15.6% in patients receiving ezetimibe monotherapy (p<0.0001). In the trial, which employed a dose increase (up-titration) for patients who did not achieve an LDL-C level of 70 milligrams/deciliter (mg/dL), the majority of patients remained on the initial low dose of alirocumab of 75 mg. The percentage of patients who reported TEAEs was 78.4% in the ezetimibe group and 69.2% in the alirocumab group. The most common class of AEs was infections (39.2% with ezetimibe vs. 42.3% with alirocumab), which included nasopharyngitis, influenza, and upper respiratory tract infection. Injection-site reactions occurred in less than 2% of patients in both groups. Muscle-related AEs occurred in 3.9% of patients treated with ezetimibe and 3.8% of patients treated with alirocumab.

5. Dupilumab (REGN668; IL-4R Antibody) for allergic and immune conditions

IL-4R is required for signaling by the cytokines IL-4 and IL-13. Both of these cytokines are critical mediators of immune response, which, in turn, drives the formation of Immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies and the development of allergic responses, as well as the atopic state that underlies atopic dermatitis and asthma. Dupilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology that is designed to bind to IL-4R.

Dupilumab demonstrated positive proof of concept in patients with atopic dermatitis and asthma. Data from two Phase 1b trials in atopic dermatitis were presented at the American Academy of Dermatology annual meeting in March 2013. The efficacy data showed that treatment with four weekly subcutaneous injections of dupilumab at either 150 mg or 300 mg per week, significantly improved the signs and symptoms of patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis whose disease was not adequately controlled with topical medications. The most common AEs were nasopharyngitis (19.6% vs 12.5% for placebo) and headache (11.8% vs 6.3% for placebo).

Data from a Phase 2a trial in asthma patients with elevated eosinophils were presented at the American Thoracic Society in May 2013, and were also published in theNew England Journal of Medicinein June 2013. In this study, patients receiving dupilumab at 300 mg weekly for 12 weeks experienced an 87% reduction in the incidence of asthma exacerbations compared to patients receiving placebo (p<0.0001). Clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvements were observed for lung function and other asthma control parameters, such as forced expiratory volume over one second (FEV1) (difference from baseline to week 12 between dupilumab and placebo of 0.27 L, p < 0.001). TEAEs were reported by a similar proportion of patients in









both groups (76.9% placebo; 80.8% dupilumab). AEs were generally non-specific and of mild-to-moderate intensity. The most common AEs for placebo and dupilumab were injection-site reaction (9.6% and 28.8%), nasopharyngitis (3.8% and 13.5%), upper respiratory tract infection (17.3% and 13.5%), headache (5.8% and 11.5%) and nausea (1.9% and 7.7%).

Data from a 4-week Phase 2 trial in atopic dermatitis were presented at the 22nd Congress of the European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology in October 2013.

In the second quarter of 2013, Phase 2b trials in atopic dermatitis and asthma were initiated. The Phase 2b asthma trial is currently enrolling patients, while the Phase 2b atopic dermatitis trial is fully enrolled. In addition, in the third quarter of 2013, a Phase 2 study in nasal polyposis was initiated and is currently enrolling patients.

6. Enoticumab (REGN421; Dll4 Antibody) for advanced malignancies

In many clinical settings, positively or negatively regulating blood vessel growth could have important therapeutic benefits, as could the repair of damaged and leaky vessels. VEGF was the first growth factor shown to be specific for blood vessels, by virtue of having its receptor primarily expressed on blood vessel cells. In the December 21, 2006 issue of the journalNature, we reported data from a preclinical study demonstrating that blocking an important cell signaling molecule, known as Dll4, inhibited the growth of experimental tumors by interfering with their ability to produce a functional blood supply. The inhibition of tumor growth was seen in a variety of tumor types, including those that were resistant to blockade of VEGF, suggesting a novel anti-angiogenesis therapeutic approach. Moreover, inhibition of tumor growth is enhanced by the combination of Dll4 and VEGF blockade in many preclinical tumor models.

Enoticumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to Dll4 generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology, and is in Phase 1 clinical development.

7. Nesvacumab (REGN910; Ang2 Antibody) for oncology and ophthalmology

The angiopoietins, which were discovered at Regeneron, are ligands for the endothelial cell receptor Tie2 and are essential for vascular development and angiogenesis. Unlike other family members, angiopoietin-2 (Ang2) is strongly upregulated by endothelial cells at sites of angiogenesis and vascular remodeling, including tumors. Enhanced anti-tumor effects have been observed in preclinical models with combined blockade of both VEGF and Ang2.

Nesvacumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology that is designed to block Ang2. Nesvacumab is in Phase 1 clinical development in oncology. In addition, during the third quarter of 2012, we and Sanofi initiated a Phase 1b study evaluating nesvacumab in combination with ZALTRAP in patients with advanced solid malignancies.

In May 2013, we acquired from Sanofi full rights to antibodies targeting the Ang2 receptor and ligand in ophthalmology, as described below. We expect to initiate a clinical study for Ang2 in ophthalmology in 2014.

8. REGN1033 (GDF8 Antibody)

In the first quarter of 2012, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical study for REGN1033, a fully human monoclonal GDF8 antibody generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology. Myostatin has been validated as a target to increase muscle mass and strength through genetic mutations in both animals and humans that abrogate its bioactivity. A Phase 2 program for REGN1033 was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2013.

9. REGN2009

REGN2009 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology, against an undisclosed target. In the second quarter of 2013, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical study.

10. REGN1400 (ErbB3 Antibody) for oncology

REGN1400 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology, against ErbB3. In the fourth quarter of 2012, REGN1400 entered into Phase 1 clinical development in oncology.

11. REGN1154

REGN1154 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology, against an undisclosed target. Our Phase 1 clinical study in Australia, which was initiated in the first quarter of 2012, has been completed. We are currently evaluating next steps for this program. Sanofi did not opt-in to the REGN1154 program and we have sole global rights. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of REGN1154.









12. REGN1500

REGN1500 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology, against an undisclosed target. In the fourth quarter of 2012, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical study. Sanofi did not opt-in to the REGN1500 program and we have sole global rights. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of REGN1500.

13. REGN1193

REGN1193 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology, against an undisclosed target. A Phase 1 clinical study of REGN1193 was initiated in the second quarter of 2013. Sanofi did not opt-in to the REGN1193 program and we have sole global rights. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of REGN1193.

14. REGN1908-1909

REGN1908-1909 is a fully human monocolonal antibody combination generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology against an undisclosed target. A Phase 1 clinical study of REGN1908-1909 was initiated in the second quarter of 2013. Sanofi did not opt-in to the REGN1908-1909 program and we have sole global rights. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of REGN1908-1909.

15. REGN2176-3 (PDGFR-beta Antibody in combination with EYLEA) for ophthalmology

REGN2176-3 is a combination product comprised of an antibody to PDGFR-beta, which was generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology, co-formulated with EYLEA for use in ophthalmology. In February 2014, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical study of REGN2176-3 for the treatment of wet AMD.

In May 2013, we acquired from Sanofi full rights to antibodies targeting the PDGF family of receptors and ligands in ophthalmology, as described below.

In January 2014, we and Bayer HealthCare entered into an agreement regarding the joint development and commercialization outside the United States of an antibody product candidate to PDGFR-beta, including in combination therapy with EYLEA, for the treatment of ocular diseases or disorders (including wet AMD) as described further in the "Collaborations with Bayer HealthCare" section below.

16. Fasinumab (REGN475; NGF Antibody) for pain (on clinical hold)

Fasinumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to NGF, generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology, which is designed to block pain sensitization in neurons. Preclinical experiments indicate that fasinumab specifically binds to and blocks NGF activity and does not bind to or block cell signaling for the closely related neurotrophins NT-3 and BDNF.

In December 2012, the FDA placed fasinumab and other investigational agents targeting NGF on clinical hold based on preclinical findings with other anti-NGF agents in development. Prior to the FDA clinical hold action, we were planning to initiate late-stage clinical trials with fasinumab. There are currently no ongoing trials with fasinumab that are either enrolling or treating patients.

Sanofi elected not to continue co-development of fasinumab, and we have sole global rights. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of fasinumab.

Acquisition of Ophthalmology Development Programs from Sanofi

In May 2013, we acquired from Sanofi full exclusive rights to two families of novel antibodies invented at Regeneron and previously included in our antibody collaboration with Sanofi. We acquired full rights to antibodies targeting the PDGF family of receptors and ligands in ophthalmology and all other indications and to antibodies targeting the Ang2 receptor and ligand in ophthalmology.

With respect to PDGF antibodies, we made a $10.0 million up-front payment to Sanofi in May 2013, a $5.0 million development milestone payment to Sanofi in January 2014, and are obligated to pay up to $35 million in additional potential development milestones and royalties on any future sales. With respect to Ang2 antibodies in ophthalmology, we also made a $10.0 million up-front payment to Sanofi in May 2013, and are obligated to pay a potential $5 million development milestone payment and royalties on any future sales.

We and Sanofi have agreed to continue to develop antibodies to Ang2 outside of ophthalmology under our antibody collaboration agreement, including nesvacumab, as described above.









Research Programs

Our preclinical research programs are in the areas of oncology, angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related diseases, muscle diseases and disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone and cartilage, pain, cardiovascular diseases, and infectious diseases.

Research and Development Technologies

Many proteins that are either on the surface of or secreted by cells play important roles in biology and disease. One way that a cell communicates with other cells is by releasing specific signaling proteins, either locally or into the bloodstream. These proteins have distinct functions and are classified into different “families” of molecules, such as peptide hormones, growth factors, and cytokines. All of these secreted (or signaling) proteins travel to and are recognized by another set of proteins, called “receptors,” which reside on the surface of responding cells. These secreted proteins impact many critical cellular and biological processes, causing diverse effects ranging from the regulation of growth of particular cell types to inflammation mediated by white blood cells. Secreted proteins can at times be overactive and thus result in a variety of diseases. In these disease settings, blocking the action of specific secreted proteins can have clinical benefit. In other cases, proteins on the cell-surface can mediate the interaction between cells, such as the processes that give rise to inflammation and autoimmunity.

Our scientists have developed two different technologies to design protein therapeutics to block the action of specific cell surface or secreted proteins. The first technology, termed the “Trap” technology, was used to generate our three approved products, EYLEA, ZALTRAP, and ARCALYST. These novel “Traps” are composed of fusions between two distinct receptor components and the constant region of an antibody molecule called the “Fc region,” resulting in high affinity product candidates.VelociSuiteis our second technology platform; it is used for discovering, developing, and producing fully human monoclonal antibodies that can address both secreted and cell-surface targets.

VelociSuite.VelociSuiteconsists ofVelocImmune, VelociGene, VelociMouse®, and VelociMab. TheVelocImmunemouse platform is utilized to produce fully human monoclonal antibodies.VelocImmunewas generated by exploiting ourVelociGenetechnology (see below), in a process in which six megabases of mouse immune gene loci were replaced, or “humanized,” with corresponding human immune gene loci.VelocImmunemice can be used to generate efficiently fully human monoclonal antibodies to targets of therapeutic interest.VelocImmuneand our entireVelociSuiteoffer the potential to increase the speed and efficiency through which human monoclonal antibody therapeutics may be discovered and validated, thereby improving the overall efficiency of our early stage drug development activities. We are utilizing theVelocImmunetechnology to produce our next generation of drug candidates for preclinical and clinical development.

OurVelociGeneplatform allows custom and precise manipulation of very large sequences of DNA to produce highly customized alterations of a specified target gene, or genes, and accelerates the production of knock-out and transgenic expression models without using either positive/negative selection or isogenic DNA. In producing knock-out models, a color or fluorescent marker may be substituted in place of the actual gene sequence, allowing for high-resolution visualization of precisely where the gene is active in the body during normal body functioning as well as in disease processes. For the optimization of preclinical development and pharmacology programs,VelociGeneoffers the opportunity to humanize targets by replacing the mouse gene with the human homolog. Thus,VelociGeneallows scientists to rapidly identify the physical and biological effects of deleting or over-expressing the target gene, as well as to characterize and test potential therapeutic molecules.

OurVelociMousetechnology platform allows for the direct and immediate generation of genetically altered mice from embryonic stem cells (ES cells), thereby avoiding the lengthy process involved in generating and breeding knockout mice from chimeras. Mice generated through this method are normal and healthy and exhibit a 100% germ-line transmission. Furthermore, mice developed using ourVelociMousetechnology are suitable for direct phenotyping or other studies. We have also developed ourVelociMabplatform for the rapid screening of antibodies and rapid generation of expression cell lines for our Traps and ourVelocImmunehuman monoclonal antibodies.

We have utilized ourVelociSuitetechnologies to develop a class of potential drug candidates, known as bi-specific antibodies. In the area of immunotherapies in oncology, we are exploring the use of bi-specific antibodies that target tumor antigens and the CD3 receptor on T-cells to harness the oncolytic properties of T-cells. Our first such bi-specific antibody, which we expect to advance into clinical development later in 2014, targets CD20 and CD3.

Regeneron Genetics Center (RGC).We recently launched a new human genetics initiative via a wholly owned subsidiary, Regeneron Genetics Center LLC. The objective of RGC is to expand the use of human genetics for discovering and validating genetic factors that cause or influence a range of diseases where there are major unmet medical needs, with the prospect of improving the drug discovery and development process. RGC intends to pursue both large population-based efforts as well as family-based approaches.









Central to the work of RGC will be a collaboration with the Geisinger Health System of Pennsylvania. During the initial five-year collaboration term, Geisinger plans to collect samples from more than 100,000 consented patient volunteers, while RGC will perform sequencing and genotyping to generate de-identified genomic data.

Collaboration Agreements

Collaborations with Sanofi

ZALTRAP.Since September 2003, we and Sanofi have been parties to a global collaboration for the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP. Under the current terms of our collaboration agreement we and Sanofi share co-promotion rights and share profits and losses from commercialization of ZALTRAP outside of Japan. In Japan, we are entitled to receive a percentage of approximately 35% on sales of ZALTRAP, subject to certain potential adjustments.

Under the collaboration agreement, agreed upon worldwide development expenses incurred by both companies during the term of the agreement are funded by Sanofi. If the collaboration becomes profitable, we will be obligated to reimburse Sanofi out of our share of ZALTRAP profits for 50% of the development expenses that they funded. The reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the ZALTRAP profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse Sanofi at a faster rate. As a result, we expect that, initially, our share of any ZALTRAP profits will be used to reimburse Sanofi for this repayment obligation.

Antibodies.Since November 2007, we and Sanofi have been parties to a global, strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize fully human monoclonal antibodies. The collaboration is governed by a Discovery and Preclinical Development Agreement and a License and Collaboration Agreement (each as amended). Pursuant to the collaboration, Sanofi is funding up to $160 million per year of our antibody discovery activities over the period from 2010-2017 to identify and validate potential drug discovery targets and develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against these targets. We lead the design and conduct of research activities under the collaboration, including target identification and validation, antibody development, research and preclinical activities through filing of an IND or its equivalent, toxicology studies, and manufacture of preclinical and clinical supplies. Sanofi has an option to extend certain antibody development and preclinical activities relating to selected program targets for up to an additional three years after 2017.

For each drug candidate identified through discovery research under the discovery agreement, Sanofi has the option to license rights to the candidate under the license agreement. If it elects to do so, Sanofi will co-develop the drug candidate with us through product approval. Development costs for the drug candidate are shared between the companies, with Sanofi generally funding these costs up front, except that following receipt of the first positive Phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, subsequent Phase 3 trial-related costs for that drug candidate are shared 80% by Sanofi and 20% by us. We are generally responsible for reimbursing Sanofi for half of the total development costs for all collaboration antibody products from our share of profits from commercialization of collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. However, we are not required to apply more than 10% of our share of the profits from collaboration products in any calendar quarter towards reimbursing Sanofi for these development costs.

Sanofi will lead commercialization activities for products developed under the license agreement, subject to our right to co-promote such products. We and Sanofi will equally share profits and losses from sales within the United States. We and Sanofi will share profits outside the United States on a sliding scale based on sales starting at 65% (Sanofi)/35% (us) and ending at 55% (Sanofi)/45% (us), and will share losses outside the United States at 55% (Sanofi)/45% (us). In addition to profit sharing, we are entitled to receive up to $250 million in sales milestone payments, with milestone payments commencing after aggregate annual sales outside the United States exceed $1.0 billion on a rolling 12-month basis.

Collaborations with Bayer HealthCare

EYLEA outside the United States.Since October 2006, we and Bayer HealthCare have been parties to a license and collaboration agreement for the global development and commercialization outside the United States of EYLEA. Under the agreement, we and Bayer HealthCare collaborate on, and share the costs of, the development of EYLEA through an integrated global plan. Bayer HealthCare markets EYLEA outside the United States, where, for countries other than Japan, the companies share equally in profits and losses from sales of EYLEA. In May 2012, Bayer HealthCare's Japanese subsidiary, Bayer Yakuhin, Ltd., and Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. entered into an agreement to co-promote EYLEA in Japan. In conjunction with this agreement, we and Bayer HealthCare amended our existing global license and collaboration agreement for EYLEA to convert the 50/50 profit share for Japan into an  agreement under which we are entitled to receive a tiered percentage of between 33.5% and 40.0% of EYLEA annual net sales in Japan. In certain specified circumstances, the Japan arrangement may revert to a profit share arrangement.









To date, we have received $110.0 million of development milestone payments and $45.0 million of sales milestone payments from Bayer HealthCare. In addition, we may earn up to $120 million in additional sales milestone payments if twelve-month sales of EYLEA outside the United States achieve certain specified levels.

Commencing with the first commercial sale of EYLEA in a major market country outside the United States, we became obligated to reimburse Bayer HealthCare for 50% of the development costs that it has incurred under the agreement from our share of the collaboration profits (including payments to us based on sales in Japan). The reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the collaboration profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse Bayer HealthCare at a faster rate. As a result, we expect that, initially, a portion of our share of EYLEA profits outside the United States will be used to reimburse Bayer HealthCare for this repayment obligation.

Within the United States, we retain exclusive commercialization rights to EYLEA and are entitled to all profits from any such sales.

PDGFR-beta antibody outside the United States.In January 2014, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Bayer HealthCare governing the joint development and commercialization outside the United States of an antibody product candidate to PDGFR-beta, including in combination with EYLEA, for the treatment of ocular diseases or disorders. REGN2176-3, a combination product candidate comprised of an antibody to PDGFR-beta co-formulated with EYLEA, is being developed under the agreement. Under the agreement, we will conduct the initial development of the PDGFR-beta antibody through completion of the first proof-of-concept study, upon which Bayer HealthCare will have a right to opt-in to the collaboration for further development and commercialization outside the United States.

In connection with the agreement, Bayer HealthCare made a $25.5 million non-refundable upfront payment to us in January 2014, and is obligated to pay 25% of global development costs and 50% of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the United States under the initial development plan. In addition, Bayer HealthCare is obligated to reimburse us for 50% of development milestone payments to Sanofi related to our acquisition of rights to antibodies targeting the PDGF family of receptors in May 2013, as described above. In that regard, Bayer HealthCare made a $2.5 million payment to us in January 2014. Further, in connection with our initial development of the PDGFR-beta antibody through completion of the first proof-of-concept study, we are eligible to receive up to $17.5 million in future development milestone payments from Bayer HealthCare, although certain of these development milestone payments could be reduced by half if Bayer HealthCare does not opt-in to the collaboration.

If Bayer HealthCare exercises their right to opt-in to the collaboration, they will obtain exclusive commercialization rights to the product outside the United States, pay for 25% of global development costs and 50% of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the United States, pay a $20 million opt-in payment to us, pay a $20 million development milestone to us upon receipt of the first marketing approval in the European Union or Japan, share profits from sales outside the United States equally with us, and be responsible for the payment of royalties on sales outside the United States to Sanofi.

Within the United States, we have exclusive commercialization rights and will retain all of the profits from sales. If Bayer HealthCare does not opt-in to the collaboration, we will have exclusive rights to develop and commercialize PDGFR-beta antibodies (except as a combination product with EYLEA) for use outside the United States.

We also have the right to opt-out of the collaboration upon completion of the first proof-of-concept study for the PDGFR-beta antibody. If we opt-out of the collaboration and Bayer HealthCare exercises their right to opt-in to the collaboration, Bayer HealthCare will obtain exclusive rights to the PDGFR-beta antibody (except as a combination product with EYLEA) outside of the United States, be responsible for all development costs outside of the United States, be responsible for all royalty and milestone payments to a third party, and will retain all of the profits from sales of the PDGFR-beta antibody outside of the United States.

Unless terminated earlier in accordance with its provisions, the agreement will continue to be in effect until such time as neither party or its respective affiliates or sublicensees is developing or commercializing a PDGFR-beta antibody in the specified field outside of the United States and such discontinuation is acknowledged as permanent by both us and Bayer HealthCare in writing.

Under the agreement, Bayer HealthCare has also agreed to a “standstill” provision, which prohibits Bayer HealthCare and its affiliates from seeking to influence the control of our company or acquiring more than 20% of our then outstanding shares of Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together). For further information regarding this provision, see Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors -The anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of New York corporate law, as well as the contractual provisions in our investor and collaboration agreements and certain provisions of our compensation plans and agreements and our convertible senior notes and related warrant and hedge transactions, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other “change in control” of us and could adversely affect the price of our Common Stock.”









Manufacturing

Our manufacturing facilities are located in Rensselaer, New York and currently consist of three buildings totaling approximately425,000square feet of research, manufacturing, office, and warehouse space. We currently have approximately 54,000 liters of cell culture capacity at these facilities. A current expansion project will add 20,000 liters of cell culture capacity and 65,000 additional square feet of space once construction is completed, which is expected by 2015. AtDecember 31, 2013, we employed approximately 750 people at our Rensselaer facilities. We also depend on a limited number of third party providers for other services with respect to our clinical and commercial product supply requirements, including product packaging, filling, and labeling.

In July 2013, we reached preliminary agreement to acquire a 400,000 square foot facility in Limerick, Ireland, subject to entering into definitive agreements as well as securing permits from the local government in Limerick. We intend to renovate this facility to accommodate and support our growth, primarily in connection with expanding our bulk manufacturing capacity to support our global supply chain.

Certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of EYLEA, ZALTRAP, ARCALYST, and our product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. In addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform filling, finishing, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of EYLEA, ZALTRAP, ARCALYST, and our product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. See Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Manufacturing and Supply” for further information.

Among the conditions for regulatory marketing approval of a medicine is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer's quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to the good manufacturing practice (GMP) regulations of the health authority. In complying with standards set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the areas of production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. Manufacturing establishments, both foreign and domestic, are also subject to inspections by or under the authority of the FDA and by other national, federal, state, and local agencies. We are approved to manufacture our marketed products at our Rensselaer facilities.

Sales and Marketing

We have a New Products Marketing and Planning group and a Market Research group to evaluate commercial opportunities for our targets and drug candidates, assess the competitive environment, and analyze the commercial potential of our product portfolio, and prepare for market launch of new products. This group works in close collaboration with our collaborators for co-developed products to develop marketing plans and forecasts and to develop and execute pre-launch market development programs.

We also have a full-service commercialization group to handle various aspects of our EYLEA program. The group includes experienced professionals in the fields of marketing, communications, professional education, patient education and advocacy, reimbursement and managed markets, trade and distribution, commercial operations, commercial analytics, market research, and forecasting. Moreover, we have hired, trained, and deployed a field-based organization including regional sales directors, medical sales specialists, and reimbursement managers, each typically with 7 or more years of experience in the biopharmaceutical industry in a variety of therapeutic areas including oncology, ophthalmology, immunology, and inflammation. We outsource the warehousing and distribution of our finished drug products.

In connection with the sales and marketing of ARCALYST for CAPS, we have a marketing, trade, reimbursement, and distribution group to provide case management and reimbursement services to patients with CAPS and their treating physicians.

In connection with the U.S. marketing of ZALTRAP, we have a marketing and market access group to work in collaboration with Sanofi.

Customers

We sell EYLEA in the United States to three distributors and several specialty pharmacies. We sell ARCALYST in the United States to two specialty pharmacies. Under these distribution models, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product. For EYLEA, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers, whereas for ARCALYST, the specialty pharmacies sell the product directly to patients. For the years ended December 31,2013,2012, and 2011, we recorded76%,78%, and 42%, respectively, of our total gross product revenue from sales to a single distributor, Besse Medical, which is a subsidiary of AmerisourceBergen Corporation.









Competition

We face substantial competition from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. Our competitors include Genentech (a member of the Roche Group), Roche, Novartis AG, Pfizer Inc., Bayer HealthCare, Allergan, Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, AbbVie Inc., Sanofi, Merck & Co., Inc., Amgen Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Johnson & Johnson, GlaxoSmithKline plc, and others. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical, and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. Competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. Even if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us or may have obtained or obtain patent protection that dominates or adversely affects our activities or products. Our ability to compete  depends, to a great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. Competition among product candidates approved for sale is based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position, and other factors.

EYLEA.The following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for EYLEA:

CompetitorProduct/ProductCandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusCompetitorIndicationTerritoryLucentis®ApprovedNovartis/GenentechWet AMD, DME, macular edema following RVO, choroidal neovascularization secondary to pathologic myopia, and other eye indicationsWorldwideAvastin®(off-label)Used to treat wet AMD, DME, and macular edema following RVOGenentechWet AMD, DME, and macular edema following RVOSold worldwideBeing evaluated in trials in the United Kingdom,  Canada, Brazil, Germany, and other countriesConberceptApproved in China for wet AMDIn development for other eye indicationsChengdu Kanghong Pharmaceutical GroupWet AMDChinaFovistaTM, an aptamer directed against PDGF-BIn development (Phase 3 trials initiated in 2013 evaluating multiple combinations of FovistaTM, including Lucentis®+ FovistaTM, Avastin®+ FovistaTM, and EYLEA + FovistaTM)Ophthotech CorporationWet AMD—ESBA1008, a single chain antibody fragment directed against VEGF-AIn development (Phase 2 trial initiated in 2013 comparing ESBA1008 and EYLEA)NovartisWet AMD—Anti-VEGF-A-DARPin®In development (Phase 2)AllerganWet AMD and related conditions—Bi-specific antibodyR06867461In development (Phase 1)GenentechWet AMD—Lucentis®Sustained Delivery SystemIn development (Phase 1)GenentechWet AMD and related conditions

The table above is not exhaustive. For additional information regarding the substantial competition EYLEA faces, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of EYLEA -The commercial success of EYLEA is subject to strong









competition" and Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Products -Our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition."

ZALTRAP.The following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for ZALTRAP:

Competitor Product/Product CandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusCompetitorIndicationTerritoryAvastin®Approved and launched in 2004GenentechCertain cancersWorldwideOral medications that target tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels growth of tumorsBeing sold and marketedPfizer, Amgen (together with its partner Bayer HealthCare), GlaxoSmithKline, and Bayer HealthCareCertain cancersWorldwideOther VEGF antagonistsIn various phases of developmentNovartis, Amgen, Imclone LLC/Eli Lilly, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, and AveoCertain cancers—

The table above is not exhaustive. For additional information regarding the substantial competition ZALTRAP faces, see Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Products -Our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition."









Monoclonal Antibodies.Our clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies which were generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology. Our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. Numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. Companies such as Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca, Amgen, Biogen Idec, Inc., Novartis, Genentech, Bristol-Myers Squibb, AbbVie, and GlaxoSmithKline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant DNA that comprise human antibody sequences. Astellas has licensed ourVelocImmunetechnology as part of their internal antibody development programs.

The following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for our antibody programs that are in late-stage clinical development.

Regeneron AntibodyProgramCompetitorCompetitorProduct/ProductCandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusTargetAlirocumab (Phase 3)Target: PCSK9AmgenEvolocumab (AMG-145)In development (Phase 3)Antibody against PCSK9PfizerBococizumab (RN316 / PF-04950615In development (Phase 3)Antibody against PCSK9GenentechRG7652In development (Phase 2)Antibody against PCSK9Eli LillyLY3015014In development (Phase 2)Antibody against PCSK9Bristol-Myers SquibbBMS-962476In development (Phase 1)Adnectin  against PCSK9Alnylam (in partnership with The Medicines Company)ALN-PCSIn developmentRNAi against PCSK9









Regeneron AntibodyProgramCompetitorCompetitorProduct/ProductCandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusTargetSarilumab (Phase 3)Target: IL-6RRocheTocilizumab (Actemra®)ApprovedAntibody against IL-6R for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritisJohnson & Johnson (in partnership with GlaxoSmithKline)SirukumabIn development (Phase 3)Antibody  against IL-6Bristol-Myers Squibb (in partnership with Alder Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.)ClazakizumabIn development (Phase 2)Antibody  against IL-6Ablynx (in partnership with AbbVie)ALX-0061In development (Phase 2)Antibody  against IL-6RR-PharmOlokizumabIn development (Phase 2)Antibody  against IL-6PfizerPF-04236921In development (Phase 1)Antibody  against IL-6RocheSA 237In development (Phase 1)Antibody against IL-6RDupilumab (Phase 2)Target: IL-4RRocheLebrikizumabIn development (Phase 3)Antibody against IL-13TevaReslizumabIn development (Phase 3)Antibody against IL-5GlaxoSmithKlineMepolizumabIn development (Phase 3)Antibody against IL-5AstraZenecaBenralizumabIn development (Phase 3)Antibody against IL-5RAstraZenecaTralokinumabIn development (Phase 2)Antibody against IL-13NovartisQBX258In development (Phase 2)Fixed dose combination of antibodies against IL-4 and IL-13GlaxoSmithKlineGSK2434735In development (Phase 1)Bi-specific antibody against IL-4 and IL-13

The table above is not exhaustive.  For additional information regarding our antibody programs and the substantial competition they face, see "Clinical Programs" above and Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Products -Our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition."

Other Areas.Many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. In these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. A number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of









other research or development programs we are now conducting. Many firms and entities are engaged in research and development in the areas of cytokines, interleukins, angiogenesis, and muscle conditions. Some of these competitors are currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. These and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages.

If any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future prospects.

We also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. These institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. Products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. We also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations.

Patents, Trademarks, and Trade Secrets

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity -We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, patents or other proprietary rights of others.”). Our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. As of December 31, 2013, we held an ownership interest in a total of approximately 233 issued patents in the United States and approximately 1,162 issued patents in foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. In addition, we hold an ownership interest in hundreds of patent applications in the United States and foreign countries.

Our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering ourVelociSuitetechnologies, including ourVelocImmunemouse platform which produces fully human monoclonal antibodies. Our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2028. However, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms.

Our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to our marketed products,  EYLEA, ZALTRAP, and ARCALYST, and our product candidates in clinical development. These patents cover the proteins and DNA encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions, as well as various methods of using the products. For each of EYLEA, ZALTRAP, and ARCALYST, these patents generally expire between 2020 and 2028. However, the projected patent terms may be subject to extension based on potential patent term extensions in countries where such extensions are available.

We also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. In December 2011, we and Genentech entered into a Non-Exclusive License and Partial Settlement Agreement relating to ophthalmic sales of EYLEA in the United States. Pursuant to this agreement, we received a non-exclusive license to certain patents relating to VEGF receptor proteins, known as the Davis-Smyth patents, and other technology patents. In May 2013, we entered into an Amended and Restated Non-Exclusive License and Settlement Agreement with Genentech; under the amended agreement, we received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the Davis-Smyth patents, and certain other patents, owned or co-owned by Genentech for the prevention or treatment of human eye diseases and eye disorders through administration of EYLEA to the eye. Also in May  2013, we entered into a Non-Exclusive License and Settlement Agreement with Genentech and Sanofi under which we and Sanofi received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the Davis-Smyth patents, and certain other patents, in all indications for human use other than the prevention or treatment of eye diseases and eye disorders through administration to the eye.

In July 2008 we entered into an Amended and Restated Non-Exclusive License Agreement with Cellectis S.A. pursuant to which we licensed certain patents and patent applications relating to a process for the specific replacement of a copy of a gene in the receiver genome by homologous recombination.

We also have non-exclusive license agreements with Amgen and other organizations for patent rights related to ARCALYST.

Patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. The degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the United States and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. There is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit.









Others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. We expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. However, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. Patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others.

Defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. It is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity -We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, patents or other proprietary rights of others.”).

Government Regulation

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of EYLEA, ZALTRAP, ARCALYST, and our product candidates (see Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of EYLEA -

Our regulatory approval for sales of EYLEA is limited to the treatment of wet AMD and macular edema following CRVO and is limited geographically. If we don't receive approval for EYLEA for other indications, or if approvals are not obtained for sales in other countries, our sales and profits will be limited

and Risks Related to the Development and Approval of Our Product Candidates and New Indications for Our Marketed Products -

If we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products and product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition.”)

. All of our product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the FDA and foreign authorities. Many aspects of the structure and substance of the FDA and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices have been reformed during recent years, and continued reform is under consideration in a number of jurisdictions. The ultimate outcome and impact of such reforms and potential reforms cannot be predicted.

The activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the United States begin with preclinical tests. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. The results of these studies must be submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must be reviewed by the FDA before proposed clinical testing can begin. Typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. In Phase 1, trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. In Phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. In Phase 3, large-scale clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the FDA. The results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product candidate are then submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for commercial sale. In responding to a BLA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application.

Any approval required by the FDA for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. The designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. The results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans.

Approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. The approval procedure varies among countries and may involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for FDA approval.

Various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of pharmaceutical product candidates. The lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue.

In addition to the foregoing, our present and future business will be subject to regulation under the United States Atomic Energy Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the









National Environmental Policy Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations.

Business Segments

We manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery of pharmaceutical products for the treatment of serious medical conditions and the development and commercialization of these discoveries. This segment includes revenues and expenses related to (i) product sales of EYLEA and ARCALYST, (ii) research and development activities conducted under our collaboration agreements with third parties, (iii) our share of the income (loss) from commercialization of products under our collaboration agreements, (iv) licensing agreements to utilize ourVelocImmunetechnology, and (v) the supply of specified, ordered research materials using ourVelociGene technology platform.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had approximately 2,340 full-time employees, of whom approximately 410 held a Ph.D. and/or M.D., or PharmD degree. We believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. None of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our management considers its relations with our employees to be good.

Corporate Information

We were incorporated in the State of New York in 1988 and publicly listed in 1991. Our principal executive offices are located at 777 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York 10591, and our telephone number at that address is (914) 847-7000.

We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website (http://www.regeneron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



