ITEM 1. BUSINESS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking
statements that involve risks and uncertainties relating to future events and the future financial performance of Regeneron
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and actual events or results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. These
statements concern, and these risks and uncertainties include, among other things, the success of our commercialization of
EYLEA®,the nature, timing, and possible success of and
therapeutic applications for our product candidates and research programs now underway or planned, the likelihood and timing
of possible regulatory approval and commercial launch of our late-stage product candidates,

determinations by
regulatory and administrative governmental authorities which may delay or restrict our ability to continue to develop or
commercialize our product and drug candidates, competing drugs that may be superior to our product and drug candidates,
uncertainty of market acceptance of our product and drug candidates, unanticipated expenses, the availability and cost of
capital, the costs of developing, producing, and selling products, the potential for any collaboration agreement, including
our agreements with Sanofi and Bayer HealthCare LLC, to be canceled or terminated without any product success, and
risks associated with third-party intellectual property and pending or future litigation relating thereto. These statements
are made by us based on management's current beliefs and judgment. In evaluating such statements, shareholders and potential
investors should specifically consider the various factors identified under the caption “Risk Factors” which could
cause actual events and results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. We do not
undertake any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future
events, or otherwise, except as required by law.

General

Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a
fully integrated biopharmaceutical company that discovers, invents, develops,
manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious medical
conditions. We currently have two marketed products:

EYLEA®(aflibercept) Injection, known
  in the scientific literature as VEGF Trap-Eye, which is available in the
  United States for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular
  degeneration (wet AMD). Wet AMD is the leading cause of acquired blindness for
  people over the age of 65 in the United States and Europe; andARCALYST®(rilonacept) Injection for
  Subcutaneous Use, which is available by prescription in the United States for
  the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS), including
  Familial Cold Auto-inflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) and Muckle-Wells Syndrome
  (MWS) in adults and children 12 and older.

We have 13 product candidates in
clinical development, all of which were discovered in our research laboratories.
Our Trap-based, late-stage programs are:

EYLEA®, which is being developed for
  the treatment of additional serious eye diseases;ZALTRAP®(aflibercept), known in the
  scientific literature as VEGF Trap, which is being developed in oncology in
  collaboration with Sanofi; andARCALYST®, which is being developed for
  the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering
  treatment.

Our antibody-based clinical programs
include the following fully human monoclonal antibodies:

Sarilumab (REGN88), an antibody to the
  interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R), which is being developed in rheumatoid
  arthritis;REGN727, an antibody to Proprotein Convertase
  Substilisin/Kexin type 9 (PCSK9), which is being developed for low-density
  lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol reduction;REGN668, an antibody to the interleukin-4 receptor
  (IL-4R), which is being developed in atopic dermatitis and eosinophilic
  asthma;REGN421, an antibody to Delta-like ligand-4
  (Dll4), a novel angiogenesis target, which is being developed in oncology;REGN910, an antibody to Angiopoietin-2 (ANG2),
  another novel angiogenesis target, which is being developed in oncology;REGN475, an antibody to Nerve Growth Factor (NGF),
  which is being developed for the treatment of pain (currently on clinical
  hold);REGN728, an antibody in clinical development
  against an undisclosed target;REGN1033, an antibody in clinical development
  against an undisclosed target;REGN846, an antibody in clinical development
  against an undisclosed target, which is being developed in atopic dermatitis;
  andREGN1154, an antibody in clinical development
  against an undisclosed target.








With the
exception ofREGN475,REGN846,and REGN1154, which we are developing independently, all of
these antibodies are being developed in collaboration with Sanofi.

Our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic
scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, to combine that
foundation with our clinical development and manufacturing capabilities, and to
continue to expand our commercialization capabilities in anticipation of
possible regulatory approval and launch of one or more of our late-stage product
candidates. Our long-term objective is to build a successful, integrated,
multi-product biopharmaceutical company that provides patients and medical
professionals with innovative options for preventing and treating human
diseases.

We believe that our ability to develop product candidates is enhanced by
the application of ourVelociSuite™technology platforms. Our
discovery platforms are designed to identify specific proteins of therapeutic
interest for a particular disease or cell type and validate these targets
through high-throughput production of genetically modified mice using ourVelociGene®technology to understand the role of these proteins in
normal physiology, as well as in models of disease. Our human monoclonal
antibody technology (VelocImmune®) and cell line
expression technologies (VelociMab®) may then be
utilized to discover and produce new product candidates directed against the
disease target. Our antibody product candidates currently in clinical trials
were developed usingVelocImmune®. Under the terms of our
antibody collaboration with Sanofi, which was expanded during 2009, we plan to
advance a total of 20 to 30 candidates into clinical development over the life
of the agreement. We continue to invest in the development of enabling
technologies to assist in our efforts to identify, develop, manufacture, and
commercialize new product candidates.

Commercial
Products:

EYLEA®(aflibercept) Injection – wet
AMD

In November 2011, we
received U.S. marketing approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) for EYLEA®Injection for the treatment of patients with wet
AMD. The approval of EYLEA®was granted by the FDA under a Priority
Review, a designation that is given to drugs that offer major advances in
treatment, or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists. Net product
sales of EYLEA®in 2011 were $24.8 million.

EYLEA®, known in the scientific literature as VEGF Trap-Eye,
is a fusion protein locally administered in the eye that is designed to bind
Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor-A (VEGF-A) and Placental Growth Factor (PlGF)
proteins that are involved in the abnormal growth of new blood vessels. The
abnormal growth of new blood vessels could leak blood and fluid, which causes
disruption and dysfunction of the retina creating distortion and/or blind spots
in central vision.

We are collaborating with Bayer HealthCare on the global development of
EYLEA®. Bayer HealthCare has submitted applications for marketing
authorization in the European Union, Japan, and other countries for wet AMD.
Bayer HealthCare will market EYLEA®outside the United States, where
the companies will share equally the profits from any future sales of
EYLEA®. We maintain exclusive rights to EYLEA®in the
United States and are entitled to all profits from any such sales.

ARCALYST®– CAPS

Net product sales of ARCALYST®(rilonacept) in 2011 were $19.9
million. Net product sales of ARCALYST®in 2010 were $25.3 million,
which included $20.5 million of ARCALYST®net product sales made in
2010 and $4.8 million of previously deferred net product sales, as described
below under Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations - Results of Operations.”

ARCALYST®is a protein-based product designed to bind the
interleukin-1 (called IL-1) cytokine and prevent its interaction with cell
surface receptors. ARCALYST®is available by prescription in the
United States for the treatment of CAPS, including FCAS and MWS in adults and
children 12 and older. CAPS are a group of rare, inherited, auto-inflammatory
conditions characterized by life-long, recurrent symptoms of rash, fever/chills,
joint pain, eye redness/pain, and fatigue. Intermittent, disruptive
exacerbations or flares can be triggered at any time by exposure to cooling
temperatures, stress, exercise, or other unknown stimuli.








Clinical
Programs:

1. EYLEA®–
Ophthalmologic Diseases

We, together
with our ex-U.S. collaborator Bayer HealthCare, are evaluating EYLEA®in Phase 3 programs in patients with central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO),
diabetic macular edema (DME), and choroidal neovascularisation (CNV) of the
retina as a result of pathologic myopia. We plan on initiating a Phase 3 study
in branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO) in the first quarter of 2012. Wet AMD,
diabetic retinopathy (which includes DME), and retinal vein occlusion are three
of the leading causes of adult blindness in the developed world. In these
conditions, severe visual loss is caused by a combination of retinal edema and
neovascular proliferation.

The Phase 3 trials in wet AMD, known as VIEW 1 and VIEW 2
(

V

EGF Trap:

I

nvestigation of

E

fficacy and Safety in

W

et age-related macular degeneration),
compared EYLEA®and Lucentis®(ranibizumab injection), a
registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. Lucentis®is an anti-VEGF
agent approved for use and the current standard of care in wet AMD. VIEW 1 was
conducted in North America and VIEW 2 was conducted in Europe, Asia Pacific,
Japan, and Latin America. The VIEW 1 and VIEW 2 trials both evaluated
EYLEA®doses of 0.5 milligrams (mg) and 2.0 mg at dosing intervals of
four weeks and 2.0 mg at a dosing interval of eight weeks (following three
initial monthly doses), compared with Lucentis®dosed according to
its U.S. label, which specifies doses of 0.5 mg administered every four weeks
over the first year. The primary endpoint of these non-inferiority studies was
the proportion of patients treated with EYLEA®who maintain visual
acuity at the end of one year compared to patients dosed monthly with
Lucentis®. Visual acuity is defined as the total number of letters
read correctly on the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) chart,
a standard research tool for measuring visual acuity. Maintenance of vision is
defined as losing fewer than three lines (equivalent to 15 letters) on the ETDRS
chart. Secondary endpoints included the mean change from baseline in visual
acuity as measured by ETDRS, the proportion of patients who gained at least 15
letters of vision at week 52, and the amount of fluid under the
retina.

We and Bayer HealthCare announced week 52 results from the VIEW 1 and
VIEW 2 studies in November 2010. In these studies, all regimens of
EYLEA®, including EYLEA®dosed every two months,
successfully met the primary endpoint of statistical non-inferiority compared to
Lucentis®dosed every month. A generally favorable safety profile was
observed for both EYLEA®and Lucentis®. The incidence of
ocular treatment emergent adverse events was balanced across all four treatment
groups in both studies, with the most frequent events associated with the
injection procedure, the underlying disease, and/or the aging process. The most
frequent ocular adverse events were conjunctival hemorrhage, macular
degeneration, eye pain, retinal hemorrhage, and vitreous floaters. The most
frequent serious non-ocular adverse events were typical of those reported in
this elderly population who receive intravitreal treatment for wet AMD; the most
frequently reported events were falls, pneumonia, myocardial infarction, atrial
fibrillation, breast cancer, and acute coronary syndrome. There were no notable
differences among the study arms.

Based on these positive results, we submitted a Biologics License
Application (BLA) to the FDA in February 2011 for marketing approval of
EYLEA®in wet AMD in the United States. In April 2011, the FDA
accepted the BLA for filing and granted our request for Priority Review. In June
2011, the Dermatologic and Ophthalmic Drugs Advisory Committee of the FDA
unanimously recommended that the FDA approve our BLA. In 2011, Bayer HealthCare
submitted regulatory applications for marketing approval of EYLEA®in
wet AMD in the European Union, Japan, and other countries. In November 2011, we
received U.S. marketing approval from the FDA for EYLEA®Injection
for the treatment of patients with wet AMD.

In December 2011, we and Bayer HealthCare announced Year 2 results from
the VIEW 1 and VIEW 2 studies. In the second year of the studies, patients were
treated with the same dose per injection as in the first year and were evaluated
monthly to determine need for retreatment. Patients were treated at least every
12 weeks. All Year 2 analyses were considered exploratory. In an integrated
analysis of the VIEW 1 and VIEW 2 studies, the visual acuity gain from baseline
in the EYLEA®2.0 mg every eight week group at week 96 was 7.6
letters compared to 8.4 letters at week 52, with an average of 11.2 injections
over two years and 4.2 injections during the second year. The visual acuity gain
from baseline in the monthly Lucentis®group at week 96 was 7.9
letters compared to 8.7 letters at week 52, with an average of 16.5 injections
over two years and 4.7 injections during the second year. The results of each of
the VIEW 1 and VIEW 2 studies were consistent with the integrated
analysis.

The overall fewer average number of injections in the second year in the
EYLEA®2.0 mg every eight week group compared to the
Lucentis®group (4.2 versus 4.7; nominal p<0.0001) was driven by
the fact that fewer patients needed more intense therapy in the
EYLEA®group and those patients required fewer injections.








The proportion of patients who required frequent injections (six or more)
during Year 2 was lower in the EYLEA®2.0 mg every eight week
group compared to the Lucentis®group (15.9% versus 26.5%). In the
25% of patients who required the most intense therapy (the greatest number of
injections), patients in the EYLEA®2.0 mg every eight week group
required an average of 1.4 fewer injections in Year 2 compared to the
Lucentis®group (6.6 versus 8.0). In the 25% of patients in each
group who had the fewest number of injections in Year 2, the average number of
injections was similar (approximately 3 for both groups, corresponding to the
protocol-mandated minimum number of injections).

A generally favorable safety profile was observed for both
EYLEA®and Lucentis®. The incidence of ocular treatment
emergent adverse events was balanced across all four treatment groups in both
studies. The most frequent ocular adverse events (greater than 10% of patients
for the overall study population) were conjunctival hemorrhage, eye pain,
retinal hemorrhage, and visual acuity reduced. The most frequent serious
non-ocular adverse events were typical of those reported in this elderly
population who receive intravitreal treatment for wet AMD; the most frequently
reported events (greater than 1% of patients for the overall study population)
were falls, pneumonia, myocardial infarction and atrial fibrillation. There were
no notable differences among the study arms. The incidence of arterial
thrombotic events as defined by the "Anti-Platelet Trialists" group criteria was
3.2% of patients for Lucentis®and 3.3% of patients in the combined
EYLEA®groups.

In the fourth quarter of 2011, we and Bayer HealthCare initiated a Phase
3 trial, known as SIGHT, evaluating the efficacy and safety of EYLEA®in the neovascular form of wet AMD in China. EYLEA®will be evaluated
for its effect on improving and maintaining vision when dosed as an intravitreal
injection on a schedule of 2.0 mg every two months (following three initial
monthly doses), as compared with Photodynamic Therapy (PDT) with verteporfin.
After assessment of the primary endpoint at week 28, all patients, including
those on PDT, will receive EYLEA®treatment until the end of the
study at week 52. The trial will include approximately 300 patients and will be
the largest retinal trial conducted in China. The SIGHT trial is being led by
Bayer HealthCare.

EYLEA®wasalso in Phase 3 clinical studies for the treatment of CRVO, another
cause of visual impairment. Weledthe COPERNICUS (COntrolledPhase
3Evaluation ofRepeated iNtravitreal administration of VEGF Trap-EyeInCentral retinal vein
occlusion:Utility andSafety) study, and Bayer HealthCareledthe
GALILEO (GeneralAssessmentLimitingInfiLtration ofExudates in central retinal veinOcclusion with VEGF Trap-Eye) study. Patients in both studies receivedsix monthly intravitreal injections of either EYLEA®at a dose of 2.0 mg or sham control injections. The primary
endpoint of both studieswasimprovement in visual acuity versus baseline
after six months of treatment as measured by the ETDRS eye chart. At the end of the initial six months, patientsweredosed onan as-needed (PRN)basis for another six months. All patientswereeligible for rescue laser treatment.In
the COPERNICUS study, patients who were randomized to sham injections in the first six months were eligible to cross over to EYLEA®PRN dosing in the second six months.

In December 2010, we and Bayer HealthCare announced that in the
COPERNICUS study, EYLEA®demonstrated a statistically significant
improvement in visual acuity at six months compared to sham injections, the
primary endpoint of the study. In this study, 56.1% of patients receiving
EYLEA®gained at least 15 letters of vision from baseline, compared
to 12.3% of patients receiving sham injections (p<0.0001). In the study,
EYLEA®was generally well tolerated. The most common adverse events
were those typically associated with intravitreal injections or the underlying
disease. Serious ocular adverse events in the EYLEA®group were
uncommon (3.5%), consisting of individual reports of corneal abrasion,
endophalmitis, retinal vein occlusion, and reduced visual acuity, and were more
frequent in the control group (13.5%). The incidence of non-ocular serious
adverse events was generally well-balanced between the treatment arms. There
were no deaths among the 114 patients treated with EYLEA®and two
(2.7%) in the 73 patients treated with sham injections.



®

on  a

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

In April 2011, we and Bayer HealthCare announced that in the GALILEO
study, EYLEA®also demonstrated a statistically significant
improvement in visual acuity at six months compared to sham injections, the
primary endpoint of the study. In this trial, 60.2% of patients receiving 2.0 mg
of EYLEA®monthly gained at least 15 letters of vision from baseline,
compared to 22.1% of patients receiving sham injections (p<0.0001). Patients
receiving 2.0 mg of EYLEA®monthly gained, on average, 18 letters of
vision compared to a mean gain of 3.3 letters with sham injections
(p<0.0001), a secondary endpoint.

As in the COPERNICUS trial, EYLEA®was generally well
tolerated in the GALILEO study and the most common adverse events were those
typically associated with intravitreal injections or the underlying disease.
Serious ocular adverse events in the EYLEA®group were 2.9% and were
more frequent in the control group (8.8%). The most frequently reported adverse
events overall in the EYLEA®arm were eye pain, conjunctival
hemorrhage, and elevated intraocular pressure. The most frequently reported
adverse events in the control group were macular edema, eye irritation, and
reduced visual acuity. The incidence of non-ocular serious adverse events was
generally well-balanced between the treatment arms. The most frequent non-ocular
adverse events were headache and nasopharyngitis. There were no deaths in the
study.

The one-year GALILEO results showed that 60.2% of patients receiving EYLEA®dosed monthly for 24 weeks, then on a PRN basis (guided by anatomic and visual
acuity monitoring) over the next 28 weeks, gained at least 15 letters from
baseline on an ETDRS eye chart compared to 32.4% of patients receiving sham
injections (p=0.0004).  In terms of gain in visual acuity from baseline to
week 52, patients receiving EYLEA®gained, on average, 16.9 letters of vision
compared to a mean gain of 3.8 letters for patients receiving sham injections
(p<0.0001).  These results demonstrate that the benefits achieved with
monthly EYLEA®treatment through week 24 were maintained out to week 52. 
At week 24, patients receiving EYLEA®had a mean gain of 18 letters compared to
a mean gain of 3.3 letters for patients with sham injections (p<0.0001).
Patients treated with EYLEA®received an average of 2.5 EYLEA®injections from
week 24 to week 52.  EYLEA®was generally well tolerated in the
study.  At week 52, the most frequently reported adverse events overall in
the EYLEA®arm were macular edema, elevated intraocular pressure, eye pain,
conjunctival hemorrhage, and retinal hemorrhage.  The most frequently
reported adverse events in the sham group were macular edema, retinal
hemorrhage, retinal vascular disorder, reduction of visual acuity and eye
irritation.  At week 52, 9.6% of patients in the EYLEA®arm and 8.8% of
patients in the sham arm presented with at least one ocular serious adverse
event.








Based onthe
positivesix-monthresultsin the COPERNICUS and GALILEO studies, we submitted a supplemental BLA for U.S.
regulatory approval  of EYLEA®in CRVO in November 2011. Under the Prescription Drug User  Fee Act (PDUFA),
we were granted a target date for an FDA decision on our  EYLEA®supplemental BLA of September 23, 2012.
Bayer HealthCare plans  to submit regulatory applications in this indication in Europe in late 2012 or  early 2013.

In the second quarter of 2011, we and Bayer HealthCare initiated Phase 3
studies to evaluate the safety and efficacy of EYLEA®in DME. These
clinical trials have three study arms. In the first arm, patients will be
treated every month with 2.0 mg of EYLEA®. In the second arm,
patients will be treated with 2.0 mg of EYLEA®every two months after
an initial phase of monthly injections. In the third arm, the comparator arm,
patients will be treated with macular laser photocoagulation. The primary
endpoint of the study is mean change in visual acuity from baseline as measured
by the ETDRS eye chart. All patients will be followed for three years. We are
conducting one of these studies, called VISTA-DME(VEGF Trap-Eye:Investigation ofSafety,Treatment effect, andAnatomic outcomes inDME), with study centers in
the United States. Bayer HealthCare is conducting the second study, named
VIVID-DME (VEGF Trap-EyeInVisionImpairmentDue toDME), with study centers in Europe, Japan, and Australia. The
VISTA-DME trial was fully enrolled in early 2012.

In the first quarter of 2011, we and Bayer HealthCare initiated a Phase 3
trial in Asia in collaboration with the Singapore Eye Research Institute (SERI)
investigating the efficacy and safety of EYLEA®in patients with CNV
of the retina as a result of pathologic myopia. The study, which will enroll
approximately 110 patients, has started in Japan and is scheduled to run until
June 2013.

In the first quarter of 2012, we plan to initiate a multinational study
of EYLEA®in patients with BRVO (VIBRANT).

Collaboration with Bayer HealthCare



®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

2. ZALTRAP®(aflibercept) also known as VEGF Trap – Oncology

ZALTRAP®(aflibercept) is a fusion protein that is designed to
bind all forms of VEGF-A, VEGF-B, and PlGF, and prevent their interaction with
cell surface receptors. VEGF-A (and to a lesser degree, PlGF) is required for
the growth of new blood vessels (a process known as angiogenesis) that are
needed for tumors to grow.

ZALTRAP®is being developed globally in cancer indications in
collaboration with Sanofi. In April 2011, we and Sanofi announced that the Phase
3 VELOUR trial evaluating ZALTRAP®in combination with the FOLFIRI
chemotherapy regimen [folinic acid (leucovorin), 5-fluorouracil, and irinotecan]
versus a regimen of FOLFIRI plus placebo met its primary endpoint of improving
overall survival (OS) in previously treated metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC)
patients. The VELOUR data were presented in June 2011 at the European Society of
Medical Oncology World Congress on Gastrointestinal Cancer. In this study, the
addition of ZALTRAP®to the FOLFIRI chemotherapy regimen
significantly improved both overall survival (HR=0.817; p=0.0032) and
progression-free survival (HR=0.758; p=0.00007) compared to FOLFIRI plus
placebo. A similar effect was seen with ZALTRAP®therapy whether or
not patients had received prior bevacizumab therapy.

In the VELOUR study, grade 3 or 4 adverse events that occurred with a
more than two percent greater incidence in the ZALTRAP®arm than in
the placebo arm included diarrhea, asthenia/fatigue, stomatitis/ulceration,
infections, hypertension, GI/abdominal pains, neutropenia, neutropenic
complications and proteinuria. Deaths on study treatment due to adverse events
occurred in 2.4 percent of patients in the ZALTRAP®arm and in 1.0
percent of patients in the placebo arm.








Based upon
these positive findings, Sanofi submitted regulatory applications for marketing
approval of ZALTRAP®for the treatment of previously-treated mCRC
patients to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in December 2011, and to the FDA
in early February 2012.

Another randomized, double-blind Phase 3 trial (VENICE), which is fully
enrolled, is evaluating ZALTRAP®as a first-line treatment for
hormone-refractory metastatic prostate cancer in combination with
docetaxel/prednisone. The VENICE trial is being monitored by an Independent Data
Monitoring Committee (IDMC), a body of independent clinical and statistical
experts. The IDMCs meet periodically to evaluate data from the trial and may
recommend changes in study design or study discontinuation. In July 2011, the
study’s IDMC met for a scheduled interim analysis and recommended that the trial
continue to completion. A final analysis will be conducted when a pre-specified
number of events have occurred in this trial, which is anticipated in the second
quarter of 2012.

In December 2011, we announced initial data from the Phase 2 AFFIRM study
in the first-line mCRC setting of ZALTRAP®in combination with the
modified FOLFOX6 [folinic acid (leucovorin), 5-fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin]
chemotherapy regimen. The primary endpoint of the study was the Progression Free
Survival (PFS) rate at one year. The results showed that in patients who
received ZALTRAP®, the PFS rate at one year was similar to that seen
in the standard therapy arm for patients who received modified FOLFOX6 alone.
The study was not designed for a direct statistical comparison between arms. The
control arm was used as an internal benchmark only. The side effect profile of
ZALTRAP®was similar to what has been seen in prior trials with
ZALTRAP®.

ZALTRAP®Collaboration with Sanofi

We and Sanofi globally collaborate on the development and
commercialization of ZALTRAP®. Under the terms of our September 2003
collaboration agreement, as amended, we and Sanofi will share co-promotion
rights and profits on sales, if any, of ZALTRAP®outside of Japan for
disease indications included in our collaboration. In Japan, we are entitled to
a royalty of approximately 35% on annual sales of ZALTRAP®, subject
to certain potential adjustments. We may also receive up to $400 million in
milestone payments upon receipt of specified marketing approvals, including up
to $360 million related to the receipt of marketing approvals for up to eight
ZALTRAP®oncology and other indications in the United States or the
European Union and up to $40 million related to the receipt of marketing
approvals for up to five oncology indications in Japan.

Under the ZALTRAP®collaboration agreement, as amended, agreed
upon worldwide development expenses incurred by both companies during the term
of the agreement will be funded by Sanofi. If the collaboration becomes
profitable, we will be obligated to reimburse Sanofi out of our share of
ZALTRAP®profits for 50% of the development expenses that they
funded. The reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then
outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the
ZALTRAP®profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse Sanofi
at a faster rate.

3.
ARCALYST®(rilonacept) – Inflammatory
Diseases

ARCALYST®is being developed for the prevention of gout flares
in patients initiating uric acid-lowering therapy. Gout, a disease in which IL-1
may play an important role in pain and inflammation, is a very painful and
common form of arthritis that results from high levels of uric acid, a bodily
waste product normally excreted by the kidneys. The elevated uric acid can lead
to formation of urate crystals in the joints of the toes, ankles, knees, wrists,
fingers, and elbows. Uric acid-lowering therapy, most commonly allopurinol, is
prescribed to eliminate the urate crystals and prevent them from reforming.
Paradoxically, the initiation of uric acid-lowering therapy often triggers an
increase in the frequency of gout attacks in the first several months of
treatment, which may lead to discontinuation of therapy. The break-up of urate
crystals can result in stimulation of inflammatory mediators, including IL-1,
resulting in acute flares of joint pain and inflammation. These painful flares
generally persist for at least five days.

We
conducted a Phase 3 clinical development program with ARCALYST®in gout patients initiating uric acid-lowering
therapy. The program consisted of three studies: PRE-SURGE 1 (PREventionStudy againstURate-lowering drug-inducedGoutExacerbations), PRE-SURGE 2, and RE-SURGE (REview ofSafetyUtilizingRilonacept
inGoutExacerbations).

In June 2010, we announced that results from PRE-SURGE 1, a North
America-based double-blind, placebo-controlled study, showed that
ARCALYST®prevented gout attacks, as measured by the primary study
endpoint of the number of gout flares per patient over the 16 week treatment
period. In addition, all secondary endpoints of the study were positive
(p<0.001 vs. placebo). Among these endpoints, treatment with
ARCALYST®reduced the proportion of patients who experienced two or
more flares during the study period by up to 88%. Treatment with
ARCALYST®also reduced the proportion of patients who experienced at
least one gout flare during the study period by up to 65%.








In February
2011, we reported the results of PRE-SURGE 2 and RE-SURGE. In the PRE-SURGE 2
efficacy study in gout patients initiating allopurinol therapy, which was
identical to PRE-SURGE 1 in design and analysis, 248 patients were randomized.
ARCALYST®met the primary and all secondary study endpoints. The
primary endpoint was the number of gout flares per patient over the 16-week
treatment period. Patients who received ARCALYST®at a weekly,
self-administered, subcutaneous dose of either 160 mg or 80 mg had a 72%
decrease in mean number of gout flares compared to the placebo group
(p<0.0001). Among secondary endpoints, treatment with ARCALYST®reduced the proportion of patients who experienced two or more flares during the
study period by up to 82%. In addition, treatment with ARCALYST®reduced the proportion of patients who experienced at least one gout flare
during the study period by up to 63%.

We also announced that in the RE-SURGE study, which evaluated the safety
of ARCALYST®versus placebo over 16 weeks, ARCALYST®was
generally well tolerated, and the safety profile was consistent with that
reported in the PRE-SURGE 1 and PRE-SURGE 2 studies. In the overall gout
program, the most frequently reported adverse events were injection site
reaction and headache.

In the RE-SURGE study, ARCALYST®also met all secondary
endpoints, which evaluated efficacy, over the 16 week treatment period
(p<0.0001). These included the number of gout flares per patient, the
proportion of patients who experienced two or more flares, and the proportion of
patients who experienced at least one gout flare during the study period.

Based on the results of the three Phase 3 studies, we submitted a
supplemental BLA for U.S. regulatory approval of ARCALYST®for the
prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering therapy. In
November 2011, the FDA accepted for review our supplemental BLA. Under PDUFA, we
were granted a target date for an FDA decision on the ARCALYST®supplemental BLA of July 30, 2012.

We also initiated a long-term safety study in this setting, known as
UPSURGE (Understanding long-term safety in aPreventativeStudy againstURate-lowering drug-inducedGoutExacerbations), during the fourth
quarter of 2011.

We own worldwide rights to ARCALYST®.

4. Sarilumab (REGN88; IL-6R
Antibody) for inflammatory diseases

IL-6 is a key cytokine involved in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid
arthritis, causing inflammation and joint destruction. A therapeutic antibody to
IL-6R, Actemra®(tocilizumab), a registered trademark of Chugai
Seiyaku Kabushiki Kaisha, has been approved for the treatment of rheumatoid
arthritis.

Sarilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to IL-6R generated using
ourVelocImmune®technology. In July 2011,
we and Sanofi announced that in the Phase 2b stage of the MOBILITY trial in
rheumatoid arthritis, patients treated with sarilumab in combination with a
standard RA treatment, methotrexate (MTX), achieved a significant and clinically
meaningful improvement in signs and symptoms of moderate-to-severe RA compared
to patients treated with MTX alone. The Phase 2b stage of the MOBILITY study was
a 306-patient, dose-ranging, multi-national, randomized, multi-arm,
double-blind, placebo-controlled study, that compared five different dose
regimens of sarilumab in combination with MTX to placebo plus MTX. The primary
endpoint of the study was the proportion of patients achieving at least a 20%
improvement in RA symptoms (ACR20) after 12 weeks.

In the Phase 2b stage of the MOBILITY trial, there was a dose response
observed in patients receiving sarilumab in combination with MTX. An ACR20
response after 12 weeks was seen in 49.0% of patients receiving the lowest
sarilumab dose regimen and 72.0% of patients receiving the highest dose regimen
compared to 46.2% of patients receiving placebo and MTX (p=0.02, corrected for
multiplicity, for the highest sarilumab dose regimen). The most common adverse
events (>5%) reported more frequently in active treatment arms included
infections (non-serious), neutropenia, and liver function test abnormalities.
The types and frequencies of adverse events were consistent with those
previously reported with IL-6 inhibition. The incidence of serious adverse
events among the five sarilumab treatment groups and the placebo group was
comparable.

Sarilumab also demonstrated significant benefit compared to placebo in
secondary endpoints, including ACR 50, ACR 70, and Disease Activity Score (DAS)
28 scores, additional measures of clinical activity used in RA
trials.

In July 2011, we and Sanofi announced that in the phase 2b ALIGN trial in
ankylosing spondylitis (AS), sarilumab did not demonstrate significant
improvements in the signs and symptoms of active AS compared to placebo in
patients who had inadequate response to Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs
(NSAIDs). Sarilumab was generally well tolerated. The most common adverse events
reported more frequently in active treatment arms included infections and
neutropenia.








During the
third quarter of 2011, we and Sanofi initiated the Phase 3 stage of the Phase
2/3 MOBILITY study.

5. REGN727 (PCSK9 Antibody) for
LDL cholesterol reduction

Elevated LDL cholesterol (“bad cholesterol”) level is a validated risk
factor leading to cardiovascular disease. Statins are a class of drugs that
lower LDL cholesterol by upregulating the expression of the LDL receptor (LDLR),
which removes LDL from circulation. PCSK9 is a naturally occurring secreted
protein that also modulates LDL cholesterol levels through its interaction with
the LDL receptor. In a landmark study published in theNew England Journal of Medicinein March 2006, patients with lower than normal PCSK9 levels due to a
genetic abnormality not only had significantly lower levels of LDL cholesterol,
but also a significant reduction in the risk of coronary heart disease. We used
ourVelocImmune®technology to generate a
fully human monoclonal antibody inhibitor of PCSK9, called REGN727, that is
intended to lower LDL cholesterol.

In May 2010, we announced that in an interim efficacy analysis of a
dose-escalating, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase 1 trial in
healthy volunteers, REGN727 achieved substantial, dose dependent decreases of
LDL cholesterol. Each dosing cohort consisted of six treated and two placebo
patients. In July 2010, we presented additional data from this Phase 1 program.
At the highest intravenous dose tested, a single dose of REGN727 achieved a
greater than 60% maximum mean reduction of LDL cholesterol from baseline that
lasted for more than one month. At the highest subcutaneous dose tested, a
single dose of REGN727 achieved a greater than 60% maximum mean reduction of LDL
cholesterol from baseline that lasted for more than two weeks. In these early
trials, REGN727 was generally safe and well tolerated with no trend in
drug-related adverse events and no evidence of hepato- or myo-toxicity.
Injection site reactions were minimal.

In July 2010, we also presented the results of an interim efficacy
analysis of a dose escalating, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
Phase 1 trial of subcutaneously delivered REGN727 in hyperlipidemic patients
(familial hypercholesterolemia and non-familial hypercholesterolemia) on stable
doses of statins whose LDL levels were greater than 100 milligrams per deciliter
(mg/dL). At the highest dose tested at that time, in eleven patients, a single
dose of REGN727 achieved an approximately 40% maximum mean additional reduction
of LDL cholesterol from baseline. No serious adverse events and no dose limiting
toxicities were reported.

During 2011, three Phase 2 studies with subcutaneous regimens of REGN727
were initiated: (1) a randomized, double-blind, multi-dose, placebo controlled,
75-patient trial in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia
(heFH), (2) a randomized, double-blind, multi-dose, placebo controlled,
90-patient trial in combination with atorvastatin in patients with primary
hypercholesterolemia, and (3) a randomized, double-blind, multi-dose, placebo
controlled, 180-patient trial in combination with atorvastatin in patients with
primary hypercholesterolemia and on stable doses of atorvastatin. The primary
endpoint of each Phase 2 study is the change in LDL cholesterol from baseline
compared to placebo over the study period.

In November 2011, we announced preliminary results from the Phase 2 heFH
trial. The objective of the study was to compare the effect of adding REGN727 to
the existing lipid lowering therapy in heFH patients. In the primary efficacy
analysis of the study, after 12 weeks of treatment, patients who received
different dosing regimens of REGN727 achieved mean LDL cholesterol reductions
from baseline ranging from approximately 30% to greater than 65%, depending on
the dosing regimen of REGN727, compared to a mean reduction of 10% with placebo
(p<0.05 for all dose groups). Patients in the study are being followed for a
total of 20 weeks for safety. In this trial, REGN727 was generally well
tolerated over 12 weeks. There were no elevations in liver function tests
greater than three times the upper limit of normal (ULN) and no cases of
elevated creatine phosphokinase reported. The most common adverse event was
injection site reaction and there were no serious adverse events on active
treatment. Full safety data from the 8-week post-treatment monitoring period
will be presented at a future medical congress upon final analysis.

In November 2011, we also announced preliminary results from the Phase 2
trial studying patients with primary hypercholesterolemia who were on stable
doses of atorvastatin. The primary objective of the study was to compare the
effect of switching to a high dose of atorvastatin alone (80mg) versus a high
dose of atorvastatin combined with REGN727. In the primary endpoint of the
study, after eight weeks of treatment, patients who received REGN727 plus
atorvastatin 80mg achieved a greater than 65% reduction in mean LDL cholesterol
compared to a mean reduction of 17% for atorvastatin 80mg alone (p<0.001).
The study also included a third arm in which REGN727 was added to the stable low
dose of atorvastatin and the patients achieved a greater than 65% reduction in
mean LDL cholesterol. Patients in the study were followed for a total of 16
weeks for safety. In this trial, REGN727 was generally well tolerated over 16
weeks. There was one serious adverse event of dehydration in the REGN727 plus
atorvastatin 80mg group that was deemed not treatment related. One patient in
the REGN727 plus atorvastatin 80mg group with mildly elevated aspartate
aminotransferase (AST) prior to randomization (>ULN and </= 3ULN)
experienced an elevation of AST>3ULN and </=5ULN and one patient
discontinued therapy due to a hypersensitivity reaction (rash).








Initial data
from the third Phase 2 trial, studying subcutaneous regimens of REGN727 in
combination with atorvastatin in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia, are
expected to be available in the first half of 2012.

REGN727 is being developed in collaboration with Sanofi.

6. REGN668 (IL-4R Antibody) for
allergic and immune conditions

IL-4R is required for signaling by the cytokines IL-4 and IL-13. Both of
these cytokines are critical mediators of immune response, which, in turn,
drives the formation of Immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies and the development of
allergic responses, as well as the atopic state that underlies asthma and atopic
dermatitis.

REGN668 is a fully human monoclonalantibody generated using
ourVelocImmune®technology that is
designed to bind to IL-4R. REGN668 is in a Phase 1b study in patients with
atopic dermatitis and a Phase 2 study in eosinophilic asthma. REGN668 is being
developed in collaboration with Sanofi.

7. REGN421 (Dll4 Antibody) for
advanced malignancies

In many clinical settings, positively or negatively regulating blood
vessel growth could have important therapeutic benefits, as could the repair of
damaged and leaky vessels. VEGF was the first growth factor shown to be specific
for blood vessels, by virtue of having its receptor primarily expressed on blood
vessel cells. In the December 21, 2006 issue of the journalNature, we reported data
from a preclinical study demonstrating that blocking an important cell signaling
molecule, known as Dll4, inhibited the growth of experimental tumors by
interfering with their ability to produce a functional blood supply. The
inhibition of tumor growth was seen in a variety of tumor types, including those
that were resistant to blockade of VEGF, suggesting a novel anti-angiogenesis
therapeutic approach. Moreover, inhibition of tumor growth is enhanced by the
combination of Dll4 and VEGF blockade in many preclinical tumor
models.

REGN421 is a fully human monoclonal antibody to Dll4 generated using ourVelocImmune®technology, and is in
Phase 1 clinical development. REGN421 is being developed in collaboration with
Sanofi.

8. REGN910 (ANG2 Antibody) for
oncology

In the fourth quarter of 2010, we initiated a Phase 1 study in an
oncology setting of REGN910, an antibody that specifically blocks ANG2. The
angiopoietins, which were discovered at Regeneron, are ligands for the
endothelial cell receptor Tie2 and are essential for vascular development and
angiogenesis. Unlike other family members, ANG2 is strongly upregulated by
endothelial cells at sites of angiogenesis and vascular remodeling, including
tumors.

REGN910 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmune®technology, which is
being developed for cancer indications. REGN910 is being developed in
collaboration with Sanofi.

9. REGN475 (NGF Antibody) for
pain

REGN475 is a fully human monoclonal antibody to NGF, generated using ourVelocImmune®technology, which is
designed to block pain sensitization in neurons. Preclinical experiments
indicate that REGN475 specifically binds to and blocks NGF activity and does not
bind to or block cell signaling for closely related neurotrophins such as NT-3,
NT-4, or BDNF.

In May 2010, we announced positive results from an interim analysis of a
randomized, double-blind, four-arm, placebo-controlled Phase 2 trial in 217
patients with osteoarthritis of the knee. In July 2010, we presented additional
results from this trial through 16 weeks.

In December 2010, we were informed by the FDA that a case confirmed as
avascular necrosis of a joint was seen in another company’s anti-NGF program.
The FDA believes this case, which follows previously-reported cases of joint
replacements in patients on an anti-NGF drug candidate being developed by
another pharmaceutical company, provides evidence to suggest a class-effect and
has placed REGN475, along with the two other anti-NGF antibodies in development
by competitors, on clinical hold. An FDA Arthritis Advisory Committee meeting is
scheduled for March 12, 2012 to discuss possible safety issues related to
anti-NGF compounds. There are currently no ongoing trials withREGN475.

In February 2012, Sanofi elected not to continue co-development of REGN475, and Regeneron now has sole global rights to REGN475. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi remains obligated to fund agreed-upon REGN475 development costs through the end of 2012 and is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of REGN475.








10. REGN728

In the fourth
quarter of 2010, clinical trials began with REGN728, a fully human monoclonal
antibody generated using ourVelocImmune®technology, against an
undisclosed target. REGN728 is being developed in collaboration with
Sanofi.

11. REGN1033

In December 2011, the FDA accepted our investigational new drug (IND)
filing for REGN1033 and in January 2012, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical study.
REGN1033 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmune®technology, against an
undisclosed target. REGN1033 is being developed in collaboration with
Sanofi.

12. REGN846

REGN846 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmune®technology, against an
undisclosed target, and is being evaluated in a Phase 2a study in patients with
atopic dermatitis. In July 2011, Sanofi elected not to continue co-development
of REGN846, and Regeneron now has sole global rights to REGN846. Under the terms
of our agreement, Sanofi remains obligated to fund REGN846 clinical costs
through conclusion of a planned proof-of-concept trial and is entitled to
receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of REGN846.

13. REGN1154

REGN1154 is a fully human
monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmune®technology, against an
undisclosed target. In December 2011, we submitted a Phase 1 clinical trial
protocol in Australia for REGN1154 under the clinical trial notification (CTN)
regulatory process. We plan to initiate human studies in the first quarter of
2012 in Australia. Sanofi decided not to opt-in to the REGN1154 program and we
have sole global rights. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to
receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of REGN1154.

Research and Development
Technologies:

Many proteins that are either on the surface of or secreted by cells play
important roles in biology and disease. One way that a cell communicates with
other cells is by releasing specific signaling proteins, either locally or into
the bloodstream. These proteins have distinct functions and are classified into
different “families” of molecules, such as peptide hormones, growth factors, and
cytokines. All of these secreted (or signaling) proteins travel to and are
recognized by another set of proteins, called “receptors,” which reside on the
surface of responding cells. These secreted proteins impact many critical
cellular and biological processes, causing diverse effects ranging from the
regulation of growth of particular cell types to inflammation mediated by white
blood cells. Secreted proteins can at times be overactive and thus result in a
variety of diseases. In these disease settings, blocking the action of specific
secreted proteins can have clinical benefit. In other cases, proteins on the
cell-surface can mediate the interaction between cells, such as the processes
that give rise to inflammation and autoimmunity.

Our scientists have developed two different technologies to design
protein therapeutics to block the action of specific cell surface or secreted
proteins. The first technology, termed the “Trap” technology, was used to
generate our two approved products, ARCALYST®and EYLEA®,
as well as ZALTRAP®, which is in Phase 3 clinical trials. These novel
“Traps” are composed of fusions between two distinct receptor components and the
constant region of an antibody molecule called the “Fc region”, resulting in
high affinity product candidates.VelociSuiteTMis our second technology
platform; it is used for discovering, developing, and producing fully human
monoclonal antibodies that can address both secreted and cell-surface
targets.

VelociSuiteTM

VelociSuiteTMconsists ofVelocImmune®,
VelociGene®, VelociMouse®, and
VelociMab®. TheVelocImmune®mouse platform is utilized to
produce fully human monoclonal antibodies.VelocImmune®was generated by exploiting
ourVelociGene®technology (see
below), in a process in which six megabases of mouse immune gene loci were
replaced, or “humanized,” with corresponding human immune gene loci.VelocImmune®mice can be used to generate
efficiently fully human monoclonal antibodies to targets of therapeutic
interest.VelocImmune®and our entireVelociSuiteTMoffer the potential to
increase the speed and efficiency through which human monoclonal antibody
therapeutics may be discovered and validated, thereby improving the overall
efficiency of our early stage drug development activities. We are utilizing theVelocImmune®technology to produce our next
generation of drug candidates for preclinical and clinical
development.

OurVelociGene®platform
allows custom and precise manipulation of very large sequences of DNA to produce
highly customized alterations of a specified target gene, or genes, and
accelerates the production of knock-out and transgenic expression models without
using either positive/negative selection or isogenic DNA. In producing knock-out
models, a color or fluorescent marker may be substituted in place of the actual
gene sequence, allowing for high-resolution visualization of precisely where the
gene is active in the body during normal body functioning as well as in disease
processes. For the optimization of preclinical development and pharmacology
programs,VelociGene®offers the opportunity to
humanize targets by replacing the mouse gene with the human homolog. Thus,VelociGene®allows scientists to rapidly
identify the physical and biological effects of deleting or over-expressing the
target gene, as well as to characterize and test potential therapeutic
molecules.








OurVelociMouse®technology platform
allows for the direct and immediate generation of genetically altered mice from
embryonic stem cells (ES cells), thereby avoiding the lengthy process involved
in generating and breeding knockout mice from chimeras. Mice generated through
this method are normal and healthy and exhibit a 100% germ-line transmission.
Furthermore, mice developed using ourVelociMouse®technology are suitable for direct
phenotyping or other studies. We have also developed ourVelociMab®platform for the rapid screening of antibodies and rapid generation of
expression cell lines for our Traps and ourVelocImmune®human monoclonal
antibodies.

Antibody Collaboration and License
Agreements

Sanofi.In November 2007, we and Sanofi entered into
a global, strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize fully
human monoclonal antibodies. The collaboration is governed by a Discovery and
Preclinical Development Agreement and a License and Collaboration Agreement. In
connection with the execution of the discovery agreement in 2007, we received a
non-refundable, up-front payment of $85.0 million from Sanofi. Pursuant to the
collaboration, Sanofi is funding our research to identify and validate potential
drug discovery targets and develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against
these targets. We lead the design and conduct of research activities under the
collaboration, including target identification and validation, antibody
development, research and preclinical activities through filing of an
Investigational New Drug Application (IND) or its equivalent, toxicology
studies, and manufacture of preclinical and clinical supplies.

For each drug
candidate identified through discovery research under the discovery agreement,
Sanofi has the option to license rights to the candidate under the license
agreement. If it elects to do so, Sanofi will co-develop the drug candidate with
us through product approval. Development costs for the drug candidate are shared
between the companies, with Sanofi generally funding these costs up front,
except that following receipt of the first positive Phase 3 trial results for a
co-developed drug candidate, subsequent Phase 3 trial-related costs for that
drug candidate are shared 80% by Sanofi and 20% by us. We are generally
responsible for reimbursing Sanofi for half of the total development costs for
all collaboration antibody products from our share of profits from
commercialization of collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient
for this purpose. However, we are not required to apply more than 10% of our
share of the profits from collaboration products in any calendar quarter towards
reimbursing Sanofi for these development costs.

Sanofi will lead commercialization activities for products developed
under the license agreement, subject to our right to co-promote such products.
The parties will equally share profits and losses from sales within the United
States. The parties will share profits outside the United States on a sliding
scale based on sales starting at 65% (Sanofi)/35% (us) and ending at 55%
(Sanofi)/45% (us), and will share losses outside the United States at 55%
(Sanofi)/45% (us). In addition to profit sharing, we are entitled to receive up
to $250 million in sales milestone payments, with milestone payments commencing
after aggregate annual sales outside the United States exceed $1.0 billion on a
rolling 12-month basis.

In November 2009, we and Sanofi amended these agreements to expand and
extend our antibody collaboration. The goal of the expanded collaboration is to
advance a total of 20 to 30 new antibody product candidates into clinical
development from 2010 through 2017.

Under the amended discovery agreement, Sanofi agreed to fund up to $160
million per year of our antibody discovery activities over the period from
2010-2017, subject to a one-time option for Sanofi to adjust the maximum
reimbursement amount down to $120 million per year commencing in 2014 if over
the prior two years certain specified criteria were not satisfied. Sanofi has an
option to extend the discovery program for up to an additional three years after
2017 for further antibody development and preclinical activities. Pursuant to
the collaboration, Sanofi is also obligated to fund up to $30 million of
agreed-upon costs we incur to expand our manufacturing capacity at our
Rensselaer, New York facilities.

In 2010, as we scaled up our capacity to conduct antibody discovery
activities, Sanofi funded $137.7 million of our preclinical research under the
expanded collaboration. The balance between that amount and $160 million, or
$22.3 million, has been added to the funding otherwise available to us in
2011-2012 under the amended discovery agreement.

From the collaboration's inception in November 2007 through December 31,
2011, Sanofi has funded a total of $474.6 million of our costs under the
discovery agreement and a total of $400.4 million of our development costs under
the license agreement, or a total of $875.0 million in funding for our antibody
research and development activities during this period.








In August
2008, we entered into an agreement with Sanofi to use ourVelociGene®platform to supply Sanofi
with genetically modified mammalian models of gene function and disease. Under
this agreement, Sanofi is required to pay us a minimum of $21.5 million for the
term of the agreement, which extends through December 2012, for knock-out and
transgenic models of gene function for target genes identified by Sanofi. Sanofi
will use these models for its internal research programs that are outside of the
scope of our antibody collaboration.

Astellas Pharma Inc.In
March 2007, we entered into a six-year, non-exclusive license agreement with
Astellas Pharma Inc. to allow Astellas to utilize ourVelocImmune®technology in its
internal research programs to discover human monoclonal antibodies. Under the
terms of the agreement, Astellas made a $20.0 million annual, non-refundable
payment to us in each of the second quarters of 2007, 2008, 2009, and 2010. In
July 2010, the license agreement with Astellas was amended and extended through
June 2023. Under the terms of the amended agreement, Astellas made a $165.0
million up-front payment to us in August 2010. In addition, Astellas will make a
$130.0 million second payment to us in June 2018 unless the license agreement
has been terminated prior to that date. Astellas has the right to terminate the
agreement at any time by providing 90 days’ advance written notice. Under
certain limited circumstances, such as our material breach of the agreement,
Astellas may terminate the agreement and receive a refund of a portion of its
up-front payment or, if such termination occurs after June 2018, a portion of
its second payment, to us under the July 2010 amendment to the agreement. We are
entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of antibody
products discovered by Astellas using ourVelocImmune®technology.

AstraZeneca UK Limited.In February 2007, we entered into a six-year, non-exclusive license
agreement with AstraZeneca UK Limited to allow AstraZeneca to utilize ourVelocImmune®technology in its
internal research programs to discover human monoclonal antibodies. Under the
terms of the agreement, AstraZeneca made a $20.0 million annual, non-refundable
payment to us in each of the first quarters of 2007, 2008, 2009, and 2010. In
November 2010, as permitted by the agreement, MedImmune Limited (as successor by
novation from AstraZeneca) gave written notice of voluntary termination of the
agreement, effective in February 2011, thereby canceling its obligation to make
either of the final two annual payments. We remain entitled to receive a
mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of antibody products discovered by
MedImmune using ourVelocImmune®technology.

Royalty Agreement with Novartis
Pharma AG

Under a June 2009 agreement with Novartis (that replaced a previous
collaboration and license agreement), we receive royalties on worldwide sales of
Novartis’ canakinumab, a fully human anti-interleukin-IL1β antibody. The royalty
rates in the agreement start at 4% and reach 15% when annual sales exceed $1.5
billion. Canakinumab is marketed for the treatment of CAPS, has completed Phase
3 development for gout, and is in earlier stage development for atherosclerosis
and other inflammatory diseases. We are unable to predict whether canakinumab
will be approved for gout or any other indication in addition to CAPS, or
whether, even if approved, canakinumab for such indication(s) will be
successfully commercialized. Accordingly, we are unable to predict whether these
royalties will ever contribute materially to our results of operations or
financial condition. To date these royalties have been minimal.

National Institutes of Health
Grant

In September 2006, we were awarded a five-year grant from the National
Institutes of Health (NIH) as part of the NIH’s Knockout Mouse Project. The goal
of the Knockout Mouse Project was to build a comprehensive and broadly available
resource of knockout mice to accelerate the understanding of gene function and
human diseases. Under the NIH grant, as amended, amounts received or receivable
by us from the grant’s inception through December 31, 2011 totaled $25.1
million. No further funding will be received by us in connection with the NIH
Grant.

Research Programs

Our preclinical research programs are in the areas of oncology and
angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related diseases, muscle diseases and
disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone and cartilage, pain,
cardiovascular diseases, and infectious diseases.

Sales and Marketing

We have a New Products Marketing and Planning group and a Market Research
group to evaluate commercial opportunities for our targets and drug candidates,
assess the competitive environment, and analyze the commercial potential of our
product portfolio. This group works in close collaboration with our
collaborators for co-developed products to develop marketing plans and forecasts
and to develop and execute pre-launch market development programs.








In connection
with the sales and marketing of ARCALYST®for CAPS, we have a small
marketing, trade, reimbursement, and distribution group to provide case
management and reimbursement services to patients with CAPS and their treating
physicians.

In preparation for the launch of EYLEA®for wet AMD in 2011,
we hired and trained a full-service commercialization group to execute the
launch of EYLEA®. The group includes experienced professionals in the
fields of marketing, communications, professional education, patient education
and advocacy, reimbursement and managed markets, trade and distribution,
commercial operations, commercial analytics, market research, and forecasting.
Moreover, we have hired, trained, and deployed a field-based organization of
approximately 75 individuals, including regional sales directors, medical sales
specialists, and reimbursement managers, each with 7+ years of experience in the
biopharmaceutical industry in a variety of therapeutic areas including oncology,
ophthalmology, immunology, and inflammation. We outsource the warehousing and
distribution of our finished drug products.

Manufacturing

Our
manufacturing facilities are located in Rensselaer, New York and consist of three buildings totaling approximately395,000square feet of research, manufacturing, office, and warehouse space. We currently have approximately 54,000 liters of cell
culture capacity at these facilities. At December 31, 2011, we employed 439 people at our Rensselaer facilities. There were no
impairment losses associated with long-lived assets at these facilities as of December 31, 2011.

Among the conditions for regulatory marketing approval of a medicine is
the requirement that the prospective manufacturer's quality control and
manufacturing procedures conform to the good manufacturing practice (GMP)
regulations of the health authority. In complying with standards set forth in
these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort
in the areas of production and quality control to ensure full technical
compliance. Manufacturing establishments, both foreign and domestic, are also
subject to inspections by or under the authority of the FDA and by other
national, federal, state, and local agencies. We are approved to manufacture our
marketed products at our Rensselaer facilities. If our manufacturing facilities
fail to maintain compliance with FDA and other regulatory requirements, we may
be required to suspend manufacturing. This would likely have a material adverse
effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash
flows.

Competition



®

Bristol-Myers Squibb

&

EYLEA

®

.

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®








ARCALYST®.In 2009, Novartis
received regulatory approval in the United States and Europe for canakinumab, a
fully human anti-interleukin-IL1ß antibody, for the treatment of CAPS. In January
2011, Novartis announced that it had submitted an application to the EMA for
approval of canakinumab in the treatment of gout flares. Novartis submitted a
supplemental BLA to the FDA in the first quarter of 2011 for approval of
canakinumab in gout, which was denied in August 2011 based upon safety concerns.
Canakinumab is also in development for atherosclerosis and a number of other
inflammatory diseases.In addition, there are
both small molecules and antibodies in development by other third parties that
are designed to block the synthesis of IL-1 or inhibit the signaling of IL-1.
For example, Xoma Ltd., in collaboration with Servier, is developing an antibody
to IL-1, and both Amgen and MedImmune are developing antibodies to the IL-1
receptor. These drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over
ARCALYST®. The successful development and/or commercialization of
these competing molecules could adversely affect sales of ARCALYST®for CAPS and delay or impair our ability to commercialize ARCALYST®for indications other than CAPS.

ZALTRAP®.Many companies are developing therapeutic molecules designed
to block the actions of VEGF specifically and angiogenesis in general. A variety
of approaches have been employed, including antibodies to VEGF, antibodies to
the VEGF receptor, small molecule antagonists to the VEGF receptor tyrosine
kinase, and other anti-angiogenesis strategies. Many of these alternative
approaches may offer competitive advantages to aflibercept in efficacy,
side-effect profile, durability of effect, or method of delivery. Additionally,
some of these molecules are already approved for marketing and have a broader
range of indications than our product candidate.

In particular, Genentech has an approved VEGF antagonist,
Avastin®, on the market for treating certain cancers and a number of
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing VEGF
antagonists, including Novartis, Amgen, Imclone LLC/Eli Lilly, Pfizer,
AstraZeneca, and GlaxoSmithKline. Many of these molecules are further along in
development than ZALTRAP®and may offer competitive advantages over
our molecule. Pfizer, Onyx (together with its partner Bayer HealthCare), and
GlaxoSmithKline are selling and marketing oral medications that target tumor
cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels the growth of
tumors.

Monoclonal Antibodies.Our
clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies
which were generated using ourVelocImmune®technology.
Our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition
from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various
technologies.

Numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products.
Companies such as Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca, Amgen, Biogen
Idec, Inc., Novartis, Genentech, Bristol-Myers Squib, Abbott, and
GlaxoSmithKline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in
development or on the market that are derived from recombinant DNA that comprise
human antibody sequences. As noted above, Astellas has licensed ourVelocImmune®technology as part of their internal antibody development
programs.

We are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies
actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against
targets that are also the targets of our early-stage product candidates. For
example, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Abbott are developing antibody
product candidates against NGF. Genentech is marketing an antibody against IL-6R
(tocilizumab) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic juvenile
idiopathic arthritis, and several other companies, including Centocor Ortho
Biotech, Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb, have antibodies against IL-6 in clinical
development for this disease. GlaxoSmithKline, in partnership with OncoMed
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., has a Dll4 antibody in clinical development for the
treatment of solid tumors. Aerovance has completed initial clinical trials of
two formulations of a biologic directed against IL-4. Amgen previously had an
antibody against IL-4R in clinical development for the treatment of asthma.
Amgen and Pfizer have development programs for antibodies against PCSK9; Alnylam
has a clinical program underway with an RNAi molecule against PCSK9. Amgen,
Pfizer, and AstraZeneca have development programs underway for antibodies
against ANG2.








Other
Areas.Many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to
discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time
and resources. In these and related areas, intellectual property rights have
been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential
competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in
such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained
personnel, and expertise. A number of corporate and academic competitors are
involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the
focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. These
competitors include Amgen and Roche, as well as many others. Many firms and
entities are engaged in research and development in the areas of cytokines,
interleukins, angiogenesis, and muscle conditions. Some of these competitors are
currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in
these areas. These and other competitors may have established substantial
intellectual property and other competitive advantages.

If any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical
study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product
candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a
competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our
business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future
prospects.

We also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and
other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek
patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development
and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration
for use of their technology. These institutions are becoming more active in
seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or
other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. Products
developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. We also
compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies,
and organizations.

Patents, Trademarks, and Trade
Secrets

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain
trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary
rights of third parties (see Item 1A. “Risk Factors – Risks Related to
Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity –We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or
commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are
found to have infringed, third-party patents or other proprietary rights, and
the costs and expenses of ongoing patent litigation have been and will likely
continue to be significant.”). Our policy is
to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements
that we consider important to our business and operations. As of December 31,
2011, we held an ownership interest in a total of approximately 186 issued
patents in the United States and approximately 570 issued patents in foreign
countries with respect to our products and technologies. In addition, we hold an
ownership interest in hundreds of patent applications in the United States and
foreign countries.

Our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent
applications covering ourVelociSuite™ technologies, including
ourVelocImmune®mouse platform which
produces fully human monoclonal antibodies. Our issued patents covering these
technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2028. However, we continue to
file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms.

Our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending
applications relating to our marketed products, ARCALYST®and
EYLEA®, and our product candidates in clinical development. These
patents cover the proteins and DNA encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents,
method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions, as well as various
methods of using the products. For each of ARCALYST®,
EYLEA®and our late-stage product candidate, ZALTRAP®, these patents
generally expire between 2020 and 2028. However, the projected patent terms may
be subject to extension based on potential patent term extensions in countries
where such extensions are available.

We also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents
and patent applications. In December 2011, we and Genentech entered into a
Non-Exclusive License and Partial Settlement Agreement relating to ophthalmic
sales of EYLEA®in the United States. Pursuant to this agreement, we
received a non-exclusive license to certain patents relating to VEGF receptor
proteins, known as the Davis-Smyth patents, and other technology patents. Under
the terms of the agreement, we agreed to make payments to Genentech based on
U.S. sales of EYLEA®commencing upon FDA approval of
EYLEA®in November 2011 through May 7, 2016. We will be required to
make a one-time, non-refundable $60 million payment upon cumulative U.S. sales
of EYLEA®reaching $400 million. In addition, we agreed to pay
royalties of 4.75% on cumulative U.S. sales of EYLEA®between $400
million and $3 billion and 5.5% on any cumulative U.S. sales of EYLEA®over $3 billion.

In July 2008 we entered into an Amended and Restated Non-Exclusive
License Agreement with Cellectis S.A. pursuant to which we licensed certain
patents and patent applications relating to a process for the specific
replacement of a copy of a gene in the receiver genome by homologous
recombination. Pursuant to this agreement, we agreed to pay Cellectis a low,
single-digit royalty based on any future revenue received by us from any future
licenses or sales of ourVelociGene®orVelocImmune®products or services.
No royalties are payable to Cellectis on any revenue from commercial sales of
antibodies from ourVelocImmune®technology,
including antibodies developed under our collaboration with Sanofi. We also have
non-exclusive license agreements with Amgen and other organizations for patent
rights related to ARCALYST®. In connection with these licenses, we
pay a combined mid-single digit royalty on net sales of
ARCALYST®.








Patent law
relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is
evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. The
degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the United
States and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon
the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and
governments in these countries. There is no certainty that our existing patents
or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide
commercial benefit.

Others may independently develop similar products or processes to those
developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are
issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents.
We expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process
applications with respect to our inventions. However, we may not file any such
applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. Patents issued to or
licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others.

Defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive
and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. It is possible that
patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court
may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that
we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay
licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see Item 1A.
“Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity –We may be restricted in our development,
manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to
damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third-party patents or other
proprietary rights, and the costs and expenses of ongoing patent litigation have
been and will likely continue to be significant.”).

Government Regulation

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign
countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and
marketing of ARCALYST®, EYLEA®, and our product candidates
(see Item 1A. “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Commercialization of
EYLEA®for Wet AMD -

Our regulatory
approval for sales of EYLEA

®

is limited to the
treatment of wet AMD and is limited to sales in the United States. If we don't
receive approval for EYLEA

®

for other indications, or if
approvals are not obtained for sales in other countries, our sales and profits
will be limited

and Risks Related to the
Development and Approval of Our Product Candidates and New Indications for Our
Marketed Products –

If we do not obtain
regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications for our
marketed products, or maintain regulatory approval for
EYLEA

®

in the United States, we will not be able to market or sell them, which
would materially and negatively impact our business, results of operations, and
prospects.”)

. All of our product candidates
will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. In
particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and
clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the FDA and
foreign authorities. Many aspects of the structure and substance of the FDA and
foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices have been reformed during recent
years, and continued reform is under consideration in a number of jurisdictions.
The ultimate outcome and impact of such reforms and potential reforms cannot be
predicted.

The activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the
United States begin with preclinical tests. Preclinical tests include laboratory
evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of
the product candidate and its formulations. The results of these studies must be
submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must be reviewed by the FDA before
proposed clinical testing can begin. Typically, clinical testing involves a
three-phase process. In Phase 1, trials are conducted with a small number of
subjects to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. In
Phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific
disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety,
tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product
candidate. In Phase 3, large-scale clinical trials are conducted with patients
afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data
to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as
required by the FDA. The results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a
biologic product candidate are then submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA
for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for
commercial sale. In responding to a BLA, the FDA may grant marketing approval,
request additional information, or deny the application.

Any approval required by the FDA for any of our product candidates may
not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. The designation of a clinical
trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a
trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a
clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the
designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. The results of
preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term
safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in
humans.








Approval of a
product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is
generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those
countries. The approval procedure varies among countries and may involve
additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ
from that required for FDA approval.

Various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern
or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record
keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of pharmaceutical product
candidates. The lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance
with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial
resources. Any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any
delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the
manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or
royalty revenue.

In addition to the foregoing, our present and future business will be
subject to regulation under the United States Atomic Energy Act, the Clean Air
Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
and Liability Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, national restrictions,
and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign
regulations.

Business Segments

We manage our business as one segment which includes all activities
related to the discovery of pharmaceutical products for the treatment of serious
medical conditions and the development and commercialization of these
discoveries. This segment also includes revenues and expenses related to (i)
research and development activities conducted under our collaboration agreements
with third parties and our grant from the NIH, (ii) product sales, including
EYLEA®for the treatment of wet AMD and ARCALYST®for the
treatment of CAPS, (iii) licensing agreements to utilize ourVelocImmune®technology, and (iv) the supply of specified, ordered research materials using
ourVelociGene®technology platform.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we had 1,704 full-time employees, of whom 330
held a Ph.D. and/or M.D., or PharmD degree. We believe that we have been
successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly
competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense.
None of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our
management considers its relations with our employees to be good.

Available
Information

We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website
(http://www.regeneron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange
Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

