ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties relating to future events and the future performance of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (where applicable, together with its subsidiaries, "Regeneron," "Company," "we," "us," and "our"), and actual events or results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Words such as "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "estimate," variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. These statements concern, and these risks and uncertainties include, among others, the nature, timing, and possible success and therapeutic applications of our products, product candidates, and research and clinical programs now underway or planned, including without limitation EYLEA

®

(aflibercept) Injection, Dupixent

®

(dupilumab) Injection, Praluent

®

(alirocumab) Injection, Kevzara

®

(sarilumab) Injection, Libtayo

®

General

Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a fully integrated biotechnology company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures,  and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious diseases.Our commercialized medicines and product candidates in development are designed to help patients with eye diseases, allergic and inflammatory diseases, cancer, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, neuromuscular diseases, infectious diseases, and rare diseases.

Selected financial information is summarized as follows:

Year Ended December 31,(In millions, except per share data)201820172016Revenues$6,710.8$5,872.2$4,860.4Net income$2,444.4$1,198.5$895.5Net income per share - diluted$21.29$10.34$7.70









Marketed Products

We currently havesevenproducts that have received marketing approval:





ProductDisease Area(1)Territory

U.S.EUJapanCertain other countries outside the U.S.

EYLEA (aflibercept) Injection(2)ŸNeovascular age-related macular degeneration (wet AMD)aaaa

ŸDiabetic macular edema (DME)aaaa

ŸMacular edema following retinal vein occlusion (RVO), which includes macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) and macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO)aaaa

ŸMyopic choroidal neovascularization (mCNV)aaa

ŸDiabetic retinopathy in patients with DMEa

Dupixent (dupilumab) Injection(3)ŸAtopic dermatitis (in adults)aaaa

ŸAsthma (in adults and adolescents)a

Praluent (alirocumab) Injection(3)ŸHeterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) (in adults)aaaa

Kevzara (sarilumab) Solution for Subcutaneous Injection(3)ŸRheumatoid arthritis (RA) (in adults)aaaa

Libtayo (cemiplimab) Injection(3)(5)ŸMetastatic or locally advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (CSCC)a

ARCALYST®(rilonacept) Injection for Subcutaneous UseŸCryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS), including Familial Cold Auto-inflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) and Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS)a

ZALTRAP®(ziv-aflibercept) Injection for Intravenous Infusion(4)ŸMetastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC)aaaa



(1)Refer to label information in each territory for specific indication

(2)In collaboration with Bayer (outside the United States)

(3)In collaboration with Sanofi

(4)Pursuant to a 2015 amended and restated ZALTRAP agreement, Sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP, and Sanofi pays us a percentage of aggregate net sales of ZALTRAP

(5)Marketed as Libtayo (cemiplimab-rwlc) Injection in the United States











Net Product Sales of Regeneron-Discovered Products(2)Year Ended December 31,(In millions)201820172016U.S.ROW(1)TotalU.S.ROW(1)TotalU.S.ROW(1)TotalEYLEA(2)$4,076.7$2,668.9$6,745.6$3,701.9$2,226.9$5,928.8$3,323.1$1,872.3$5,195.4Libtayo14.8—14.8——————ARCALYST14.7—14.716.6—16.615.3—15.3Net product sales recorded by Regeneron$4,106.2$3,718.5$3,338.4Net product sales recorded by Sanofi(2):Dupixent$776.3$145.7$922.0$253.8$2.7$256.5———Praluent$181.3$125.5$306.8$131.4$63.3$194.7$94.4$21.9$116.3Kevzara$74.7$21.9$96.6$11.6$1.7$13.3———ZALTRAP$9.0$98.8$107.8$10.7$73.1$83.8$16.6$55.7$72.3(1)Rest of world(2)Bayer records net product sales of EYLEA outside the United States and Sanofi records global net product sales of Dupixent, Praluent, Kevzara, and ZALTRAP. Refer to "General" above and "Collaboration Agreements" below for further details.

Programs in Clinical Development

All21of our product candidates in clinical development were discovered in our research laboratories and are summarized below. We used ourVelocImmune®technology to generate each of the antibodies in the table below. There are numerous uncertainties associated with drug development, including uncertainties related to safety and efficacy data from each phase of drug development (including any post-approval studies), uncertainties related to the enrollment and performance of clinical trials, changes in regulatory requirements, and changes in the competitive landscape affecting a product candidate. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for a description of these and other risks and uncertainties that may affect our clinical programs.

Clinical ProgramPhase 1Phase 2Phase 3Regulatory Review(i)EYLEAŸNon-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR) in patients without DMEŸDiabetic retinopathy (U.S.)Dupixent (dupilumab)(a)Antibody to IL-4R alpha subunitŸGrass allergyŸAtopic dermatitis in adolescents and  pediatrics (6–11  years of age)(d)ŸAsthma in adults and adolescents (EU and Japan)ŸPeanut allergyŸAtopic dermatitis in   pediatrics (6 months–5 years of age) (Phase 2/3)(d)ŸAtopic dermatitis in adolescents (12–17 years of age) (U.S. and EU)ŸAsthma in pediatrics (6–11 years of age)ŸAuto-injector for 200 mg dose (U.S. and EU)ŸEosinophilic esophagitis (EOE) (Phase 2/3)(c)ŸChronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis (CRSwNP) (U.S.)













Clinical Program(continued)Phase 1Phase 2Phase 3Regulatory Review(i)

Praluent (alirocumab)(a)Antibody to PCSK9ŸHomozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH)(c)in adults and pediatricsŸCardiovascular risk reduction (U.S. and EU)

ŸHeFH in pediatricsŸFirst-line treatment of hyperlipidemia (U.S.)

Kevzara (sarilumab)(a)Antibody to IL-6RŸPolyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pcJIA)ŸPolymyalgia rheumatica

ŸSystemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (sJIA)ŸGiant cell arteritis

Libtayo (cemiplimab)(a)Antibody to PD-1(h)ŸSolid tumors and advanced hematologic malignanciesŸMetastatic or locally advanced CSCC(d)ŸFirst-line non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)ŸMetastatic or locally advanced CSCC (EU)

ŸBasal cell carcinoma (BCC) (potentially pivotal study)ŸSecond-line cervical cancer

Fasinumab(b)(f)(REGN475)Antibody to NGFŸOsteoarthritis of knee and hip(e)

Evinacumab(f)(REGN1500)Antibody to ANGPTL3ŸRefractory hypercholesterolemia (both HeFH and non-FH)ŸHoFH(c)(d)

ŸSevere hypertriglyceridemia

Garetosmab(f)(REGN2477)Antibody to Activin AŸMuscle-wasting diseases (in combination with trevogrumab)ŸFibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP)(c)(e)(potentially pivotal study)

REGN3500(a)Antibody to IL-33. Studied as monotherapy and in combination with Dupixent.ŸAsthma

ŸChronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)

ŸAtopic dermatitis

Trevogrumab(f)(REGN1033)Antibody to myostatin (GDF8)ŸMuscle-wasting diseases (in combination with garetosmab)

REGN1908-1909(f)Multi-antibody therapy to Feld1ŸCat allergy

REGN1979Bispecific antibody against CD20 and CD3ŸCertain B-cell malignancies (monotherapy and in combination with Libtayo)(c)

REGN-EB3(g)(REGN3470-3471-3479)Multi-antibody therapy to Ebola virusŸEbola virusinfection(c)











Clinical Program(continued)Phase 1Phase 2Phase 3Regulatory Review(i)REGN3048-3051(g)Multi-antibody therapy to Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) virusŸMERS virus infectionREGN3767(f)Antibody to LAG-3 proteinŸAdvanced cancers (administered alone or in combination with Libtayo)Pozelimab(f)(REGN3918)Antibody to C5ŸParoxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH)REGN4461Agonist antibody to leptin receptor (LEPR)ŸLipodystrophy and obesityREGN4018(a)Bispecific antibody targeting MUC16 and CD3ŸPlatinum-resistant ovarian cancer (administered alone or in combination with Libtayo)REGN4659(f)Antibody to CTLA4ŸAdvanced NSCLC (administered alone or in combination with Libtayo)REGN5069Antibody to GFRα3ŸPainREGN5458(a)Bispecific antibody targeting BCMA and CD3ŸMultiple myeloma

(a)In collaboration with Sanofi(b)In collaboration with Teva and Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma(c)U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted orphan drug designation(d)FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation(e)FDA granted Fast Track designation(f)Sanofi did not opt-in to or elected not to continue to co-develop the product candidate. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on any future global sales of the product candidate.(g)Sanofi did not opt-in to the product candidate. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on any future sales of the product candidate. We and the Biomedical Advanced Research Development Authority (BARDA) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) are parties to agreements whereby HHS provides certain funding to support research, development, and manufacturing of these antibodies.(h)Studied as monotherapy and in combination with other antibodies and treatments(i)Regulatory application submitted. Information in this column relates to U.S., European Union (EU), and Japan submissions only.

Our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, and to build on that foundation with our clinical development, manufacturing, and commercial capabilities. Our objective is to continue to be an integrated, multi-product biotechnology company that provides patients and medical professionals with important options for preventing and treating human diseases.

We believe that our ability to develop product candidates is enhanced by the application of ourVelociSuite®technology platforms. Our discovery platforms are designed to identify specific proteins of therapeutic interest for a particular disease or cell type and validate these targets through high-throughput production of genetically modified mice using ourVelociGene®technology to understand the role of these proteins in normal physiology, as well as in models of disease. Our human antibody technology (VelocImmune) and cell line expression technologies (VelociMab®) may then be utilized to discover and produce new product candidates directed against the disease target. Our antibody product candidates currently in clinical trials were developed usingVelocImmune. We continue to invest in the development of enabling technologies to assist in our efforts to identify, develop, manufacture, and commercialize new product candidates.









The planning, execution, and results of our clinical programs are significant factors that can affect our operating and financial results. In our clinical programs, key events in 2018 and 2019 to date were, and select 2019 milestones for the remainder of 2019 are, as follows:





Clinical Program2018 and 2019 Events to DateSelect 2019 Milestones

EYLEAŸChinese State Food and Drug Administration (CFDA) approved EYLEA for DME and wet AMDŸFDA decision on sBLA for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy (target action date of May 13, 2019)

ŸReported 24-week positive top-line results from Phase 3 PANORAMA study for the treatment of NPDR in patients without DMEŸRe-submission of Prior-Approval Supplement (PAS) for pre-filled syringe

ŸInitiate a study of a high dose formulation of aflibercept

ŸReported that the Phase 3 PANORAMA study met its one-year primary endpoint and key secondary endpoints

ŸSubmitted sBLA for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy

ŸFDA issued Complete Response Letter (CRL) regarding the sBLA for pre-filled syringe

ŸTreat and Extend dosing regimen approved in the EU for wet AMD

ŸFDA approved sBLA for every 12-week dosing regimen option after one year of effective therapy in patients with wet AMD

ŸFDA approved sBLA for vial-only presentation

Dupixent (dupilumab; IL-4R Antibody)ŸMinistry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) in Japan approved Dupixent for the treatment of atopic dermatitis in adults not adequately controlled with existing therapiesŸFDA decision on sBLA for expanded atopic dermatitis indication in adolescent patients (12–17 years of age) (target action date of March 11, 2019)

ŸInitiated Phase 2/3 study in pediatric patients (6 months–5 years of age) with severe atopic dermatitisŸReport results from Phase 3 study in pediatric patients (6–11 years of age) with atopic dermatitis

ŸReported positive results from Phase 3 study in adolescent patients (12–17 years of age) with atopic dermatitisŸEuropean Medicines Agency (EMA) decision on regulatory application for asthma

ŸFDA accepted for priority review sBLA for expanded atopic dermatitis indication in adolescent patients (12–17 years of age)ŸInitiate Phase 2/3 program in COPD

ŸFDA (target action date of March 11, 2019) and EMA decisions on applications for 200 mg auto-injector

ŸSubmitted Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) for expanded atopic dermatitis indication in adolescent patients (12–17 years of age)

ŸFDA approved sBLA for moderate-to-severe asthma in patients 12 years of age and older

ŸRegulatory application for asthma accepted for review by the EMA and Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA) in Japan

ŸPositive results from two Phase 3 trials for the treatment of moderate-to-severe asthma published in theNew England Journal of Medicine

ŸInitiated Phase 2 study in grass allergy















Clinical Program(continued)2018 and 2019 Events to DateSelect 2019 Milestones

Dupixent (dupilumab; IL-4R Antibody) (continued)ŸInitiated Phase 2/3 study in eosinophilic esophagitis

ŸInitiated Phase 2 study in peanut allergy

ŸSubmitted sBLA for auto-injector for 200 mg dose

ŸReported positive top-line results from both Phase 3 trials of patients with CRSwNP

ŸSubmitted sBLA for CRSwNP

Praluent (alirocumab; PCSK9 Antibody)ŸReported positive results from ODYSSEY OUTCOMES studyŸFDA (target action date of April 28, 2019) and EMA decisions on applications for cardiovascular risk reduction

ŸSubmitted sBLA and MAA variation for cardiovascular risk reduction

ŸEuropean Medicine Agency's Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) recommended approval for a new indication to reduce  cardiovascular riskŸFDA decision on sBLA for first-line treatment of hyperlipidemia (target action date of April 29, 2019)

ŸSubmitted sBLA for first-line treatment of hyperlipidemia

ŸInitiated Phase 3 pediatric studies in HeFH and HoFH

ŸFDA approved sBLA for use with apheresis

Kevzara (sarilumab; IL-6R Antibody)ŸFDA approved sBLA for single-dose pre-filled pen presentation

ŸInitiated Phase 2 study in sJIA

ŸInitiated Phase 3 study in polymyalgia rheumatica

ŸInitiated Phase 3 study in giant cell arteritis

Libtayo (cemiplimab; PD-1 Antibody)ŸEMA accepted for review MAA for advanced CSCCŸRegulatory agency decision for advanced CSCC in the EU

ŸPositive results from pivotal trial in advanced CSCC published in the New England Journal of MedicineŸContinue patient enrollment in NSCLC and various other studies

ŸFDA approved BLA for the treatment of advanced CSCC

ŸReported positive results from Phase 1 study in advanced NSCLC

ŸInitiated additional Phase 3 studies in advanced NSCLC

Fasinumab (NGF Antibody)ŸCompleted patient enrollment in the efficacy sub-study of the Phase 3 long-term safety study in osteoarthritisŸContinue patient enrollment in Phase 3 long-term safety study and Phase 3 efficacy studies in osteoarthritis

ŸIndependent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) recommended higher dose-regimens be discontinued, and osteoarthritis trials modified accordingly

ŸDiscontinued dosing in chronic low back pain in patients with concomitant osteoarthritis of the knee and hip

ŸReported positive top-line results from first Phase 3 efficacy study in osteoarthritis















Clinical Program(continued)2018 and 2019 Events to DateSelect 2019 Milestones

Evinacumab (ANGPTL3 Antibody)ŸInitiated Phase 3 study in HoFHŸReport results from Phase 3 study in HoFH

ŸCompleted patient enrollment in Phase 3 study in HoFH

ŸInitiated Phase 2 study in severe hypertriglyceridemia

Garetosmab (REGN2477; Activin A Antibody)ŸInitiated potentially pivotal Phase 2 study in patients with FOP

REGN3500 (IL-33 Antibody)ŸInitiated Phase 2 study in asthmaŸReport results from Phase 2 study in asthma

ŸCompleted patient enrollment in Phase 2 study in asthma

ŸInitiated Phase 2 study in COPD

ŸInitiated Phase 2 study in atopic dermatitis

Trevogrumab (GDF8 Antibody) in combination with garetosmabŸReported positive results from single-dose portion of Phase 1 studyŸReport results from multi-dose portion of Phase 1 study

REGN1908-1909 (Feld1 Antibody)ŸInitiate Phase 2 study in cat allergic asthmatics

REGN1979 (CD20 and CD3 Antibody)ŸFDA granted orphan drug designation in follicular lymphoma (FL)ŸInitiate potentially pivotal Phase 2 study in FL

ŸPresented positive results from Phase 1 study in patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma at American Society of Hematology (ASH) Annual MeetingŸInitiate potentially pivotal Phase 2 study in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL)



REGN-EB3 (REGN3470-3471-3479; Multi-antibody therapy to Ebola virus)ŸBeing used investigationally in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in Ebola virus infection outbreak

ŸIncluded in randomized controlled trial run by World Health Organization

REGN3048-3051 (Multiple-antibody therapy to MERS)ŸInitiated Phase 1 study in healthy volunteersŸComplete Phase 1 study in healthy volunteers

REGN3767 (LAG-3 Antibody)ŸOpened monotherapy expansion cohorts as well as in combination with Libtayo in multiple indications

Pozelimab (REGN3918; C5 Antibody)ŸCompleted Phase 1 study in healthy volunteersŸInitiate Phase 2 study in PNH

REGN4461 (LEPR Agonist Antibody)ŸInitiated Phase 1 study in healthy volunteersŸInitiate Phase 2 study in generalized lipodystrophy

REGN4018 (MUC16 and CD3 Antibody)ŸInitiated Phase 1 study in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer

REGN4659 (CTLA4 Antibody)ŸInitiated Phase 1 study in advanced NSCLC

REGN5069 (GFRα3 Antibody)ŸInitiated Phase 1 study in healthy volunteersŸComplete Phase 1 study in healthy volunteers

ŸInitiate Phase 2 study in osteoarthritis

REGN5458 (BCMA and CD3 Antibody)ŸInitiated Phase 1 study in multiple myeloma









Additional Information on 2018 Developments for Products and Product Candidates

EYLEA (aflibercept) - Ophthalmologic Diseases

In October 2018, we also announced that the FDA issued a CRL regarding the Chemistry, Manufacturing, and Controls (CMC) PAS for the EYLEA pre-filled syringe. The CRL requested additional information regarding manufacturing and supply processes and the completion of a usability study evaluating a single injection of the EYLEA pre-filled syringe in approximately 30 patients. We are compiling all the requested information and plan to resubmit the PAS in the first half of 2019.

Dupixent (dupilumab) for allergic and inflammatory conditions

In May 2018, we and Sanofi announced that a pivotal Phase 3 trial evaluating Dupixent to treat moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis in adolescents (ages 12–17) met its primary and key secondary endpoints. In the trial, treatment with Dupixent as monotherapy significantly improved measures of overall disease severity, skin clearing, itching and certain health-related quality of life measures.   Patients treated with Dupixent had significant improvement in disease severity at 16 weeks. The primary endpoints were the proportion of patients achieving Investigator's Global Assessment (IGA) score of 0 (clear) or 1 (almost clear) and 75% improvement in Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI-75, co-primary endpoint outside of the U.S.) at 16 weeks. In the trial, the safety profile of Dupixent was consistent with that seen in adults in previous trials with atopic dermatitis. An sBLA and an MAA for an expanded atopic dermatitis indication in adolescent patients (12–17 years of age) have been submitted.

In October 2018, we and Sanofi announced that both pivotal Phase 3 placebo-controlled trials evaluating Dupixent in adults with inadequately-controlled chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps met all their primary and secondary endpoints. In these trials, Dupixent significantly reduced nasal polyp size, nasal congestion severity, and need for systemic corticosteroids and/or surgery. The rates of adverse events were generally similar across Dupixent and placebo, and no new or unexpected side effects related to Dupixent were observed. An sBLA for CRSwNP has been submitted.

In October 2018, the FDA approved Dupixent as an add-on maintenance therapy in patients with moderate-to-severe asthma aged 12 years and older with an eosinophilic phenotype or with oral corticosteroid-dependent asthma. Dupixent is currently the only biologic approved for both moderate and severe asthma patients with eosinophilic phenotype and the only biologic approved for oral corticosteroid-dependent asthma, regardless of phenotype.

Praluent (alirocumab) for LDL cholesterol reduction

In March 2018, we and Sanofi announced that the ODYSSEY OUTCOMES trial met its primary endpoint, demonstrating that high-risk patients who added Praluent to maximally-tolerated statins experienced significantly fewer major adverse cardiovascular events compared to those on maximally-tolerated statins alone. For the first time, adding a lipid-lowering therapy to maximally-tolerated statins was associated with reduced death from any cause. A more pronounced effect was observed in patients with baseline LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) levels at or above 100 mg/dL despite maximally-tolerated statins, who are at high risk of suffering a future event; in this group, Praluent reduced risk of major adverse cardiovascular events by 24% and was associated with a 29% reduced death from any cause. In this 18,924-patient, long-term trial, the safety profile of Praluent was consistent with previous trials and no new safety issues were observed. Based on the positive results from this trial, an sBLA and an MAA for cardiovascular risk reduction have been submitted.

In September 2018, we and Sanofi announced that the FDA approved an update to the Praluent prescribing information to include clinical information regarding its use in patients with HeFH who require additional lowering of LDL-C along with diet and maximally-tolerated statin therapy and who are undergoing apheresis treatment. The recommended dose of Praluent in patients undergoing LDL apheresis is 150 mg once every two weeks.









In February 2019, the CHMP adopted a positive opinion for Praluent, recommending a new indication to reduce cardiovascular risk by lowering LDL-C levels in adults with established ASCVD.

Libtayo (cemiplimab) for cancer

The PD-1 immune checkpoint pathway has emerged as a major mechanism by which cancers evade immune destruction.  Several drugs blocking either PD-1 or PD-L1 (one of the two ligands that bind PD-1) have been approved. Libtayo is an anti-PD-1 antibody. We are developing Libtayo as a foundation for a diverse and comprehensive immuno-oncology portfolio. Our initial approval strategy is focused on monotherapy in selected indications. Subsequent development activities are expected to include combinations with other anti-cancer agents. Libtayo is also being studied by other companies in combination with their proprietary assets.

As it relates to the Phase 3 program in non-small cell lung cancer, we have recently announced that we are focusing efforts in first-line treatment on combination therapy of cemiplimab with chemotherapy.

On September 28, 2018, the FDA approved Libtayo for the treatment of patients with metastatic or locally advanced CSCC who are not candidates for curative surgery or curative radiation. Libtayo is the first and currently only treatment specifically approved and available for advanced CSCC in the United States.

In August 2018, we and Sanofi entered into a license agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, E. R. Squibb & Sons, L.L.C., and Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. to obtain a license under certain patents owned and/or exclusively licensed by one or more of these parties that includes the right to develop and sell Libtayo. Under the agreement, we and Sanofi made an up-front payment of $20.0 million and are obligated to pay royalties of 8.0% on worldwide sales of Libtayo through December 31, 2023, and royalties of 2.5% from January 1, 2024 through December 31, 2026. The up-front payment was shared, and the royalties are shared, equally by us and Sanofi.

Fasinumab for pain due to osteoarthritis

Pain is among the most common reasons people see the doctor and why analgesics, including opioids, are among the most commonly prescribed drugs. Pain is a major cause of work disability and impaired quality of life. Targeting NGF is a potential new way to manage pain without resorting to opiods. NGF expression is elevated in many acute and chronic painful conditions and NGF blockade has demonstrated efficacy in clinical trials. Fasinumab is an antibody to NGF. The fasinumab clinical development program is expected to comprise up to approximately 10,000 patients treated with fasinumab.

We have several ongoing Phase 3 clinical studies of fasinumab in patients with pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee or hip. In April 2018, an independent DMC monitoring the ongoing safety and efficacy of the fasinumab clinical trials recommended that the higher dose-regimens be discontinued based on the risk benefit assessment and that the program may continue with the lower dose-regimens of fasinumab. The ongoing osteoarthritis trials have been modified accordingly. Since the Phase 3 clinical study in chronic low back pain in patients with concomitant osteoarthritis was using only higher doses, we discontinued dosing patients in this study.

In August 2018, we and Teva announced positive top-line results from our Phase 3 study of fasinumab in patients with chronic pain from osteoarthritis of the knee or hip. At the week 16 primary efficacy analysis, the study met both co-primary endpoints and all key secondary endpoints. Fasinumab-treated patients experienced significantly less pain and significantly improved functional ability from baseline compared to placebo. Interim safety data indicate that fasinumab was generally well tolerated, with similar adverse events as those observed in previous fasinumab trials. After the primary efficacy assessment at week 16, patients continue on therapy for an additional 36 weeks, followed by a subsequent 20-week off study drug follow-up period for further safety assessment.

Other Programs

Our preclinical research programs include the areas of oncology and immuno-oncology, angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related diseases, muscle diseases and disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone and cartilage, pain and neurobiology, cardiovascular diseases, and infectious diseases.

In 2017, we and BARDA entered into an agreement to discover, research, develop, and manufacture a portfolio of antibodies targeting up to 10 pathogens, starting with Influenza virus, that pose significant risk to public health. The emerging pathogens treatment portfolio will be pursued using an Other Transaction Agreement (OTA), which provides a funding and collaboration vehicle for HHS to promote innovation in technology for advanced research and development. Under the OTA, which has a term of 10 years, HHS will fund 80% of our costs for research, development, and manufacturing activities for antibodies that are selected to move forward.









Research and Development Technologies

Many proteins that play an important role in biology and disease are secreted by cells or located on the cell surface. Moreover, cells communicate through secreted factors and surface molecules. Our scientists have developed two different technologies to make protein therapeutics that potently and specifically block, activate, or inhibit the action of specific cell surface or secreted molecules. The first technology fuses receptor components to the constant region of an antibody molecule to make a class of drugs we call "Traps".  EYLEA, ZALTRAP, and ARCALYST are drugs generated using our Trap technology.VelociSuiteis our second technology platform.  It is used for discovering, developing, and producing fully human antibodies that can address both secreted and cell-surface targets.

VelociSuite.VelociSuiteconsists ofVelocImmune,VelociGene,VelociMouse®,VelociMab,Veloci-BiTM, and other related technologies. TheVelocImmunemouse platform is utilized to produce fully human antibodies.VelocImmunewas generated by exploiting ourVelociGenetechnology (see below), in a process in which six megabases of mouse immune gene loci were replaced, or "humanized," with corresponding human immune gene loci.VelocImmunemice can be used efficiently to generate fully human antibodies to targets of therapeutic interest.VelocImmuneand our entireVelociSuiteoffer the potential to increase the speed and efficiency through which human antibody therapeutics may be discovered and validated, thereby improving the overall efficiency of our early stage drug development activities. We are utilizing theVelocImmunetechnology to produce our next generation of drug candidates for preclinical and clinical development.

OurVelociGeneplatform allows custom and precise manipulation of very large sequences of DNA to produce highly customized alterations of a specified target gene, or genes, and accelerates the production of knock-out and transgenic expression models without using either positive/negative selection or isogenic DNA. In producing knock-out models, a color or fluorescent marker may be substituted in place of the actual gene sequence, allowing for high-resolution visualization of precisely where the gene is active in the body during normal body functioning as well as in disease processes. For the optimization of preclinical development and pharmacology programs,VelociGeneoffers the opportunity to humanize targets by replacing the mouse gene with the human homolog. Thus,VelociGeneallows scientists to rapidly identify the physical and biological effects of deleting or over-expressing the target gene, as well as to characterize and test potential therapeutic molecules.

OurVelociMousetechnology platform allows for the direct and immediate generation of genetically altered mice from embryonic stem cells (ES cells), thereby avoiding the lengthy process involved in generating and breeding knockout mice from chimeras. Mice generated through this method are normal and healthy and exhibit a 100% germ-line transmission. Furthermore, mice developed using ourVelociMousetechnology are suitable for direct phenotyping or other studies. We have also developed ourVelociMabplatform for the rapid screening of antibodies and rapid generation of expression cell lines for our Traps and ourVelocImmunehuman antibodies.

We have utilized ourVelociSuitetechnologies to develop a class of potential drug candidates, known as bi-specific antibodies.Veloci-Biallows for the generation of full-length bi-specific antibodies similar to native antibodies that are amenable to production by standard antibody manufacturing techniques, and are likely to have favorable antibody-like pharmacokinetic properties. In the area of immunotherapies in oncology, we are exploring the use of bi-specific antibodies that target tumor antigens and the CD3 receptor on T-cells to harness the oncolytic properties of T-cells. Our first such bi-specific antibody, REGN1979, targets CD20 and CD3. We are exploring additional indications and applications for our bi-specific technologies, such as bi-specific antibodies to mucin 16 (MUC16) and B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA), as well as a new class of co-stimulatory bi-specifics, the first two of which are expected to enter clinical development in 2019.

Regeneron Genetics Center®.Regeneron Genetics Center (RGC), a wholly owned subsidiary of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., leverages de-identified clinical, genomic, and molecular data from human volunteers to identify medically relevant associations in a blinded fashion designed to preserve patients' privacy. The objective of RGC is to expand the use of human genetics for discovering and validating genetic factors that cause or influence a range of diseases where there are major unmet medical needs, with the prospect of improving the drug discovery and development process. RGC is undertaking multiple approaches, including large population-based efforts as well as family- and founder-based approaches. RGC utilizes laboratory automation and innovative approaches to cloud computing to achieve high-quality throughput.

Central to the work of RGC is a collaboration with the Geisinger Health System of Pennsylvania. Geisinger collects samples from consented patient volunteers, while RGC performs sequencing and genotyping to generate de-identified genomic data. In addition, RGC has expanded on its foundational population-based collaboration with Geisinger with a growing number of other organizations worldwide.

In addition, RGC has formed a consortium to fund the generation of genetic exome sequence data from 500,000 volunteer participants who make up the UK Biobank health resource. The current members of the consortium consist of AbbVie Inc., Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Biogen Inc., Pfizer Inc., Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Unlimited), and Bristol-Myers Squibb. The consortium members have each committed up to $10.0









million in funding for Regeneron to sequence the UK Biobank's samples, which will be performed at the RGC facility. Consortium members will have a limited period of exclusive access to the sequencing data before the data will be made available to other health researchers by UK Biobank.

Researchers from the RGC discovered a potential new therapeutic target to reduce the risk of chronic liver disease and progression to more advanced stages of disease, such as nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), by analyzing extensive genetic sequencing data linked with electronic health records. In March 2018, we announced a publication describing this discovery in theNew England Journal of Medicine, which identified for the first time a variant in the HSD17B13 gene that is associated with reduced risk of, or protection from, various chronic liver diseases for which there are currently no approved therapeutics. We are collaborating with Alnylam to discover RNA interference (RNAi) therapeutics for NASH and potentially other related diseases.

Collaboration Agreements

Collaborations with Sanofi

Antibodies.We are collaborating with Sanofi on the global development and commercialization of various antibodies and antibody product candidates (Dupixent, Praluent, Kevzara, and REGN3500) (the Antibody Collaboration). Under the terms of the Antibody License and Collaboration Agreement (LCA), following receipt of the first positive Phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, subsequent Phase 3 trial-related costs for that drug candidate are shared 80% by Sanofi and 20% by us. All other agreed-upon development costs incurred by both companies are funded 100% by Sanofi. We are generally responsible for reimbursing Sanofi for half of the total development costs for all collaboration antibody products from our share of profits from commercialization of collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose.

Effective January 7, 2018, we and Sanofi entered into a letter agreement (Letter Agreement) amending the LCA in connection with, among other matters, the allocation of additional funds to certain proposed activities relating to dupilumab and REGN3500 (collectively, the Dupilumab/REGN3500 Eligible Investments). Pursuant to the Letter Agreement, we have agreed to allow Sanofi to satisfy in whole or in part its funding obligations with respect to the Dupilumab/REGN3500 Eligible Investments for the quarterly periods commencing on January 1, 2018 and ending on September 30, 2020 by selling up to an aggregate of600,000shares (of which589,234currently remains available) of our Common Stock directly or indirectly owned by Sanofi. Refer to the"Immuno-Oncology"section below for further details regarding the Letter Agreement.

Under our collaboration agreement, Sanofi records product sales for commercialized products, and Regeneron has the right to co-promote such products on a country-by-country basis. We have exercised our option to co-promote Dupixent, Praluent, and Kevzara in the United States. We have thus far not exercised any of our options to co-promote these antibodies outside the United States. We supply certain commercial bulk product to Sanofi. We and Sanofi equally share profits and losses from sales within the United States. We and Sanofi share profits outside the United States on a sliding scale based on sales starting at 65% (Sanofi)/35% (us) and ending at 55% (Sanofi)/45% (us), and share losses outside the United States at 55% (Sanofi)/45% (us). In addition to profit and loss sharing, we are entitled to receive up to $250.0 million in sales milestone payments, with milestone payments commencing after aggregate annual sales of antibodies (subject to this agreement) outside the United States exceed $1.0 billion on a rolling twelve-month basis.

Immuno-Oncology.In July 2015, we and Sanofi entered into a collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize antibody-based cancer treatments in the field of immuno-oncology (the IO Collaboration). The IO Collaboration is governed by an Amended and Restated Immuno-oncology Discovery and Development Agreement (Amended IO Discovery Agreement), and an Immuno-oncology License and Collaboration Agreement (IO License and Collaboration Agreement). In connection with the execution of the original Immuno-oncology Discovery and Development Agreement in 2015 (2015 IO Discovery Agreement), which has been replaced by the Amended IO Discovery Agreement (as discussed below), Sanofi made a $265.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us. Pursuant to the 2015 IO Discovery Agreement, we were to spend up to $1,090.0 million (IO Discovery Budget) to identify and validate potential immuno-oncology targets and develop therapeutic antibodies against such targets through clinical proof-of-concept, and Sanofi was to reimburse us for up to $825.0 million (IO Discovery Funding) of these costs, subject to certain annual limits. The original term of the 2015 IO Discovery Agreement was to continue through the later of five years from the effective date of the IO Collaboration or the date the IO Discovery Budget was exhausted, subject to Sanofi's option to extend it for up to an additional three years for the continued development (and funding) of selected ongoing programs.

Effective December 31, 2018, the Company and Sanofi entered into the Amended IO Discovery Agreement, which narrowed the scope of the existing discovery and development activities conducted by the Company (IO Development Activities) under the 2015 IO Discovery Agreement to developing therapeutic bi-specific antibodies targeting (i) BCMA and CD3 (the BCMAxCD3 Program) and (ii) MUC16 and CD3 (the MUC16xCD3 Program) through clinical proof of concept. The Amended IO Discovery Agreement provided for Sanofi's payment of$461.9 millionto the Company as consideration for (x) the termination of the 2015 IO Discovery Agreement, (y) the prepayment for certain IO Development Activities regarding the BCMAxCD3 Program and the









MUC16xCD3 Program, and (z) the reimbursement of costs incurred by the Company under the 2015 IO Discovery Agreement during the fourth quarter of 2018.

Under the terms of the Amended IO Discovery Agreement, the Company is required to conduct development activities with respect to (i) the BCMAxCD3 Program through the earlier of clinical proof-of-concept or the expenditure of $70.0 million (the BCMAxCD3 Program Costs Cap) and (ii) the MUC16xCD3 Program through the earlier of clinical proof of concept or the expenditure of $50.0 million (the MUC16xCD3 Program Costs Cap); provided that under certain circumstances, Sanofi will have the option to increase the MUC16xCD3 Program Costs Cap to $70.0 million by making a payment to the Company in the amount of $20.0 million.

Pursuant to the Amended IO Discovery Agreement, we are primarily responsible for conducting the IO Development Activities , other than certain clinical trials that may be funded separately by Sanofi, including antibody development, preclinical activities, toxicology studies, manufacture of clinical supplies, filing of Investigational New Drug Applications (INDs), and clinical development through proof-of-concept. We are obligated to reimburse Sanofi for half of the development costs they funded that are attributable to clinical development of antibody product candidates under the IO Discovery Agreement from our share of future profits, if any, from commercialized IO Collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. As the scope of the IO Development Activities has been limited, the exclusivity obligations of the parties under the Amended IO Discovery Agreement have been narrowed.

With regard to the BCMAxCD3 Program and the MUC16xCD3 Program, when clinical proof-of-concept is established, the applicable Program Costs Cap is reached, or in certain other limited circumstances, Sanofi will have the option to license rights to the product candidate and other antibodies targeting the same targets for, with regard to BCMAxCD3, immuno-oncology indications, and with regard to MUC16xCD3, all indications, pursuant to the IO License and Collaboration Agreement, as amended. If Sanofi does not exercise its option to license rights to a product candidate, the Company will retain the exclusive right to develop and commercialize such product candidate and Sanofi will receive a royalty on sales. Pursuant to the Amended IO Discovery Agreement, the parties agreed that (i) if Sanofi exercises its option with respect to a BCMAxCD3 Program antibody, Sanofi will lead the development and commercialization of such BCMAxCD3 Program antibody; and (ii) if Sanofi exercises its option with respect to a MUC16xCD3 Program antibody, (x) the Company will lead the development of such MUC16xCD3 Program antibody and commercialization of such MUC16xCD3 Program antibody within the United States and (y) Sanofi will lead the commercialization of such MUC16xCD3 Program antibody outside of the United States.

The Amended IO Discovery Agreement provides that Regeneron retains exclusive rights to all other immuno-oncology programs that were part of the 2015 IO Discovery Agreement, provided that Sanofi will receive a royalty on global sales of two product candidates currently in clinical development, REGN3767 and REGN4659. The Amended IO Discovery Agreement will terminate as of the earlier of (a) Sanofi having elected to exercise or not exercise its options with respect to the BCMAxCD3 Program and the MUC16xCD3 Program in accordance with the terms of the Amended IO Discovery Agreement and (b) December 31, 2022.

In connection with the IO License and Collaboration Agreement, Sanofi made a $375.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us. If Sanofi exercises its option to license rights to a BCMAxCD3 Program antibody or MUC16xCD3 Program antibody thereunder, it will co-develop these drug candidates with us through product approval under the terms of the IO License and Collaboration Agreement. Sanofi will fund development costs up front for a BCMAxCD3 Program antibody and we will reimburse half of the total development costs for such antibody from our share of future IO Collaboration profits to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. In addition, we and Sanofi will share equally, on an ongoing basis, the development costs for a MUC16xCD3 Program antibody. Each party will have the right to co-promote licensed products in countries where it is not the lead commercialization party. The parties will share equally in profits and losses in connection with the commercialization of collaboration products. We are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply clinical requirements of each drug candidate under the IO License and Collaboration Agreement until commercial supplies of that IO drug candidate are being manufactured.

Under the terms of the IO License and Collaboration Agreement, the parties are also co-developing Libtayo (cemiplimab), an antibody targeting PD-1. We have principal control over the development of Libtayo, and the parties share equally, on an ongoing basis, development expenses for Libtayo. Pursuant to the January 7, 2018 Letter Agreement with Sanofi, we and Sanofi agreed to increase the Libtayo development budget to a total of$1.640 billionas of the effective date of the Letter Agreement, $990.0 million over the budget originally set forth in the IO License and Collaboration Agreement (with further changes to the Libtayo development budget possible by agreement of the parties). Under the Letter Agreement, we have also agreed to allow Sanofi to satisfy in whole or in part its funding obligation with respect to Libtayo development costs for the quarterly periods commencing on October 1, 2017 and ending on September 30, 2020 by selling up to an aggregate of800,000shares (of which584,613currently remains available) of our Common Stock directly or indirectly owned by Sanofi.

If Sanofi desires to sell shares of our Common Stock during the term of the Letter Agreement to satisfy a portion or all of its funding obligations for the Libtayo development and/or, as noted above, Dupilumab/REGN3500 Eligible Investments, we may









elect to purchase, in whole or in part, such shares from Sanofi. If we do not elect to purchase such shares, Sanofi may sell the applicable number of shares (subject to certain daily and quarterly limits) in one or more open-market transactions.

With regard to Libtayo, we lead commercialization activities in the United States, while Sanofi will lead commercialization activities outside of the United States and the parties will equally share profits from worldwide sales. Sanofi has exercised its option to co-promote Libtayo in the United States. We will be entitled to a milestone payment of $375.0 million in the event that global sales of certain licensed products targeting PD-1 (including Libtayo), together with sales of any other products licensed under the IO License and Collaboration Agreement and sold for use in combination with any of such licensed products targeting PD-1, equal or exceed $2.0 billion in any consecutive twelve-month period.

Collaborations with Bayer

EYLEA outside the United States.Since October 2006, we and Bayer have been parties to a license and collaboration agreement for the global development and commercialization outside the United States of EYLEA. Under the agreement, we and Bayer collaborate on, and share the costs of, the development of EYLEA. Bayer markets EYLEA outside the United States, where, for countries other than Japan, the companies share equally in profits and losses from sales of EYLEA. In Japan, we are entitled to receive a tiered percentage of between 33.5% and 40.0% of EYLEA net sales.

Commencing with the first commercial sale of EYLEA in a major market country outside the United States, we became obligated to reimburse Bayer for 50% of the development costs that it has incurred under the agreement from our share of the collaboration profits (including payments to us based on sales in Japan). The reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the collaboration profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse Bayer at a faster rate. As a result, a portion of our share of EYLEA profits outside the United States will be used to reimburse Bayer for this repayment obligation.

Within the United States, we retain exclusive commercialization rights to EYLEA and are entitled to all profits from any such sales.

Collaboration with Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma

Fasinumab.In September 2015, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation (MTPC) providing MTPC with development and commercial rights to fasinumab in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Indonesia, Thailand, the Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore, Vietnam, Myanmar, and Sri Lanka (the MTPC Territories). In connection with the agreement, MTPC made a$10.0 millionnon-refundable up-front payment in 2015. As of December 31, 2018, we had earned an aggregate of $135.0 million in development milestones and other contingent payments from MTPC, and are entitled to receive up to an aggregate of$80.0 millionin additional contingent payments.

Under the agreement, we are obligated to manufacture and supply MTPC with clinical and commercial supplies of fasinumab. If fasinumab is commercialized in the MTPC Territories, we will supply the product to MTPC at a tiered purchase price, which ranges from 30% to 50% of net sales of the product (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances), and are eligible for additional payments up to an aggregate of $100.0 million upon the achievement of specified annual net sales amounts starting at $200.0 million.

Collaboration with Teva

Fasinumab.In September 2016, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Teva to develop and commercialize fasinumab globally, except in the MTPC territories (as described above). In connection with the agreement, Teva made a $250.0 million non-refundable up-front payment in 2016. We lead global development activities, and the parties will share equally, on an ongoing basis, development costs under a global development plan. As of December 31, 2018, we had earned an aggregate of $120.0 million of development milestones from Teva, and we are entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $340.0 million in additional development milestones and up to an aggregate of$1,890.0 millionin contingent payments upon achievement of specified annual net sales amounts. We are responsible for the manufacture and supply of fasinumab globally.

Within the United States, we will lead commercialization activities, and the parties will share equally in any profits or losses in connection with commercialization of fasinumab. In the territory outside of the United States, Teva will lead commercialization activities and we will supply product to Teva at a tiered purchase price, which is calculated as a percentage of net sales of the product (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances).

Collaboration with bluebird

In August 2018, we entered into a collaboration agreement with bluebird bio, Inc. to research, develop, and commercialize novel immune cell therapies for cancer. Under the terms of the agreement, the parties have jointly selected six initial targets and will equally share the costs of research and development, which will be led by bluebird, up to IND acceptance. Additional targets









may be selected over the five-year research collaboration term. With respect to certain targets, upon the acceptance of an IND, we will have the option to co-develop and co-commercialize product candidates directed to such target; if we exercise this option, the parties will share equally in the costs of development and commercialization, and will share in any profits or losses therefrom. If we do not exercise our option or we do not have an option to a target, we are entitled to receive milestone payments and royalties on any future sales of products developed and commercialized by bluebird under the terms of the agreement.

In connection with the execution of the collaboration agreement, we also agreed to purchase 420,000 shares of bluebird common stock for $100.0 million. The purchase was completed in the third quarter of 2018. As part of the agreement, $37.0 million, the amount paid in excess of the fair market value of the shares purchased based upon bluebird's closing price on August 3, 2018 of $150.00 per share, will be credited against our funding obligation for collaboration research.

Manufacturing

We currently manufacture bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in Rensselaer, New York and Limerick, Ireland. The Rensselaer facility consists of approximately565,000square feet of owned research, manufacturing, office, and warehouse space. We currently have approximately 100,000 liters of cell culture capacity at our Rensselaer facility, and are approved by the FDA and other regulatory agencies to manufacture our marketed products.

We also own an approximately445,000square foot facility in Limerick, Ireland, which we acquired  and subsequently renovated to accommodate and support our growth and expand our manufacturing capacity. The facility has received certain manufacturing approvals by regulatory agencies, including the FDA, and is in the process of further validation, as required by regulatory authorities, for the manufacture of our bulk drug products.

Certain bulk drug materials are also manufactured by our collaborators, and certain raw materials or products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of our products and product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. In addition, we rely on our collaborators or third parties to perform packaging, filling, finishing, labeling, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of our products and product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Manufacturing and Supply" for further information.

Among the conditions for regulatory marketing approval of a medicine is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer's quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to the good manufacturing practice (GMP) regulations of the health authority. In complying with standards set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the areas of production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. Manufacturing establishments, both foreign and domestic, are also subject to inspections by or under the authority of the FDA and by other national, federal, state, and local agencies.

Sales and Marketing

We have a New Products Marketing and Planning group, a Market Research group, and a Market Access group to evaluate commercial opportunities for our targets and drug candidates, assess the competitive environment, and analyze the commercial potential of our product portfolio, and prepare for market launch of new products. These groups are fully functional to support our product and product candidates that we are independently developing and/or commercializing, and also work closely with our collaborators for co-developed products to develop marketing plans and forecasts and to develop and execute pre-launch market development programs.

We also have a full-service commercialization group to handle various aspects of our commercial programs. The group includes experienced professionals in the fields of marketing, communications, professional education, patient education and advocacy, reimbursement and market access, trade and distribution, commercial operations, commercial analytics, market research, and forecasting. Moreover, for our marketed products, we have hired, trained, and deployed a field-based organization including regional directors, medical specialists, and reimbursement managers, each typically with a number of years of experience in the biopharmaceutical industry in a variety of therapeutic areas including oncology, ophthalmology, immunology, and inflammation. We have approximately 700 field-based employees in the United States.









Customers

We sell EYLEA and Libtayo in the United States to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. We sell ARCALYST in the United States to two specialty pharmacies. Under these distribution models, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product. For EYLEA and Libtayo, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers, whereas for ARCALYST, the specialty pharmacies sell the product directly to patients. We had sales to two customers (Besse Medical, a subsidiary of AmerisourceBergen Corporation, and McKesson Corporation) that each accounted for more than 10% of total gross product revenue for the year ended December 31, 2018. On a combined basis, our product sales to these customers accounted for approximately92%of our gross product revenue for the year ended December 31, 2018. We are also a party to collaboration agreements with Bayer and Sanofi, whereby our collaborator is responsible for recording product sales of EYLEA outside the United States and global sales of Dupixent, Praluent, and Kevzara, respectively.

Competition

We face substantial competition from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical, and clinical product development, manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. Competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. Even if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us or may have patent protection that dominates or adversely affects our activities or products. Our ability to compete depends, to a great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. Competition among product candidates approved for sale is based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position, and other factors.

The tables below provide an overview of the competitive landscape for our key marketed products in their currently approved indications, focusing primarily on competing approved products and product candidates that have advanced beyond Phase 1 clinical development. The tables below are not exhaustive. For additional information regarding the substantial competition these marketed products face, see also Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Marketed Products, Product Candidates, and New Indications for Our Marketed Products -The commercial success of our products and product candidates is subject to strong competition."

EYLEA

CompetitorProduct/ProductCandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusCompetitorIndicationTerritoryLucentis®(ranibizumab)ApprovedNovartis AG and Genentech/RocheWet AMD, DME, macular edema following RVO (including CRVO and BRVO), diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME, and mCNVWorldwideAvastin®(bevacizumab)(off-label)Used to treat wet AMD, DME, and macular edema following RVOGenentech/RocheWet AMD, DME, and macular edema following RVOWorldwideOzurdex®(dexamethasone intravitreal implant)ApprovedAllergan, PLCDME, RVOWorldwideIluvien®(fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant)ApprovedAlimera Sciences, Inc.DMEUnited States, EUConberceptApproved in China for wet AMDIn development in the United States and the EU (two non-inferiority Phase 3 trials comparing dosing regimens of conbercept to EYLEA initiated in 2018)Chengdu Kanghong Pharmaceutical Group Co., Ltd.Wet AMDChina













EYLEA (continued)

CompetitorProduct/ProductCandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusCompetitorIndicationTerritory

Brolucizumab (RTH258), a single chain antibody fragment directed against VEGF-AIn development (two non-inferiority Phase 3 trials comparing RTH258 and EYLEA met their primary endpoint in June 2017)NovartisWet AMD and related conditions—

Abicipar pegol (anti-VEGF-A-DARPin®)In development (two non-inferiority Phase 3 trials comparing dosing regimens of abicipar pegol and Lucentis reported to have met their primary endpoints in July 2018)AllerganWet AMD and related conditions—

Faricimab (RG7716), a bi-specific antibody targeting anti-VEGF and Ang2In development (two non-inferiority Phase 3 trials comparing dosing regimens of faricimab and EYLEA in DME reported to have been initiated in September 2018)Genentech/RocheWet AMD, DME—

Ranibizumab port delivery systemIn development (non-inferiority Phase 3 trial comparing ranibizumab administered via the Port Delivery System and monthly intravitreal injections of Lucentis in wet AMD reported to have been initiated in September 2018)Genentech/RocheWet AMD and related conditions—

DE-122, an anti-endoglin antibody in development for use in combination with EYLEA or LucentisIn development (Phase 2)Santen Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd./ TRACON Pharmaceuticals, Inc.Wet AMD and related conditions—

GB-102, an intravitreally administered depot formulation of the small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor, sunitinibIn development (Phase 2)Graybug Vision, Inc.Wet AMD and related conditions—

OPT-302, a VEGFR-3 large molecule trap in development for use in combination with EYLEA or LucentisIn development (Phase 2b)Opthea LimitedWet AMD and related conditions—

PAN-90806, a topically administered tyrosine kinase inhibitorIn development (Phase 1/2)PanOptica, Inc.Wet AMD—

KSI-301, an anti-VEGF biologic therapy that is conjugated to a phosphorylcholine-based biopolymer to extend its half-lifeIn development (Phase 1b)Kodiak Sciences Inc.Wet AMD, DME, and RVO—

RGX-314, a gene therapyIn development (Phase 1)REGENXBIO Inc.Wet AMD—











EYLEA (continued)CompetitorProduct/ProductCandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusCompetitorIndicationTerritoryM710, a biosimilar to EYLEAIn development (Phase 3)Momenta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (in partnership with Mylan N.V.)Wet AMD and related conditions—PF582, a biosimilar to LucentisIn development (Phase 1/2 completed in August 2016)Pfenex Inc.Wet AMD and related conditions—FYB201, a biosimilar to LucentisIn development (Phase 3 trial of FYB201 and Lucentis completed in December 2018)Formycon AG (in collaboration with Bioeq GmbH)Wet AMD and related conditions—SB11, a biosimilar to LucentisIn development (Phase 3)Samsung Bioepis Co., Ltd.Wet AMD and related conditions—Razumab, a biosimilar to LucentisApproved in India for wet AMD and related conditionsIntas Phamaceuticals LimitedWet AMD and related conditionsIndia

Dupixent

CompetitorProduct/ProductCandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusCompetitorIndicationTerritoryEucrisa®(crisaborole)ApprovedPfizerMild-to-moderate atopic dermatitisUnited StatesXolair®(omalizumab)ApprovedRoche/NovartisAsthmaWorldwideNucala®(mepolizumab)ApprovedGlaxoSmithKline (GSK)AsthmaWorldwideCinqair®(reslizumab)ApprovedTevaAsthmaWorldwideFasenra®(benralizumab)ApprovedAstraZenecaAsthmaUnited States, EUTralokinumab, an anti-IL-13 antibodyIn development (Phase 3)AstraZeneca/ LEO Pharma Inc.Atopic dermatitis—Baricitinib, an orally administered JAK inhibitorIn development (recently reported to have met the primary endpoints of two atopic dermatitis Phase 3 studies)Eli Lilly and Company/Incyte CorporationAtopic dermatitis—Abrocitinib (PF-04965842), an orally administered JAK inhibitorIn development (Phase 3)PfizerAtopic dermatitis—Upadacitinib, an orally administered JAK inhibitorIn development (Phase 3)AbbVieAtopic dermatitis—Fevipiprant, an orally administered CRTH2 antagonistIn development (Phase 3)NovartisAsthma—Tezepelumab, an anti-TSLP antibodyIn development (Phase 3 for asthma and Phase 2 for atopic dermatitis)Amgen Inc./AstraZenecaAsthma and atopic dermatitis—Etiokimab (ANB-020), an anti-IL-33 antibodyIn development (Phase 2)AnaptysBio, Inc.Asthma and atopic dermatitis—













Dupixent (continued)

CompetitorProduct/ProductCandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusCompetitorIndicationTerritory

Lebrikizumab, an anti-IL-13 antibodyIn development (Phase 2b)Dermira, Inc./RocheAtopic dermatitis—

Nemolizumab, an anti-IL-31R antibodyIn development (Phase 2b reported to have been completed; Phase 3 initiation expected in 2019)Galderma S.A.Atopic dermatitis—

GSK3772847, an anti-ST2 antibodyIn development (Phase 2 for asthma and Phase 1 for atopic dermatitis)GSKAsthma and atopic dermatitis—

RG6149, an anti-ST2 antibodyIn development (Phase 2)RocheAsthma and atopic dermatitis—

CSJ117, an inhaled antibody fragment against thymic stromal lymphopoietinIn development (Phase 1)NovartisAsthma—

GBR-830, an anti-OX40 antibodyIn development (Phase 2b)Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd.Atopic dermatitis—

KHK4083, an anti-OX40 antibodyIn development (Phase 2)Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd.Atopic dermatitis—

ASN002, an orally administered dual JAK/SYK inhibitorIn development (Phase 2b)Asana BioSciences, LLCAtopic dermatitis—

ZPL389, an orally administered histamine H4 receptor agonistIn development (Phase 2)NovartisAtopic dermatitis—

Bermekimab, an anti-IL-1alpha antibodyIn development (Phase 2 completed)XBiotech Inc.Atopic dermatitis—

MOR-106, an anti-IL-17C antibodyIn development (Phase 2)Novartis/MorphoSys, AGAtopic dermatitis—

KPL-716, an antibody against the oncostatin M receptor betaIn development (Phase 1 reported to have been completed)Kiniksa Pharmaceuticals, Ltd.Atopic dermatitis—

PRS-060, an inhaled anticalin targeting IL-4RIn development (Phase 1)AstraZeneca/ Pieris Pharmaceuticals, Inc.Asthma—

ASLAN004, an antibody against the IL-13R alpha-1 subunitIn development (Phase 1)ASLAN PharmaceuticalsAtopic dermatitis—









Praluent

CompetitorProduct/ProductCandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusCompetitorIndicationTerritoryRepatha®(evolocumab)ApprovedAmgen(1) Reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, and coronary revascularization in adults with established cardiovascular disease, (2) primary hyperlipidemia, and (3) HoFHWorldwideInclisiran (ALN-PCSsc)In development (Phase 3)Alnylam Pharmaceuticals (in collaboration with The Medicines Company)RNAi molecule against PCSK9 (injectable, small molecule)—ETC-1002 (bempedoic acid)In development (Phase 3)Esperion Therapeutics, Inc.ACL-inhibitor(oral, small molecule)—

Kevzara

CompetitorProduct/ProductCandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusCompetitorIndicationTerritoryActemra®(tocilizumab)ApprovedGenentech/Roche/ Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.Rheumatoid arthritisWorldwideOrencia®(abatacept)ApprovedBristol-Myers SquibbRheumatoid arthritisWorldwideXeljanz®(tofacitinib)ApprovedPfizerRheumatoid arthritisWorldwideOlumiant®(baricitinib)ApprovedEli Lilly/IncyteRheumatoid arthritisUnited States, EUOlokizumab, an anti-IL-6 antibodyIn development (Phase 3)R-PharmRheumatoid arthritis—Upadacitinib, an orally administered JAK inhibitorIn development (Submitted for regulatory approval)AbbVieRheumatoid arthritis—Filgotinib, an orally administered JAK inhibitorIn development (Phase 3)Gilead Sciences, Inc./Galapagos NVRheumatoid arthritis—Peficitinib, an orally administered JAK inhibitorIn development (Phase 3)Astellas Pharma Inc.Rheumatoid arthritis—BCD-089, an anti-IL-6R antibodyIn development (Phase 2)BIOCADRheumatoid arthritis—LusiNEX, a biosimilar to ActemraIn development (Phase 1 trials reported to have been completed)Mycenax Biotech Inc.Rheumatoid arthritis—BAT1806, a biosimilar to ActemraIn development (Phase 1)Bio-Thera Solutions Ltd.Rheumatoid arthritis—









Libtayo

CompetitorProduct/ProductCandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusCompetitorIndicationTerritoryOpdivo®(nivolumab)ApprovedBristol-Myers SquibbVarious CancersWorldwideKeytruda®(pembrolizumab)ApprovedMerck & Co., Inc.Various CancersWorldwideBavencio®(avelumab)ApprovedPfizer/MerckVarious CancersWorldwideTecentriq®(atezolizumab)ApprovedRocheVarious CancersWorldwideImfinzi®(durvalumab)ApprovedAstraZenecaVarious CancersWorldwideSpartalizumab (PDR001), an antibody against PD-1In development (Phase 3)NovartisVarious Cancers—Tislelizumab (BGB-A317), an antibody against PD-1In development (Phase 3)Celgene Corporation/BeiGene Ltd.Various Cancers—AGEN2034, an antibody against PD-1In development (Phase 1/2)Agenus Inc.Various Cancers—Dostarlimab (TSR-042), an antibody against PD-1In development (Phase 2/3)GSK/AnaptysBioVarious Cancers—INCMGA0012, an antibody against PD-1In development (Phase 2)Incyte/MacroGenics, Inc.Various Cancers—JNJ-63723283, an antibody against PD-1In development (Phase 1/2)Johnson & JohnsonVarious Cancers—PF-06801591, an antibody against PD-1In development (Phase 1)PfizerVarious Cancers—

Antibodies in Development.Our clinical candidates in development are all fully human antibodies which were generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology. Our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. Numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. Companies have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant DNA that comprise human antibody sequences.

The following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for our antibody programs that are in late-stage clinical development, focusing primarily on product candidates that have advanced beyond Phase 1 clinical development:

Regeneron AntibodyProgramCompetitorCompetitorProduct/ProductCandidateCommercial orDevelopmentStatusTargetFasinumab (Phase 3)Target: NGFPfizer/Eli LillyTanezumabIn development (Phase 3)Antibody against NGFEvinacumab (Phase 3)Target: ANGPTL3Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc./Akcea Therapeutics, Inc.AKCEA-ANGPTL3-LRxIn development (Phase 2)Ligand conjugated antisense drug against ANGPTL3EvinacumabArrowhead Pharmaceuticals, Inc.ARO-ANG3In development (Phase 1)RNAi against ANGPTL3

The table above is not exhaustive and focuses on antibody competitors. We are also aware of several companies developing or marketing small molecules that may compete with our antibody product candidates in various indications, if such product candidates obtain regulatory approval in those indications.

For additional information regarding our antibody programs and the substantial competition they face, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Marketed Products, Product Candidates, and New Indications for Our Marketed Products -The commercial success of our products and product candidates is subject to strong competition."









Other Areas.Many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. In these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. A number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. Some of these competitors are currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. These and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages.

If any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future prospects.

We also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. These institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. Products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. We also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations.

Patents, Trademarks, and Trade Secrets

We rely on a combination of intellectual property laws, including patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret, and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights.

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity -We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights"; and Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). Our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. We hold an ownership interest in a number of issued patents in the United States and foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. In addition, we hold an ownership interest in thousands of patent applications in the United States and foreign countries.

Our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering ourVelociSuitetechnologies, including ourVelocImmunemouse platform which produces fully human antibodies. Our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2030. However, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms.

Our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to commercialized products and our product candidates in clinical development. These patents cover the proteins and DNA encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions.

The following table describes our U.S. patents and European patents (EP) that we currently consider of primary importance to our marketed products, including the territory, patent number, general subject matter class, and expected expiration dates. The noted expiration dates include any patent term adjustments. Certain of these patents may also be entitled to term extensions. We continue to pursue additional patents and patent term extensions in the United States and other jurisdictions covering various aspects of our products that may, if issued, extend exclusivity beyond the expiration of the patents listed in the table below. One or more patents with the same or earlier expiry date may fall under the same "general subject matter class" for certain products and are not separately listed.













ProductMoleculeTerritoryPatent No.General Subject Matter ClassExpiration

EYLEA***afliberceptUS7,070,959Composition of MatterJune 16, 2023*

US8,092,803FormulationJune 21, 2027

US9,254,338Methods of TreatmentMay 22, 2032

EP1183353Composition of MatterMay 23, 2020

EP1183353Supplementary Protection Certificate(May 23, 2025)**

EP2364691FormulationJune 14, 2027

EP1544299Methods of TreatmentMay 23, 2020

Dupixent***dupilumabUS7,608,693Composition of MatterOctober 2, 2027

US8,945,559FormulationOctober 17, 2032

US8,075,887Methods of TreatmentApril 17, 2028

US8,337,839Methods of TreatmentOctober 2, 2027

US9,290,574Methods of TreatmentJuly 10, 2034

US9,574,004Methods of TreatmentDecember 22, 2033

EP2356151Composition of MatterOctober 27, 2029

EP2356151Supplementary Protection Certificate(September 28, 2032)**

Praluent***alirocumabUS8,062,640Composition of MatterDecember 15, 2029

US8,795,669FormulationJuly 27, 2032

US8,357,371Methods of TreatmentDecember 21, 2029

US9,550,837Methods of TreatmentDecember 15, 2029

US9,724,411Methods of TreatmentJanuary 15, 2031

EP2358756Composition of MatterDecember 15, 2029

EP2358756Supplementary Protection Certificate(September 25, 2030)**

KevzarasarilumabUS7,582,298Composition of MatterJanuary 4, 2028

US9,173,880FormulationDecember 6, 2031

US8,080,248Methods of TreatmentJune 1, 2027

EP2041177Composition of MatterJune 1, 2027

EP2041177Supplementary Protection Certificate(June 1, 2032)**

EP2766039Methods of TreatmentOctober 10, 2032

LibtayocemiplimabUS9,987,500Composition of MatterSeptember 18, 2035



*A patent term extension has been granted by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, extending the original patent term (May 23, 2020), insofar as it covers EYLEA, to June 16, 2023.

**Supplementary protection certificates (SPCs) are pending and/or have been granted in various European countries, extending the original patent terms in those countries, where granted, to the dates indicated in parentheses.

***See Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the patent infringement proceedings relating to EYLEA, Dupixent, and Praluent.

In addition, in the United States and certain other countries, our competitive position may be enhanced due to the availability of market exclusivity under relevant law (for additional information regarding market exclusivity, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity -Loss or limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our products"). The effect of expiration of a patent relating to a particular product also depends upon other factors, such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product, and the requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other countries.

We also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. These include a license agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb, E. R. Squibb & Sons, L.L.C., and Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. to obtain a license under









certain patents owned and/or exclusively licensed by one or more of these parties that includes the right to develop and sell Libtayo. Under the agreement, we and Sanofi pay royalties of 8.0% on worldwide sales of Libtayo through December 31, 2023, and royalties of 2.5% from January 1, 2024 through December 31, 2026. The royalties are shared equally by us and Sanofi.

Patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. The degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the United States and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. There is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit.

Others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. We expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. However, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. Patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others.

We seek to file and maintain trademarks around the world based on commercial activities in most jurisdictions where we have, or desire to have, a business presence for a particular product or service. Trademark protection varies in accordance with local law, and continues in some countries as long as the trademark is used and in other countries as long as the trademark is registered. Trademark registrations generally are for fixed but renewable terms.

Defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. It is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity -We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights"; and Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements).

Government Regulation

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of our products and our product candidates. A summary of the primary areas of government regulation that are relevant to our business is provided below. For a description of material regulatory risks we face, also refer to Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors."

Preclinical Requirements

The activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the United States begin with preclinical tests. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. Certain preclinical trials must comply with the FDA's Good Laboratory Practice requirements (GLPs) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal Welfare Act. The results of these studies must be submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must be reviewed by the FDA before proposed clinical testing can begin. In other countries, the data are reviewed by regulatory authorities as part of clinical trial applications. The FDA or other regulatory authorities may ask for additional data in order to begin a clinical study.

Product Approval

All of our product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the FDA and foreign authorities. The structure and substance of the FDA and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices may evolve over time. The ultimate outcome and impact of such developments cannot be predicted.

Typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. In Phase 1, trials are usually conducted with a small number of healthy volunteers to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. In Phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. In Phase 3, larger clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the FDA. If concerns arise about the safety of the product candidate, the FDA or other regulatory authorities can stop clinical trials by placing them on a "clinical hold" pending receipt of additional data, which can result in a delay or termination of a clinical development program. The results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product candidate are then submitted to the FDA in the form of a Biologics License Application (BLA) for evaluation to determine whether the product









candidate may be approved for commercial sale under the Public Health Service Act. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, we typically must pay fees to the FDA for review of any BLA, which can exceed $2 million per filing. In responding to a BLA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application. Before approving a new drug or biologic product, the FDA also requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the supply chain be in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements and regulations governing, among other things, the manufacture, shipment, and storage of the product. The FDA also can audit the sponsor of the BLA to determine if the clinical studies were conducted in compliance with current Good Clinical Practice, or cGCP, requirements.

Any approval required by the FDA for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. The designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. The results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans.

Approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. The approval procedure varies among countries and may involve different or additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for FDA approval. Approval by a regulatory authority in one jurisdiction does not guarantee approval by comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions.

Various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of developing and commercializing pharmaceutical product candidates. The lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue.

For additional information regarding U.S. and foreign regulatory approval processes and requirements, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Maintaining Approval of Our Marketed Products and the Development and Obtaining Approval of Our Product Candidates and New Indications for Our Marketed Products -Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain."

Post-Approval Regulation

The FDA and comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions may also require us to conduct additional clinical trials or to make certain changes related to a product after granting approval of the product. The FDA has the explicit authority to require postmarketing studies (also referred to as post-approval or Phase 4 studies), labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with FDA-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies.

Following approval, the FDA regulates the marketing and promotion of our products, which must comply with the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and applicable FDA regulations and standards thereunder. The FDA's review of promotional activities includes, but is not limited to, healthcare provider-directed and direct-to-consumer advertising as well as sales representatives' communications. The FDA may take enforcement action for promoting unapproved uses of a product or other violations of its advertising and promotion laws and regulations. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Regulatory and Litigation Risks -If we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties."

Adverse-event reporting and submission of periodic reports are required following marketing approval. The FDA requires BLA holders to employ a system for obtaining and reviewing safety information, adverse events, and product complaints associated with each drug and submit safety reports to the FDA, with expedited reporting timelines in certain situations. Based on new safety information after approval, the FDA can, among other things, mandate product labeling changes, require new post-marketing studies, impose or modify a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy for the product, or suspend or withdraw approval of the product. We may be subject to audits by the FDA and other regulatory authorities to ensure that we are complying with the applicable requirements.

In addition, we and our third-party suppliers are required to maintain compliance with cGMPs, and are subject to inspections by the FDA or comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. Changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application(s) to the FDA or such comparable foreign regulatory authorities and acceptance of the change by the FDA or such comparable foreign regulatory authorities prior to release of product(s). FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon us and our third-party suppliers. Prescription drug manufacturers in the U.S. must comply with applicable provisions of the Drug Supply Chain Security Act and provide and receive product tracing information, maintain appropriate licenses, ensure they only work with other properly licensed entities, and have procedures in place to identify and









properly handle suspect and illegitimate products.  We may also be subject to state regulations related to the manufacturing and distribution of our products.

Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may lead the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions to take regulatory action, which could include ordering the suspension of manufacturing or withdrawing FDA approval of a product.

Pricing and Reimbursement

Sales in the United States of our marketed products are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including private payer healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Sales of our marketed products in other countries are dependent, in large part, on coverage and reimbursement mechanisms and programs administered by health authorities in those countries. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Marketed Products, Product Candidates, and New Indications for Our Marketed Products -Sales of our marketed products are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition."

We participate in, and have certain price reporting obligations to, the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, several state Medicaid supplemental rebate programs, and other governmental pricing programs. We also have obligations to report the average sales price for certain of our drugs to the Medicare program.  Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, we are required to pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for our drugs under Medicaid and Part B of the Medicare program.

Medicaid is a joint federal and state program that is administered by the states for low income and disabled beneficiaries. Medicaid rebates are based on pricing data reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), the federal agency that administers the Medicaid and Medicare programs.  These data include the average manufacturer price and, in the case of innovator products, the best price for each drug which, in general, represents the lowest price available from the manufacturer to any entity in the U.S. in any pricing structure, calculated to include all sales and associated rebates, discounts, and other price concessions. The amount of the rebate is adjusted upward if average manufacture price increases more than inflation (measured by reference to the Consumer Price Index - Urban).  If we become aware that our reporting for a prior quarter was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected data for up to three years after those data originally were due, which revisions could affect our rebate liability for prior quarters. The federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) made significant changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, and CMS issued a final regulation, which became effective on April 1, 2016, to implement the changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program under the PPACA.

Medicare is a federal program that is administered by the federal government that covers individuals age 65 and over or that are disabled as well as those with certain health conditions. Medicare Part B generally covers drugs that must be administered by physicians or other health care practitioners; are provided in connection with certain durable medical equipment; or are certain oral anti-cancer drugs and certain oral immunosuppressive drugs. Medicare Part B pays for such drugs under a payment methodology based on the average sales price of the drugs. Manufacturers, including us, are required to report average sales price information to CMS on a quarterly basis. The manufacturer-submitted information is used by CMS to calculate Medicare payment rates.

Civil monetary penalties can be applied if we are found to have knowingly submitted any false pricing or other information to the government, if we are found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of our average sales price, or if we fail to submit the required data on a timely basis. Such conduct also could be grounds for CMS to terminate our Medicaid drug rebate agreement, in which case federal payments may not be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part B for our covered outpatient drugs.

Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid Drug Rebate program also participate in the Public Health Service's 340B drug pricing program (340B program) in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer's drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. The 340B program, which is administered by the Health Resources and Services Administration, or HRSA, requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily defined covered entities no more than the 340B "ceiling price" for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. Covered entities include hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of financially needy patients, community health clinics, and other entities that receive certain types of grants under the Public Health Service Act. The PPACA expanded the list of covered entities to include certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers, and sole community hospitals, but exempts "orphan drugs" from the ceiling price requirements for these covered entities. The 340B ceiling price is calculated using a statutory formula, which is based on the average manufacturer price and Medicaid rebate amount for the covered outpatient drug as calculated under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program. In general, products subject to Medicaid price reporting and rebate liability are also subject to the 340B ceiling price calculation and discount requirement.









HRSA issued a final regulation regarding the calculation of the 340B ceiling price and the imposition of civil monetary penalties on manufacturers that knowingly and intentionally overcharge covered entities, which became effective on January 1, 2019. It is currently unclear how HRSA will apply its enforcement authority under the new regulation. Any charge by HRSA that we have violated the requirements of the regulation could result in civil monetary penalties. HRSA also has announced that it will begin to implement a ceiling price reporting requirement related to the 340B program during the first quarter of 2019. In addition, legislation may be introduced that, if passed, would further expand the 340B program to additional covered entities or would require participating manufacturers to agree to provide 340B discounted pricing on drugs used in an inpatient setting.

In order to be eligible to have our products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs and purchased by certain federal agencies and grantees, we participate in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) pricing program. FSS participation is required for our products to be purchased by the VA, Department of Defense (DoD), Coast Guard, and Public Health Service (PHS). Prices for innovator drugs purchased by the VA, DoD, Coast Guard, and PHS are subject to a cap (known as the Federal Ceiling Price) equal to 76% of the annual non-federal average manufacturer price (non-FAMP) minus an additional discount. The additional discount applies if the current year Q3 non-FAMP is greater than the prior year Q3 non-FAMP by more than the allowable inflation rate (measured by reference to the Consumer Price Index - Urban). We also participate in the Tricare Retail Pharmacy Program, under which we pay quarterly rebates to DoD for prescriptions of our innovator drugs dispensed to Tricare beneficiaries through Tricare Retail network pharmacies. The governing statute provides for civil monetary penalties for failure to provide information timely or for knowing submission of false information to the government.

Medicare Part D provides coverage to enrolled Medicare patients for self-administered drugs (i.e., drugs that are not administered by a physician). Medicare Part D is administered by private prescription drug plans approved by the U.S. government and, subject to detailed program rules and government oversight, each drug plan establishes its own Medicare Part D formulary for prescription drug coverage and pricing, which the drug plan may modify from time to time. The prescription drug plans negotiate pricing with manufacturers and pharmacies, and may condition formulary placement on the availability of manufacturer discounts. In addition, for 2019, manufacturers, including us, are required to provide to CMS a 70% discount on brand name prescription drugs utilized by Medicare Part D beneficiaries when those beneficiaries are in the coverage gap phase of the Part D benefit design.

Private payor healthcare and insurance providers, health maintenance organizations, and pharmacy benefit managers in the United States are adopting more aggressive utilization management techniques and are increasingly requiring significant discounts and rebates from manufacturers as a condition to including products on formulary with favorable coverage and copayment/coinsurance.  As a consequence, these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that disadvantage them relative to competitive products.

Outside the United States, within the EU, our products are paid for by a variety of payors, with governments being the primary source of payment. Government health authorities in the EU determine or influence reimbursement of products, and set prices or otherwise regulate pricing. Negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization of our products. Governments may use a variety of cost-containment measures to control the cost of products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, value-based pricing, and reference pricing (i.e., referencing prices in other countries or prices of competitive products and using those reference prices to set a price). Budgetary pressures in many EU countries are continuing to cause governments to consider or implement various cost-containment measures, such as price freezes, increased price cuts and rebates, and expanded generic substitution and patient cost-sharing.

Other Regulatory Requirements

We are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal Social Security Act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. Federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone to purchase, prescribe, endorse, or recommend a product that is reimbursed under federal or state healthcare programs. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Regulatory and Litigation Risks -If we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties."

We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the U.K. Bribery Act. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Regulatory and Litigation Risks -Risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition."

Numerous federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information. In addition, most health care providers, including research institutions from which we or our collaborators obtain patient health information, are









We face potential liability related to the privacy of health information we obtain from clinical trials sponsored by us or our collaborators, from research institutions and our collaborators, and directly from individuals

."

In addition to the foregoing, our present business is, and our future business will be, subject to regulation under the United States Atomic Energy Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations.

Business Segments

We manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery, development, and commercialization of medicines for the treatment of serious medical conditions. For financial information related to our one segment, see Part II, Item 6. "Selected Financial Data" and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes.

Employees

As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately7,400full-time employees. We believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. Our management considers its relations with our employees to be good.

Corporate Information

We were incorporated in the State of New York in 1988 and publicly listed in 1991. Our principal executive offices are located at 777 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York 10591, and our telephone number at that address is (914) 847-7000.

We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website (http://www.regeneron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file  such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Investors and other interested parties should note that we use our media and investor relations website (http://newsroom.regeneron.com) and our social media channels to publish important information about Regeneron, including information that may be deemed material to investors. We encourage investors and other interested parties to review the information we may publish through our media and investor relations website and the social media channels listed on our media and investor relations website, in addition to our SEC filings, press releases, conference calls, and webcasts.

The information contained on our websites and social media channels is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this report.











