ITEM 1.  BUSINESS



This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties relating to future events and the future financial performance of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and actual events or results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. These statements concern, and these risks and uncertainties include, among others, the nature, timing, and possible success and therapeutic applications of EYLEA

®

, ZALTRAP

®

, and ARCALYST

®



General

Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious medical conditions. Our total revenues were$1,378.5 millionin 2012, compared to $445.8 million in 2011 and $459.1 million in 2010. Our net income was$750.3 million, or$6.75per diluted share, in 2012, compared to net losses of$221.8 million, or $2.45 per share (basic and diluted), in 2011 and$104.5 million, or $1.26 per share (basic and diluted), in 2010. Net income in 2012 included an income tax benefit of$335.8 million, primarily attributable to the release of substantially all of the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, and $75.0 million of substantive milestone payments from our collaborators, as described below under Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations."

We currently have three marketed products:

•EYLEA®(aflibercept) Injection, known in the scientific literature as VEGF Trap-Eye, which is available in the United States for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration (wet AMD) and macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO), and in the United Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland, Australia, Japan, and certain other countries for the treatment of wet AMD. We commenced sales of EYLEA for the treatment of wet AMD in November 2011 and for the treatment of macular edema following CRVO in September 2012, following receipt of regulatory approval in the United States. Bayer HealthCare commenced sales of EYLEA for the treatment of wet AMD in the fourth quarter of 2012 following receipt of regulatory approvals in the European Union (EU) and other regions. Bayer HealthCare has additional regulatory applications for EYLEA for the treatment of wet AMD pending in other countries. In addition, Bayer HealthCare submitted applications for marketing authorization for EYLEA in Europe in December 2012 and in Japan in January 2013 for the treatment of macular edema following CRVO.



We are collaborating with Bayer HealthCare on the global development and commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States. Bayer HealthCare will market EYLEA outside the United States, where, for countries other than Japan, the companies will share equally the profits and losses from sales of EYLEA. In Japan, we are entitled to a royalty on sales of EYLEA, as described below. We maintain exclusive rights to EYLEA in the United States and are entitled to all profits from any such sales.











Net product sales of EYLEA in the United States were $837.9 millionin 2012 and $24.8 millionin 2011. EYLEA net product sales outside of the United States, which are recorded by Bayer HealthCare, commenced in the fourth quarter of 2012, and were$19.0 millionfor the year.



•ZALTRAP®(ziv-aflibercept) Injection for Intravenous Infusion, known in the scientific literature as VEGF Trap, which is available in the United States for treatment, in combination with 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan (FOLFIRI), of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen. In February 2013, the European Commission (EC) granted marketing authorization in the European Union for ZALTRAP 25mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion in combination with FOLRIRI chemotherapy in adults with mCRC that is resistant to or has progressed after an oxaliplatin-containing regimen. Regulatory applications for marketing authorization of ZALTRAP for the treatment of previously treated mCRC patients in other countries have also been submitted and are currently under review by the respective regulatory agencies.



We and Sanofi globally collaborate on the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP, and share profits and losses from commercialization of ZALTRAP, except for Japan where we are entitled to a royalty on sales of ZALTRAP, as described below. ZALTRAP net product sales, which are recorded by Sanofi, commenced in the United States in August 2012, and totaled $31.7 millionin 2012.



•ARCALYST®(rilonacept) Injection for Subcutaneous Use, which is available in the United States for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS), including Familial Cold Auto-inflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) and Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), in adults and children 12 and older. CAPS are a group of rare, inherited, auto-inflammatory conditions characterized by life-long, recurrent symptoms of rash, fever/chills, joint pain, eye redness/pain, and fatigue. Intermittent, disruptive exacerbations or flares can be triggered at any time by exposure to cooling temperatures, stress, exercise, or other unknown stimuli.



Net product sales of ARCALYST totaled $20.2 millionin 2012, $19.9 millionin 2011, and $25.3 millionin 2010. Net product sales of ARCALYST in 2010 included $20.5 million of ARCALYST net product sales made in 2010 and $4.8 million of previously deferred net product sales, as described below under Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations."

We have 13 product candidates in clinical development, all of which were discovered in our research laboratories. Our Trap-based clinical programs are:

•EYLEA, which is in clinical trials for the treatment of diabetic macular edema (DME), macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO), and, in Asia, choroidal neovascularization of the retina as a result of pathologic myopia (mCNV), in collaboration with Bayer HealthCare; and

•ZALTRAP, which is being studied in combination with our angiopoietin-2 inhibitor (REGN910) in oncology in collaboration with Sanofi.

Our antibody-based clinical programs include eleven fully human monoclonal antibodies. The following six are being developed in collaboration with Sanofi:

•Sarilumab (REGN88), an antibody to the interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R), which is being developed in rheumatoid arthritis;

•REGN727, an antibody to Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin type 9 (PCSK9), which is being developed for low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol reduction;

•REGN668, an antibody to the interleukin-4 receptor (IL-4R), which is being developed in atopic dermatitis and allergic asthma;

•REGN421, an antibody to Delta-like ligand-4 (Dll4), a novel angiogenesis target, which is being developed in oncology;

•REGN910, an antibody to angiopoietin-2 (ANG2), another novel angiogenesis target, which is being developed in oncology; and

•REGN1033, an antibody to myostatin (GDF8), which is in clinical development.

In addition, we are developing the following five antibodies independently:

•REGN1400, an antibody to ErbB3, which is being developed in oncology;

•REGN846, an antibody in clinical development against an undisclosed target, which is being developed in atopic dermatitis;

•REGN1154, an antibody in clinical development against an undisclosed target;

•REGN1500, an antibody in clinical development against an undisclosed target; and

•REGN475, an antibody to Nerve Growth Factor (NGF), which is being developed for the treatment of pain and which is currently on clinical hold by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).









Our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, and to combine that foundation with our clinical development, manufacturing, and commercial capabilities. Our long-term objective is to build a successful, integrated, multi-product biopharmaceutical company that provides patients and medical professionals with innovative options for preventing and treating human diseases.

We believe that our ability to develop product candidates is enhanced by the application of ourVelociSuiteTMtechnology platforms. Our discovery platforms are designed to identify specific proteins of therapeutic interest for a particular disease or cell type and validate these targets through high-throughput production of genetically modified mice using ourVelociGene®technology to understand the role of these proteins in normal physiology, as well as in models of disease. Our human monoclonal antibody technology (VelocImmune®) and cell line expression technologies (VelociMab®) may then be utilized to discover and produce new product candidates directed against the disease target. Our antibody product candidates currently in clinical trials were developed usingVelocImmune. Under the terms of our antibody collaboration with Sanofi, which was expanded during 2009, we plan to advance a total of 20 to 30 candidates into clinical development over the life of the agreement. We continue to invest in the development of enabling technologies to assist in our efforts to identify, develop, manufacture, and commercialize new product candidates.



Clinical Programs:

1. EYLEA - Ophthalmologic Diseases

Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) is a naturally occurring protein in the body. Its normal role in a healthy organism is to trigger formation of new blood vessels (angiogenesis) supporting the growth of the body's tissues and organs. However, in certain diseases, such as wet AMD, it is also associated with the growth of abnormal new blood vessels in the eye, which exhibit abnormal increased permeability that leads to edema. Scarring and loss of fine-resolution central vision often results. In CRVO and BRVO, a blockage occurs in the main blood vessel that transports deoxygenated blood away from the retina. VEGF levels are elevated in response, contributing to macular edema. For clinically significant DME, VEGF-mediated leakage of fluid from blood vessels in the eye results in interference with vision.

EYLEA is a recombinant fusion protein, consisting of portions of human VEGF receptors 1 and 2 extracellular domains fused to the Fc portion of human IgG1 and formulated as an iso-osmotic solution for intravitreal administration. EYLEA acts as a soluble decoy receptor that binds VEGF-A and placental growth factor (PlGF) and thereby can inhibit the binding and activation of these cognate VEGF receptors. EYLEA is specially purified and contains iso-osmotic buffer concentrations, allowing for injection into the eye.

We, together with our ex-U.S. collaborator Bayer HealthCare, are evaluating EYLEA in Phase 3 programs in patients with DME, macular edema following BRVO, and, in Asia, mCNV of the retina as a result of pathologic myopia. Wet AMD, diabetic retinopathy (which includes DME), and retinal vein occlusion are three of the leading causes of adult blindness in the developed world. In these conditions, severe visual loss is caused by neovascular proliferation and/or retinal edema.

In the second quarter of 2011, we and Bayer HealthCare initiated Phase 3 studies to evaluate the safety and efficacy of EYLEA in DME. We are conducting one of these studies, VISTA-DME, in the United States. Bayer HealthCare is conducting the second study, VIVID-DME, in Europe, Japan, and Australia. Both the VISTA-DME and VIVID-DME trials are fully enrolled. An additional Phase 3 safety study in Japan (VIVID-Japan) was initiated in the first quarter of 2012 and is required for approval in Japan.

In the first quarter of 2011, we and Bayer HealthCare initiated a Phase 3 trial in Asia in collaboration with the Singapore Eye Research Institute (SERI) investigating the efficacy and safety of EYLEA in patients with mCNV of the retina as a result of pathologic myopia (MYRROR). This study is fully enrolled.

In the fourth quarter of 2011, we and Bayer HealthCare initiated a Phase 3 trial in China evaluating the efficacy and safety of EYLEA in wet AMD (SIGHT). The trial is expected to include approximately 300 patients.

In the second quarter of 2012, we initiated a multinational study of EYLEA in patients with macular edema following BRVO (VIBRANT).

In the fourth quarter of 2012, we initiated a study to fulfill a post-marketing requirement by the FDA, RE-VIEW, which will evaluate the effect of EYLEA on corneal endothelium.











2. ZALTRAP (ziv-aflibercept) - Oncology

ZALTRAP is a fusion protein that is designed to bind all forms of VEGF-A, VEGF-B, and P1GF, and prevent their interaction with cell surface receptors. VEGF-A (and to a lesser degree, P1GF) is required for the growth of new blood vessels (a process known as angiogenesis) that are needed for tumors to grow.

During the third quarter of 2012, we and Sanofi initiated a Phase 1b study of a combination of ZALTRAP and our angiopoietin-2 inhibitor (REGN910) in patients with advanced solid malignancies.

In April 2012, we and Sanofi announced that the Phase 3 VENICE trial for metastatic androgen-independent prostate cancer in combination with docetaxel/prednisone did not meet its primary endpoint.

3. ARCALYST(rilonacept) - Inflammatory Diseases

ARCALYST is a protein-based product designed to bind the interleukin-1 (called IL-1) cytokine and prevent its interaction with cell surface receptors.

In the fourth quarter of 2011, we submitted a supplemental BLA (sBLA) for U.S. regulatory approval of ARCALYST for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering therapy. In July 2012, the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter for the sBLA, which stated that the FDA could not approve the application in its current form. The FDA requested additional clinical data, as well as additional Chemistry, Manufacturing, and Controls (CMC) information related to a proposed new dosage form. The FDA's action does not impact the approved indication of ARCALYST for the treatment of CAPS. We have discontinued development of ARCALYST in gout. We have also withdrawn our approved application for CAPS in the European Union, where we had not previously launched the product.

4. Sarilumab (REGN88; IL-6R Antibody) for inflammatory diseases

IL-6 is a key cytokine involved in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis, causing inflammation and joint destruction. A therapeutic antibody to IL-6R, ACTEMRA®(tocilizumab), a registered trademark of Chugai Seiyaku Kabushiki Kaisha, has been approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.

Sarilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to IL-6R generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology. In July 2011, we and Sanofi announced that in the Phase 2b stage of the SARIL-RA-MOBILITY trial in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), patients treated with sarilumab in combination with a standard RA treatment, methotrexate (MTX), achieved a significant and clinically meaningful improvement in signs and symptoms of moderate-to-severe RA compared to patients treated with MTX alone. The primary endpoint of the study was the proportion of patients achieving at least a 20% improvement in RA symptoms (ACR20) after 12 weeks.



During the third quarter of 2011, we and Sanofi initiated the Phase 3 stage of the Phase 2/3 SARIL-RA-MOBILITY study in patients with RA, which is now fully enrolled. This trial will assess the improvement in signs and symptoms at 24 weeks and sarilumab's effect on radiographic progression at one year. In addition, we and Sanofi have initiated a second Phase 3 study, SARIL-RA-TARGET. SARIL-RA-TARGET is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating sarilumab in combination with non-biologic, disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) in moderate-to-severe active RA patients with inadequate response to, or intolerant of, one or more tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) inhibitors. Patients who complete SARIL-RA-MOBILITY and SARIL-RA-TARGET are offered enrollment into the ongoing SARIL-RA EXTEND, which is an open-label, long-term safety study of sarilumab. Two additional Phase 3 studies will initiate enrollment in the next few months.

5. REGN727 (PCSK9 Antibody) for LDL cholesterol reduction

Elevated LDL cholesterol (“bad cholesterol”) level is a validated risk factor leading to cardiovascular disease. Statins are a class of drugs that lower LDL through inhibition of HMG-CoA, an enzyme regulating the early and rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis. PCSK9 is a secreted protein that plays a key role in modulating LDL cholesterol levels in the body. PCSK9 binds to and induces the destruction of the LDL receptor, thereby interfering with cellular uptake and increasing circulating levels of LDL cholesterol. In a landmark study published in theNew England Journal of Medicinein March 2006, patients with lower than normal PCSK9 levels due to a genetic abnormality not only had significantly lower levels of LDL cholesterol, but also a significant reduction in the risk of coronary heart disease. We used ourVelocImmunetechnology to generate a fully human monoclonal antibody inhibitor of PCSK9, called REGN727, that is intended to lower LDL cholesterol.

REGN727 has been studied in three Phase 2 clinical studies, two in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia and one in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (heFH). In the Phase 2 studies, REGN727 significantly reduced LDL-cholesterol from baseline up to 72% on top of standard of care statin therapy. Consistent and robust reductions in other lipid parameters, including a reduction in lipoprotein-a (Lp(a)) were also observed. In the Phase 2 program, injection site reactions were the most common adverse events with REGN727, and were rare. Rare cases of hypersensitivity reaction were also reported.









Serious adverse events (SAEs) were reported in 1.8% of patients (5/275) in the active treatment arms and 2.6% of patients (2/77) in the placebo groups.

Data from the Phase 2 trials of REGN727 were presented during 2012 at the American College of Cardiology (ACC) Annual Meeting, the European Atherosclerosis Society Congress (EAS), and the American Heart Association's Scientific Sessions 2012 (AHA). Phase 2 data was also published during 2012 inThe Journal of the American College of Cardiologyand theNew England Journal of Medicine, as well as online inThe Lancet.

We and Sanofi initiated the global Phase 3 ODYSSEY program for REGN727 in June 2012. The ODYSSEY program will enroll more than 22,000 patients. This includes over ten clinical trials evaluating the effect of REGN727 on lowering LDL cholesterol. The 18,000 patient ODYSSEY OUTCOMES trial, assessing reduction in serious cardiovascular events, and several other trials in the ODYSSEY program, are currently enrolling patients. LDL cholesterol is expected to be the primary efficacy endpoint for initial regulatory filings. The studies will be conducted in clinical centers around the world including the United States, Canada, Western and Eastern Europe, South America, Australia, and Asia. A Phase 3, long-term safety and tolerability study of REGN727 is ongoing in patients with hypercholesterolemia who are not adequately controlled with their current lipid-modifying therapy.

6. REGN668 (IL-4R Antibody) for allergic and immune conditions

IL-4R is required for signaling by the cytokines IL-4 and IL-13. Both of these cytokines are critical mediators of immune response, which, in turn, drives the formation of Immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies and the development of allergic responses, as well as the atopic state that underlies atopic dermatitis and allergic asthma.

REGN668 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology that is designed to bind to IL-4R. REGN668 demonstrated positive proof of concept in patients with atopic dermatitis and allergic asthma. Data in atopic dermatitis will be presented at the American Academy of Dermatology annual meeting in March 2013. Data in allergic asthma will be submitted for presentation at medical conferences later in 2013. We, with our partner Sanofi, plan to initiate Phase 2b studies with REGN668 in asthma and atopic dermatitis in 2013.

7. REGN421 (Dll4 Antibody) for advanced malignancies

In many clinical settings, positively or negatively regulating blood vessel growth could have important therapeutic benefits, as could the repair of damaged and leaky vessels. VEGF was the first growth factor shown to be specific for blood vessels, by virtue of having its receptor primarily expressed on blood vessel cells. In the December 21, 2006 issue of the journalNature, we reported data from a preclinical study demonstrating that blocking an important cell signaling molecule, known as Dll4, inhibited the growth of experimental tumors by interfering with their ability to produce a functional blood supply. The inhibition of tumor growth was seen in a variety of tumor types, including those that were resistant to blockade of VEGF, suggesting a novel anti-angiogenesis therapeutic approach. Moreover, inhibition of tumor growth is enhanced by the combination of Dll4 and VEGF blockade in many preclinical tumor models.

REGN421 is a fully human monoclonal antibody to Dll4 generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology, and is in Phase 1 clinical development.

8. REGN910 (ANG2 Antibody) for oncology and ophthalmology

The angiopoietins, which were discovered at Regeneron, are ligands for the endothelial cell receptor Tie2 and are essential for vascular development and angiogenesis. Unlike other family members, angiopoietin-2 (ANG2) is strongly upregulated by endothelial cells at sites of angiogenesis and vascular remodeling, including tumors.

REGN910 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology that is designed to block ANG2. REGN910 is in Phase 1 clinical development in oncology. In addition, during the third quarter of 2012, we and Sanofi initiated a Phase 1b study evaluating REGN910 in combination with ZALTRAP in patients with advanced solid malignancies. We also expect REGN910 to enter clinical development in ophthalmology in 2013.

9. REGN1033 (GDF8 Antibody)

In January 2012, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical study for REGN1033, a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology, against myostatin (GDF8).



10. REGN1400 (ErbB3 Antibody) for oncology



REGN1400 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology, against ErbB3. REGN1400 is in Phase 1 clinical development in oncology.









11. REGN846

REGN846 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology, against an undisclosed target, and is being evaluated in a Phase 1b study in patients with atopic dermatitis. In July 2011, Sanofi elected not to continue co-development of REGN846, and Regeneron now has sole global rights to REGN846. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi remains obligated to fund agreed-upon REGN846 clinical costs through conclusion of a planned proof of concept trial and is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of REGN846.

12. REGN1154

REGN1154 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology, against an undisclosed target. In March 2012, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical study in Australia. Sanofi decided not to opt-in to the REGN1154 program and we have sole global rights. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of REGN1154.

13. REGN1500

REGN1500 is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology, against an undisclosed target. In December 2012, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical study. Sanofi decided not to opt-in to the REGN1500 program and we have sole global rights. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of REGN1500.

14. REGN475 (NGF Antibody) for pain (on clinical hold)

REGN475 is a fully human monoclonal antibody to NGF, generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology, which is designed to block pain sensitization in neurons. Preclinical experiments indicate that REGN475 specifically binds to and blocks NGF activity and does not bind to or block cell signaling for the closely related neurotrophins NT-3 and BDNF.

In December 2012, the FDA placed REGN475 and other investigational agents targeting NGF on clinical hold based on preclinical findings with other anti-NGF agents in development. Prior to the FDA clinical hold action, we were planning to initiate late-stage clinical trials with REGN475. There are currently no ongoing trials with REGN475 that are either enrolling or treating patients.

In February 2012, Sanofi elected not to continue co-development of REGN475, and Regeneron now has sole global rights to REGN475. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi was obligated to fund agreed-upon REGN475 development costs through the end of 2012 and is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of REGN475.

15. REGN728

Development of REGN728, which completed a Phase 1 study against an undisclosed target, was discontinued in 2012.



Collaboration Agreements

Collaborations with Sanofi

ZALTRAP.We and Sanofi globally collaborate on the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP. Under the terms of our September 2003 collaboration agreement, as amended, we and Sanofi share co-promotion rights and share profits and losses from commercialization of ZALTRAP outside of Japan. In Japan, we are entitled to a royalty of approximately 35% on sales of ZALTRAP, subject to certain potential adjustments. We earned, and recorded as revenue in 2012, a $50.0 million substantive milestone payment from Sanofi upon FDA approval of ZALTRAP. We may also receive additional milestone payments upon receipt of additional specified marketing approvals.

Under the ZALTRAP collaboration agreement, as amended, agreed upon worldwide development expenses incurred by both companies during the term of the agreement are funded by Sanofi. If the collaboration becomes profitable, we will be obligated to reimburse Sanofi out of our share of ZALTRAP profits (including royalties on sales of ZALTRAP in Japan) for 50% of the development expenses that they funded. The reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the ZALTRAP profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse Sanofi at a faster rate. As a result, we expect that, initially, our share of any ZALTRAP profits will be used to reimburse Sanofi for this repayment obligation.

Antibodies.In November 2007, we and Sanofi entered into a global, strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize fully human monoclonal antibodies. The collaboration is governed by a Discovery and Preclinical Development Agreement and a License and Collaboration Agreement. In connection with the execution of the discovery agreement in 2007, we









received a non-refundable, up-front payment of $85.0 million from Sanofi. Pursuant to the collaboration, Sanofi is funding our research to identify and validate potential drug discovery targets and develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against these targets. We lead the design and conduct of research activities under the collaboration, including target identification and validation, antibody development, research and preclinical activities through filing of an Investigational New Drug Application (IND) or its equivalent, toxicology studies, and manufacture of preclinical and clinical supplies.

For each drug candidate identified through discovery research under the discovery agreement, Sanofi has the option to license rights to the candidate under the license agreement. If it elects to do so, Sanofi will co-develop the drug candidate with us through product approval. Development costs for the drug candidate are shared between the companies, with Sanofi generally funding these costs up front, except that following receipt of the first positive Phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, subsequent Phase 3 trial-related costs for that drug candidate are shared 80% by Sanofi and 20% by us. We are generally responsible for reimbursing Sanofi for half of the total development costs for all collaboration antibody products from our share of profits from commercialization of collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. However, we are not required to apply more than 10% of our share of the profits from collaboration products in any calendar quarter towards reimbursing Sanofi for these development costs.

Sanofi will lead commercialization activities for products developed under the license agreement, subject to our right to co-promote such products. The parties will equally share profits and losses from sales within the United States. The parties will share profits outside the United States on a sliding scale based on sales starting at 65% (Sanofi)/35% (us) and ending at 55% (Sanofi)/45% (us), and will share losses outside the United States at 55% (Sanofi)/45% (us). In addition to profit sharing, we are entitled to receive up to $250 million in sales milestone payments, with milestone payments commencing after aggregate annual sales outside the United States exceed $1.0 billion on a rolling 12-month basis.

In November 2009, we and Sanofi amended these agreements to expand and extend our antibody collaboration. The goal of the expanded collaboration is to advance a total of 20 to 30 new antibody product candidates into clinical development from 2010 through 2017.

Under the amended discovery agreement, Sanofi agreed to fund up to $160 million per year of our antibody discovery activities over the period from 2010-2017, subject to a one-time option for Sanofi to adjust the maximum reimbursement amount down to $120 million per year commencing in 2014 if, over the prior two years, certain specified criteria were not satisfied. Sanofi has an option to extend the discovery program for up to an additional three years after 2017 for further antibody development and preclinical activities. Pursuant to the collaboration, Sanofi funded $30 million of agreed-upon costs we incurred to expand our manufacturing capacity at our Rensselaer, New York facilities.

In 2010, as we scaled up our capacity to conduct antibody discovery activities, Sanofi funded $137.7 million of our preclinical research under the expanded collaboration. The balance between that amount and $160 million, or $22.3 million, was added to the funding otherwise available to us in 2011-2012 under the amended discovery agreement.

In August 2008, we entered into an agreement with Sanofi, which extended through December 2012, to use ourVelociGeneplatform to supply Sanofi with genetically modified mammalian models of gene function and disease. Under this agreement, Sanofi is paying us a total of $21.5 million for the term of the agreement for knock-out and transgenic models of gene function for target genes identified by Sanofi. These models are used by Sanofi for its internal research programs that are outside of the scope of our antibody collaboration.

Collaboration with Bayer HealthCare

In October 2006, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Bayer HealthCare for the global development and commercialization outside the United States of EYLEA. Under the agreement, we and Bayer HealthCare collaborate on, and share the costs of, the development of EYLEA through an integrated global plan. Bayer HealthCare will market EYLEA outside the United States, where, for countries other than Japan, the companies will share equally in profits and losses from sales of EYLEA. In May 2012, Bayer HealthCare's Japanese subsidiary, Bayer Yakuhin, Ltd., and Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. entered into an agreement to co-promote EYLEA in Japan. In conjunction with this agreement, we and Bayer HealthCare amended our existing global license and collaboration agreement for EYLEA to convert the 50/50 profit share for Japan into a royalty agreement under which we are entitled to receive a tiered royalty of between 33.5% and 40.0% of EYLEA annual net sales in Japan. In certain specified circumstances, the Japan royalty may revert to a profit share arrangement.

We earned, and recorded as revenue in 2012, $25.0 million of substantive milestone payments from Bayer HealthCare related to the first marketing and pricing approvals for EYLEA for wet AMD outside the United States. We may also receive up to $25 million in additional milestone payments related to marketing approvals of EYLEA in other indications in major market countries outside the United States, and can earn up to $135 million in sales milestone payments if total annual sales of EYLEA outside the United States achieve certain specified levels starting at $200 million.









Commencing with the first commercial sale of EYLEA in a major market country outside the United States, we became obligated to reimburse Bayer HealthCare for 50% of the development costs that it has incurred under the agreement from our share of the collaboration profits (including royalties on sales of EYLEA in Japan). The reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the collaboration profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse Bayer HealthCare at a faster rate. As a result, we expect that, initially, our share of any EYLEA profits outside the United States will be used to reimburse Bayer HealthCare for this repayment obligation.



Within the United States, we retain exclusive commercialization rights to EYLEA and are entitled to all profits from any such sales.



Research Programs

Our preclinical research programs are in the areas of oncology and angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related diseases, muscle diseases and disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone and cartilage, pain, cardiovascular diseases, and infectious diseases.

Research and Development Technologies

Many proteins that are either on the surface of or secreted by cells play important roles in biology and disease. One way that a cell communicates with other cells is by releasing specific signaling proteins, either locally or into the bloodstream. These proteins have distinct functions and are classified into different “families” of molecules, such as peptide hormones, growth factors, and cytokines. All of these secreted (or signaling) proteins travel to and are recognized by another set of proteins, called “receptors,” which reside on the surface of responding cells. These secreted proteins impact many critical cellular and biological processes, causing diverse effects ranging from the regulation of growth of particular cell types to inflammation mediated by white blood cells. Secreted proteins can at times be overactive and thus result in a variety of diseases. In these disease settings, blocking the action of specific secreted proteins can have clinical benefit. In other cases, proteins on the cell-surface can mediate the interaction between cells, such as the processes that give rise to inflammation and autoimmunity.

Our scientists have developed two different technologies to design protein therapeutics to block the action of specific cell surface or secreted proteins. The first technology, termed the “Trap” technology, was used to generate our three approved products, EYLEA, ZALTRAP, and ARCALYST. These novel “Traps” are composed of fusions between two distinct receptor components and the constant region of an antibody molecule called the “Fc region,” resulting in high affinity product candidates.VelociSuiteis our second technology platform; it is used for discovering, developing, and producing fully human monoclonal antibodies that can address both secreted and cell-surface targets.

VelociSuite.VelociSuiteconsists ofVelocImmune, VelociGene, VelociMouse®, and VelociMab. TheVelocImmunemouse platform is utilized to produce fully human monoclonal antibodies.VelocImmunewas generated by exploiting ourVelociGenetechnology (see below), in a process in which six megabases of mouse immune gene loci were replaced, or “humanized,” with corresponding human immune gene loci.VelocImmunemice can be used to generate efficiently fully human monoclonal antibodies to targets of therapeutic interest.VelocImmuneand our entireVelociSuiteoffer the potential to increase the speed and efficiency through which human monoclonal antibody therapeutics may be discovered and validated, thereby improving the overall efficiency of our early stage drug development activities. We are utilizing theVelocImmunetechnology to produce our next generation of drug candidates for preclinical and clinical development.

OurVelociGeneplatform allows custom and precise manipulation of very large sequences of DNA to produce highly customized alterations of a specified target gene, or genes, and accelerates the production of knock-out and transgenic expression models without using either positive/negative selection or isogenic DNA. In producing knock-out models, a color or fluorescent marker may be substituted in place of the actual gene sequence, allowing for high-resolution visualization of precisely where the gene is active in the body during normal body functioning as well as in disease processes. For the optimization of preclinical development and pharmacology programs,VelociGeneoffers the opportunity to humanize targets by replacing the mouse gene with the human homolog. Thus,VelociGeneallows scientists to rapidly identify the physical and biological effects of deleting or over-expressing the target gene, as well as to characterize and test potential therapeutic molecules.

OurVelociMousetechnology platform allows for the direct and immediate generation of genetically altered mice from embryonic stem cells (ES cells), thereby avoiding the lengthy process involved in generating and breeding knockout mice from chimeras. Mice generated through this method are normal and healthy and exhibit a 100% germ-line transmission. Furthermore, mice developed using ourVelociMousetechnology are suitable for direct phenotyping or other studies. We have also developed ourVelociMabplatform for the rapid screening of antibodies and rapid generation of expression cell lines for our Traps and ourVelocImmunehuman monoclonal antibodies.











Manufacturing



Our manufacturing facilities are located in Rensselaer, New York and currently consist of three buildings totaling approximately 395,000 square feet of research, manufacturing, office, and warehouse space. In addition, we have recently commenced construction of approximately 93,000 square feet of additional manufacturing and office space at our Rensselaer site. We currently have approximately 54,000 liters of cell culture capacity at these facilities, and will add 20,000 liters of cell culture capacity once construction of our additional space is completed by 2015. At December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 550 people at our Rensselaer facilities. We also depend on a limited number of third party providers for other services with respect to our clinical and commercial product supply requirements, including product packaging, filling, and labeling.



Among the conditions for regulatory marketing approval of a medicine is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer's quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to the good manufacturing practice (GMP) regulations of the health authority. In complying with standards set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the areas of production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. Manufacturing establishments, both foreign and domestic, are also subject to inspections by or under the authority of the FDA and by other national, federal, state, and local agencies. We are approved to manufacture our marketed products at our Rensselaer facilities.



Sales and Marketing



We have a New Products Marketing and Planning group and a Market Research group to evaluate commercial opportunities for our targets and drug candidates, assess the competitive environment, and analyze the commercial potential of our product portfolio, and prepare for market launch of new products. This group works in close collaboration with our collaborators for co-developed products to develop marketing plans and forecasts and to develop and execute pre-launch market development programs.



In preparation for the launch of EYLEA for wet AMD in 2011, we hired and trained a full-service commercialization group to execute the launch of EYLEA. The group includes experienced professionals in the fields of marketing, communications, professional education, patient education and advocacy, reimbursement and managed markets, trade and distribution, commercial operations, commercial analytics, market research, and forecasting. Moreover, we have hired, trained, and deployed a field-based organization of approximately 75 individuals, including regional sales directors, medical sales specialists, and reimbursement managers, each typically with 7 or more years of experience in the biopharmaceutical industry in a variety of therapeutic areas including oncology, ophthalmology, immunology, and inflammation. We outsource the warehousing and distribution of our finished drug products.



In connection with the sales and marketing of ARCALYST for CAPS, we have a small marketing, trade, reimbursement, and distribution group to provide case management and reimbursement services to patients with CAPS and their treating physicians.



Competition





EYLEA.The market for eye disease products is very competitive. Novartis and Genentech are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a VEGF antibody fragment (Lucentis®) for the treatment of wet AMD, DME, RVO, and other eye indications. Lucentis®was approved by the FDA in June 2006 for the treatment of wet AMD, in June 2010 for the treatment of macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (RVO), and in August 2012 for the treatment of DME. Lucentis®was approved by the EMA for wet AMD in January 2007, for the treatment of DME in January 2011, and for the treatment of RVO in June 2011. Many other companies, including Genentech, are working on the development of product candidates and









extended delivery devices for the potential treatment of wet AMD, DME, and RVO including those that act by blocking VEGF and VEGF receptors, as well as use of small interfering ribonucleic acids (siRNAs) that modulate gene expression. For example, in January, 2012, Genentech submitted an IND for an extended delivery device. Ophthotech Corporation is developing Fovista™, an aptamer directed against platelet-derived growth factor subunit B (PDGF-B), as a product candidate intended to be used in combination with an anti-VEGF therapy in wet AMD. In June 2012, Ophthotech announced results of a Phase 2b study in wet AMD that it claimed demonstrated that Fovista™administered in combination with Lucentis®resulted in increased visual outcomes compared to Lucentis®monotherapy. Allergan is developing an anti-VEGF-A  DARPin®, as well as a dual anti-VEGF-A/PDGF-B DARPin®, and its corresponding backups for the treatment of wet AMD and related conditions. Allergan has announced that it expects Phase 2 data in wet AMD from its anti-VEGF-A DARPin®in 2013.



In addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label, with success for the treatment of wet AMD, DME, and RVO, a third-party repackaged version of Genentech's approved VEGF antagonist, Avastin

®

(bevacizumab). The relatively low cost of therapy with Avastin

®

in patients with wet AMD presents a significant competitive challenge in this indication. Long-term, controlled clinical trials comparing Lucentis

®

to Avastin

®

in the treatment of wet AMD are being conducted. One-year data from the Comparison of Age-Related Macular Degeneration Treatments Trial (CATT) were reported in April 2011 and indicated that Avastin

®

dosed monthly was non-inferior to Lucentis

®

dosed monthly in the primary efficacy endpoint of mean visual acuity gain at 52 weeks. Avastin

®

is also being evaluated in eye diseases in trials that have been initiated in the United Kingdom, Canada, Brazil, Mexico, Germany, Israel, and other areas. It may be difficult for EYLEA



to compete in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved against Lucentis

®

and off-label use of Avastin

®

because doctors and patients have had significant experience using these medicines and because of the relatively low cost of Avastin

®

. Moreover, the reported results of the CATT study, combined with the relatively low cost of Avastin

®

in treating patients with wet AMD, may well exacerbate the competitive challenge which EYLEA will face in this or other eye indications for which it may be approved. In addition, while we believe that ZALTRAP would not be well tolerated if administered directly to the eye, there is a risk that third parties will attempt to repackage ZALTRAP for off-label use and sale for the treatment of wet AMD and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to EYLEA for wet AMD or other eye indications.



ZALTRAP.Many companies are developing therapeutic molecules designed to block the actions of VEGF specifically and angiogenesis in general. A variety of approaches have been employed, including antibodies to VEGF, antibodies to the VEGF receptor, small molecule antagonists to the VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase, and other anti-angiogenesis strategies. Many of these alternative approaches may offer competitive advantages to aflibercept in efficacy, side-effect profile, durability of effect, or method of delivery. Additionally, some of these molecules are already approved for marketing and have a broader range of indications than our product candidate.



In particular, Genentech has an approved VEGF antagonist, Avastin®, on the market for treating certain cancers and a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing VEGF antagonists, including Novartis, Amgen, Imclone LLC/Eli Lilly, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, and Aveo. Some of these molecules may offer competitive advantages over our molecule.Pfizer, Onyx (together with its partner Bayer HealthCare), GlaxoSmithKline, and Bayer HealthCare are selling and marketing oral medications that target tumor cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels the growth of tumors.



ARCALYST.In 2009, Novartis received regulatory approval in the United States and Europe for canakinumab, a fully human anti-interleukin-1ß (IL-1ß) antibody, for the treatment of CAPS. In January 2011, Novartis announced that it had submitted an application to the EMA for approval of canakinumab in the treatment of gout flares. Novartis submitted a supplemental BLA to the FDA in the first quarter of 2011 for approval of canakinumab in gout, which was denied in August 2011 based upon safety concerns. Canakinumab is also in development for atherosclerosis and a number of other inflammatory diseases. In addition, there are both small molecules and antibodies in development by other third parties that are designed to block the synthesis of IL-1 or inhibit the signaling of IL-1. For example, Xoma Ltd., in collaboration with Servier, is developing an antibody to IL-1, and Amgen, MedImmune, and XBiotech are developing antibodies to the IL-1 receptor. These drug candidates could offer competitive advantages over ARCALYST. The successful development and/or commercialization of these competing molecules could adversely affect sales of ARCALYST for CAPS.



Monoclonal Antibodies.Our clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies which were generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology. Our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies.



Numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. Companies such as Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca, Amgen, Biogen Idec, Inc., Novartis, Genentech, Bristol-Myers Squib, AbbVie, and GlaxoSmithKline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant DNA that comprise









human antibody sequences. Astellas has licensed ourVelocImmunetechnology as part of their internal antibody development programs.



We are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against targets that are also the targets of our product candidates. For example, Amgen, Pfizer, Genentech, Santaris, and Eli Lilly have development programs for antibodies against PCSK9; Alnylam, in partnership with The Medicines Company, has a clinical program underway with an RNAi molecule against PCSK9. GlaxoSmithKline, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., and Genentech have development programs for antibodies against IL-4R, IL-4, or IL-13 for the treatment of asthma. Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Abbvie are developing antibody product candidates against NGF. Genentech is marketing an antibody against IL-6R (tocilizumab) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis, and several other companies, including Centocor Ortho Biotech, Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb, have antibodies against IL-6 in clinical development for this disease. Aerovance has completed initial clinical trials of two formulations of a biologic directed against IL-4. Amgen previously had an antibody against IL-4R in clinical development for the treatment of asthma. Amgen, Pfizer, and AstraZeneca have development programs underway for antibodies against ANG2. GlaxoSmithKline, in partnership with OncoMed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., has a Dll4 antibody in clinical development for the treatment of solid tumors.



Other Areas.Many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. In these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. A number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. Many firms and entities are engaged in research and development in the areas of cytokines, interleukins, angiogenesis, and muscle conditions. Some of these competitors are currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. These and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages.



If any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future prospects.



We also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. These institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. Products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. We also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations.



Patents, Trademarks, and Trade Secrets



Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see Item 1A. “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity -We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third-party patents or other proprietary rights, and the costs and expenses of ongoing patent litigation have been and will likely continue to be significant.”). Our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. As of December 31, 2012, we held an ownership interest in a total of approximately 185 issued patents in the United States and approximately 777 issued patents in foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. In addition, we hold an ownership interest in hundreds of patent applications in the United States and foreign countries.



Our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering ourVelociSuitetechnologies, including ourVelocImmunemouse platform which produces fully human monoclonal antibodies. Our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2028. However, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms.



Our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to our marketed products,  EYLEA, ZALTRAP, and ARCALYST, and our product candidates in clinical development. These patents cover the proteins and DNA encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions, as well as various methods of using the products. For each of EYLEA, ZALTRAP, and ARCALYST, these patents generally expire between 2020 and 2028.









However, the projected patent terms may be subject to extension based on potential patent term extensions in countries where such extensions are available.



We also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. In December 2011, we and Genentech entered into a Non-Exclusive License and Partial Settlement Agreement relating to ophthalmic sales of EYLEA in the United States. Pursuant to this agreement, we received a non-exclusive license to certain patents relating to VEGF receptor proteins, known as the Davis-Smyth patents, and other technology patents.



In July 2008 we entered into an Amended and Restated Non-Exclusive License Agreement with Cellectis S.A. pursuant to which we licensed certain patents and patent applications relating to a process for the specific replacement of a copy of a gene in the receiver genome by homologous recombination.



We also have non-exclusive license agreements with Amgen and other organizations for patent rights related to ARCALYST.



Patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. The degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the United States and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. There is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit.



Others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. We expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. However, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. Patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others.



Defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. It is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see Item 1A. “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity -We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed, third-party patents or other proprietary rights, and the costs and expenses of ongoing patent litigation have been and will likely continue to be significant.”).



Government Regulation



Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of EYLEA, ZALTRAP, ARCALYST, and our product candidates (see Item 1A. “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of EYLEA for Wet AMD -

Our regulatory approval for sales of EYLEA is limited to the treatment of wet AMD and is limited to sales in the United States. If we don't receive approval for EYLEA for other indications, or if approvals are not obtained for sales in other countries, our sales and profits will be limited

and Risks Related to the Development and Approval of Our Product Candidates and New Indications for Our Marketed Products -

If we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products and product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition.”)

. All of our product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the FDA and foreign authorities. Many aspects of the structure and substance of the FDA and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices have been reformed during recent years, and continued reform is under consideration in a number of jurisdictions. The ultimate outcome and impact of such reforms and potential reforms cannot be predicted.

The activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the United States begin with preclinical tests. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. The results of these studies must be submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must be reviewed by the FDA before proposed clinical testing can begin. Typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. In Phase 1, trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. In Phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. In Phase 3, large-scale clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the FDA. The results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product candidate are









then submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for commercial sale. In responding to a BLA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application.



Any approval required by the FDA for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. The designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. The results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans.



Approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. The approval procedure varies among countries and may involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for FDA approval.



Various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of pharmaceutical product candidates. The lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue.



In addition to the foregoing, our present and future business will be subject to regulation under the United States Atomic Energy Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations.



Business Segments



We manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery of pharmaceutical products for the treatment of serious medical conditions and the development and commercialization of these discoveries. This segment includes revenues and expenses related to (i) product sales of EYLEA and ARCALYST, (ii) research and development activities conducted under our collaboration agreements with third parties, (iii) our share of the income (loss) from commercialization of products under our collaboration agreements, (iv) licensing agreements to utilize ourVelocImmunetechnology, and (v) the supply of specified, ordered research materials using ourVelociGene technology platform.



Employees



As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 1,950 full-time employees, of whom approximately 360 held a Ph.D. and/or M.D., or PharmD degree. We believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. None of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our management considers its relations with our employees to be good.



Available Information



We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website(http://www.regeneron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).





