ITEM 1. BUSINESS



This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that
involve risks and uncertainties relating to future events and the future
financial performance of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and actual events or
results may differ materially. These statements concern, among other things, the
possible success and therapeutic applications of our product candidates and
research programs, the commercial success of our marketed product, the timing
and nature of the clinical and research programs now underway or planned, and
the future sources and uses of capital and our financial needs. These statements
are made by us based on management’s current beliefs and judgment. In evaluating
such statements, stockholders and potential investors should specifically
consider the various factors identified under the caption “Risk Factors” which
could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such
forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to update
publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information,
future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.



General



Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a
biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops, and commercializes
pharmaceutical products for the treatment of serious medical conditions. We
currently have one marketed product: ARCALYST®(rilonacept) Injection
for Subcutaneous Use, which is available for prescription in the United States
for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS), including
Familial Cold Auto-inflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) and Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS)
in adults and children 12 and older.



We have eight product candidates in clinical
development, including three that are in late-stage (Phase 3) clinical
development. Our late stage programs are rilonacept, which is being developed
for the prevention and treatment of gout-related flares; VEGF Trap-Eye, which is
being developed in eye diseases using intraocular delivery in collaboration with
Bayer HealthCare LLC; and aflibercept (VEGF Trap), which is being developed in
oncology in collaboration with the sanofi-aventis Group. Our earlier stage
clinical programs are REGN475, an antibody to Nerve Growth Factor (NGF), which
is being developed for the treatment of pain; REGN88, an antibody to the
interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R), which is being developed in rheumatoid
arthritis; REGN421, an antibody to Delta-like ligand-4 (Dll4), which is being
developed in oncology; REGN727, an antibody to PCSK9, which is being developed
for low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol reduction; and REGN668, an
antibody to the interleukin-4 receptor (IL-4R), which is being developed for
certain allergic and immune conditions. All five of our earlier stage clinical
programs are fully human antibodies that are being developed in collaboration
with sanofi-aventis.



Our core business strategy is to maintain a
strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling
technologies and combine that foundation with our clinical development and
manufacturing capabilities. Our long-term objective is to build a successful,
integrated biopharmaceutical company that provides patients and medical
professionals with new and better options for preventing and treating human
diseases. However, developing and commercializing new medicines entails
significant risk and expense.



We believe that our ability to develop product
candidates is enhanced by the application of ourVelociSuite™
technology platforms. Our discovery platforms are designed to identify specific
genes of therapeutic interest for a particular disease or cell type and validate
targets through high-throughput production of mammalian models. Our human
monoclonal antibody technology (VelocImmune®) and cell line
expression technologies (VelociMab™) may then be
utilized to design and produce new product candidates directed against the
disease target. Our five antibody product candidates currently in clinical
trials were developed usingVelocImmune. Under
the terms of our antibody collaboration with sanofi-aventis, which was expanded
during 2009, we plan to advance an average of four to five new antibody product
candidates into clinical development each year, for an anticipated total of
30-40 candidates over the next eight years. We continue to invest in the
development of enabling technologies to assist in our efforts to identify,
develop, manufacture, and commercialize new product candidates.












Commercial
Product:



ARCALYST®(rilonacept) – Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes
(CAPS)



In February 2008, we received marketing
approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for ARCALYST®(rilonacept) Injection
for Subcutaneous Use for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic
Syndromes (CAPS), including Familial Cold Auto-inflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) and
Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS) in adults and children 12 and older. We shipped
$20.0 million of ARCALYST®(rilonacept) to our
distributors in 2009, compared to $10.7 million in 2008. We own worldwide rights
to ARCALYST.



In October 2009, rilonacept was
approved under exceptional circumstances by the European Medicines Agency (EMEA)
for the treatment of CAPS with severe symptoms in adults and children aged 12
years and older. Such authorizations are permissible for products for which a
company can demonstrate that comprehensive data cannot be provided, for example,
because of the rarity of the condition. Each year, we will need to provide for
review by the EMEA any new or follow-up information that may become available.
Rilonacept is not currently marketed in the European Union.



ARCALYST is a protein-based product designed
to bind the interleukin-1 (called IL-1) cytokine and prevent its interaction
with cell surface receptors. ARCALYST is approved in the United States for
patients with CAPS, a group of rare, inherited, auto-inflammatory conditions
characterized by life-long, recurrent symptoms of rash, fever/chills, joint
pain, eye redness/pain, and fatigue. Intermittent, disruptive exacerbations or
flares can be triggered at any time by exposure to cooling temperatures, stress,
exercise, or other unknown stimuli. CAPS is caused by a range of mutations in
the gene NLRP3(formerly known asCIAS1) which
encodes a protein named cryopyrin. In addition to FCAS and MWS, CAPS includes
Neonatal Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID). ARCALYST has not been
studied for the treatment of NOMID.



Clinical
Programs:



1. Rilonacept – Inflammatory Diseases



We are evaluating rilonacept in gout, a
disease in which, as in CAPS, IL-1 may play an important role in pain and
inflammation. In September 2008, we announced the results of a Phase 2 study
which evaluated the efficacy and safety of rilonacept versus placebo in the
prevention of gout flares induced by the initiation of urate-lowering drug
therapy. In this 83-patient, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, the mean
number of flares per patient over the first 12 weeks of urate-lowering therapy
was 0.79 with placebo and 0.15 with rilonacept (p=0.0011), an 81% reduction.
This was the primary endpoint of the study. All secondary endpoints also were
met with statistical significance. In the first 12 weeks of treatment, 45.2% of
patients treated with placebo experienced a gout flare and, of those, 47.4% had
more than one flare. Among patients treated with rilonacept, only 14.6%
experienced a gout flare (p=0.0037 versus placebo) and none had more than one
flare. Injection-site reaction was the most commonly reported adverse event with
rilonacept and no serious drug-related adverse events were reported.



Results from this study after the first 16
weeks of urate-lowering therapy were reported at the annual meeting of the
European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) in June 2009. Through 16 weeks, the
mean number of flares per patient was 0.93 with placebo and 0.22 with rilonacept
(p=0.0036). In the first 16 weeks of treatment, 47.6% of patients treated with
placebo experienced a gout flare and, of those, 55.0% had more than one flare.
Among patients treated with rilonacept, 22.0% experienced a gout flare (p=0.0209
versus placebo) and none had more than one flare. Adverse events after 16 weeks
of treatment were similar to those reported after 12 weeks with the most
frequently reported categories being infection and musculoskeletal
complaints.



Gout is characterized by high blood levels of
uric acid, a bodily waste product normally excreted by the kidneys. The uric
acid can form crystals in the joints of the toes, ankles, knees, wrists,
fingers, and elbows. Chronic treatment with uric acid-lowering medicines, such
as allopurinol, is prescribed to eliminate the uric acid crystals and prevent
reformation. During the first months of allopurinol therapy, while uric acid
blood levels are being reduced, the break up of the uric acid crystals can
result in stimulation of inflammatory mediators, including IL-1, resulting in
acute flares of joint pain and inflammation. These painful flares generally
persist for at least five days.












During the first quarter of 2009, we initiated
a Phase 3 clinical development program with rilonacept for the treatment of
gout. The program includes four clinical trials. Two Phase 3 clinical trials
(called PRE-SURGE 1 and PRE-SURGE 2) are evaluating rilonacept versus placebo
for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating urate-lowering drug
therapy. A third Phase 3 trial in acute gout (SURGE) is evaluating treatment
with rilonacept alone versus rilonacept in combination with a non-steroidal
anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) versus an NSAID alone. The fourth Phase 3 trial
is a placebo-controlled safety study (RE-SURGE) of rilonacept in patients
receiving urate-lowering therapy. SURGE and PRE-SURGE 1 are fully enrolled. We
expect to report initial data from SURGE and PRE-SURGE 1 during the first half
of 2010 and from PRE-SURGE 2 and RE-SURGE during the first half of
2011.



Royalty Agreement with Novartis Pharma
AG



In June 2009, we entered into a royalty
agreement with Novartis Pharma AG that replaced a previous collaboration and
license agreement. Under this agreement, we are entitled to receive royalties on
worldwide sales of Novartis’ canakinumab, a fully human
anti-interleukin-IL1ßantibody. We
waived our right to opt-in to the development and commercialization of
canakinumab. Canakinumab is approved to treat Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic
Syndrome (CAPS) and is in development for chronic gout, type 2 diabetes, and a
number of other inflammatory diseases.



2. VEGF Trap-Eye – Ophthalmologic Diseases



VEGF Trap-Eye is a specially purified and
formulated form of VEGF Trap for use in intraocular applications. We and Bayer
HealthCare are testing VEGF Trap-Eye in a Phase 3 program in patients with the
neovascular form of age-related macular degeneration (wet AMD). We and Bayer
HealthCare are also conducting a Phase 2 study of VEGF Trap-Eye in patients with
diabetic macular edema (DME). Wet AMD and diabetic retinopathy (which includes
DME) are two of the leading causes of adult blindness in the developed world. In
both conditions, severe visual loss is caused by a combination of retinal edema
and neovascular proliferation. We and Bayer HealthCare also initiated a Phase 3
program in central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) in July 2009. In connection
with the dosing of the first patient in a Phase 3 study in CRVO, we received a
$20.0 million milestone payment from Bayer HealthCare.



The Phase 3 trials in wet AMD, known
as VIEW 1 and VIEW 2 (VEGF Trap:Investigation ofEfficacy and
Safety inWet
age-related macular degeneration), are comparing VEGF Trap-Eye and Lucentis®(ranibizumab
injection), marketed by Genentech, Inc., an anti-angiogenic agent approved for
use in wet AMD. VIEW 1 is being conducted in North America and VIEW 2 is being
conducted in Europe, Asia Pacific, Japan, and Latin America. The VIEW 1 and VIEW
2 trials are both evaluating VEGF Trap-Eye doses of 0.5 milligrams (mg) and 2.0
mg at dosing intervals of four weeks and 2.0 mg at a dosing interval of eight
weeks (after three monthly doses) compared with Lucentis (Genentech) dosed
according to its U.S. label, which specifies doses of 0.5 mg administered every
four weeks over the first year. As-needed dosing (PRN) with both agents will be
evaluated in the second year of the studies. VIEW 1 and VIEW 2 were fully
enrolled in 2009, and initial data are expected in late 2010.



We and Bayer HealthCare have conducted a Phase
2 study in wet AMD which demonstrated that patients treated with VEGF Trap-Eye
achieved durable improvements in visual acuity and retinal thickness for up to
one year. These one-year study results were reported at the 2008 annual meeting
of the Retina Society. In this double-masked Phase 2 trial, known as CLEAR-IT 2,
157 patients were initially treated for three months with VEGF Trap-Eye: two
groups received monthly doses of 0.5 or 2.0 mg (at weeks 0, 4, 8, and 12) and
three groups received quarterly doses of 0.5, 2.0, or 4.0 mg (at baseline and
week 12). Following the initial three-month fixed-dosing phase, patients
continued to receive VEGF Trap-Eye at the same dose on a PRN dosing schedule
through one year, based upon the physician assessment of the need for
re-treatment in accordance with pre-specified criteria.



In this Phase 2 study, patients receiving
monthly doses of VEGF Trap-Eye of either 2.0 or 0.5 mg for 12 weeks followed by
PRN dosing achieved mean improvements in visual acuity versus baseline of 9.0
letters (p<0.0001 versus baseline) and 5.4 letters (p<0.085 versus
baseline), respectively, at the end of one year. The proportion of patients with
vision of 20/40 or better (part of the legal minimum requirement for an
unrestricted driver’s license in the U.S.) increased from 23% at baseline to 45%
at week 52 in patients initially treated with 2.0 mg monthly and from 16% at
baseline to 47% at week 52 in patients initially treated with 0.5 mg monthly.
Patients receiving monthly doses of VEGF Trap-Eye of either 2.0 or 0.5 mg also
achieved mean decreases in retinal thickness versus baseline of 143 microns
(p<0.0001 versus baseline) and 125 microns (p<0.0001 versus baseline) at
week 52, respectively. After












week 12 to week 52 in
the PRN dosing period, patients initially dosed on a 2.0 mg monthly schedule
received, on average, only 1.6 additional injections and those initially dosed
on a 0.5 mg monthly schedule received, on average, 2.5 additional injections.



While PRN dosing following a fixed
quarterly dosing regimen (with dosing at baseline and week 12) also yielded
improvements in visual acuity and retinal thickness versus baseline at week 52,
the results generally were not as robust as those obtained with initial fixed
monthly dosing.



All patients who completed the one year
CLEAR-IT 2 study were eligible to participate in an extension stage of the
study. Twenty-four-month results of the extension stage were presented in
October 2009 at the 2009 American Academy of Ophthalmology meeting. After
receiving VEGF Trap-Eye for one year, the 117 patients who elected to enter the
extension stage were dosed on a 2.0 mg PRN basis, irrespective of the dose at
which they were treated earlier in the study. On a combined basis, for these 117
patients, the mean gain in visual acuity was 7.3 letters (p<0.0001 versus
baseline) at the three-month primary endpoint of the original Phase 2 study, 8.4
letters (p<0.0001 versus baseline) at one year, and
6.1 letters (p<0.0001 versus baseline) at month 12 of the
extension stage. Thus, after 24 months of dosing with VEGF Trap-Eye in the Phase
2 study, patients continued to maintain a highly significant improvement in
visual acuity versus baseline, while receiving, on average, only 4.6 injections
over the 21-month PRN dosing phase that extended from month three to month 24.
The most common adverse events were those typically associated with intravitreal
injections and included conjunctival hemorrhage at the injection site and
transient increased intraocular pressure following an injection.



The DME study, known as the DA VINCI study, is
a double-masked, randomized, controlled trial that is evaluating four different
VEGF Trap-Eye dosing regimens versus laser treatment. A total of 240 patients
with clinically significant DME with central macular involvement were randomized
to five groups. VEGF Trap-Eye achieved the primary endpoint of the study, a
statistically significant improvement in visual acuity compared to focal laser
therapy, the standard of care in DME. Visual acuity was measured by the mean
number of letters gained over the initial 24 weeks of the study. Patients in
each of the four dosing groups receiving VEGF Trap-Eye achieved statistically
significantly greater mean improvements in visual acuity (8.5 to 11.4 letters of
vision gained) compared to patients receiving focal laser therapy (2.5 letters
gained) at week 24 (p< 0.01 for each VEGF Trap-Eye group versus focal laser).
VEGF Trap-Eye was generally well-tolerated, and no ocular or non-ocular
drug-related serious adverse events were reported in the study. The adverse
events reported were those typically associated with intravitreal injections or
the underlying disease. Following the initial 24 weeks of treatment, patients
continue to be treated for another 24 weeks on the same dosing regimens. Initial
one-year results will be available later in 2010.



VEGF Trap-Eye is also in Phase 3 development
for the treatment of central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO), another cause of
blindness. The COPERNICUS (COntrolledPhase 3Evaluation ofRepeated iNtravitreal
administration of VEGF Trap-EyeInCentral retinal vein
occlusion:Utility andSafety) study is
being led by Regeneron and the GALILEO (GeneralAssessmentLimitingInfiLtration ofExudates in central
retinal veinOcclusion with VEGF
Trap-Eye) study is being led by Bayer HealthCare. Patients in both studies will
receive six monthly intravitreal injections of either VEGF Trap-Eye at a dose of
2 mg or sham control injections. The primary endpoint of both studies is
improvement in visual acuity versus baseline after six months of treatment. At
the end of the initial six months, patients will be dosed on a PRN basis for
another six months. All patients will be eligible for rescue laser treatment.
Enrollment in the COPERNICUS study began during the third quarter of 2009, and
enrollment in the GALILEO study began in October 2009. Initial data are
anticipated in early 2011.



Collaboration with Bayer
HealthCare



In October 2006, we entered into a
collaboration agreement with Bayer HealthCare for the global development and
commercialization outside the United States of VEGF Trap-Eye. Under the
agreement, we and Bayer HealthCare will collaborate on, and share the costs of,
the development of VEGF Trap-Eye through an integrated global plan that
encompasses wet AMD, DME, and CRVO. Bayer HealthCare will market VEGF Trap-Eye
outside the United States, where the companies will share equally in profits
from any future sales of VEGF Trap-Eye. If VEGF Trap-Eye is granted marketing
authorization in a major market country outside the United States, we will be
obligated to reimburse Bayer HealthCare for 50% of the development costs that it
has incurred under the agreement from our share of the collaboration profits.
Within the United States, we retain exclusive commercialization rights to VEGF
Trap-Eye and are entitled to all profits from any such sales. We received an
up-front payment of $75.0 million from Bayer HealthCare. In 2007, we received a
$20.0 million milestone payment from Bayer HealthCare following dosing












of the first patient
in a Phase 3 study of VEGF Trap-Eye in wet AMD. In July 2009, we received a
$20.0 million milestone payment from Bayer HealthCare following dosing of the
first patient in a Phase 3 study of VEGF Trap-Eye in CRVO. We can earn up to $70
million in additional development and regulatory milestones related to the
development of VEGF Trap-Eye and marketing approvals in major market countries
outside the United States. We can also earn up to $135 million in sales
milestones if total annual sales of VEGF Trap-Eye outside the United States
achieve certain specified levels starting at $200 million.



3. Aflibercept (VEGF Trap) – Oncology



Aflibercept is a protein-based product
candidate designed to bind all forms of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor-A
(called VEGF-A, also known as Vascular Permeability Factor or VPF), VEGF-B, and
the related Placental Growth Factor (called PlGF), and prevent their interaction
with cell surface receptors. VEGF-A (and to a less validated degree, PlGF) is
required for the growth of new blood vessels (a process known as angiogenesis)
that are needed for tumors to grow and is a potent regulator of vascular
permeability and leakage.



Aflibercept is being developed globally in
cancer indications in collaboration with sanofi-aventis. We and sanofi-aventis
are enrolling patients in three Phase 3 trials that combine aflibercept with
standard chemotherapy regimens for the treatment of cancer. One trial (called
VELOUR) is evaluating aflibercept as a 2ndline treatment for
metastatic colorectal cancer in combination with FOLFIRI (folinic acid
(leucovorin), 5-fluorouracil, and irinotecan). A second trial (VITAL) is
evaluating aflibercept as a 2ndline treatment for
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer in combination with docetaxel. A third
trial (VENICE) is evaluating aflibercept as a 1stline treatment for
metastatic androgen independent prostate cancer in combination with
docetaxel/prednisone. All three trials are studying the current standard of
chemotherapy care for the cancer being studied with and without aflibercept.
VITAL and VENICE are fully enrolled, and the VELOUR study is approximately 95%
enrolled. In addition, a Phase 2 study (called AFFIRM) of aflibercept in 1stline metastatic
colorectal cancer in combination with FOLFOX (folinic acid (leucovorin),
5-fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin) is approximately 75% enrolled.



Each of the Phase 3 studies is monitored by an
Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC), a body of independent clinical
experts. The IDMCs meet periodically to evaluate data from the studies and may
recommend changes in study design or study discontinuation. Both interim and
final analyses will be conducted when a prespecified number of events have
occurred in each trial. Based on current enrollment and event rates, (i) an
interim analysis of VELOUR is expected to be conducted by an IDMC in the second
half of 2010, (ii) final results are anticipated in the first half of 2011 from
the VITAL study and in the second half of 2011 from the VELOUR study, and (iii)
an interim analysis of VENICE is expected to be conducted by an IDMC in
mid-2011, with final results anticipated in 2012.



A fourth Phase 3 trial (VANILLA) that was
evaluating aflibercept as a 1stline treatment for
metastatic pancreatic cancer in combination with gemcitabine was discontinued in
September 2009 following a planned interim efficacy analysis by that study’s
IDMC. The IDMC determined that the addition of aflibercept to gemcitabine would
be unable to demonstrate a statistically significant improvement in the primary
endpoint of overall survival compared to placebo plus gemcitabine in this study.
The types and frequencies of adverse events reported in the combination arm with
aflibercept were generally as anticipated.



During 2009, summary results were reported for
a randomized, placebo-controlled Phase 2 single-agent study of aflibercept in
advanced ovarian cancer (AOC) patients with symptomatic malignant ascites (SMA),
an abnormal build-up of fluid in the abdominal cavity. Patients receiving
aflibercept experienced a statistically significant improvement (55 days with
aflibercept as compared to 23 days for patients receiving placebo (p=0.0019)) in
the primary study endpoint, mean time to first repeat paracentesis (removal of
fluid from the abdominal cavity), versus placebo control. There was a
statistically similar incidence of deaths in both treatment groups. Four fatal
events were assessed by the investigators as aflibercept treatment related. The
types and frequencies of adverse events reported with aflibercept in this study
were generally consistent with those reported in clinical studies with other
anti-VEGF therapies in AOC patients. Although the study demonstrated that
aflibercept is a clinically active agent in this setting, given the small number
of patients enrolled in this study and their fragile health status, we and
sanofi-aventis concluded that it was difficult to definitively assess the
overall clinical benefit that might be derived from treatment in the real-world
clinical practice setting and, therefore, the data were not sufficient to submit
for regulatory approval in the SMA indication.












Aflibercept Collaboration with the
sanofi-aventis Group



We and sanofi-aventis U.S. (successor to
Aventis Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) globally collaborate on the development and
commercialization of aflibercept. Under the terms of our September 2003
collaboration agreement, as amended, we and sanofi-aventis will share
co-promotion rights and profits on sales, if any, of aflibercept outside of
Japan for disease indications included in our collaboration. In Japan, we are
entitled to a royalty of approximately 35% on annual sales of aflibercept,
subject to certain potential adjustments. We may also receive up to $400 million
in milestone payments upon receipt of specified marketing approvals, including
up to $360 million in milestone payments related to the receipt of marketing
approvals for up to eight aflibercept oncology and other indications in the
United States or the European Union and up to $40 million related to the receipt
of marketing approvals for up to five oncology indications in
Japan.



Under the aflibercept collaboration agreement,
as amended, agreed upon worldwide development expenses incurred by both
companies during the term of the agreement will be funded by sanofi-aventis. If
the collaboration becomes profitable, we will be obligated to reimburse
sanofi-aventis for 50% of aflibercept development expenses in accordance with a
formula based on the amount of development expenses and our share of the
collaboration profits and Japan royalties, or at a faster rate at our option.



4. REGN475 (Anti-NGF Antibody) for pain



Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a member of the
neurotrophin family of secreted proteins. NGF antagonists have been shown to
prevent increased sensitivity to pain and abnormal pain response in animal
models of neuropathic and chronic inflammatory pain. Mutations in the genes that
code for the NGF receptors were identified in people suffering from a loss of
deep pain perception. For these and other reasons, we believe blocking NGF could
be a promising therapeutic approach to a variety of pain
indications.



REGN475 is a fully human monoclonal antibody
to NGF generated using ourVelocImmune®technology.
Preclinical experiments indicate that REGN475 specifically binds to and blocks
NGF activity and does not bind to or block cell signaling for closely related
neurotrophins such as NT-3, NT-4/5, or BDNF.



In the third quarter of 2009, we began a Phase
2 double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging, proof-of-concept study of
REGN475 in persons with osteoarthritis of the knee. Preliminary data from that
study are expected in the first half of 2010. Additionally, four Phase 2
proof-of-concept studies in other pain indications (sciatica, vertebral
fracture, chronic pancreatitis, and thermal injury) were initiated in late 2009
and early 2010. REGN475 is being developed in collaboration with
sanofi-aventis.



5. REGN88 (Anti-IL-6R Antibody) for inflammatory
diseases



Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a key cytokine
involved in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis, causing inflammation and
joint destruction. A therapeutic antibody to the IL-6 receptor (IL-6R),
tocilizumab, developed by Roche, has been approved for the treatment of
rheumatoid arthritis.



REGN88 is a fully human monoclonal antibody to
IL-6R generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology that is in a Phase 2/3 double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging
study in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis and a Phase 2 double-blind,
placebo-controlled, dose-ranging study in ankylosing spondylitis, a form of
arthritis that primarily affects the spine. REGN88 is being developed in
collaboration with sanofi-aventis.



6. REGN421 (Anti-Dll4 Antibody) for advanced
malignancies



In many clinical settings, positively or
negatively regulating blood vessel growth could have important therapeutic
benefits, as could the repair of damaged and leaky vessels. VEGF was the first
growth factor shown to be specific for blood vessels, by virtue of having its
receptor specifically expressed on blood vessel cells. In the December 21, 2006
issue of the journalNature, we reported
data from a preclinical study demonstrating that blocking an important cell
signaling molecule, known as Delta-like ligand 4 (Dll4), inhibited the growth of
experimental tumors by interfering with their ability to produce a functional
blood supply. The inhibition of tumor growth was seen in a variety of tumor
types, including those that were resistant to blockade of VEGF, suggesting a
novel anti-angiogenesis therapeutic approach. Moreover, inhibition of tumor
growth is enhanced by the combination of Dll4 and VEGF blockade in many
preclinical tumor models.



REGN421 is a fully human monoclonal antibody
to Dll4 generated using ourVelocImmunetechnology. REGN421 is being developed in collaboration with sanofi-aventis and
is in Phase 1 clinical development.












7. REGN727 (Anti-PCSK9 Antibody) for LDL cholesterol
reduction



Elevated low density lipoprotein (LDL) levels
is a validated risk factor leading to cardiovascular disease. Statins are a
class of drugs that lower LDL by upregulating the expression of the LDL receptor
(LDLR), which removes LDL from circulation. PCSK9 (proprotein convertase
substilisin/kexin type 9) is a protein that binds to LDLR, which prevents LDLR
from binding to LDL and removes it from circulation. People who have a mutation
that reduces the activity of PCSK9 have lower levels of LDL, as well as a
reduced risk of adverse cardiovascular events. We used ourVelocImmune®technology to derive a
fully human monoclonal antibody called REGN727 that is designed to bind to PCSK9
and prevent it from inhibiting LDLR. REGN727 is being developed in collaboration
with sanofi-aventis and is in Phase 1 clinical development.



8. REGN668 (Anti-IL4R Antibody) for allergic and immune
conditions



Interleukin-4 receptor (IL4Ra) is required for
signaling by the cytokines IL-4 and IL-13. Both of these cytokines are critical
mediators of immune response, which, in turn, drives the formation of antibodies
and the development of allergic responses, as well as the atopic state that
underlies asthma and atopic dermatitis. REGN668 is a fully humanVelocImmuneantibody that is
designed to bind to IL4R. REGN668 is being developed in collaboration with
sanofi-aventis and is in Phase 1 clinical development.



Research and Development
Technologies:



One way that a cell communicates with other
cells is by releasing specific signaling proteins, either locally or into the
bloodstream. These proteins have distinct functions, and are classified into
different “families” of molecules, such as peptide hormones, growth factors, and
cytokines. All of these secreted (or signaling) proteins travel to and are
recognized by another set of proteins, called “receptors,” which reside on the
surface of responding cells. These secreted proteins impact many critical
cellular and biological processes, causing diverse effects ranging from the
regulation of growth of particular cell types, to inflammation mediated by white
blood cells. Secreted proteins can at times be overactive and thus result in a
variety of diseases. In these disease settings, blocking the action of specific
secreted proteins can have clinical benefit.



Our scientists have developed two different
technologies to design protein therapeutics to block the action of specific
secreted proteins. The first technology, termed the “Trap” technology, was used
to generate our first approved product, ARCALYST®(rilonacept), as well
as aflibercept and VEGF Trap-Eye, all of which are in Phase 3 clinical trials.
These novel “Traps” are composed of fusions between two distinct receptor
components and the constant region of an antibody molecule called the “Fc
region”, resulting in high affinity product candidates.VelociSuiteis our
second technology platform and it is used for discovering, developing, and
producing fully human monoclonal antibodies.



VelociSuiteTM



VelociSuiteconsists ofVelocImmune,
VelociGene®,
VelociMouse®, and
VelociMabTM.TheVelocImmunemouse
platform is utilized to produce fully human monoclonal antibodies.VelocImmunewas
generated by exploiting ourVelociGenetechnology (see below), in a process in which six megabases of mouse immune gene
loci were replaced, or “humanized,” with corresponding human immune gene loci.VelocImmunemice can be used to generate efficiently
fully human monoclonal antibodies to targets of therapeutic interest.VelocImmuneand our entireVelociSuiteoffer
the potential to increase the speed and efficiency through which human
monoclonal antibody therapeutics may be discovered and validated, thereby
improving the overall efficiency of our early stage drug development activities.
We are utilizing theVelocImmunetechnology to produce our next generation of drug candidates for preclinical and
clinical development.



OurVelociGeneplatform
allows custom and precise manipulation of very large sequences of DNA to produce
highly customized alterations of a specified target gene, or genes, and
accelerates the production of knock-out and transgenic expression models without
using either positive/negative selection or isogenic DNA. In producing knock-out
models, a color or fluorescent marker may be substituted in place of the actual
gene sequence, allowing for high-resolution visualization of precisely where the
gene is active in the body during normal body functioning as well as in disease
processes. For the optimization of pre-clinical development and toxicology
programs,VelociGeneoffers the












opportunity to
humanize targets by replacing the mouse gene with the human homolog. Thus,VelociGene®allows scientists to
rapidly identify the physical and biological effects of deleting or
over-expressing the target gene, as well as to characterize and test potential
therapeutic molecules.



OurVelociMouse®technology platform
allows for the direct and immediate generation of genetically altered mice from
embryonic stem cells (ES cells), thereby avoiding the lengthy process involved
in generating and breeding knockout mice from chimeras. Mice generated through
this method are normal and healthy and exhibit a 100% germ-line transmission.
Furthermore, the VelociMice are suitable for direct phenotyping or other
studies. We have also developed ourVelociMab™platform for the rapid screening of antibodies
and rapid generation of expression cell lines for our Traps and ourVelocImmune®human monoclonal
antibodies.



Antibody Collaboration and License Agreements



sanofi-aventis.



For each drug candidate identified under the
discovery agreement, sanofi-aventis has the option to license rights to the
candidate under the license agreement. If it elects to do so, sanofi-aventis
will co-develop the drug candidate with us through product approval. To date,
sanofi-aventis has opted into the development of five antibody candidates.
Development costs will be shared between the companies, with sanofi-aventis
generally funding drug candidate development costs up front, except that
following receipt of the first positive Phase 3 trial results for a co-developed
drug candidate, subsequent Phase 3 trial-related costs for that drug candidate
will be shared 80% by sanofi-aventis and 20% by us. We are generally responsible
for reimbursing sanofi-aventis for half of the total development costs for all
collaboration antibody products from our share of profits from commercialization
of collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose.
However, we are not required to apply more than 10% of our share of the profits
from collaboration products in any calendar quarter towards reimbursing
sanofi-aventis for these development costs.



Sanofi-aventis will lead commercialization
activities for products developed under the license agreement, subject to our
right to co-promote such products. The parties will equally share profits and
losses from sales within the United States. The parties will share profits
outside the United States on a sliding scale based on sales starting at 65%
(sanofi-aventis)/35% (us) and ending at 55% (sanofi-aventis)/45% (us), and will
share losses outside the United States at 55% (sanofi-aventis)/45% (us). In
addition to profit sharing, we are entitled to receive up to $250 million in
sales milestone payments, with milestone payments commencing after aggregate
annual sales outside the United States exceed $1.0 billion on a rolling 12-month
basis.



In August 2008, we entered into an
agreement with sanofi-aventis to use ourVelociGeneplatform
to supply sanofi-aventis with genetically modified mammalian models of gene
function and disease. Sanofi-aventis will pay us a minimum of $21.5 million for
the term of the agreement, which extends through December 2012, for knock-out
and transgenic models of gene function for target genes identified by
sanofi-aventis. Sanofi-aventis will use these models for its internal research
programs that are outside of the scope of our antibody
collaboration.












AstraZeneca UK Limited.In February 2007, we entered into a non-exclusive license agreement with
AstraZeneca UK Limited that allows AstraZeneca to utilize ourVelocImmune®technology in its
internal research programs to discover human monoclonal antibodies. Under the
terms of the agreement, AstraZeneca made $20.0 million annual, non-refundable
payments to us in the first quarter of 2007, 2008, and 2009. AstraZeneca is
required to make up to three additional annual payments of $20.0 million,
subject to its ability to terminate the agreement after making the next annual
payment in the first quarter of 2010. We are entitled to receive a
mid-single-digit royalty on any future sales of antibody products discovered by
AstraZeneca using ourVelocImmunetechnology.



Astellas Pharma Inc.In March 2007, we entered into a non-exclusive license agreement with
Astellas Pharma Inc. that allows Astellas to utilize ourVelocImmunetechnology in its internal research programs to discover human monoclonal
antibodies. Under the terms of the agreement, Astellas made $20.0 million
annual, non-refundable payments to us in the second quarter of 2007, 2008, and
2009. Astellas is required to make up to three additional annual payments of
$20.0 million, subject to its ability to terminate the agreement after making
the next annual payment in the second quarter of 2010. We are entitled to
receive a mid-single-digit royalty on any future sales of antibody products
discovered by Astellas using ourVelocImmunetechnology.



National Institutes of Health
Grant



In September 2006, we were awarded a five-year
grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) as part of the NIH’s Knockout
Mouse Project. The goal of the Knockout Mouse Project is to build a
comprehensive and broadly available resource of knockout mice to accelerate the
understanding of gene function and human diseases. We are using ourVelociGene®technology to
take aim at 3,500 of the most difficult genes to target and which are not
currently the focus of other large-scale knockout mouse programs. We also agreed
to grant a limited license to a consortium of research institutions, the other
major participants in the Knockout Mouse Project, to use components of ourVelociGenetechnology in the Knockout Mouse Project. We
are generating a collection of targeting vectors and targeted mouse ES cells
which can be used to produce knockout mice. These materials are available to
academic researchers without charge. We will receive a fee for each targeted ES
cell line or targeting construct made by us or the research consortium and
transferred to commercial entities.



Under the NIH grant, as amended, we are
entitled to receive a minimum of $25.3 million over the five-year period
beginning September 2006, including $1.5 million to optimize our existing
C57BL/6 ES cell line and its proprietary growth medium, both of which are being
supplied to the research consortium for its use in the Knockout Mouse Project.
We have the right to use, for any purpose, all materials generated by us and the
research consortium.



Research Programs



Our preclinical research programs are in the
areas of oncology and angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related
diseases, muscle diseases and disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone
and cartilage, pain, cardiovascular diseases, and infectious diseases.



Sales and Marketing



We have established a small commercial
organization to support sales of ARCALYST®(rilonacept) for the
treatment of CAPS in the United States. We have no sales or distribution
personnel and distribute the product through third party service providers. We
currently have no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution organization
outside the United States. If we receive regulatory approval to market and sell
additional products in the United States or in other countries, we may either
expand our commercial organization or rely on third party product licensees or
service providers.



Manufacturing



Our manufacturing facilities are located in
Rensselaer, New York and consist of three buildings totaling approximately
395,500 square feet of research, manufacturing, office, and warehouse space. We
currently have approximately 27,500 liters of cell culture capacity at these
facilities and have plans to increase our manufacturing capacity to
approximately 54,000 liters in 2010. Up to $30 million of agreed-upon costs
related to this expansion will be funded by sanofi-aventis under the terms of
our amended antibody collaboration. At December 31, 2009, we employed 278 people
at our Rensselaer facilities. There were no impairment losses associated with
long-lived assets at these facilities as of December 31, 2009.












Among the conditions for regulatory marketing
approval of a medicine is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer’s
quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to the good manufacturing
practice (GMP) regulations of the health authority. In complying with standards
set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time,
money, and effort in the areas of production and quality control to ensure full
technical compliance. Manufacturing establishments, both foreign and domestic,
are also subject to inspections by or under the authority of the FDA and by
other national, federal, state, and local agencies. If our manufacturing
facilities fail to comply with FDA and other regulatory requirements, we will be
required to suspend manufacturing. This would likely have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash
flow.



Competition



We face substantial competition from
pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies (see “Risk Factors

–

Even if our product candidates are approved for marketing, their
commercial success is highly uncertain because our competitors have received
approval for products with a similar mechanism of action, and competitors may
get to the marketplace with better or lower cost drugs

.”). Our competitors include Genentech,
Novartis, Pfizer Inc., Bayer HealthCare, Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Eli Lilly
and Company, Abbott, sanofi-aventis, Merck & Co., Amgen Inc., Roche, and
others. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research,
preclinical, and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities,
and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. Competition from
smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors
acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or
merge with large pharmaceutical companies. Even when we achieve product
commercialization, one or more of our competitors may achieve product
commercialization earlier than we do or obtain patent protection that dominates
or adversely affects our activities. Our ability to compete will depend on how
fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical
testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product
to the market. Competition among product candidates approved for sale will also
be based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position,
and other factors.



ARCALYST®(rilonacept).In 2009, Novartis received regulatory
approval in the U.S. and Europe for canakinumab (Ilaris®), a fully human
anti-interleukin-IL1ß antibody, for the treatment of CAPS. Canakinumab is also
in development for chronic gout and a number of other inflammatory diseases. In
October 2009, Novartis announced positive Phase 2 results showing that
canakinumab is significantly more effective than an injectable corticosteroid at
reducing pain and preventing recurrent attacks or “flares” in patients with
hard-to-treat gout. In addition, there are both small molecules and antibodies
in development by other third parties that are designed to block the synthesis
of interleukin-1 or inhibit the signaling of interleukin-1. For example, Eli
Lilly and Xoma Ltd. are each developing antibodies to interleukin-1 and Amgen is
developing an antibody to the interleukin-1 receptor. These drug candidates
could offer competitive advantages over ARCALYST. The successful development
and/or commercialization of these competing molecules could delay or impair our
ability to successfully develop and commercialize ARCALYST.



VEGF Trap-Eye. The
market for eye disease products is also very competitive. Novartis and Genentech
are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a VEGF
antibody fragment (Lucentis) for the treatment of wet AMD, DME, and other eye
indications. Lucentis (Genentech) was approved by the FDA in June 2006 for the
treatment of wet AMD. Many other companies are working on the development of
product candidates for the potential treatment of wet AMD and DME that act by
blocking VEGF and VEGF receptors, and through the use of small interfering
ribonucleic acids (siRNAs) that modulate gene expression. In addition,
ophthalmologists are using off-label, with success for the treatment of wet AMD,
a third-party reformulated version of Genentech’s approved VEGF antagonist,
Avastin®(bevacizumab). The relatively low cost of therapy with Avastin (Genentech) in
patients with wet AMD presents a significant competitive challenge in this
indication. The National Eye Institute (NEI) initiated a Phase 3 trial to
compare Lucentis (Genentech) to Avastin (Genentech) in the treatment of wet AMD.
Data from this NEI study are expected to be published in 2011. Avastin
(Genentech) is also being evaluated in eye diseases in trials that have been
initiated in the United Kingdom, Canada, Brazil, Mexico, Germany, Israel, and
other areas.



Aflibercept (VEGF Trap).Many
companies are developing therapeutic molecules designed to block the actions of
VEGF specifically and angiogenesis in general. A variety of approaches have been
employed, including antibodies to VEGF, antibodies to the VEGF receptor, small
molecule antagonists to the VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase, and other
anti-angiogenesis strategies. Many of these alternative approaches may offer
competitive advantages to our VEGF Trap in efficacy, side-effect profile, or
method of delivery. Additionally, some of these molecules are either already
approved for marketing or are at a more advanced stage of development than our
product candidate.












In particular, Genentech has an approved VEGF
antagonist, Avastin, on the market for treating certain cancers and a number of
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are working to develop competing VEGF
antagonists, including Novartis, Amgen, Pfizer, Imclone/Eli Lilly, AstraZeneca,
and GlaxoSmithKline. Many of these molecules are further along in development
than aflibercept and may offer competitive advantages over our
molecule.Pfizer and Onyx (together with its partner
Bayer Healthcare) are selling and marketing oral medications that target tumor
cell growth and new vasculature formation that fuels the growth of tumors.



Monoclonal Antibodies.Our early-stage clinical candidates in development are all fully human
monoclonal antibodies, which were generated using ourVelocImmune®technology. Our
antibody generation technologies and early-stage clinical candidates face
competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various
technologies.



Numerous other companies are developing
therapeutic antibody products. Companies such as Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson,
MedImmune, LLC (a subsidiary of AstraZeneca), Amgen, Biogen Idec, Inc.,
Novartis, Roche, Genentech, Bristol-Myers Squib, Abbott, and GlaxoSmithKline
have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the
market that are derived from recombinant DNA that comprise human antibody
sequences. As noted above, AstraZeneca and Astellas have licensed ourVelocImmunetechnology as part of their internal antibody
development programs.



We are aware of several pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of
antibody products against targets that are also the targets of our early-stage
product candidates. For example, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Abbott are
developing antibody product candidates against NGF. The Pfizer antibody against
NGF is in Phase 3 clinical trials for the treatment of pain due to
osteoarthritis. Roche is marketing an antibody against the interleukin-6
receptor (tocilizumab) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and several
other companies, including Centocor Ortho Biotech, Inc. and Bristol Myers
Squibb, have antibodies against IL-6 in clinical development for this disease.
GlaxoSmithKline, in partnership with OncoMed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., has a Dll4
antibody in clinical development for the treatment of solid tumors. Aerovance
has two formulations of a biologic directed against interleukin-4 in clinical
development. Amgen previously had an antibody against the interleukin-4 receptor
in clinical development for the treatment of asthma. We believe that several
companies, including Amgen, have development programs for antibodies against
PCSK9.



Other Areas.Many
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new
therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources.
In these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and
certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of
ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a
result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and
expertise. A number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the
discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of other
research or development programs we are now conducting. These competitors
include Amgen and Genentech, as well as many others. Many firms and entities are
engaged in research and development in the areas of cytokines, interleukins,
angiogenesis, and muscle conditions. Some of these competitors are currently
conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas.
These and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual
property and other competitive advantages.



If a competitor announces a successful
clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our
product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for
a competitive product, the announcement may have an adverse effect on our
operations or future prospects or on the market price of our Common
Stock.



We also compete with academic institutions,
governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which
conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative
arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide
royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. These institutions
are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements
to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have
developed. Products developed in this manner may compete directly with products
we develop. We also compete with others in acquiring technology from these
institutions, agencies, and organizations.












Patents, Trademarks, and Trade
Secrets



Our success depends, in part, on our ability
to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without
infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see “Risk Factors –We may be restricted in our development and/or
commercialization activities by, and could be subject to damage awards if we are
found to have infringed, third party patents or other proprietary
rights.”). Our policy is
to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements
that we consider important to our business and operations. As of December 31,
2009, we held an ownership interest in a total of approximately 180 issued
patents in the United States and over 750 issued patents in foreign countries
with respect to our products and technologies. In addition, we held an ownership
interest in hundreds of patent applications in the United States and foreign
countries.



Our patent portfolio includes granted patents
and pending patent applications covering ourVelociSuite™
technologies, including ourVelocImmune®mouse platform
which produces fully human monoclonal antibodies. Our issued patents covering
these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2030. However, we continue
to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology
platforms.



Our patent portfolio also includes issued
patents and pending applications relating to our marketed product, ARCALYST®(rilonacept), and our
product candidates in clinical development. These patents cover the proteins and
DNA encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents,
pharmaceutical compositions, as well as various methods of using the products.
For each of ARCALYST and our late-stage clinical candidates, aflibercept (VEGF
Trap) and VEGF Trap-Eye, these patents generally expire between 2020 and 2026.
However, the projected patent terms may be subject to extension based on
potential patent term extensions in countries where such extensions are
available.



We also are the nonexclusive licensee of a
number of additional patents and patent applications. In July 2008 we entered
into an Amended and Restated Non-Exclusive License Agreement with Cellectis S.A.
pursuant to which we licensed certain patents and patent applications relating
to a process for the specific replacement of a copy of a gene in the receiver
genome by homologous recombination. Pursuant to this agreement, we agreed to pay
Cellectis a low, single-digit royalty based on any future revenue received by us
from any future licenses or sales of ourVelociGene®orVelocImmuneproducts or
services. No royalties are payable on any revenue from commercial sales of
antibodies from ourVelocImmunetechnology, including antibodies developed under our collaboration with
sanofi-aventis. We also have non-exclusive license agreements with Amgen and
other organizations for patent rights related to ARCALYST. In exchange for these
licenses, we pay a mid-single digit royalty on net sales of ARCALYST.



Patent law relating to the patentability and
scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are
subject to this additional uncertainty. The degree of patent protection that
will be afforded to our products in the United States and other important
commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection
decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries.
There is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will
provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit.



Others may independently develop similar
products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or
processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and
processes covered by our patents. We expect to continue, when appropriate, to
file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. However,
we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be
issued. Patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or
processes of others.



Defense and enforcement of our intellectual
property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is
favorable to us. It is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be
successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly
issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the
development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent
rights of third parties.



Government Regulation



Regulation by government authorities in the
United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research,
development, manufacture, and marketing of ARCALYSTand our product
candidates (see “Risk Factors–If we do not obtain regulatory approval for
our product candidates, we will not be able to market or sell
them.”). All of our
product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be
commercialized. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to
rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market approval
requirements by the FDA and foreign authorities. Many aspects of the structure
and substance of the FDA and












foreign
pharmaceutical regulatory practices have been reformed during recent years, and
continued reform is under consideration in a number of jurisdictions. The
ultimate outcome and impact of such reforms and potential reforms cannot be
predicted.





Any approval required by the FDA for any of
our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. The
designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not
necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the
parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of
more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a
particular phase. The results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical
trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they
are tested or used more broadly in humans.



Approval of a product candidate by comparable
regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to
commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. The approval
procedure varies among countries and may involve additional testing, and the
time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for FDA
approval.



Various federal, state, and foreign statutes
and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety,
labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of
pharmaceutical product candidates. The lengthy process of seeking these
approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require
the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure by us or our collaborators
or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could
adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability
to receive product or royalty revenue.



In addition to the foregoing, our present and
future business will be subject to regulation under the United States Atomic
Energy Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the National
Environmental Policy Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, national restrictions, and other current and
potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations.



Business Segments



We manage our business as one segment which
includes all activities related to the discovery of pharmaceutical products for
the treatment of serious medical conditions and the development and
commercialization of these discoveries. This segment also includes revenues and
expenses related to (i) research and development activities conducted under our
collaboration agreements with third parties and our grant from the NIH, (ii)
ARCALYST®(rilonacept) product sales for the treatment of CAPS, (iii) licensing agreements
to utilize ourVelocImmune®technology, and (iv)
the supply of specified, ordered research materials using ourVelociGene®technology platform.



Employees



As of December 31, 2009, we had 1,029
full-time employees, of whom 192 held a Ph.D. and/or M.D., or PharmD degree. We
believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced
personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these
personnel is intense. None of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining
agreements and our management considers its relations with our employees to be
good.












Available Information



We make available free of charge on or through
our Internet website (http://www.regeneron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
furnish it to, the SEC.



