Item 1A.Risk Factors

Legal and Regulatory Risks

Interchange fees are subject to increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial
condition and results of operations.

Interchange fees, which represent a sharing of payment
system costs among the financial institutions participating in a four-party payment card system such as ours, are generally the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards.
Typically, interchange fees are paid by the merchant bank (the acquirer) to the cardholder bank (the issuer) in connection with transactions initiated with our payment system’s cards. Interchange fees, including our default interchange fees,
are subject to increasingly intense litigation, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide as card-based forms of payment have become relatively more important to local economies. Regulators and legislative bodies in a number of countries, as
well as merchants in the United States, are seeking to reduce these fees through litigation, regulatory action and/or legislative action.

See Note 21 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 for a detailed description of regulatory proceedings and inquiries into interchange
fees. Examples of regulatory proceedings or inquiries into interchange fees include:



•In the European Union, in December 2007, the European Commission issued a negative decision (which we have appealed to the General Court of the
European Union) with respect to our cross-border interchange fees for credit and debit cards under European Union competition rules.







•In the United States, the Department of Justice and certain State Attorney Generals have issued information requests and demands to MasterCard (and
Visa) concerning points of sale acceptance rules and interchange setting practices.



•In the United Kingdom, in February 2007, the Office of Fair Trading commenced a new investigation of our current U.K. credit card interchange fees and
so-called “immediate debit” cards to determine whether such fees contravene U.K. and European Union competition law.



•In Poland, the Polish Office for Protection of Competition and Consumers issued a decision that our interchange fees are unlawful under Polish
competition law, and imposed fines on our licensed financial institutions—the decision was then reversed and all parties are appealing.



•In Hungary, MasterCard Europe is appealing the Hungarian Competition Authority December 2009 decision ruling that MasterCard Europe’s historic
domestic interchange fees violate Hungarian competition law and fining MasterCard Europe approximately US $2,600,000.



•In Italy, in July 2009, the Italian Competition Authority commenced a proceeding against MasterCard and a number of its customers concerning MasterCard
Europe’s Italian domestic interchange fees.



•In Australia, the Reserve Bank of Australia enacted regulations in 2002 (which have been subsequently reviewed and not withdrawn) controlling the costs
that can be considered in setting interchange fees for four-party payment card systems such as ours.



•In South Africa, in December 2008, a special body created by the South Africa Competition Commission published a non-binding report (under active
consideration by South African regulators) recommending, among other things, having an independent forum under regulatory control set payment card interchange fees and modifications to payment systems’ (including MasterCard’s) respective
“honor all cards” rules.



•In Germany, in January 2006, a German retailers association filed a complaint with the German Federal Cartel Office in Germany alleging that our German
domestic interchange fees are not transparent to merchants and include so called “extraneous costs.”



•In Canada, in July 2009 the Canadian Competition Bureau informed MasterCard that it intends to review MasterCard’s interchange fees and related
rules, such as the “honor all cards” and “no surcharge” rules.

Interchange fees and/or
related practices (such as the “honor all cards” rule) are also being reviewed in a number of other jurisdictions, including Belgium, Brazil, Colombia, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Israel, Mexico, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Turkey
and Venezuela. We believe that regulators are increasingly adopting a coordinated approach to interchange matters and, as a result, developments in any one jurisdiction may influence regulators’ approach to interchange fees in other
jurisdictions.

In addition to regulatory action, merchants are seeking to reduce interchange fees through litigation. In the
United States, merchants have filed approximately 50 class action or individual suits alleging that MasterCard’s interchange fees and acceptance rules violate federal antitrust laws. These suits allege, among other things, that our purported
setting of interchange fees constitutes horizontal price-fixing between and among MasterCard and its member banks, and MasterCard, Visa and their member banks in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, which prohibits contracts, combinations
or conspiracies that unreasonably restrain trade. The suits seek treble damages, attorneys’ fees and injunctive relief. See Note 21 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 for
more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings.

Interchange fees
also have been the topic of increased legislative interest. For example:



•In the United States, in June 2009, the “Credit Card Fair Fee Act” was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives. This legislation
seeks to regulate interchange by allowing merchants to collectively seek to lower their payment card acceptance costs. Such collective actions would be exempt from the









—

—

e.g.



•In Hungary, in December 2009, legislation was adopted by the Hungarian Parliament limiting, as of March 2010, MasterCard (and Visa) debit, credit and
other types of interchange fees at various levels, as well as merchant service charges. In February 2010, the Hungarian Parliament amended this legislation, which had the effect of repealing the limits on interchange fees and postponing the
implementation of the limit on merchant service charges until May 2010. The President of Hungary is expected to sign the amended legislation, and MasterCard is considering whether to challenge it.



•In South Africa, in February 2009, the South African National Assembly (the “National Assembly”) adopted amendments to that country’s
competition laws concerning so-called “complex monopolies” and criminalizing certain violations of those laws (the “South Africa Bill”), which the President signed. If and when the South Africa Bill becomes effective, it could
have a significant adverse impact on MasterCard’s business in South Africa.



•In Canada, in June 2009, the Canadian Senate issued a report with the non-binding recommendations that debit interchange be set at zero for three
years, merchant surcharging be permitted in Canada and “honor all cards” rules be modified. In response, the Canadian Department of Finance has proposed a voluntary “Code of Conduct” on related issues for payment card industry
participants in Canada.



•In Brazil, in April 2009, the Central Bank of Brazil (together with competition agencies in Brazil) issued a report detailing their findings with
respect to the retail payment system in Brazil, including a finding that greater transparency was required in the setting of domestic interchange rates.

If issuers cannot collect, or we are forced to reduce, interchange fees, issuers may be unable to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services. This could reduce the number of financial
institutions willing to participate in our four-party payment card system, lower overall transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary end-to-end networks or other forms of payment more attractive. Issuers also could charge higher fees to consumers,
thereby making our card programs less desirable and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability, or attempt to decrease the expense of their card programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge. We are devoting substantial
management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees in regulatory proceedings, litigation and legislative activity. If we are less successful than Visa in defending interchange fees, we also could be competitively disadvantaged
against Visa. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of interchange fees, any such regulation, legislation and/or litigation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business,
financial condition and results of operations. In addition, this could result in MasterCard being fined and/or having to pay civil damages.







If the approval of the settlements of our currency conversion cases is undermined by
an appeal and we are unsuccessful in any of our various lawsuits relating to our currency conversion practices, our business may be materially and adversely affected.

We generate significant revenue from processing cross-border currency transactions for customers. However, we are defendants in several
state and federal lawsuits alleging that our currency conversion practices are deceptive, anti-competitive or otherwise unlawful. In July 2006, MasterCard and other defendants in federal class actions related to these matters entered into agreements
to settle or otherwise dispose of such matters. Pursuant to the settlement agreements, MasterCard has paid $72 million to be used for the defendants’ settlement fund to settle the federal actions and $13 million to settle state cases. While the
federal court has granted final approval of the settlement agreements, the settlements are subject to appeals. If an appeal is filed and we are unsuccessful in that appellate proceeding, the settlement agreements will terminate. If that occurs, and
we are unsuccessful in defending against these lawsuits or the state currency conversion cases, we may have to pay restitution to cardholders who make claims that they used their cards in another country, or may be required to modify our currency
conversion practices. See Note 21 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8.

If we determine in the future that we are required to establish reserves or we incur liabilities for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us, our results of operations, cash flow
and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.

Except as discussed in Note 21 (Legal and
Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, we have not established reserves for any of the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved and we are unable to estimate at this
time the amount of charges, if any, that may be required to provide reserves for these matters in the future. We may determine in the future that a charge for all or a portion of any of our legal proceedings is required, including charges related to
legal fees. In addition, we may be required to record an additional charge if we incur liabilities in excess of reserves that we have previously recorded. Such charges, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit
or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, could be significant and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial
condition, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. See Note 21 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8.

Limitations on our business and other penalties resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely
affect our revenue and profitability.

As a result of the settlement agreement in connection with the U.S. merchant
lawsuit in 2003, merchants have the right to reject our debit cards in the United States while still accepting other MasterCard-branded cards, and vice versa. See Note 21 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements
included in Part II, Item 8. These limitations and any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could reduce the volume of business that we do with our customers, which may materially and adversely
affect our revenue and profitability.

The payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which
may result in the imposition of costly new compliance burdens on us and our customers and may lead to increased costs and decreased transaction volumes and revenues.

We are subject to regulations that affect the payment industry in the many countries in which our cards are used. In particular, many of our
customers are subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the United States and abroad, and, consequently, MasterCard is at times affected by such regulations. Regulation of the payments industry, including
regulations applicable to us and our customers, has







increased significantly in the last several years. See “Business—Government Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related
legislation. Examples of such regulation and related legislation include:



•Anti-money laundering regulation, such as Section 352(a) of the USA PATRIOT Act and an anti-money laundering law enacted in India (which imposes
requirements on payment systems, such as MasterCard’s, and their customers).



•Payment systems regulation, such as the Indian Payments and Settlement Systems Act 2007, under which payment system operators, such as MasterCard,
operate under the authority and broad oversight of the Reserve Bank of India. Increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the
countries in which our cards may be used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards.



•Regulations imposed by OFAC, which impose restrictions on financial transactions with certain countries and with persons and entities included on the
SDN List. It is possible that transactions involving persons or entities on the SDN List may be processed through our payment system, and that our reputation may suffer due to some of our financial institutions’ association with these countries
or the existence of any such transactions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock.



•Legislation enacted by certain U.S. states (and pending in other states) regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in
companies that have business activities or contacts with countries that have been identified as terrorist-sponsoring states and similar legislation may be pending in other states. As a result of such legislation, pension funds and other retirement
systems may be subject to reporting requirements with respect to investments in companies such as ours or may be subject to limits or prohibitions with respect to those investments that may materially and adversely affect our stock price.



•Issuer practices legislation and regulation, including the Credit CARD Act (which is being implemented by the Board of Governors of the United States
Federal Reserve System), which will have a significant impact on the disclosures made by our customers and on our customers’ account terms and business practices by, among other things, making it more difficult for credit card issuers to price
credit cards for future credit risk and significantly affecting the pricing, credit allocation, and business models of most major credit card issuers. Additional regulations include recently adopted regulations by the Board of Governors regulating
overdraft fees imposed in connection with ATM and debit card transactions.



•Financial industry regulation, such as the proposed CFPA (passed by the U.S. House of Representatives), which could have significant authority to
regulate consumer financial products, including consumer credit, deposit, payment, and similar products (although it is not clear whether the CFPA would be authorized to regulate aspects of payment card network operations).



•Regulation of Internet transactions, including legislation enacted by the U.S. Congress (and applicable to payment system participants, including
MasterCard and our U.S. customers) requiring the coding and blocking of payments for certain types of Internet gambling transactions, as well as various additional legislative and regulatory activities with respect to Internet transactions which are
being considered in the United States.

Increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the
matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. Similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause such
customers to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems, which would reduce our revenues materially and adversely impact our financial performance. Finally, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to
which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation.







Government actions could curtail our ability to compete effectively against providers
of domestic payments services in certain countries, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues.

Governments in certain countries, such as Russia and India, have acted, or could act, to provide resources or protection to selected national payment card and processing providers to support them or to
displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies. Our efforts to effect change in these countries may not succeed. This could adversely affect our ability to maintain or
increase our revenues and extend our global brand.

Regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or
security could decrease the number of payment cards issued and could increase our costs.

In the European Union, the European Parliament and Council have passed the European Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with
regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, which obligates the controller of an individual’s personal data to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. This
Directive has been implemented through local laws regulating data protection in European Union member states to which we and our customers are subject.

Regulation of privacy and data protection and information security in these and other jurisdictions may increase the costs of our customers to issue payment cards, which may decrease the number of our
cards that they issue. Any additional regulations in these areas may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Finally, failure to comply with the privacy and data
protection and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our
reputation.







Business Risks

Unprecedented global economic events in financial markets around the world have directly and adversely affected, and may continue to affect, many of our customers, merchants that accept our brands
and cardholders who use our brands, which could result in a material and adverse impact on our prospects, growth, profitability, revenue and overall business.

The competitive and evolving nature of the global payments industry provides both challenges to and opportunities for the continued growth of our business. Unprecedented events which began during 2008
continued to impact the financial markets around the world, including continued distress in the credit environment, continued equity market volatility and additional government intervention. In particular, the economies of the United States and the
United Kingdom have continued to be significantly impacted by this economic turmoil, and it is also impacting other economies around the world. Some existing customers have been placed in receivership or administration or have a significant amount
of their stock owned by their governments. Many financial institutions are facing increased regulatory and governmental influence, including potential changes in laws and regulations. Many of our financial institution customers, merchants that
accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands have been directly and adversely impacted.

MasterCard’s financial
results may be negatively impacted by actions taken by individual financial institutions or by governmental or regulatory bodies in response to the economic crisis. The severity of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase
the impact of risks to our financial performance that have historically been present. As a result, our revenue growth has been and may be negatively impacted, or we may be impacted, in several ways, including but not limited to the following:



•Declining economies, foreign currency fluctuations and the pace of economic recovery can change consumer spending behaviors; for example, a significant
portion of our revenues is dependent on cross border travel patterns, which may continue to change.



•Constriction of consumer and business confidence such as in recessionary environments and those markets experiencing high unemployment may continue to
cause decreased spending by cardholders.



•Our customers may restrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new cards to mitigate increasing cardholder defaults.



•Uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our customers’ businesses may make estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives and realization
of prepaid assets less predictable.



•Our customers may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or
greater cost stability.



•Our customers may decrease spending for optional or enhanced services.



•Government intervention and/or investments in our customers may have potential negative effects on our business with those banking institutions or
otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products.



•Tightening of credit availability could impact the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit
facility.



•Our customers may default on their settlement obligations. See Note 22 (Settlement and Travelers Cheque Risk Management) to the consolidated financial
statements included in Part II, Item 8 for further discussion of our settlement exposure.



•Our business and prospects, as well as our revenue and profitability, could be materially and adversely affected by consolidation of our customers. See
“Consolidation or other changes affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for MasterCard and may result in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue
and profitability” in this Part I, Item 1A.







In addition, our business is subject to regulation in many countries. Regulatory bodies may
seek to impose rules and price controls on certain aspects of our business and the payments industry. For example, see Note 21 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, for a
discussion of global interchange proceedings.

Any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our
prospects, growth, revenue, profitability and overall business.

Our operating results may suffer because of substantial
and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry.

The global payments industry is
highly competitive. Our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks), card-based systems, including credit, charge, debit, prepaid, private-label and other types of general
purpose and limited use cards, and electronic transactions such as wire transfers and Automated Clearing House payments. See “Business—Competition” in Part I, Item 1. Within the general purpose payment card industry, we face
substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide from systems such as Visa, American Express, Discover and JCB, among others. Within the global general payment card industry, Visa has significantly greater volume than we do, and has
greater scale and market share, as well as strong brand recognition, which provides significant competitive advantages. Moreover, some of our traditional competitors, as well as alternative payment service providers, may have substantially greater
financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. Our
ability to compete may also be affected by litigation outcomes. See “Business—Competition” in Part I, Item 1.

Certain of our competitors, including American Express, Discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate end-to-end payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers, without
involving intermediaries. These competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from their business models. For example, operators of end-to-end payments systems tend to have greater control over consumer and merchant customer service than
operators of four party payments systems such as ours, in which we must rely on our issuing and acquiring financial institution customers. In addition, these competitors have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their
pricing and business practices as have operators of four-party payments systems such as ours. Certain competitors may also hold competitive advantages as a result of their organizational structures. See “Business—Competition” in Part
I, Item 1.

If we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or
effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats. Our competitors may also more effectively introduce innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth. As
a result, our revenue or profitability could decline. We also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payment systems and payments in electronic commerce and for mobile devices. A number of these new entrants rely principally on
the Internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage.

We also expect that there may be other changes in the competitive landscape in the future, including:



•Parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process. For example,
merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. Large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements
or in some cases processing the entire transaction on their own network, thereby dis-intermediating MasterCard.







•Competitors, customers and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added services we currently provide to
support our transaction processing which could, if significant numbers of cardholders choose to use them, replace our own processing services or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these services.



•Participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business
services or create new payment services that compete with our services.

Our failure to compete effectively
against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business.

We face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability.

We generate revenue from the fees that we charge our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and
from assessments on the dollar volume of activity on cards carrying our brands. In order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our card base, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer
incentives, pricing discounts and other support to customers that issue and promote our cards. In order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts. Over the past several years, we have
experienced continued pricing pressure. The demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth. We may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction
volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, increased
pressure on prices enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives. We may not succeed in these efforts.

Our strategy is to grow our business by, among other things, focusing on our customers and entering into customized business agreements with
customers around the globe. In the future, we may not be able to enter into such agreements on terms that we consider favorable, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in
the industry. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly may be able to charge lower prices to our customers. In addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such
agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so. Our
customers also may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability. Furthermore, a number of customers from which we earn substantial revenue
are principally aligned with one of our competitors. A significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business.

Consolidation or other changes affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for MasterCard and may result in
lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability.

Over the last several years, the banking industry has undergone substantial accelerated consolidation, and we expect some consolidation to continue in the future. Consolidation represents a competitive
threat to us because our strategy contemplates entering into business agreements with our largest customers in exchange for significant business commitments. Recent consolidations have included customers with a substantial MasterCard portfolio being
acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor. Significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in the substantial loss of business for MasterCard, which could







have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. In addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction
could also have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects.

The continued consolidation in the banking industry,
whether as a result of an acquisition of a substantial MasterCard portfolio by an institution with a strong relationship with a competitor or the combination of two institutions with which MasterCard has a strong relationship, would also produce a
smaller number of large customers, which could increase the bargaining power of our customers. This consolidation could lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers. Any such lower prices and/or more favorable terms could
materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability.

Our revenue could fluctuate and decrease significantly
in the longer term if we lose a significant portion of business from one or more of our largest significant customers, which could have a material adverse long-term impact on our business.

Most of our customer relationships are not exclusive and in certain circumstances may be terminated by our customers. Our customers can
reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services. Accordingly, our business agreements with customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their
relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us.

In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest customers. In 2009, the net revenues from these customers represented an aggregate of approximately $1.4 billion,
or 28%, of total revenue. Loss of business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our business.

Merchants are increasingly focused on the costs of accepting card-based forms of payment, which may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and may increase the costs of our incentive programs, which could materially
and adversely affect our profitability.

A decline in cross-border travel
could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as a significant portion of our revenue is generated from cross-border transactions.

We process substantially all cross-border transactions using MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from cross-border volume fees and transaction
processing fees. Revenue from processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with







cross-border travel and our customers’ need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. Cross-border travel may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic and other
conditions. These include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu (such as H1N1), viruses (such as SARS) and other diseases. Any such decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.

Certain customers have exclusive, or nearly- exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these
relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues.

Certain customers have
exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues. In
addition, these customers may be more successful and may grow faster than the customers that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Furthermore, we earn substantial revenue from customers with exclusive or
nearly-exclusive relationships with our competitors. Such relationships could provide advantages to the customers to shift business from MasterCard to the competitors with which they are principally aligned. A significant loss of our existing
revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business.

We depend
significantly on our relationships with our customers to manage our payment system. If we are unable to maintain those relationships, or if our customers are unable to maintain their relationships with cardholders or merchants that accept our cards
for payment, our business may be materially and adversely affected.

We are, and will continue to be, significantly
dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their further relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. We do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates
(if applicable) or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our brands. Each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. In addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for card
acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers. As a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them.
In turn, our customers’ success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence. If our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk as described below.

With the exception of the United States and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border)
transactions conducted using MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors without involving our central processing systems. Because we do not provide domestic processing services in
these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders or merchants, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payment system among
regulators, merchants and consumers in these countries. From time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payment system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business. If
our customers’ actions cause significant negative perception of the global payments industry or our brands, cardholders may reduce the usage of our programs, which could reduce our revenues and profitability.

In addition, our competitors may process a greater percentage of domestic transactions in jurisdictions outside the United States than we
do. As a result, our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards carrying our brands in many markets may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to maintain transaction integrity or introduce value-added programs and
services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions.







We rely on the continuing expansion of merchant acceptance of our brands and programs.
Although our business strategy is to invest in strengthening our brands and expanding our acceptance network, there can be no guarantee that our efforts in these areas will continue to be successful. If the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows
or reverses itself, our business could suffer.

Our business may be materially and adversely affected by the
marketplace’s perception of our brands and reputation.

Our brands and their attributes are key assets of our
business. The ability to attract and retain cardholders to our branded products depends highly upon the external perception of our company and industry. Our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our
brands. From time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as “predatory.” Moreover, adverse developments with respect to our
industry may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. Such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our business.

If we are unable to grow our debit business, particularly in the United States, we may fail to maintain and increase our revenue
growth.

In recent years, industry-wide offline and online debit transactions have grown more rapidly than credit or
charge transactions. However, in the United States, transactions involving our brands account for a smaller share of all offline, signature-based debit transactions than they do credit or charge transactions. In addition, many of our competitors
process a greater number of online, PIN-based debit transactions at the point of sale than we do, since our Maestro brand has relatively low penetration in the United States. We may not be able to increase our penetration for debit transactions in
the United States since many of our competitors have long-standing and strong positions. We may also be impacted adversely by the tendency among U.S. consumers and merchants to migrate from offline, signature-based debit transactions to online,
PIN-based transactions because we generally earn less revenue from the latter types of transactions. In addition, online, PIN-based transactions are more likely to be processed by other ATM/debit point-of-sale networks rather than by us. Any of
these factors may inhibit the growth of our debit business, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and overall prospects for future growth.

General economic and global political conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability.

The global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. General economic
conditions (such as unemployment and changes in interest rates) and other political conditions (such as devaluation of currencies and government restrictions on consumer spending) in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our
financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving payment cards carrying our brands. Also, as we are principally based in the United States, a negative perception of the United States could impact the
perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business prospects and growth.

As a guarantor of certain
obligations of principal members and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity if any of our customers default on their MasterCard, Cirrus or Maestro settlement obligations.

We may incur liability in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations
due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons. If a principal member or affiliate debit licensee of MasterCard International is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss even
if we do not process the transaction. In addition, although we are not obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its







If our transaction processing systems are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions efficiently or at all, our revenue or
profitability would be materially reduced.

Our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions as
a result of process or other technology malfunction, fire, natural or man-made disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism, accident or other catastrophic events. A disaster or other
problem at our primary and/or back-up facilities or our other owned or leased facilities could interrupt our services. Our visibility in the global payments industry may also attract terrorists and hackers to attack our facilities or systems,
leading to service interruptions, increased costs or data security compromises. Additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data transportation network. If one of our service
providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our
brands’ reliability and materially reduce our revenue or profitability.

Account data breaches involving card data
stored by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenue.

We, our customers, and other third
parties store cardholder account and other information in connection with payment cards bearing our brands. In addition, our customers may sponsor third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. A breach of the
systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving cards carrying our brands, damage the reputation of our brands and lead to claims against us. In recent years, there have been
several high-profile account data compromise events involving merchants and third party payment processors that process, store or transmit payment card data, which affected millions of MasterCard, Visa, Discover and American Express cardholders. As
a result of such data security breaches, we may be subject to lawsuits involving payment cards carrying our brands. While most of these lawsuits do not involve direct claims against us, in certain circumstances, we could be exposed to damage claims,
which, if upheld, could materially and adversely affect our profitability. In addition, any damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which in turn could
have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, revenue and future growth prospects, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us.







An increase in fraudulent activity using our cards could lead to reputational damage
to our brands and could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards.

Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated
methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeit or other fraud. As outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third
parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. Increased fraud levels involving our cards could lead to regulatory intervention, such as mandatory card re-issuance, adoption of new technologies or enhanced security requirements, and
damage to our reputation and financial damage to our brands, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business.

If we are not able to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in our industry to provide customers, merchants and
cardholders with new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, which could reduce our revenue and income or limit our future growth.

The payment card industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in
the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards), electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We rely in part on
third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these
new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our card programs and services. In addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for
industry-wide standards, by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes or by intellectual property rights of third parties. We have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from other companies suggesting that we
may be infringing a pre-existing patent or that we need to license use of their patents to avoid infringement. Such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop
or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards.

Adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange
controls could decrease revenue we receive from our operations outside of the United States.

During 2009,
approximately 54.5% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the United States. Some of the revenue we generate outside the United States is subject to unpredictable currency fluctuations (including devaluations of currencies) where the
values of other currencies change relative to the U.S. dollar. Resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. Our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited
number of currencies and are based on estimates of exposures to these currencies. Furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into U.S. dollars.
The occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse impact on our business.

Any acquisitions or strategic investments that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition.

We may evaluate or make strategic acquisitions of, or acquire interests in joint ventures or other entities related
to, complementary businesses, products or technologies. While we from time to time evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, and have made certain recent acquisitions
(including interests in joint ventures and other alliances), we have no present understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any material acquisitions. If we do make such an acquisition, however, we may not be able to successfully
finance the business following the acquisition as a







result of costs of operations, including any litigation risk which may be inherited from the acquisition. Furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate any such acquired businesses,
products or technologies. In particular, the integration of any acquisition (including efforts related to an acquisition of an interest in a joint venture or other entity) may divert management’s time and resources from our core business and
disrupt our operations. Moreover, we may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenue. In addition, to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other
uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders.

Risks Related to our
Class A Common Stock and Governance Structure

Future sales of our shares of Class A common stock could
depress the market price of our Class A common stock.

In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that
holders of our Class B common stock would be eligible, through “conversion transactions” in amounts and at times to be designated by the Company, to convert their shares of Class B common stock into shares of our Class A common stock
on a one-for-one basis for subsequent transfer or sale to an eligible holder, subject to annual aggregate amounts and other limits. The Company has completed four such voluntary conversion programs, including one program in 2009. After May 31,
2010, holders of our Class B common stock will have the option to convert all of their shares of Class B common stock into shares of Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis for subsequent sale to the public, without aggregate amounts or
similar limitations. All of the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of such shares will be freely tradable without restriction or registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our
affiliates. These future sales, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our Class A common stock.

The market price of our common stock may be volatile.

Securities
markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations and have experienced increased volatility in connection with recent unpredictable economic events around the world. This market volatility, as well as the factors listed below,
among others, could affect the market price of our common stock:



•the continuation of unprecedented economic events around the world in financial markets as well as political conditions and other factors unrelated to
our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors;



•quarterly variations in our results of operations or the results of operations of our competitors;







•changes in earning estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ earning
estimates;



•the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors;



•announcements related to litigation, regulation or legislative activity;



•potential acquisitions by us of other companies; and



•developments in our industry.

There are terms in our charter documents and under Delaware law that could be considered anti-takeover provisions or could have an impact on a change in control.

Provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a
merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price. For example,
subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the Class A common stock, the Class B common stock or any other class or series of our
stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power. Further, no member or former member of MasterCard International, or any operator, member or licensee of any competing general purpose payment card system, or any affiliate
of any such person, may beneficially own any share of Class A common stock or any other class or series of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. In addition,



•our board of directors is divided into three classes, with approximately one-third of our directors elected each year;



•up to three of our directors (but no more than one-quarter of all directors) are elected by the holders of our Class M common stock;



•any representative of a competitor of MasterCard or of the Foundation is disqualified from service on our board of directors;



•our directors, other than the directors elected by the holders of our Class M common stock (who may be removed without cause by the holders of the
Class M common stock), may be removed only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least 80% in voting power of all the shares of stock then entitled to vote at an election of directors, voting together as a single class;



•our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors;



•holders of our Class A common stock are not entitled to act by written consent;



•our stockholders must provide timely notice for any stockholder proposals and director nominations;



•we have adopted limited liability provisions that eliminate the personal liability of directors and the members of our European Board for monetary
damages for actions taken as a director or member, with certain exceptions; and



•a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required to amend certain sections of our amended and
restated certificate of incorporation and for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws.







A substantial portion of our voting power is held by the Foundation, which is
restricted from selling shares for an extended period of time and therefore may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the other public stockholders. In addition, the ownership of Class A common stock
by the Foundation and the restrictions on transfer could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the Class A common stock.

The Foundation owns 13,496,933 shares of Class A common stock, representing, as of February 11, 2010, approximately 12% of our
general voting power. The Foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of Class A common stock prior to the date which is twenty years and eleven months following the IPO, except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable
disbursement requirements starting on the fourth anniversary of the IPO. The directors of the Foundation are required to be independent of us and our members. The ownership of Class A common stock by the Foundation, together with the
restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the Class A common stock. In addition, because the Foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period
of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders.

The holders of our Class M common stock have the right to elect up to three of our directors and to approve significant corporate
transactions, and their interests in our business may be different from those of our other stockholders.

Our amended
and restated certificate of incorporation requires us to obtain the approval of the holders of our Class M common stock, voting separately as a class, for a variety of enumerated actions. For example, the approval of the holders of our Class M
common stock is required to make certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation, to approve the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets, to approve the consummation of mergers or consolidations of MasterCard or for
us to cease to engage in the business of providing core network authorization, clearing and settlement services for branded payment card transactions. In addition, the holders of our Class M common stock have the right to elect up to three of our
directors. Because shares of the Class M common stock do not have any economic rights, the holders of the Class M common stock may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable for the holders of Class A common
stock, or their interests may otherwise conflict with those of the holders of Class A common stock.

Our ability to
pay regular dividends to our holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows.

MasterCard intends to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis on our shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Our
board of directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. The payment of dividends is dependent upon our ability to generate earnings and cash flows so that we may pay our
obligations and expenses and pay dividends to our stockholders. However, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. Payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account
various factors, including our financial condition, settlement guarantees, operating results, available cash and current and anticipated cash needs. If, as a consequence of these various factors, we are unable to generate sufficient earnings and
cash flows from our business, we may not be able to make or may have to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends on our shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock.







