Item 1. Business

GENERAL

Dominion, headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and
incorporated in Virginia in 1983, is one of the nation’s largest producers and transporters of energy. Dominion’s strategy is to be a leading provider of electricity, natural gas and related services to customers primarily in the eastern
region of the U.S. As of December 31, 2014, Dominion’s portfolio of assets includes approximately 24,600 MW of generating capacity, 6,400 miles of electric transmission lines, 57,100 miles of electric distribution lines, 10,900 miles of natural
gas transmission, gathering and storage pipeline and 21,900 miles of gas distribution pipeline, exclusive of service lines. As of December 31, 2014, Dominion serves over 5 million utility and retail energy customers in 10 states and
operates one of the nation’s largest underground natural gas storage systems, with approximately 947 bcf of storage capacity.

In September 2013, Dominion announced its plans to form an MLP in 2014 by contributing certain of its midstream natural gas assets to the MLP initially and over time. In October 2014, Dominion Midstream
launched its initial public offering and issued 20,125,000 common units representing limited partner interests, which included a 2,625,000 common unit over-allotment option that was exercised in full by the underwriters. Dominion owns the general
partner and 68.5% of the limited partner interests in Dominion Midstream, which owns a preferred equity interest and the general partner interest in Cove Point. Dominion Midstream is consolidated by Dominion, and is an SEC registrant. However, its
Form 10-K is filed separately and is not combined herein.

Dominion is focused on expanding its investment in regulated
electric generation, transmission and distribution and regulated natural gas transmission and distribution infrastructure within and around its existing footprint. With this investment, Dominion expects 80% to 90% of future earnings from its primary
operating segments to come from regulated and long-term contracted businesses.

Dominion continues to expand and improve its
regulated and long-term contracted electric and natural gas businesses, in accordance with its six-year capital investment program. A major impetus for this program is to meet the anticipated increase in demand in its electric utility service
territory. Other drivers for the capital investment program include the construction of infrastructure to handle the increase in natural gas production from the Marcellus and Utica Shale formations, to upgrade Dominion’s gas and electric
transmission and distribution networks, and to meet environmental requirements and standards set by various regulatory bodies. Investments in utility solar generation are expected to be a focus in meeting such environmental requirements,
particularly in Virginia. Investments to gather and process natural gas production from the Utica Shale formation, in eastern Ohio and western Pennsylvania, are being made by the Blue Racer joint venture. In September 2014, Dominion announced the
formation of Atlantic Coast Pipeline. Atlantic Coast Pipeline is focused on constructing an approximately 550-mile natural gas pipeline running from West Virginia through Virginia to North Carolina, to increase natural gas supplies in the region.

Dominion has transitioned to a more regulated, less volatile earnings mix as evidenced by
its capital investments in regulated infrastructure and infrastructure whose output is sold under long-term purchase agreements, as well as dispositions of certain merchant generation facilities during 2013 and the sale of the electric retail energy
marketing business in March 2014. Dominion’s nonregulated operations include merchant generation, energy marketing and price risk management activities and natural gas retail energy marketing operations. Dominion’s operations are
conducted through various subsidiaries, including Virginia Power and Dominion Gas.

Virginia Power, headquartered in
Richmond, Virginia and incorporated in Virginia in 1909 as a Virginia public service corporation, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion and a regulated public utility that generates, transmits and distributes electricity for sale in Virginia and
North Carolina. In Virginia, Virginia Power conducts business under the name “Dominion Virginia Power” and primarily serves retail customers. In North Carolina, it conducts business under the name “Dominion North Carolina Power”
and serves retail customers located in the northeastern region of the state, excluding certain municipalities. In addition, Virginia Power sells electricity at wholesale prices to rural electric cooperatives, municipalities and into wholesale
electricity markets. All of Virginia Power’s stock is owned by Dominion.

Dominion

Gas

Amounts and information disclosed for Dominion are inclusive
of Virginia Power and/or Dominion Gas, where applicable.















EMPLOYEES

As of
December 31, 2014, Dominion had approximately 14,400 full-time employees, of which approximately 5,300 employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. As of December 31, 2014, Virginia Power had approximately 6,800
full-time employees, of which approximately 3,100 employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. As of December 31, 2014, Dominion Gas had approximately 2,800 full-time employees, of which approximately 2,000 employees are subject
to collective bargaining agreements.





WHEREYOUCANFINDMOREINFORMATIONABOUTTHECOMPANIES

The Companies file their annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other
information with the SEC. Their SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document they file at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street,
N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.

The
Companies make their SEC filings available, free of charge, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, through Dominion’s internet website,
http://www.dom.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing the material to the SEC. Information contained on Dominion’s website is not incorporated by reference in this report.





ACQUISITIONSANDDISPOSITIONS

Following are
significant acquisitions and divestitures by the Companies during the last five years.

ACQUISITIONOFSOLARDEVELOPMENTPROJECTS

Throughout 2014, Dominion completed the acquisitions of 100% of
the equity interests in various solar development projects in California for approximately $200 million. The projects are expected to cost approximately $599 million to construct, including the initial acquisition cost, and are expected to generate
approximately 179 MW. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on solar acquisitions.

SALEOFELECTRICRETAILENERGYMARKETINGBUSINESS

In March 2014, Dominion completed the sale of its electric retail energy marketing business. The proceeds were
approximately $187 million, net of transaction costs. The sale of the electric retail energy marketing business did not qualify for discontinued operations classification. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information.

SALEOFPIPELINESANDPIPELINESYSTEMS

In March 2014, Dominion Gas sold the Northern System to an affiliate that subsequently sold the Northern System to
Blue Racer

for consideration of approximately $84 million. Dominion Gas’ consideration consisted of $17 million in cash proceeds and the extinguishment of affiliated current borrowings of $67 million
and Dominion’s consideration consisted of cash proceeds of approximately $84 million.

In September 2013, DTI sold Line
TL-388 to Blue Racer for approximately $75 million in cash proceeds.

In December 2012, East Ohio sold two pipeline systems to
an affiliate for consideration of approximately $248 million. East Ohio’s consideration consisted of $61 million in cash proceeds and the extinguishment of affiliated long-term debt of $187 million and Dominion’s consideration consisted of
a 50% interest in Blue Racer and cash proceeds of approximately $115 million.

See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information on sales of pipelines and pipeline systems.

ASSIGNMENTSOFMARCELLUSSHALEACREAGE

In November 2014, DTI closed an agreement with a natural gas producer
to convey over time approximately 24,000 acres of Marcellus Shale development rights underneath one of its natural gas storage fields. The agreement provides for payments to DTI, subject to customary adjustments, of approximately $120 million over a
period of four years, and an overriding royalty interest in gas produced from the acreage.

In December 2013, DTI closed on
agreements with two natural gas producers to convey over time approximately 100,000 acres of Marcellus Shale development rights underneath several natural gas storage fields. The agreements provide for payments to DTI, subject to customary
adjustments, of approximately $200 million over a period of nine years, and overriding royalty interest in gas produced from that acreage.

See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these sales of Marcellus acreage.

SALEOFBRAYTONPOINT, KINCAIDANDEQUITYMETHODINVESTMENTINELWOOD

In August 2013, Dominion completed the sale of Brayton Point, Kincaid and its equity method
investment in Elwood to Energy Capital Partners and received proceeds of approximately $465 million, net of transaction costs. The historical results of Brayton Point’s and Kincaid’s operations are included in the Corporate and Other
segment and presented in discontinued operations. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

SALEOFE&P PROPERTIES

In April 2010, Dominion completed the sale of substantially all of its Appalachian E&P operations, including its rights to associated Marcellus acreage, to a subsidiary of CONSOL for approximately
$3.5 billion.

SALEOFPEOPLES

In February 2010, Dominion completed the sale of Peoples to PNG Companies LLC and netted after-tax proceeds of approximately $542 million.















OPERATINGSEGMENTS

Dominion manages its daily operations through three primary operating segments: DVP, Dominion Generation and Dominion Energy. Dominion also reports a Corporate and Other segment, which includes its
corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) and the net impact of operations that are discontinued, which is discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, Corporate and Other includes
specific items attributable to Dominion’s other operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

Virginia Power manages its daily operations through two primary operating segments: DVP and Dominion Generation. It also reports a
Corporate and Other segment that primarily includes specific items attributable to its operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources
among the segments.

Dominion Gas manages its daily operations through its primary operating segment: Dominion Energy. It also
reports a Corporate and Other segment that primarily includes specific items attributable to its operating segment that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segment’s performance.

While daily operations are managed through the operating segments previously discussed, assets remain wholly-owned by the Companies and
their respective legal subsidiaries.

A description of the operations included in the Companies’ primary operating
segments is as follows:



Primary OperatingSegmentDescription of OperationsDominionVirginiaPowerDominionGasDVPRegulated electric distributionXXRegulated electric transmissionXXDominion GenerationRegulated electric fleetXXMerchant electric fleetXNonregulated retail energy marketingXDominion EnergyGas transmission and storageX(1)XGas distribution and storageXXGas gathering and processingXXLNG import and storageX



(1)Includes remaining producer services activities.

For additional financial information on operating segments, including revenues from external customers, see Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information on operating
revenue related to the Companies’ principal products and services, see Notes 2 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

DVP

The DVP Operating Segment of Dominion and Virginia Powerincludes Virginia Power’s
regulated electric transmission and
dis-

tribution (including customer service) operations, which serve approximately 2.5 million residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers in Virginia and North Carolina.

DVP announced its six-year investment plan, which includes spending approximately $8.9 billion from 2015 through 2020 to
upgrade or add new transmission and distribution lines, substations and other facilities to meet growing electricity demand within its service territory and maintain reliability. The proposed electric delivery infrastructure projects are intended to
address both continued customer growth and increases in electricity consumption by the typical consumer. In addition, data centers continue to contribute to anticipated demand growth.

Revenue provided by electric distribution operations is based primarily on rates established by state regulatory authorities and state
law. Variability in earnings is driven primarily by changes in rates, weather, customer growth and other factors impacting consumption such as the economy and energy conservation, in addition to operating and maintenance expenditures. Operationally,
electric distribution continues to focus on improving service levels while striving to reduce costs and link investments to operational results. As a result, electric service reliability and customer service have improved. Virginia Power continues
to see improvement as SAIDI performance results, excluding major events, were 113 minutes at the end of 2014, down from the three-year average of 120 minutes. Virginia Power’s overall customer satisfaction improved year over year when compared
to its 2013 score in the South Large segment of JD Power’s rankings. In the future, safety, electric service reliability and customer service will remain key focus areas for electric distribution.

Revenue provided by Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations is based primarily on rates approved by FERC. The profitability
of this business is dependent on its ability, through the rates it is permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable return on its capital investments. Variability in earnings primarily results from changes in rates and the timing of
property additions, retirements and depreciation.

Virginia Power is a member of PJM, an RTO, and its electric transmission
facilities are integrated into PJM wholesale electricity markets. Consistent with the increased authority given to NERC by EPACT, Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations are committed to meeting NERC standards, modernizing its
infrastructure and maintaining superior system reliability. Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations will continue to focus on safety, operational performance, NERC compliance and execution of PJM’s RTEP.

COMPETITION

DVP
Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

There is no competition for electric distribution service within Virginia Power’s
service territory in Virginia and North Carolina and no such competition is currently permitted. Historically, since its electric transmission facilities are integrated into PJM and electric transmission services are administered by PJM, there was
no competition in relation to transmission service provided to customers within the PJM region. However, competition from non-incumbent PJM transmission owners for development, construction and ownership of certain transmission facilities in
Virginia Power’s service territory is now permitted pursuant to FERC Order 1000, subject to state and local siting and
permit-













ting approvals. This could result in additional competition to build transmission lines in Virginia Power’s service area in the future and could allow Dominion to seek opportunities to build
facilities in other service territories.

REGULATION

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Virginia Power’s electric
retail service, including the rates it may charge to jurisdictional customers, is subject to regulation by the Virginia and North Carolina Commissions. Virginia Power’s wholesale electric transmission rates, tariffs and terms of service are
subject to regulation by FERC. Electric transmission siting authority remains the jurisdiction of the Virginia and North Carolina Commissions. However, EPACT provides FERC with certain backstop authority for transmission siting. SeeState
Regulations and Federal RegulationsinRegulationand Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information, including a discussion of the 2013 Biennial Review Order.

PROPERTIES

DVP
Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Virginia Power has approximately 6,400 miles of electric transmission lines of 69 kV or
more located in the states of North Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia. Portions of Virginia Power’s electric transmission lines cross national parks and forests under permits entitling the federal government to use, at specified charges, any
surplus capacity that may exist in these lines. While Virginia Power owns and maintains its electric transmission facilities, they are a part of PJM, which coordinates the planning, operation, emergency assistance and exchange of capacity and energy
for such facilities.

As a part of PJM’s RTEP process, PJM authorized the following material reliability projects
(including estimated cost):

ŸMt. Storm-to-Doubs line ($336 million);

ŸSurry-to-Skiffes Creek-to-Whealton lines ($150 million);

ŸDooms-to-Lexington line ($112 million);

ŸCunningham-to-Dooms ($100 million); and

ŸLandstown voltage regulation project ($70 million).

The following material reliability projects (including estimated cost) are awaiting PJM authorization:

ŸWarrenton project (including Remington CT-to-Warrenton, Vint Hill-to-Wheeler, Wheeler-to-Loudoun and Vint Hill and Wheeler switching stations) ($109
million); and

ŸCunningham-to-Elmont line ($106 million).

Over the next 5 years, Virginia Power plans to increase transmission substation physical security and to invest in a new system operations center. Virginia Power expects to invest $300 million–$500
million during that time to strengthen its electrical system to better protect critical equipment, enhance its spare equipment process, and create multiple levels of security.

In addition, Virginia Power’s electric distribution network includes approximately 57,100 miles of distribution lines, exclusive of service level lines, in Virginia and North Carolina. The grants for
most of its electric lines contain rights-of-way that have been obtained from the apparent owners of real estate, but underlying titles have not been examined. Where rights-of-way have not been obtained, they could be acquired from private

owners by condemnation, if necessary. Many electric lines are on publicly-owned property, where permission to operate can be revoked.

Virginia legislation in 2014 provides for the recovery of costs, subject to approval by the Virginia Commission, for Virginia Power to
move approximately 4,000 miles of electric distribution lines underground. The program, designed to reduce restoration outage time, has an annual investment cap of approximately $175 million, and is expected to be implemented over the next decade.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

DVP’s supply of electricity to serve Virginia Power customers is produced or procured by Dominion Generation. SeeDominion Generationfor additional information.

SEASONALITY

DVP
Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

DVP’s earnings vary seasonally as a result of the impact of changes in
temperature, the impact of storms and other catastrophic weather events, and the availability of alternative sources for heating on demand by residential and commercial customers. Generally, the demand for electricity peaks during the summer and
winter months to meet cooling and heating needs. An increase in heating degree days for DVP’s electric utility–related operations does not produce the same increase in revenue as an increase in cooling degree days, due to seasonal pricing
differentials and because alternative heating sources are more readily available.

Dominion Generation

The Dominion Generation Operating Segment of Virginia Powerincludes the generation operations of the Virginia Power regulated electric utility and
its related energy supply operations. Virginia Power’s utility generation operations primarily serve the supply requirements for the DVP segment’s utility customers.The Dominion Generation Operating Segment of Dominionincludes
Virginia Power’s generation facilities and its related energy supply operations as well as the generation operations of Dominion’s merchant fleet and energy marketing and price risk management activities for these assets and
Dominion’s nonregulated natural gas retail energy marketing operations.

Dominion Generation’s six-year electric
utility investment plan includes spending approximately $9.7 billion from 2015 through 2020 to construct new generation capacity to meet growing electricity demand within its utility service territory. The most significant project currently
under construction is Brunswick County, which is estimated to cost approximately $1.2 billion, excluding financing costs. SeePropertiesfor additional information on this and other utility projects.

In addition, Dominion’s merchant fleet has acquired and developed numerous renewable generation projects, which began operations in
2013 and 2014. The total cost of the projects is approximately $856 million, excluding financing costs, and includes a fuel cell generation facility in Connecticut and solar generation facilities in California, Indiana, Georgia, Tennessee and
Connecticut. The output of these facilities is sold under long-term power purchase agreements with terms ranging from 15 to













25 years. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding certain solar acquisitions.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment of Virginia Power

Electric Regulation

in Virginia

Regulation

The Dominion Generation Operating Segment
of Dominionderives its earnings primarily from the sale of electricity generated by Virginia Power’s utility and Dominion’s merchant generation assets, as well as from associated capacity and ancillary services. Variability in
earnings provided by Dominion’s nonrenewable merchant fleet relates to changes in market-based prices received for electricity and capacity. Market-based prices for electricity are largely dependent on commodity prices, primarily natural gas,
and the demand for electricity, which is primarily dependent upon weather. Capacity prices are dependent upon resource requirements in relation to the supply available (both existing and new) in the forward capacity auctions, which are held
approximately three years in advance of the associated delivery year. Dominion manages the electric price volatility of its merchant fleet by hedging a substantial portion of its expected near-term energy sales with derivative instruments.
Variability also results from changes in the cost of fuel consumed, labor and benefits and the timing, duration and costs of scheduled and unscheduled outages. In 2012 and 2013, Dominion sold or began decommissioning several of its merchant
generation facilities, including Brayton Point, Kincaid, State Line, Salem Harbor and Kewaunee.

Dominion’s retail energy
marketing operations compete in nonregulated energy markets. In March 2014, Dominion completed the sale of its electric retail energy marketing business; however, it still participates in the retail natural gas and energy-related products and
services businesses. The remaining customer base includes approximately 1.3 million customer accounts. Dominion has a heavy concentration of natural gas customers in markets where utilities have a long-standing commitment to customer choice.

COMPETITION

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Virginia
Power’s generation operations are not subject to significant competition as only a limited number of its Virginia jurisdictional electric utility customers have retail choice. SeeRegulation-State Regulations-Electricfor more
information. Currently, North Carolina does not offer retail choice to electric customers.

Dominion Generation Operating
Segment—Dominion

Unlike Dominion Generation’s regulated generation fleet, its nonrenewable merchant generation fleet is
dependent on its ability to operate in a competitive environment and does not have a predetermined rate structure that provides for a rate of return on its capital investments. Dominion Generation’s recently acquired and developed renewable
generation projects are not subject to significant competition as the output from these facilities is primarily sold under long-term power purchase agreements lasting between 15 and 25 years. Competition for the nonrenewable merchant fleet is
impacted by electricity and fuel prices, new market entrants, construction by others of generating assets and transmission capacity, technological advances in power generation, the actions of environmental and other regulatory authorities and other
factors. These competitive factors may negatively impact the merchant fleet’s ability to profit from the sale of electricity and related products and services.

Dominion Generation’s nonrenewable merchant assets operate within functioning RTOs and primarily compete on the basis of price. Competitors include other generating assets bidding to operate within
the RTOs. These RTOs have clearly identified market rules that ensure the competitive wholesale market is functioning properly. Dominion Generation’s nonrenewable merchant units compete in the spot market with other generators to sell a variety
of products including energy, capacity and ancillary services. It is difficult to compare various types of generation given the wide range of fuels, fuel procurement strategies, efficiencies and operating characteristics of the fleet within any
given RTO. However, Dominion applies its expertise in operations, dispatch and risk management to maximize the degree to which its nonrenewable merchant fleet is competitive compared to similar assets within the region.

Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations compete against incumbent utilities and other energy marketers in nonregulated energy
markets for natural gas. Customers in these markets have the right to select a retail marketer and typically do so based upon price savings or price stability; however, incumbent utilities have the advantage of long-standing relationships with their
customers and greater name recognition in their markets.

REGULATION

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Virginia Power’s utility generation fleet and Dominion’s merchant generation fleet are subject to regulation by FERC, the NRC, the EPA, the DOE, the Army Corps of Engineers and other federal,
state and local authorities. Virginia Power’s utility generation fleet is also subject to regulation by the Virginia













Commission and the North Carolina Commission. SeeState RegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationand Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more
information.

PROPERTIES

For a listing of Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s existing generation facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

The generation
capacity of Virginia Power’s electric utility fleet totals approximately 20,400 MW. The generation mix is diversified and includes coal, nuclear, gas, oil, hydro, renewables, and power purchase agreements. Virginia Power’s generation
facilities are located in Virginia, West Virginia and North Carolina and serve load in Virginia and northeastern North Carolina.

Virginia Power is developing, financing, and constructing new generation capacity to meet growing electricity demand within its service
territory. Significant projects under construction or development are set forth below:

ŸIn August 2013, the Virginia Commission authorized the construction of Brunswick County, which is estimated to cost approximately $1.2 billion.
Construction of the facility commenced in the third quarter of 2013 with commercial operations expected to begin in mid- 2016. Brunswick County is expected to offset the expected reduction in capacity caused by the retirement of coal-fired units at
Chesapeake in December 2014 and at Yorktown as early as 2016, primarily due to the cost of compliance with MATS.

ŸIn January 2015, Virginia Power filed a CPCN with the Virginia Commission to build the state’s first utility-scale solar facility. The 20 MW
project would be built near Virginia Power’s Remington Power Station in Fauquier County. The estimated in-service date for the facility, subject to regulatory approvals, is the fourth quarter of 2016.

ŸVirginia Power is considering the construction of a third nuclear unit at a site located at North Anna. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for more information on this project.

ŸThe BOEM auctioned approximately 113,000 acres of federal land off the Virginia coast as a single lease for construction of offshore wind turbines.
Virginia Power was awarded the lease, effective November 1, 2013. BOEM has several lease milestones with which Virginia Power must comply as conditions to being awarded the lease.

ŸVirginia Power is also considering the development of a commercial offshore wind generation project through a federal land lease off the Virginia
coast. Virginia Power and several partners are collaborating to develop a 12 MW offshore wind demonstration project, which is proposed to be located approximately 24 miles off the coast of Virginia. In May 2014, the DOE selected the VOWTAP as one of
three projects to receive up to $47 million of follow-on funding. This project may be operational as early as the end of 2017, pending regulatory approvals.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

The generation capacity of
Dominion’s merchant fleet totals approximately 4,200 MW. The generation mix is diversified and

includes nuclear, natural gas, and renewables. Merchant nonrenewable generation facilities are located in Connecticut, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, with a majority of that capacity concentrated
in New England. Dominion’s merchant renewable generation facilities include a fuel cell generation facility in Connecticut, solar generation facilities in Indiana, Georgia, California, Tennessee and Connecticut, and wind generation facilities
in Indiana and West Virginia. Additional solar projects under construction are as set forth below:

ŸIn September 2014, Dominion entered into agreements to acquire 100% of the equity interests in two solar projects in California from EDF Renewable
Development, Inc. for approximately $175 million. The acquisitions are expected to close in the first half of 2015 prior to the projects commencing operations. The projects are expected to cost approximately $185 million once constructed,
including the initial acquisition cost. Upon completion, the facilities are expected to generate approximately 42 MW.

ŸIn October 2014, Dominion acquired 100% of the equity interests of a solar project in Utah from juwi solar Inc. The project is expected to cost
approximately $120 million once constructed, including the initial acquisition cost. The facility is expected to begin commercial operations in the second half of 2015 and generate approximately 50 MW.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Dominion Generation
uses a variety of fuels to power its electric generation and purchases power for utility system load requirements and to satisfy physical forward sale requirements, as described below. Some of these agreements have fixed commitments and are included
as contractual obligations inFuture Cash Payments for Contractual Obligations and Planned Capital Expendituresin Item 7. MD&A.

Nuclear Fuel—Dominion Generation primarily utilizes long-term contracts to support its nuclear fuel requirements. Worldwide market conditions are continuously evaluated to ensure a range of
supply options at reasonable prices which are dependent on the market environment. Current agreements, inventories and spot market availability are expected to support current and planned fuel supply needs. Additional fuel is purchased as required
to ensure optimal cost and inventory levels.

Fossil Fuel—Dominion Generation primarily utilizes coal and natural
gas in its fossil fuel plants.

Dominion Generation’s coal supply is obtained through long-term contracts and short-term
spot agreements from domestic suppliers.

Dominion Generation’s natural gas and oil supply is obtained from various
sources including purchases from major and independent producers in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions, purchases from local producers in the Appalachian area and Marcellus and Utica regions, purchases from gas marketers and withdrawals from
underground storage fields owned by Dominion or third parties. Dominion Generation manages a portfolio of natural gas transportation contracts (capacity) that provides for reliable natural gas deliveries to its gas turbine fleet, while minimizing
costs.













Biomass—Dominion Generation’s biomass supply is obtained through long-term
contracts and short-term spot agreements from local suppliers.

Purchased Power—Dominion Generation purchases
electricity from the PJM spot market and through power purchase agreements with other suppliers to provide for utility system load requirements.

Dominion Generation also occasionally purchases electricity from the PJM and ISO-NE spot markets to satisfy physical forward sale requirements as part of its merchant generation operations.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Virginia Power

Presented below is a summary of Virginia Power’s actual system output by energy source:



Source201420132012Nuclear(1)33%33%33%Purchased power, net192127Coal(2)302922Natural gas151617Other(3)311Total100%100%100%



(1)Excludes ODEC’s 11.6% ownership interest in North Anna.

(2)Excludes ODEC’s 50.0% ownership interest in the Clover power station. The average cost of coal for 2014 Virginia in-system generation was $35.30 per MWh.

(3)Includes oil, hydro and biomass.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment-Dominion

The supply of gas to serve Dominion’s retail energy marketing customers is procured through market wholesalers or by Dominion Energy. SeeDominion Energyfor additional information.

SEASONALITY

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Sales of electricity for Dominion Generation typically vary seasonally as a result of the impact of changes in temperature and the availability of alternative sources for heating on demand by residential
and commercial customers. SeeDVP—Seasonalityabove for additional considerations that also apply to Dominion Generation.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

The earnings of Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations also vary seasonally. Generally, the demand for gas peaks during the winter months to meet heating needs.

NUCLEARDECOMMISSIONING

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Virginia Power has
a total of four licensed, operating nuclear reactors at Surry and North Anna in Virginia.

Decommissioning involves the decontamination and removal of radioactive contaminants from a
nuclear power station once operations have ceased, in accordance with standards established by the NRC. Amounts collected from ratepayers are placed into trusts and are invested to fund the expected future costs of decommissioning the Surry and
North Anna units.

Virginia Power believes that the decommissioning funds and their expected earnings for the Surry and North
Anna units will be sufficient to cover expected decommissioning costs, particularly when combined with future ratepayer collections and contributions to these decommissioning trusts, if such future collections and contributions are required. This
reflects the long- term investment horizon, since the units will not be decommissioned for decades, and a positive long-term outlook for trust fund investment returns. Virginia Power will continue to monitor these trusts to ensure they meet the NRC
minimum financial assurance requirements, which may include, if needed, the use of parent company guarantees, surety bonding or other financial instruments recognized by the NRC.

The estimated cost to decommission Virginia Power’s four nuclear units is reflected in the table below and is primarily based upon
site-specific studies completed in 2014. These cost studies are generally completed every four to five years. The current cost estimates assume decommissioning activities will begin shortly after cessation of operations, which will occur when the
operating licenses expire. Virginia Power expects to decommission the Surry and North Anna units during the period 2032 to 2078.

Dominion
Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

In addition to the four nuclear units discussed above, Dominion has two licensed, operating
nuclear reactors at Millstone in Connecticut. A third Millstone unit ceased operations before Dominion acquired the power station. In May 2013, Dominion ceased operations at its single unit Kewaunee nuclear power station in Wisconsin and commenced
decommissioning activities using the SAFSTOR methodology. The planned decommissioning completion date is 2073, which is within the NRC allowed 60 year window.

As part of Dominion’s acquisition of both Millstone and Kewaunee, it acquired decommissioning funds for the related units. Any funds remaining in Kewaunee’s trust after decommissioning is
completed are required to be refunded to Wisconsin ratepayers. Dominion believes that the amounts currently available in the decommissioning trusts and their expected earnings will be sufficient to cover expected decommissioning costs for the
Millstone and Kewaunee units. Dominion will continue to monitor these trusts to ensure they meet the NRC minimum financial assurance requirements, which may include, if needed, the use of parent company guarantees, surety bonding or other financial
instruments recognized by the NRC. The estimated cost to decommission Dominion’s eight units is reflected in the table below and is primarily based upon site-specific studies completed for Surry, North Anna and Millstone in 2014 and for
Kewaunee in 2013.













The estimated decommissioning costs and license expiration dates for the nuclear units
owned by Dominion and Virginia Power are shown in the following table:



NRClicenseexpirationyearMostrecentcostestimate(2014dollars)(1)Funds intrusts atDecember 31,20142014contributionsto trusts(dollars in millions)SurryUnit 12032$576$547$0.6Unit 220335965390.6North AnnaUnit 1(2)20384934350.4Unit
2(2)20405044090.3Total (Virginia Power)2,1691,9301.9MillstoneUnit 1(3)n/a367450—Unit 22035540569—Unit 3(4)2045656559—KewauneeUnit
1(5)n/a520688—Total (Dominion)$4,252$4,196$1.9



(1)The cost estimates shown above reflect reductions for the expected future recovery of certain spent fuel costs based on Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s
contracts with the DOE for disposal of spent nuclear fuel consistent with the reductions reflected in Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s nuclear decommissioning AROs.

(2)North Anna is jointly owned by Virginia Power (88.4%) and ODEC (11.6%). However, Virginia Power is responsible for 89.26% of the decommissioning obligation.
Amounts reflect 89.26% of the decommissioning cost for both of North Anna’s units.

(3)Unit 1 permanently ceased operations in 1998, before Dominion’s acquisition of Millstone.

(4)Millstone Unit 3 is jointly owned by Dominion Nuclear Connecticut, with a 6.53% undivided interest in Unit 3 owned by Massachusetts Municipal and Green Mountain.
Decommissioning cost is shown at Dominion’s ownership percentage. At December 31, 2014, the minority owners held approximately $35 million of trust funds related to Millstone Unit 3 that are not reflected in the table above.

(5)Permanently ceased operations in 2013.

Also see Note 14 and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about AROs and nuclear decommissioning, respectively, and Note 9 for information about nuclear decommissioning
trust investments.

Dominion Energy

The Dominion Energy Operating Segment of Dominion Gasincludes the majority of Dominion’s regulated natural gas operations. DTI, the gas
transmission pipeline and storage business, serves gas distribution businesses and other customers in the Northeast, mid-Atlantic and Midwest. Included in the transmission pipeline and storage business is gas gathering and processing activity, which
sells extracted products at market rates. East Ohio, the primary gas distribution business of Dominion, serves residential, commercial and industrial gas sales, transportation and gathering service customers. Dominion Iroquois holds a 24.72% general
partnership interest in Iroquois, which provides service to local gas distribution companies, electric utilities and electric power generators, as well as marketers and other end users, through interconnecting pipelines and exchanges primarily in
New York.

Earnings for theDominion Energy Operating Segment of Dominion Gasprimarily result
from rates established by FERC and the Ohio Commission. The profitability of these businesses is dependent on Dominion Gas’ ability, through the rates it is permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable return on its capital
investments. Variability in earnings results from changes in operating and maintenance expenditures, as well as changes in rates and the demand for services, which are dependent on weather, changes in commodity prices and the economy.

Revenue from processing and fractionation operations largely results from the sale of commodities at market prices. For DTI’s
processing plants, Dominion Gas purchases the wet gas product from producers and retains some or all of the extracted NGLs as compensation for its services. This exposes Dominion Gas to commodity price risk for the value of the spread between
the NGL products and natural gas. In addition, Dominion Gas has volumetric risk since gas deliveries to DTI’s facilities are not under long-term contracts.

East Ohio utilizes a straight-fixed-variable rate design for a majority of its customers. Under this rate design, East Ohio recovers a larger portion of its fixed operating costs through a flat monthly
charge accompanied by a reduced volumetric base delivery rate. Accordingly, East Ohio’s revenue is less impacted by weather-related fluctuations in natural gas consumption than under the traditional rate design.

In addition to the operations of Dominion Gas,the Dominion Energy Operating Segment of Dominionalso includes LNG operations and
Hope’s gas distribution operations in West Virginia, as well as Dominion’s investments in the Blue Racer joint venture, Atlantic Coast Pipeline and Dominion Midstream. SeeProperties and Investmentsbelow for additional information
regarding the Atlantic Coast Pipeline investment. Dominion’s LNG operations involve the import and storage of LNG at Cove Point and the transportation of regasified LNG to the interstate pipeline grid and mid-Atlantic and Northeast markets.
Dominion has received DOE and FERC approval to export LNG from Cove Point and has begun construction on a bi-directional facility, which will be able to import LNG, and vaporize it as natural gas, and liquefy natural gas and export it as LNG. See
Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

In 2014, Dominion formed Dominion Midstream, an MLP
initially consisting of a preferred equity interest in Cove Point. SeeGeneralabove for more information. Also see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of Dominion’s acquisition of CGT, which Dominion
expects to contribute to Dominion Midstream in the first half of 2015.

The Blue Racer joint venture concentrates on building
new gathering, processing, fractionation and NGL transportation assets as the development of the Utica Shale formation increases. Dominion has contributed or sold various assets to the joint venture. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for more information.

Dominion Energy’s six-year investment plan includes spending approximately
$8.9 billion from 2015 through 2020 to upgrade existing infrastructure or add new pipelines to meet growing energy needs within its service territory and maintain reliability. This plan includes spending for the Atlantic Coast Pipeline project
and approximately $2.6 billion, exclusive of financing costs, for the Liquefaction Project.













Earnings for theDominion Energy Operating Segment of Dominionprimarily result from
rates established by FERC and the West Virginia Commission. Additionally, Dominion Energy receives revenue from firm fee-based contractual arrangements, including negotiated rates, for certain LNG storage and regasification services. Hope’s gas
distribution operations in West Virginia serve residential, commercial and industrial gas sales, transportation and gathering service customers. Revenue provided by Hope’s operations is based primarily on rates established by the West Virginia
Commission. The profitability of these businesses is dependent on their ability, through the rates they are permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable return on their capital investments. Variability in earnings results from changes
in operating and maintenance expenditures, as well as changes in rates and the demand for services, which are dependent on weather, changes in commodity prices and the economy. However, the processing and fractionation operations within Dominion
Energy’s Blue Racer joint venture are primarily managed under long-term fee-based contracts, which minimizes commodity risk.

COMPETITION

Dominion
Energy Operating Segment—Dominion and Dominion Gas

Dominion Gas’ natural gas transmission operations compete with domestic and
Canadian pipeline companies. Dominion Gas also competes with gas marketers seeking to provide or arrange transportation, storage and other services. Alternative energy sources, such as oil or coal, provide another level of competition. Although
competition is based primarily on price, the array of services that can be provided to customers is also an important factor. The combination of capacity rights held on certain long-line pipelines, a large storage capability and the availability of
numerous receipt and delivery points along its own pipeline system enable Dominion to tailor its services to meet the needs of individual customers.

DTI’s processing and fractionation operations face competition in obtaining natural gas supplies for its processing and related services. Numerous factors impact any given customer’s choice of
processing services provider, including the location of the facilities, efficiency and reliability of operations, and the pricing arrangements offered.

In Ohio, there has been no legislation enacted to require supplier choice for natural gas distribution consumers. However, East Ohio has offered an Energy Choice program to residential and commercial
customers since October 2000. East Ohio has since taken various steps approved by the Ohio Commission toward exiting the merchant function, including restructuring its commodity service and placing Energy Choice-eligible customers in a direct retail
relationship with participating suppliers. Further, in April 2013, East Ohio fully exited the merchant function for its nonresidential customers, which are now required to choose a retail supplier or be assigned to one at a monthly variable rate set
by the supplier. At December 31, 2014, approximately 1 million of East Ohio’s 1.2 million Ohio customers were participating in the Energy Choice program.

Dominion Energy Operating Segment—Dominion

For Hope, West Virginia does not allow
customers to choose their provider in its retail natural gas markets at this time. See

Regulation-State Regulations-Gasfor additional information.

Cove
Point’s LNG operations are not subject to significant competition due to the long-term nature of their contracts.

REGULATION

Dominion
Energy Operating Segment—Dominion and Dominion Gas

Dominion Gas’ natural gas transmission, storage, processing and gathering
operations are regulated primarily by FERC. East Ohio’s gas distribution operations, including the rates that it may charge to customers, are regulated by the Ohio Commission. SeeState RegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationfor more information.

Dominion Energy Operating Segment—Dominion

Dominion’s LNG operations are regulated primarily by FERC. Hope’s gas distribution operations, including the rates that it may charge customers,
are regulated by the West Virginia Commission. SeeState RegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationfor more information.

PROPERTIESANDINVESTMENTS

Dominion Energy
Operating Segment—Dominion and Dominion Gas

East Ohio’s gas distribution network is located in Ohio. This network involves
approximately 18,800 miles of pipe, exclusive of service lines. The rights-of-way grants for many natural gas pipelines have been obtained from the actual owners of real estate, as underlying titles have been examined. Where rights-of-way have not
been obtained, they could be acquired from private owners by condemnation, if necessary. Many natural gas pipelines are on publicly-owned property, where company rights and actions are determined on a case-by-case basis, with results that range from
reimbursed relocation to revocation of permission to operate.

Dominion Gas has approximately 7,700 miles of gas transmission,
gathering and storage pipelines located in the states of Maryland, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia. Dominion Gas owns gas processing and fractionation facilities in West Virginia with a total processing capacity of 270,000
mcf per day and fractionation capacity of 580,000 Gals per day. Dominion Gas also operates 20 underground gas storage fields located in New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, with approximately 2,000 storage wells and approximately 399,000
acres of operated leaseholds.

The total designed capacity of the underground storage fields operated by Dominion Gas is
approximately 947 bcf. Certain storage fields are jointly-owned and operated by Dominion Gas. The capacity of those fields owned by Dominion Gas’ partners totals about 242 bcf.

In December 2013, DTI closed on agreements with two natural gas producers to convey approximately 100,000 acres of Marcellus Shale
development rights underneath several of its natural gas storage fields. In September 2014, DTI closed on an agreement with a natural gas producer to convey approximately 24,000 acres of Marcellus Shale development rights underneath one of its
natural gas storage fields. In November 2014, DTI closed on an agreement with a natural gas producer to convey approximately 11,000 acres of Marcellus Shale development rights underneath













one of its Pennsylvania natural gas storage fields. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

In July 2013, East Ohio signed long-term precedent agreements with two customers to move 320,000 Dths per day of processed gas from the
outlet of new gas processing facilities in Ohio to interconnections with multiple interstate pipelines. The first phase of the Western Access Project provides system enhancements to facilitate the movement of processed gas over East Ohio’s
system. The initial phase of the project was completed in the fourth quarter of 2014 and cost approximately $85 million. During the second and third quarters of 2014, East Ohio executed long-term precedent agreements with customers for 450,000 Dths
per day of service to new interconnects with interstate pipelines. This second phase of the Western Access Project will expand the number of interstate pipelines to which East Ohio will deliver processed gas to four. The project is expected to
be completed in the fourth quarter of 2015 and cost approximately $130 million.

In September 2014, DTI announced its
intent to construct and operate the Supply Header Project which is expected to cost approximately $500 million and provide 1,500,000 Dths per day of firm transportation service to various customers. In October 2014, DTI requested authorization to
use the FERC’s pre-filing process. The application to request FERC authorization to construct and operate the project facilities is expected to be filed in the third quarter of 2015, with the facilities expected to be in service in the fourth
quarter of 2018. In December 2014, DTI entered into a precedent agreement with Atlantic Coast Pipeline for the Supply Header Project.

In June 2014, DTI executed binding precedent agreements with two power generators for the Leidy South Project. In November 2014, one of the power generators assigned a portion of its capacity to an
affiliate, bringing the total number of project customers to three. The project is expected to cost approximately $210 million and provide 155,000 Dths per day of firm transportation service from Clinton County, Pennsylvania to Loudoun County,
Virginia. Because the project facilities would be installed at existing DTI compressor stations rather than greenfield sites, DTI will submit a standard certificate application rather than utilize the FERC pre-filing process. The application to
request FERC authorization to construct and operate the project facilities is expected to be filed in the second quarter of 2015. Service under the 20-year contracts is expected to commence in the fourth quarter of 2017.

During the second quarter of 2014, DTI executed a binding precedent agreement with a customer for the Monroe-to-Cornwell Project. The
project is expected to cost approximately $70 million and provide 205,000 Dths per day of firm transportation service from Monroe County, Ohio to an interconnect near Cornwell, West Virginia. In October 2014, DTI filed an application to request
FERC authorization to construct and operate the project facilities, which are expected to be in service in the fourth quarter of 2016.

In the first quarter of 2014, DTI executed a binding precedent agreement for the Lebanon West II Project. The project is expected to cost approximately $112 million and provide 130,000 Dths per day of
firm transportation service from Butler County, Pennsylvania to an interconnect with Texas Gas Pipeline in Lebanon, Ohio. In September 2014, DTI filed an application to request

FERC authorization to construct and operate the project facilities, which are expected to be in service in the fourth quarter of 2016.

In November 2014, DTI placed into service its $42 million Natrium-to-Market project. The project is designed to provide 185,000 Dths per
day of firm transportation from an interconnect between DTI and the Natrium facility to the Crayne interconnect. Four customers have entered into binding precedent agreements for the full project capacity under 8-year and 13-year terms.

In September 2013, DTI executed binding precedent agreements with several local distribution company customers for the New Market Project.
The project is expected to cost approximately $159 million and provide 112,000 Dths per day of firm transportation service from Leidy, Pennsylvania to interconnects with Iroquois and Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation’s distribution system in the
Albany, New York market. In June 2014, DTI filed an application to request FERC authorization to construct and operate the project facilities, which are expected to be in service in the fourth quarter of 2016.

In October 2013, DTI executed a binding precedent agreement with CNX Gas Company LLC for the Clarington Project. The project is expected
to cost approximately $78 million and provide 250,000 Dths per day of firm transportation service from central West Virginia to Clarington, Ohio. In June 2014, DTI filed an application to request FERC authorization to construct and operate the
project facilities, which are expected to be in service in the fourth quarter of 2016.

In November 2014, DTI placed into
service its $112 million Allegheny Storage Project, which provides approximately 7.5 bcf of incremental storage service and 125,000 Dths per day of associated year-round firm transportation service to three local distribution companies under 15-year
contracts.

In 2008, East Ohio began PIR, aimed at replacing approximately 4,100 miles of its pipeline system at a cost of $2.7
billion. In 2011, approval was obtained to include an additional 1,450 miles and to increase annual capital investment to meet the program goal. The program will replace approximately 25% of the pipeline system and is anticipated to take place over
a total of 25 years.

Dominion Energy Operating Segment—Dominion

In addition to the assets held by Dominion Gas detailed above, see Item 1. Business,Generalfor further information regarding pipeline and storage capacity owned by Dominion. Dominion also has
about 15 bcf of above-ground storage capacity at Cove Point. Dominion has 142 compressor stations with approximately 869,000 installed compressor horsepower.

Cove Point—Dominion is pursuing the Liquefaction Project, which would enable Cove Point to liquefy domestically-produced natural gas for export as LNG. The DOE previously authorized Dominion
to export LNG to countries with free trade agreements. In September 2013, the DOE authorized Dominion to export LNG from Cove Point to non-free trade agreement countries.

In May 2014, the FERC staff issued its EA for the Liquefaction Project. In the EA, the FERC staff addressed a variety of topics related to the proposed construction and development of the Liquefaction
Project and its potential impact to the environment, and determined that with the implementation of appropriate mitigation measures, the Liquefaction Project can be built













and operated safely with no significant impact to the environment. In September 2014, Cove Point received the FERC order authorizing the Liquefaction Project with certain conditions. The
conditions regarding the Liquefaction Project set forth in the FERC order largely incorporate the mitigation measures proposed in the EA. In October 2014, Cove Point commenced construction of the Liquefaction Project, with an in-service date
anticipated in late 2017. The Cove Point facility is authorized to export at a rate of 770 million cubic feet of natural gas per day for a period of 20 years.

In April 2013, Dominion announced it had fully subscribed the capacity of the project with 20-year terminal service agreements. ST Cove Point, LLC, a joint venture of Sumitomo Corporation, a Japanese
corporation that is one of the world’s leading trading companies, and Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd., a Japanese corporation that is the largest natural gas utility in Japan, and GAIL Global (USA) LNG LLC, a wholly-owned indirect U.S. subsidiary of GAIL
(India) Ltd., have each contracted for half of the capacity. Following completion of the front-end engineering and design work, Dominion also announced it had awarded its EPC contract for new liquefaction facilities to IHI/Kiewit Cove Point, a joint
venture between IHI E&C International Corporation and Kiewit Energy Company.

Cove Point has historically operated as an
LNG import facility under various long-term import contracts. Since 2010, Dominion has renegotiated certain existing LNG import contracts in a manner that will result in a significant reduction in pipeline and storage capacity utilization and
associated anticipated revenues during the period from 2017 through 2028. Such amendments created the opportunity for Dominion to explore the Liquefaction Project, which, assuming it becomes operational, will extend the economic life of Cove
Point and contribute to Dominion’s overall growth plan. In total, these renegotiations reduced Cove Point’s expected annual revenues from the import-related contracts by approximately $150 million from 2017 through 2028, partially offset
by approximately $50 million of additional revenues in the years 2013 through 2017.

In December 2014, Cove Point filed an
application to request FERC authorization to construct and operate facilities that will provide firm transportation service for a new power generating facility located in Maryland. The $31 million St. Charles Transportation Project will provide
132,000 Dths per day of firm transportation service from Cove Point’s interconnect with Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line in Fairfax County, Virginia to CPV Maryland, LLC’s facility in Charles County, Maryland. Service under a 20-year
contract is expected to commence in June 2016.

In December 2014, Cove Point filed an application to request FERC authorization
to construct and operate facilities that will provide firm transportation service for a new power generating facility located in Maryland. The $37 million Keys Energy Project will provide 107,000 Dths per day of firm transportation service from Cove
Point’s interconnect with Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line in Fairfax County, Virginia to Keys Energy Center, LLC’s facility in Prince George’s County, Maryland. Service under a 20-year contract is expected to commence in March 2017.

See Item 2. Properties for more information about the Cove Point facility.

Dominion Energy Equity Method Investments—In September 2014, Dominion, along
with Duke Energy Corporation, Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. and AGL Resources Inc., announced the formation of Atlantic Coast Pipeline. The members, which are subsidiaries of the above-referenced parent companies, hold the following membership
interests: Dominion, 45%; Duke Energy Corporation, 40%; Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc., 10%; and AGL Resources Inc., 5%. Atlantic Coast Pipeline is focused on constructing an approximately 550-mile natural gas pipeline running from West Virginia
through Virginia to North Carolina, which has a total expected cost of $4.5 billion to $5.0 billion, excluding financing costs. In October 2014, Atlantic Coast Pipeline requested approval from FERC to utilize the pre-filing process under which
environmental review for the natural gas pipeline project will commence. It expects to file its FERC application in the third quarter of 2015, receive the FERC certificate in the summer of 2016, and begin construction shortly thereafter. The project
is subject to FERC, state and other federal approvals. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about Dominion’s equity method investment in Atlantic Coast Pipeline.

In December 2012, Dominion formed Blue Racer with Caiman to provide midstream services to natural gas producers operating in the Utica
Shale region in Ohio and portions of Pennsylvania. Blue Racer is an equal partnership between Dominion and Caiman, with Dominion contributing midstream assets and Caiman contributing private equity capital. Midstream services offered by Blue Racer
include gathering, processing, fractionation, and natural gas liquids transportation and marketing. Blue Racer is expected to leverage Dominion’s existing presence in the Utica region with significant additional new capacity designed to meet
producer needs as the development of the Utica Shale formation increases. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about Dominion’s equity method investment in Blue Racer.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

Dominion Energy Operating Segment—Dominion and Dominion Gas

Dominion’s and
Dominion Gas’ natural gas supply is obtained from various sources including purchases from major and independent producers in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions, local producers in the Appalachian area and gas marketers. Dominion’s
and Dominion Gas’ large underground natural gas storage network and the location of their pipeline systems are a significant link between the country’s major interstate gas pipelines and large markets in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic
regions. Dominion’s and Dominion Gas’ pipelines are part of an interconnected gas transmission system, which provides access to supplies nationwide for local distribution companies, marketers, power generators and industrial and commercial
customers.

Dominion’s and Dominion Gas’ underground storage facilities play an important part in balancing gas
supply with consumer demand and are essential to serving the Northeast, mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions. In addition, storage capacity is an important element in the effective management of both gas supply and pipeline transmission capacity.













SEASONALITY

Dominion Energy Operating Segment—Dominion and Dominion Gas

Dominion Energy’s
natural gas distribution business earnings vary seasonally, as a result of the impact of changes in temperature on demand by residential and commercial customers for gas to meet heating needs. Historically, the majority of these earnings have been
generated during the heating season, which is generally from November to March; however, implementation of the straight-fixed-variable rate design at East Ohio has reduced the earnings impact of weather-related fluctuations. Demand for services at
Dominion’s pipeline and storage business can also be weather sensitive. Earnings are also impacted by changes in commodity prices driven by seasonal weather changes, the effects of unusual weather events on operations and the economy.

Corporate and Other

Corporate and
Other Segment—Virginia Power and Dominion Gas

Virginia Power’s and Dominion Gas’ Corporate and Other segments primarily
include certain specific items attributable to their operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

Corporate and Other Segment—Dominion

Dominion’s Corporate and Other segment includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) and the net impact of
operations that are discontinued, which is discussed in Note 3 and Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion’s operating segments that are not included in
profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

ENVIRONMENTALSTRATEGY

The Companies are committed to being good environmental stewards. Their ongoing objective is to provide reliable, affordable energy for their customers while being environmentally responsible. The
integrated strategy to meet this objective consists of four major elements:

ŸCompliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules;

ŸConservation and load management;

ŸRenewable generation development; and

ŸImprovements in other energy infrastructure, including natural gas operations.

This strategy incorporates the Companies’ efforts to voluntarily reduce GHG emissions, which are described below. SeeDominion
Generation-PropertiesandDominion Energy-Propertiesfor more information on certain of the projects described below. In addition to the environmental strategy described above, Dominion formed the AES department in April 2009 to conduct
research in the renewable and alternative energy technologies sector and to support strategic investments to advance Dominion’s degree of understanding of such
technologies.

Environmental Compliance

The Companies remain committed to compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules related to their operations. As part of their commitment to compliance with such laws, Dominion and
Virginia Power have sold or closed a number of coal-fired generation units over the past several years, and have plans to close additional units in the future. Additional information related to these and other of the Companies’ environmental
compliance matters can be found in Item 1.Operating SegmentsandFuture Issues and Other Mattersin Item 7. MD&A and in Notes 3, 6 and 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Conservation and Load Management

Conservation and
load management play a significant role in meeting the growing demand for electricity. The Regulation Act provides incentives for energy conservation and sets a voluntary goal for Virginia to reduce electricity consumption by retail customers in
2022 by 10% of the electric energy consumed in 2006 through the implementation of conservation programs. Additional legislation in 2009 added definitions of peak-shaving and energy efficiency programs, and allowed for a margin on operating expenses
and recovery of revenue reductions related to energy efficiency programs.

Virginia Power’s DSM programs, implemented with
Virginia Commission approval, provide important incremental steps toward achieving the voluntary 10% energy conservation goal through activities such as energy audits and incentives for customers to upgrade or install certain energy efficient
measures and/or systems. The DSM programs began in Virginia in 2010 and in North Carolina in 2011. Currently, there are 22 total DSM programs active in the two states. Virginia Power continues to evaluate opportunities to redesign current DSM
programs and develop new DSM initiatives in Virginia and North Carolina.

In Ohio, East Ohio offers three DSM programs,
approved by the Ohio Commission, designed to help customers reduce their energy consumption.

Virginia Power continues to
upgrade meters to AMI, also referred to as smart meters, in portions of Virginia. The AMI meter upgrades are part of an ongoing project that will help Virginia Power further evaluate the effectiveness of AMI meters in achieving voltage conservation,
remotely turning off and on electric service, power outage and restoration detection and reporting, remote daily meter readings and offering dynamic rates.

Renewable Generation

Renewable energy is also an important component of a diverse and reliable
energy mix. Both Virginia and North Carolina have passed legislation setting targets for renewable power. Virginia Power is committed to meeting Virginia’s goals of 12% of base year electric energy sales from renewable power sources by 2022,
and 15% by 2025, and North Carolina’s RPS of 12.5% by 2021.

See Item 1. Business,Operating Segmentsand Item 2.
Properties for additional information, including Dominion’s merchant solar properties.

Improvements in Other Energy Infrastructure

Virginia Power’s six-year investment plan includes significant capital expenditures to upgrade or add new transmission and
distribution lines, substations and other facilities to meet growing













electricity demand within its service territory, maintain reliability, and to address environmental requirements. These enhancements are primarily aimed at meeting Virginia Power’s continued
goal of providing reliable service, and are intended to address both continued population growth and increases in electricity consumption by the typical consumer. An additional benefit will be added capacity to efficiently deliver electricity from
the renewable projects now being developed or to be developed in the future. SeePropertiesin Item 1.,Operating Segments, DVPfor additional information.

Dominion and Dominion Gas, in connection with their six-year investment plan, are also pursuing the construction or upgrade of regulated infrastructure in their natural gas businesses. SeeProperties
and Investmentsin Item 1.,Operating Segments, Dominion Energyfor additional information, including natural gas infrastructure projects.

The Companies’ Strategy for Voluntarily Reducing GHG Emissions

The Companies have not established a standalone GHG emissions reduction target or timetable, but they are actively engaged in voluntary reduction efforts. The Companies have an integrated voluntary
strategy for reducing GHG emission intensity with diversification as its cornerstone. The six principal components of the strategy include initiatives that address electric energy management, electric energy production, electric energy delivery and
natural gas storage, transmission and delivery, as follows:

ŸEnhance conservation and energy efficiency programs to help customers use energy wisely and reduce environmental impacts;

ŸExpand the Companies’ renewable energy portfolio, principally wind power, solar, fuel cells and biomass, to help diversify the Companies’
fleet, meet state renewable energy targets and lower the carbon footprint;

ŸBuild other new generating capacity, including low-emissions natural-gas fired and emissions-free nuclear units to meet customers’ future
electricity needs;

ŸConstruct new electric transmission infrastructure to modernize the grid, promote economic security and help deliver more green energy to population
centers where it is needed most;

ŸConstruct new natural gas infrastructure to expand availability of this cleaner fuel, to reduce emissions, and to promote energy and economic security
both in the U.S. and abroad; and

ŸImplement and enhance voluntary methane mitigation measures through the EPA’s Natural Gas Star Program.

Since 2000, Dominion and Virginia Power have tracked the emissions of their electric generation fleet, which employs
a mix of fuel and renewable energy sources. Comparing annual year 2000 to annual year 2013, the entire electric generating fleet (based on ownership percentage) reduced its average CO2emissions rate per MWh of energy produced from electric generation by about 39%. Comparing annual year 2000 to annual year
2013, the regulated electric generating fleet (based on ownership percentage) reduced its average CO2emissions rate per MWh of energy produced from electric generation by about 19%. Dominion and Virginia Power do not yet have final 2014 emissions data.

Dominion also developed a comprehensive GHG inventory for calendar
year 2013. For Dominion Generation, Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s direct CO2equivalent emissions, based on equity share (ownership), were approximately 33.9 million metric tons and 30.2 million metric tons, respectively, in 2013, compared to 36.2 million metric tons
and 24.4 million metric tons, respectively, in 2012. The overall decrease in emissions from the Dominion fleet from 2012 to 2013 is largely due to Dominion’s divestiture of three power stations (Brayton Point in Massachusetts, and Elwood and
Kincaid in Illinois), whereas the increase in emissions for the Virginia Power fleet was due to an increase in power generation after mild weather in 2012, which includes increased usage of coal, natural gas and oil. For the DVP operating
segment’s electric transmission and distribution operations, direct CO2equivalent emissions for 2013 were 46,446 metric tons, representing a slight decrease from 2012. For 2013, DTI’s (including Cove Point) direct CO2equivalent emissions were approximately 1.0 million metric tons,
and Hope’s and East Ohio’s direct CO2equivalent
emissions were approximately 1.0 million metric tons, both similar to 2012. Dominion’s GHG inventory follows all methodologies specified in the EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule, 40 CFR Part 98 for calculating emissions.

Alternative Energy Initiatives

AES conducts research in the renewable and alternative energy technologies sector and supports strategic investments to advance Dominion’s degree of understanding of such technologies. AES
participates in federal and state policy development on alternative energy and identifies potential alternative energy resource and technology opportunities for Dominion’s business units. AES has also conducted a number of studies
to evaluate potential transmission solutions for delivering offshore wind resources to its customers. In addition, AES has developed EDGE®, a conservation voltage management solution enabling utilities to deploy incremental grid-side energy management, and that requires no behavioral changes or purchases
by end customers.





REGULATION

The Companies are subject to regulation by various federal,
state and local authorities, including the Virginia Commission, North Carolina Commission, Ohio Commission, West Virginia Commission, SEC, FERC, EPA, DOE, NRC, Army Corps of Engineers, and the Department of Transportation.

State Regulations

ELECTRIC

Virginia Power’s electric utility retail service is subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina
Commission.

Virginia Power holds CPCNs which authorize it to maintain and operate its electric facilities now in operation and
to sell electricity to customers. However, Virginia Power may not construct generating facilities or large capacity transmission lines without the prior approval of various state and federal government agencies. In addition, the Virginia Commission
and the North Carolina Commission regulate Virginia Power’s transactions with affiliates, transfers of certain facilities and the issuance of certain securities.













Electric Regulation in Virginia

Under the Regulation Act enacted in 2007, Virginia Power’s base rates are set by a process that allows the recovery of operating costs and an ROIC. The Virginia Commission reviews and has the ability
to adjust Virginia Power’s base rates, terms and conditions for generation and distribution services on a biennial basis in a proceeding that involves the determination of Virginia Power’s actual earned ROE during a combined two-year
historic test period, and the determination of Virginia Power’s authorized ROE prospectively. Under certain circumstances described in the Regulation Act, the Virginia Commission may also order a base rate increase or reduction during the
biennial review. Circumstances where the Virginia Commission may order a base rate decrease include determination by the Virginia Commission that Virginia Power has exceeded its authorized level of earnings for two consecutive biennial review
periods. Virginia Power’s authorized ROE can be set no lower than the average, for a three-year historic period, of the actual returns reported to the SEC by not less than a majority of comparable utilities within the Southeastern U.S., with
certain limitations as described in the Regulation Act.

In February 2015, the Virginia Governor signed legislation into law
which will keep Virginia Power’s base rates unchanged until at least December 1, 2022. The legislation limits the 2015 biennial review to solely a determination of Virginia Power’s actual earned ROE during the combined 2013-2014 test
period and whether any refunds are due to customers. In addition, no biennial reviews will be conducted by the Virginia Commission for the five successive 12-month test periods beginning January 1, 2015, and ending December 31, 2019. During this
suspension period, Virginia Power bears the risk of any severe weather events and natural disasters, as well as the risk of asset impairments related to the early retirement of any generation facilities due to the implementation of the Clean Power
Plan regulations, and Virginia Power may not recover its associated costs through increases to base rates. The legislation requires the Virginia Commission to conduct proceedings in 2017 and 2019 to determine the utility’s ROE for use in
connection with rate adjustment clauses.

The Regulation Act authorizes stand-alone rate adjustment clauses for recovery of
costs for new generation projects, FERC-approved transmission costs, environmental compliance, conservation and energy efficiency programs and renewable energy programs; and it provides for enhanced returns on capital expenditures on specific new
generation projects. The Regulation Act also contains statutory provisions directing Virginia Power to file annual fuel cost recovery cases with the Virginia Commission.

Legislation enacted in February 2013 amended the Regulation Act prospectively, including elimination of the 50 basis points RPS ROE incentive. In addition, ROE incentives for newly proposed generation
projects were eliminated, except for nuclear and offshore wind projects, which were reduced from the previous 200 basis points ROE incentive to 100 basis points. In addition, through the 2013 amendments, the Virginia Commission has the discretion to
increase or decrease a utility’s authorized ROE based on the utility’s performance consistent with Virginia Commission precedent that existed prior to 2007. The legislation included changes to the earnings test parameters defined by the
Regulation Act to allow for a wider band of 70 basis points above and below

the authorized ROE in determining whether a utility’s earned ROE is either insufficient or excessive beginning with the biennial review for 2013-2014 to be filed in 2015. Additionally, if a
utility is deemed to have over-earned, the customer refund share of excess earnings increases to 70% from the previous 60% level beginning with the biennial review for 2013-2014 to be filed in 2015.

If the Virginia Commission’s future rate decisions, including actions relating to Virginia Power’s rate adjustment clause
filings, differ materially from Virginia Power’s expectations, such decisions may adversely affect Virginia Power’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Electric Regulation in North Carolina

Virginia Power’s retail electric base rates in North
Carolina are regulated on a cost-of-service/rate-of-return basis subject to North Carolina statutes and the rules and procedures of the North Carolina Commission. North Carolina base rates are set by a process that allows Virginia Power to
recover its operating costs and an ROIC. If retail electric earnings exceed the authorized ROE established by the North Carolina Commission, retail electric rates may be subject to review and possible reduction by the North Carolina Commission,
which may decrease Virginia Power’s future earnings. Additionally, if the North Carolina Commission does not allow recovery of costs incurred in providing service on a timely basis, Virginia Power’s future earnings could be negatively
impacted. Fuel rates are subject to revision under annual fuel cost adjustment proceedings.

Virginia Power’s transmission
service rates in North Carolina are regulated by the North Carolina Commission as part of Virginia Power’s bundled retail service to North Carolina customers. In March 2012, Virginia Power filed an application with the North Carolina Commission
to increase base non-fuel revenues with January 1, 2013 as the proposed effective date for the permanent rate revision. In December 2012, the North Carolina Commission approved a $36 million increase in Virginia Power’s annual non-fuel
base revenues based on an authorized ROE of 10.2%, and a $14 million decrease in annual base fuel revenues for a combined total base revenue increase of $22 million. These rate changes became effective on January 1, 2013 and were appealed to
the North Carolina Supreme Court by multiple parties. In June 2014, the North Carolina Supreme Court issued an opinion reversing the portion of the North Carolina Commission’s December 2012 order from Virginia Power’s 2012 base rate case
approving a 10.2% ROE for Virginia Power, and remanding the case to the North Carolina Commission for additional findings of fact in light of a 2013 opinion issued after the North Carolina Commission’s order. This case is pending.

GAS

East Ohio’s
natural gas distribution services, including the rates it may charge its customers, are regulated by the Ohio Commission. Hope’s natural gas distribution services are regulated by the West Virginia Commission.

Gas Regulation in Ohio

East Ohio is subject to
regulation of rates and other aspects of its business by the Ohio Commission. When necessary, East Ohio













seeks general base rate increases to recover increased operating costs and a fair return on rate base investments. Base rates are set based on the cost of service by rate class. A
straight-fixed-variable rate design, in which the majority of operating costs are recovered through a monthly charge rather than a volumetric charge, is utilized to establish rates for a majority of East Ohio’s customers pursuant to a 2008 rate
case settlement which included an authorized return on equity of 10.38%.

In addition to general base rate increases, East Ohio
makes routine filings with the Ohio Commission to reflect changes in the costs of gas purchased for operational balancing on its system. These purchased gas costs are subject to rate recovery through a mechanism that ensures dollar for dollar
recovery of prudently incurred costs. Costs that are expected to be recovered in future rates are deferred as regulatory assets. The rider filings cover unrecovered gas costs plus prospective annual demand costs. Increases or decreases in gas cost
rider rates result in increases or decreases in revenues with corresponding increases or decreases in net purchased gas cost expenses.

The Ohio Commission has also approved several stand-alone cost recovery mechanisms to recover specified costs and a return for infrastructure projects and certain other costs that vary widely over time;
such costs are excluded from general base rates. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Gas Regulation in
West Virginia

Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiary is subject to regulation of rates and other aspects of its business by the West
Virginia Commission. When necessary, Hope seeks general base rate increases to recover increased operating costs and a fair return on rate base investments. Base rates are set based on the cost of service by rate class. Base rates for Hope are
designed primarily based on rate design methodology in which the majority of operating costs are recovered through volumetric charges.

In addition to general rate increases, Hope makes routine separate filings with the West Virginia Commission to reflect changes in the costs of purchased gas. The majority of these purchased gas costs are
subject to rate recovery through a mechanism that ensures dollar for dollar recovery of prudently incurred costs. Costs that are expected to be recovered in future rates are deferred as regulatory assets. The purchased gas cost recovery filings
generally cover a prospective twelve-month period. Approved increases or decreases in gas cost recovery rates result in increases or decreases in revenues with corresponding increases or decreases in net purchased gas cost expenses.

Status of Competitive Retail Gas Services

Both of
the states in which Dominion and Dominion Gas have gas distribution operations have considered legislation regarding a competitive deregulation of natural gas sales at the retail level.

Ohio—Since October 2000, East Ohio has offered the Energy Choice program, under which residential and commercial customers are
encouraged to purchase gas directly from retail suppliers or through a community aggregation program. In October 2006, East Ohio restructured its commodity service by entering into gas purchase contracts with selected suppliers at a fixed price
above the NYMEX month-end settlement and passing that gas cost to customers under the Standard Service Offer
pro-

gram. Starting in April 2009, East Ohio buys natural gas under the Standard Service Offer program only for customers not eligible to participate in the Energy Choice program and places Energy
Choice-eligible customers in a direct retail relationship with selected suppliers, which is designated on the customers’ bills.

In January 2013, the Ohio Commission granted East Ohio’s motion to fully exit the merchant function for its nonresidential customers, beginning in April 2013, which requires those customers to choose
a retail supplier or be assigned to one at a monthly variable rate set by the supplier. At December 31, 2014, approximately 1.0 million of Dominion Gas’ 1.2 million Ohio customers were participating in the Energy Choice program.
Subject to the Ohio Commission’s approval, East Ohio may eventually exit the gas merchant function in Ohio entirely and have all customers select an alternate gas supplier. East Ohio continues to be the provider of last resort in the event of
default by a supplier. Large industrial customers in Ohio also source their own natural gas supplies.

West
Virginia—At this time, West Virginia has not enacted legislation allowing customers to choose in the retail natural gas markets served by Hope. However, the West Virginia Commission has issued regulations to govern pooling services, one of
the tools that natural gas suppliers may utilize to provide retail customers a choice in the future and has issued rules requiring competitive gas service providers to be licensed in West Virginia.

Federal Regulations

FEDERALENERGYREGULATORYCOMMISSION

Electric

Under the Federal Power Act, FERC regulates wholesale sales and transmission of electricity in interstate commerce by public utilities. Virginia Power purchases and sells electricity in the PJM wholesale
market and Dominion’s merchant generators sell electricity in the PJM, MISO and ISO-NE wholesale markets under Dominion’s market-based sales tariffs authorized by FERC. In addition, Virginia Power has FERC approval of a tariff to sell
wholesale power at capped rates based on its embedded cost of generation. This cost-based sales tariff could be used to sell to loads within or outside Virginia Power’s service territory. Any such sales would be voluntary.

Dominion and Virginia Power are subject to FERC’s Standards of Conduct that govern conduct between transmission function employees of
interstate gas and electricity transmission providers and the marketing function employees of their affiliates. The rule defines the scope of transmission and marketing-related functions that are covered by the standards and is designed to prevent
transmission providers from giving their affiliates undue preferences.

Dominion and Virginia Power are also subject to
FERC’s affiliate restrictions that (1) prohibit power sales between Virginia Power and Dominion’s merchant plants without first receiving FERC authorization, (2) require the merchant plants and Virginia Power to conduct their
wholesale power sales operations separately, and (3) prohibit Virginia Power from sharing market information with merchant plant operating personnel. The rules are designed to prohibit Virginia Power from giving the merchant plants a
competitive advantage.













EPACT included provisions to create an ERO. The ERO is required to promulgate mandatory
reliability standards governing the operation of the bulk power system in the U.S. FERC has certified NERC as the ERO and also issued an initial order approving many reliability standards that went into effect in 2007. Entities that violate
standards will be subject to fines of between $1 thousand and $1 million per day, and can also be assessed non-monetary penalties, depending upon the nature and severity of the violation.

In April 2008, FERC granted an application for Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations to establish a forward-looking
formula rate mechanism that updates transmission rates on an annual basis and approved an ROE of 11.4%, effective as of January 1, 2008. The formula rate is designed to recover the expected revenue requirement for each calendar year and is
updated based on actual costs. The FERC-approved formula method, which is based on projected costs, allows Virginia Power to earn a current return on its growing investment in electric transmission infrastructure.

Gas

FERC regulates the transportation and sale for
resale of natural gas in interstate commerce under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, as amended. Under the Natural Gas Act, FERC has authority over rates, terms and conditions of services performed by DTI, Iroquois,
and certain services performed by Cove Point. The design, construction and operation of the Cove Point LNG facility, including associated natural gas pipelines, the Liquefaction Project and the import and export of LNG are also regulated by the
FERC.

Dominion Gas’ interstate gas transmission and storage activities are conducted on an open access basis, in
accordance with certificates, tariffs and service agreements on file with FERC and FERC regulations.

Dominion Gas operates in compliance with FERC standards of conduct, which prohibit the
sharing of certain non-public transmission information or customer specific data by its interstate gas transmission and storage companies with non-transmission function employees. Pursuant to these standards of conduct, Dominion Gas also makes
certain informational postings available on Dominion’s website.

See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information.

Safety Regulations

Dominion Gas is also subject to the Pipeline Safety Acts of 2002 and 2011, which mandate inspections of interstate and intrastate natural gas transmission and storage pipelines, particularly those located
in areas of high-density population. Dominion Gas has evaluated its natural gas transmission and storage properties, as required by the Department of Transportation regulations under these Acts, and has implemented a program of identification,
testing and potential remediation activities. These activities are ongoing.

The Companies are subject to a number of federal
and state laws and regulations, including OSHA, and comparable state statutes, whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of workers. The Companies have an internal safety, health and security program designed to monitor and enforce
compliance with worker safety requirements, which is routinely reviewed and considered for improvement. The Companies believe that they are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations related to worker health and safety.
Notwithstanding these preventive measures, incidents may occur that are outside of the Companies’ control.

Environmental Regulations

Each of the Companies’ operating segments faces substantial laws, regulations and compliance costs with respect to environmental
matters. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations authorize the imposition of substantial penalties for noncompliance, including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions. The cost of complying with
applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules is expected to be material to the Companies. If expenditures for pollution control technologies and associated operating costs are not recoverable from customers through regulated rates (in
regulated businesses) or market prices (in unregulated businesses), those costs could adversely affect future results of operations and cash flows. The Companies have applied for or obtained the necessary environmental permits for the operation of
their facilities. Many of these permits are subject to reissuance and continuing review. For a discussion of significant aspects of these matters, including current and planned capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance required to be
discussed in this Item, seeEnvironmental MattersinFuture Issues and Other Mattersin Item 7. MD&A, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Additional information can also be found in Item 3. Legal
Proceedings and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

GLOBALCLIMATECHANGE

The national and international attention in recent years on GHG emissions and their relationship to climate change has resulted in













federal, regional and state legislative and regulatory action in this area. The Companies support national climate change legislation that would provide a consistent, economy-wide approach to
addressing this issue and are currently taking action to protect the environment and address climate change while meeting the future needs of their growing service territory. Dominion’s CEO and operating segment CEOs are responsible for
compliance with the laws and regulations governing environmental matters, including climate change, and Dominion’s Board of Directors receives periodic updates on these matters. SeeEnvironmental Strategyabove, Environmental
MattersinFuture Issues and Other Mattersin Item 7. MD&A and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on climate change legislation and regulation, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Nuclear Regulatory Commission

All
aspects of the operation and maintenance of Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s nuclear power stations are regulated by the NRC. Operating licenses issued by the NRC are subject to revocation, suspension or modification, and the operation of a
nuclear unit may be suspended if the NRC determines that the public interest, health or safety so requires.

From time to time,
the NRC adopts new requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear facilities. In many cases, these new regulations require changes in the design, operation and maintenance of existing nuclear facilities. If the NRC adopts such
requirements in the future, it could result in substantial increases in the cost of operating and maintaining Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s nuclear generating units. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information.

The NRC also requires Dominion and Virginia Power to decontaminate their nuclear facilities once operations
cease. This process is referred to as decommissioning, and Dominion and Virginia Power are required by the NRC to be financially prepared. For information on decommissioning trusts, see Dominion Generation-Nuclear Decommissioning above and Note 9 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on spent nuclear fuel.





CYBERSECURITY

In an effort to reduce the likelihood and severity of cyber intrusions, the Companies have a comprehensive cybersecurity program designed to protect and
preserve the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data and systems. In addition, the Companies are subject to mandatory cybersecurity regulatory requirements, interface regularly with a wide range of external organizations, and participate
in classified briefings to maintain an awareness of current cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities. The Companies’ current security posture and regulatory compliance efforts are intended to address the evolving and changing cyber threats.
See Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional information.





