Item 1. Business

GENERAL

Dominion, headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and
incorporated in Virginia in 1983, is one of the nation’s largest producers and transporters of energy. Dominion’s strategy is to be a leading provider of electricity, natural gas and related services to customers primarily in the eastern
region of the U.S. Dominion’s portfolio of assets includes approximately 27,615 MW of generating capacity, 6,100 miles of electric transmission lines, 56,800 miles of electric distribution lines, 11,000 miles of natural gas transmission,
gathering and storage pipeline and 21,800 miles of gas distribution pipeline, exclusive of service lines of two inches in diameter or less. Dominion also owns the nation’s largest underground natural gas storage system, operates approximately
947 bcf of storage capacity and serves retail energy customers in 14 states.

Dominion is focused on expanding its investment
in regulated electric generation, transmission and distribution and regulated natural gas transmission and distribution infrastructure within and around its existing footprint. As a result, regulated capital projects will continue to receive
priority treatment in its spending plans. Dominion expects this will increase its earnings contribution from regulated operations, while reducing the sensitivity of its earnings to commodity prices.

In 2010, Dominion announced plans to invest more than $10 billion over the next five years to expand and improve its regulated electric
and natural gas businesses. A substantial portion of this investment will be essential to meet the anticipated increase in electricity demand in its service territory. Other drivers for the capital investment program include the need to construct
infrastructure to handle the expected increase in natural gas production from the Marcellus Shale formation and upgrades to its gas distribution and electric transmission and distribution network. Dominion also announced that it may invest up to an
additional $2 billion in its electric generating fleet to meet potential new environmental requirements.

Dominion’s
nonregulated operations include merchant generation, energy marketing and price risk management activities and retail energy marketing operations. Dominion’s operations are conducted through various subsidiaries, including Virginia Power.

Virginia Power, headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and incorporated in Virginia in 1909 as a Virginia public service
corporation, is a regulated public utility that generates, transmits and distributes electricity for sale in Virginia and North Carolina. In Virginia, Virginia Power conducts business under the name “Dominion Virginia Power.” In North
Carolina, it conducts business under the name “Dominion North Carolina Power” and serves retail customers located in the northeastern region of the state, excluding certain municipalities. In addition, Virginia Power sells electricity at
wholesale prices to rural electric cooperatives, municipalities and into wholesale electricity markets. All of Virginia Power’s common stock is owned by Dominion.

Amounts disclosed for Dominion are inclusive of Virginia Power, where applicable.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2010, Dominion had approximately 15,800 full-time employees, of which approximately 5,900 employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. As of
December 31, 2010, Virginia Power had approximately 6,800 full-time employees, of which approximately 3,000 employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. See Note 23 for discussion of the Companies’ workforce reduction
program.





PRINCIPALEXECUTIVEOFFICES

Dominion and
Virginia Power’s principal executive offices are located at 120 Tredegar Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219 and their telephone number is (804) 819-2000.





WHEREYOUCANFINDMOREINFORMATIONABOUTDOMINIONANDVIRGINIAPOWER

Dominion and Virginia Power file their annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Their SEC filings are
available to the public over the Internet at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document they file at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC
at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.

Dominion and Virginia Power make their SEC filings
available, free of charge, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, through Dominion’s internet website, www.dom.com, as soon as practicable after
filing or furnishing the material to the SEC. You may also request a copy of these filings, at no cost, by writing or telephoning Dominion at: Corporate Secretary, Dominion, 120 Tredegar Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219, Telephone
(804) 819-2000. Information contained on Dominion’s website is not incorporated by reference in this report.





DISPOSITIONS

Following are significant divestitures by Dominion and Virginia Power during the last five years.

SALEOFE&P PROPERTIES

In 2010, Dominion
completed the sale of substantially all of its Appalachian E&P operations, including its rights to associated Marcellus acreage, to a newly-formed subsidiary of CONSOL for approximately $3.5 billion. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information.

In 2007, Dominion completed the sale of its non-Appalachian natural gas and oil E&P
operations and assets for approximately $13.9 billion.

In 2006, Dominion received approximately $393 million of proceeds from
sales of certain gas and oil properties, primarily resulting from the sale of certain properties located in Texas and New Mexico.













The historical results of the non-Appalachian E&P operations are included in the
Corporate and Other segment. The historical results of the Appalachian E&P operations are included in the Dominion Energy segment.

SALEOFPEOPLES

In February 2010, Dominion completed the sale of Peoples to PNG Companies LLC and netted after-tax proceeds of approximately $542 million. The historical results of these operations are included in the
Corporate and Other segment and presented in discontinued operations. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

ASSIGNMENTOFMARCELLUSACREAGE

In 2008, Dominion completed a transaction with Antero to assign drilling rights to approximately 117,000 acres in the Marcellus Shale formation located in
West Virginia and Pennsylvania. Dominion received proceeds of approximately $347 million. Under the agreement, Dominion received a 7.5% overriding royalty interest on future natural gas production from the assigned acreage. The overriding royalty
interest was transferred to CONSOL as part of the sale of substantially all of Dominion’s Appalachian E&P operations in 2010.

SALEOFMERCHANTFACILITIES

In March 2007, Dominion sold three Peaker facilities for net cash proceeds of $254 million. The Peaker facilities included the 625 MW Armstrong facility in Shelocta, Pennsylvania; the 600 MW Troy facility
in Luckey, Ohio; and the 313 MW Pleasants facility in St. Mary’s, West Virginia. The results of these operations were presented in discontinued operations.

SALEOFDRESDEN

In September 2007, Dominion
completed the sale of Dresden to AEP Generating Company for $85 million.

SALEOFCERTAINDCIOPERATIONS

In March 2008, Dominion reached an agreement to sell its remaining interest in the
subordinated notes of a third-party CDO entity held as an investment by DCI and in April 2008 received proceeds of $54 million, including accrued interest. As discussed in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Dominion deconsolidated the
CDO entity as of March 31, 2008.

In August 2007, Dominion completed the sale of Gichner, LLC, all of the issued and
outstanding shares of the capital stock of Gichner, Inc. (an affiliate of Gichner, LLC) and Dallastown for approximately $30 million.





OPERATINGSEGMENTS

Dominion manages its daily operations through three primary operating segments: DVP, Dominion Generation and Dominion Energy. Dominion
also reports a Corporate and Other segment, which includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) and the net impact of Peoples and certain DCI operations, which are discussed in Notes 4 and 25 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively. In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion’s operating segments that are not included in profit

measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

Virginia Power manages its daily operations through two primary operating segments: DVP and Dominion Generation. It also reports a
Corporate and Other segment that primarily includes specific items attributable to its operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources
among the segments.

While daily operations are managed through the operating segments previously discussed, assets remain
wholly-owned by Dominion and Virginia Power and their respective legal subsidiaries.

A description of the operations included
in the Companies’ primary operating segments is as follows:



Primary OperatingSegmentDescription of OperationsDominionVirginiaPowerDVPRegulated electric distributionXXRegulated electric transmissionXXNonregulated retail energy marketing (electric and gas)XDominion GenerationRegulated electric fleetXXMerchant electric fleetXDominion EnergyGas transmission and storageXGas distribution and storageXLNG import and storageXProducer servicesX

For additional financial
information on operating segments, including revenues from external customers, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information on operating revenue related to Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s principal
products and services, see Notes 2 and 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

DVP

The DVP Operating Segment of Virginia Powerincludes Virginia Power’s regulated electric transmission and distribution (including customer service) operations, which serve residential,
commercial, industrial and governmental customers in Virginia and North Carolina.

In December 2010, Virginia Power announced
its five-year investment plan, which includes spending approximately $4 billion to upgrade or add new transmission and distribution lines, substations and other facilities to meet growing electricity demand within its service territory and
maintain reliability. The proposed electric delivery infrastructure projects are intended to address both continued population growth and increases in electricity consumption by the typical consumer.

Revenue provided by electric distribution operations is based primarily on rates established by state regulatory authorities and state
law. Changes in revenue are driven primarily by changes in rates, weather, customer growth and other factors impacting consumption such as the economy and energy conservation. Variability in earnings results from changes in rates, weather, the
economy, customer growth and operating and maintenance expenditures. Operationally, electric distribution continues to focus on improving service levels while striving to reduce costs and link investments to operational results. As a result,
electric













service reliability and customer service have improved. SAIDI, excluding major storm events, has also steadily improved. The three-year average SAIDI has improved from 135 minutes at the end of
2005 to 114 minutes at the end of 2010. Likewise, ASA has also shown significant improvement. The three-year average ASA has improved from 73 seconds at the end of 2005 to 42 seconds at the end of 2010. Customer service options are also being
enhanced and expanded through the use of technology. Customers now have the ability to use the Internet for routine billing and payment transactions, connecting and disconnecting service, reporting outages and obtaining outage updates. As electric
distribution moves forward, safety, electric service reliability and customer service will remain key focal areas.

Revenue
provided by Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations is based primarily on rates approved by FERC. The profitability of this business is dependent on its ability, through the rates it is permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a
reasonable return on its capital investments. Variability in earnings results from changes in rates and the timing of property additions, retirements and depreciation.

Virginia Power is a member of PJM, an RTO, and its electric transmission facilities are integrated into PJM wholesale electricity markets. Consistent with the increased authority given to NERC by EPACT,
Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations are committed to meeting NERC standards, modernizing their infrastructure and maintaining superior system reliability. Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations will continue to
focus on safety, operational performance, NERC compliance and execution of PJM’s RTEP.

The DVP Operating Segment of
Dominionincludes all of Virginia Power’s regulated electric transmission and distribution operations as discussed above, as well as Dominion’s nonregulated retail energy marketing operations.

Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations compete in nonregulated energy markets and have continued to experience customer growth
during the past few years. The retail business requires limited capital investment and currently employs approximately 160 people. The retail customer base is diversified across three product lines—natural gas, electricity and home warranty
services. In natural gas, Dominion has a heavy concentration of customers in markets where utilities have a long-standing commitment to customer choice. In electricity, Dominion pursues markets where utilities have divested of generation assets and
where customers are permitted and have opted to purchase from the market. Major growth drivers are customer additions, new markets, products and sales channels and supply optimization.

COMPETITION

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Within Virginia Power’s service territory in Virginia and North Carolina, there is no competition for electric distribution service.
Additionally, since its electric transmission facilities are integrated into PJM, electric transmission services are administered by PJM and are not subject to competition in relation to transmission service provided to customers within the PJM
region. Virginia Power is seeing continued growth in new customers in its transmission and distribution operations.

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion

Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations compete against incumbent utilities and other energy marketers in nonregulated energy markets for natural gas and electricity. Customers in these markets
have the right to select a retail marketer and typically do so based upon price savings or price stability; however, incumbent utilities have the advantage of long-standing relationships with their customers and greater name recognition in their
markets.

REGULATION

Virginia Power’s electric retail service, including the rates it may charge to jurisdictional customers, is subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission.
Virginia Power’s electric transmission rates, tariffs and terms of service are subject to regulation by FERC. Electric transmission siting authority remains the jurisdiction of the Virginia and North Carolina Commissions. However, EPACT
provides FERC with certain backstop authority for transmission siting. SeeState RegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationfor additional information.

The Virginia General Assembly enacted legislation in April 2007 that instituted a modified cost-of-service rate model for the Virginia
jurisdiction of Virginia Power’s utility operations, subject to base rate caps in effect through December 31, 2008. Pursuant to this legislation, the Virginia Commission initiated a review of Virginia Power’s base rates in 2009. A
discussion of Virginia Power’s settlement of this case with the Virginia Commission is contained inElectric Regulation in VirginiaunderRegulation.

PROPERTIES

Virginia Power has approximately 6,100 miles of electric
transmission lines of 69 kV or more located in the states of North Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia. Portions of Virginia Power’s electric transmission lines cross national parks and forests under permits entitling the federal government to
use, at specified charges, any surplus capacity that may exist in these lines. While Virginia Power owns and maintains its electric transmission facilities, they are a part of PJM, which coordinates the planning, operation, emergency assistance and
exchange of capacity and energy for such facilities.

Each year, as part of PJM’s RTEP process, reliability projects are
authorized. Virginia Power is involved in two of the major construction projects authorized in 2006, which are designed to improve the reliability of service to customers and the region—Meadow Brook-to-Loudoun and Carson-to-Suffolk.

In October 2008, the Virginia Commission authorized construction of the Meadow Brook-to-Loudoun line and affirmed the 65-mile route
proposed for the line which is adjacent to, or within, existing transmission line rights-of-way. The Virginia Commission’s approval of the Meadow Brook-to-Loudoun line was conditioned on the respective state commission approvals of both the
West Virginia and Pennsylvania portions of the transmission line. The West Virginia Commission’s approval of Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line Company’s application became effective in February 2009 and the Pennsylvania Commission granted
approval in December 2008. On appeal by the ECCP, the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court affirmed in May 2010 the Pennsylvania Commission’s approval and subsequently denied a request for reargument by the ECCP in June 2010. The Meadow













Brook-to-Loudoun line is expected to cost approximately $255 million and be completed in June 2011.

In October 2008, the Virginia Commission authorized the construction of the Carson-to-Suffolk line. This project is estimated to cost $224 million and is expected to be completed in June 2011.

As part of subsequent annual PJM RTEP processes, PJM authorized additional electric transmission upgrade projects including
Hayes-to-Yorktown in December 2008 and Mt. Storm-to-Doubs in December 2010. In June 2010, the Virginia Commission authorized the construction of the Hayes-to-Yorktown line along the proposed eight-mile route utilizing existing easements and
property previously acquired for the transmission line right-of-way. In accordance with the Virginia Commission’s approval, approximately 4.2 miles of the Hayes-to-Yorktown line will be constructed overhead and approximately 3.8 miles will be
installed underground in order to cross under the York River. The Hayes-to-Yorktown line is expected to cost approximately $63 million and, subject to receipt of all regulatory approvals, is expected to be completed by June 2012.

After more than 44 years of operation, portions of the 99-mile Mt. Storm-to-Doubs line and certain associated facilities are approaching
the end of their expected service lives and require replacement with new facilities to maintain reliable service. Virginia Power owns and has been designated by PJM to rebuild the 96 miles of the line in West Virginia and Virginia, and The Potomac
Edison Company owns and has been designated by PJM to rebuild the remaining three miles of the line in Maryland. Subject to applicable state and federal regulatory approvals, Virginia Power’s portion of the rebuild project is expected to cost
approximately $300 million and is expected to be completed by June 2015.

In addition, Virginia Power’s electric
distribution network includes approximately 56,800 miles of distribution lines, exclusive of service level lines, in Virginia and North Carolina. The grants for most of its electric lines contain rights-of-way that have been obtained from the
apparent owner of real estate, but underlying titles have not been examined. Where rights-of-way have not been obtained, they could be acquired from private owners by condemnation, if necessary. Many electric lines are on publicly-owned property,
where permission to operate can be revoked.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

DVP’s supply of electricity to serve Virginia Power customers is produced or procured by Dominion Generation. SeeDominion Generationfor additional information.

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion

The
supply of electricity to serve Dominion’s retail energy marketing customers is procured through market wholesalers and RTO or ISO transactions. DVP’s supply of gas to serve its customers is procured through market wholesalers or by
Dominion Energy. SeeDominion Energyfor additional information.

SEASONALITY

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

DVP’s earnings vary seasonally
as a result of the impact of changes in temperature and the availability of alternative sources for heating on demand by residential and commercial customers. Generally, the demand for electricity peaks during the summer and winter months to meet
cooling and heating needs. An increase in heating degree-days for DVP’s electric utility related operations does not produce the same increase in revenue as an increase in cooling degree-days, due to seasonal pricing differentials and because
alternative heating sources are more readily available.

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion

The earnings of Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations also vary seasonally. Generally, the demand for electricity peaks during the summer and
winter months to meet cooling and heating needs, while the demand for gas peaks during the winter months to meet heating needs.

Dominion Generation

The Dominion Generation Operating Segment of Virginia Powerincludes the generation operations of the Virginia Power regulated
electric utility and its related energy supply operations. Virginia Power’s utility generation operations primarily serve the supply requirements for the DVP segment’s utility customers. The generation mix is diversified and includes coal,
nuclear, gas, oil and renewables. The generation facilities of Virginia Power’s electric utility fleet are located in Virginia, West Virginia and North Carolina. As discussed inProperties, Virginia Power has plans to add additional
generation capacity to satisfy future growth in its utility service area.

Earnings for the Generation operating segment of
Virginia Power primarily result from the sale of electricity generated by its utility fleet. Revenue is based primarily on rates established by state regulatory authorities and state law. Approximately 80% of revenue comes from serving Virginia
jurisdictional customers. Rates for the Virginia jurisdiction are set using a modified cost-of-service rate model, subject to base rate caps that were in effect through December 31, 2008. The cost of fuel and purchased power is generally
collected through fuel cost-recovery mechanisms established by regulators and does not materially impact net income. Variability in earnings for Virginia Power’s generation operations results from changes in rates, the demand for services,
which is primarily weather dependent, and labor and benefit costs, as well as the timing, duration and costs of scheduled and unscheduled outages. SeeRegulation—State Regulationsfor additional information, including a discussion of
Virginia Power’s 2009 base rate case settlement with the Virginia Commission.

The Dominion Generation Operating
Segment of Dominionincludes Virginia Power’s generation facilities and its related energy supply operations described above as well as the generation operations of Dominion’s merchant fleet and energy marketing and price risk
management activities for these assets. The generation facilities of Dominion’s merchant fleet are located in Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, West Virginia and Wisconsin. The Generation













operating segment of Dominion derives its earnings primarily from the sale of electricity generated by Virginia Power’s utility and Dominion’s merchant generation assets, as well as
associated capacity from Dominion’s merchant generation assets.

Variability in earnings provided by Dominion’s
merchant fleet relates to changes in market-based prices received for electricity and capacity. Market-based prices for electricity are largely dependent on commodity prices, primarily natural gas, and the demand for electricity, which is primarily
dependent upon weather. Capacity prices are dependent upon resource requirements in relation to the supply available (both existing and new) in the forward capacity auctions, which are held approximately three years in advance of the associated
delivery year. Dominion manages electric and capacity price volatility of its merchant fleet by hedging a substantial portion of its expected near-term sales with derivative instruments and also entering into long-term power sales agreements.
However, earnings have been adversely impacted due to a sustained decline in commodity prices. Variability also results from changes in the cost of fuel consumed, labor and benefits and the timing, duration and costs of scheduled and unscheduled
outages.

COMPETITION

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Virginia
Power’s generation operations are not subject to significant competition as only a limited number of its Virginia jurisdictional electric utility customers have retail choice. SeeRegulation—State Regulations—Electricfor more
information. Currently, North Carolina does not offer retail choice to electric customers.

Dominion Generation Operating
Segment—Dominion

Unlike Dominion Generation’s regulated generation fleet, its merchant generation fleet is dependent on its
ability to operate in a competitive environment and does not have a predetermined rate structure that allows for a rate of return on its capital investments. Competition for the merchant fleet is impacted by electricity and fuel prices, new market
entrants, construction by others of generating assets and transmission capacity, technological advances in power generation, the actions of environmental and other regulatory authorities and other factors. These competitive factors may
negatively impact the merchant fleet’s ability to profit from the sale of electricity and related products and services.

Dominion Generation’s merchant generation fleet owns and operates several facilities in the Midwest that operate within functioning
RTOs. A significant portion of the output from these facilities is sold under long-term contracts, with expiration dates ranging from December 31, 2012 to August 31, 2017, and is therefore largely unaffected by price competition during the
term of these contracts. Following expiration of these contracts, earnings could be adversely impacted if prevailing prices for energy, capacity and ancillary services are lower than the levels currently received under these contracts.

Dominion Generation’s other merchant assets also operate within functioning RTOs and primarily compete on the basis of price.
Competitors include other generating assets bidding to operate within the RTOs. These RTOs have clearly identified

market rules that ensure the competitive wholesale market is functioning properly. Dominion Generation’s merchant units have a variety of short- and medium-term contracts, and also compete
in the spot market with other generators to sell a variety of products including energy, capacity and ancillary services. It is difficult to compare various types of generation given the wide range of fuels, fuel procurement strategies, efficiencies
and operating characteristics of the fleet within any given RTO. However, Dominion applies its expertise in operations, dispatch and risk management to maximize the degree to which its merchant fleet is competitive compared to similar assets within
the region.

REGULATION

Virginia Power’s utility generation fleet and Dominion’s merchant generation fleet are subject to regulation by FERC, the NRC, the EPA, the DOE, the Army Corps of Engineers and other federal,
state and local authorities. Virginia Power’s utility generation fleet is also subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission. SeeState RegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationfor more information.

PROPERTIES

For a listing of Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s existing generation facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Based on available
generation capacity and current estimates of growth in customer demand in its utility service area, Virginia Power will need additional generation capacity over the next decade. Virginia Power has announced a comprehensive generation growth program,
referred to asPowering Virginia, which involves the development, financing, construction and operation of new multi-fuel, multi-technology generation capacity to meet the anticipated growing demand in its core market in Virginia. Significant
projects under construction or development include:

ŸBear Garden, which, once operational, will generate about 580 MW. This intermediate, combined-cycle, natural gas-fired power station and transmission
interconnection line is estimated to cost $619 million, excluding financing costs. Construction is approximately 94% complete as of January 2011, with commercial operations expected to commence in the second quarter of 2011.

ŸThe Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center located in Wise County, Virginia, which once operational, will generate about 585 MW. The baseload facility is
estimated to cost $1.8 billion, excluding financing costs. Construction is approximately 79% complete as of January 2011, and commercial operations are expected to commence in the summer of 2012.

ŸA power station development project in Warren County, Virginia, intended to be developed as an intermediate, combined-cycle, natural gas-fired power
station. In December 2010, the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality approved an air permit to construct the project. Subject to the receipt of additional regulatory approvals, the project is expected to generate more than 1,300 MW of
electricity. If the project is approved, construction would begin in 2012, with commercial operations expected to commence by late 2014 or early 2015.













In addition to the projects above, Virginia Power is considering the construction of a
third nuclear unit at a site located at North Anna, which Virginia Power owns along with ODEC. Virginia Power and ODEC have obtained an Early Site Permit for the North Anna site from the NRC. In November 2007, Virginia Power, along with ODEC, filed
an application with the NRC for a COL that references a specific reactor design and which would allow Virginia Power to build and operate a new nuclear unit at North Anna. In May 2010, Virginia Power announced its decision to replace the reactor
design previously selected for the potential third nuclear unit with the US-APWR technology.

In June 2010, Virginia Power and
ODEC amended the COL application to reflect the selection of the US-APWR technology. In January 2011, Virginia Power and the DOE terminated their cooperative agreement to share equally the cost of developing a COL. The agreement references the
technology previously selected by Virginia Power. DOE funding is not available under the agreement for activities related to the US-APWR technology. During the third and fourth quarters of 2010, Virginia Power filed several applications for
environmental permits that would be needed to support future construction and operation of a third nuclear unit at North Anna.

Virginia Power has not yet committed to building a new nuclear unit at North Anna. In October 2010, Virginia Power announced its decision
to slow the development of the potential third reactor. Virginia Power will continue to pursue the COL, along with engineering and preliminary site development work, and will reassess a construction schedule prior to the issuance of the COL
currently anticipated in 2013. In December 2010, Virginia Power and MNES reached an agreement regarding pre-construction, engineering, design and planning work in preparation for a possible new unit at North Anna. In February 2011, ODEC informed
Virginia Power of its intent to no longer participate in the development of the new unit at North Anna. Virginia Power and ODEC are currently working together to finalize the terms and conditions of such withdrawal.

If Virginia Power decides to build the new unit, it must first receive a COL from the NRC, the approval of the Virginia Commission and
certain environmental permits and other approvals. The NRC is required to conduct a hearing in all COL proceedings. In August 2008, the ASLB of the NRC permitted BREDL to intervene in the proceeding. All of BREDL’s previous contentions in this
proceeding have been dismissed. In October 2010, BREDL submitted two new contentions that it seeks to litigate that Virginia Power has opposed. No other persons sought to intervene in the proceeding. Absent additional admitted contentions, the
mandatory NRC hearing will be uncontested with respect to other issues.

In April 2008, Virginia Power announced a joint effort
with BP to evaluate wind energy projects in Virginia. In December 2010, Virginia Power and BP terminated their joint development agreement for wind energy projects. As a result of the termination, Virginia Power has acquired a sole development
interest in several wind energy development projects in Virginia. Virginia Power paid BP approximately $1.5 million to acquire BP’s interest in property jointly owned in Tazewell County, Virginia.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

Dominion is a 50% owner with BP of the first phase of Fowler Ridge. Phase one has generating capacity of 300 MW and is in full commercial operation. In
December 2009, Dominion closed on an agreement with BP to split the 350 MW of development assets associated with the second phase of Fowler Ridge, with Dominion retaining 150 MW of these development assets. In December 2010, Dominion reached an
agreement to sell its 150 MW share of the development assets of the second phase to BP. Closing is subject to the approvals of FERC and the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission, which are expected by the second quarter of 2011. Dominion will
receive approximately $6 million of proceeds from the sale.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Dominion Generation uses a variety of fuels to power its electric generation and purchases power for utility system load requirements and to satisfy
physical forward sale requirements, as described below. Some of these agreements have fixed commitments and are included as contractual obligations inFuture Cash Payments for Contractual Obligations and Planned Capital Expendituresin
Item 7. MD&A.

Nuclear Fuel—Dominion Generation primarily utilizes long-term contracts to support its
nuclear fuel requirements. Worldwide market conditions are continuously evaluated to ensure a range of supply options at reasonable prices which are dependent on the market environment. Current agreements, inventories and spot market availability
are expected to support current and planned fuel supply needs. Additional fuel is purchased as required to ensure optimal cost and inventory levels.

Fossil Fuel—Dominion Generation primarily utilizes coal, oil and natural gas in its fossil fuel plants. Dominion Generation’s coal supply is obtained through long-term contracts and
short-term spot agreements from both domestic and international suppliers.

Dominion Generation’s natural gas and oil
supply is obtained from various sources including: purchases from major and independent producers in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions, purchases from local producers in the Appalachian area, purchases from gas marketers and withdrawals from
underground storage fields owned by Dominion or third parties.

Dominion Generation manages a portfolio of natural gas
transportation contracts (capacity) that allows flexibility in delivering natural gas to its gas turbine fleet, while minimizing costs.

Purchased Power—Dominion Generation purchases electricity from the PJM spot market and through power purchase agreements with other suppliers to provide for utility system load requirements.

Dominion Generation also occasionally purchases electricity from the PJM, ISO-NE and MISO spot markets to satisfy physical
forward sale requirements as part of its merchant generation operations.













Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Virginia Power

Presented below is a summary of Virginia Power’s actual system output by energy source:



2010Source2009Source2008SourceCoal(1)31%33%33%Purchased power, net292529Nuclear(2)283231Natural gas1096Other(3)211Total100%100%100%



(1)Excludes ODEC’s 50.0% ownership interest in the Clover power station. The average cost of coal for 2010 Virginia in-system generation was $36.25 per MWh.

(2)Excludes ODEC’s 11.6% ownership interest in North Anna.

(3)Includes oil, hydro and biomass.

SEASONALITY

Sales of
electricity for Dominion Generation typically vary seasonally as a result of the impact of changes in temperature and the availability of alternative sources for heating on demand by residential and commercial customers. Generally, the demand for
electricity peaks during the summer and winter months to meet cooling and heating needs. An increase in heating degree-days does not produce the same increase in revenue as an increase in cooling degree-days, due to seasonal pricing differentials
and because alternative heating sources are more readily available.

NUCLEARDECOMMISSIONING

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Virginia Power has a total of four licensed, operating nuclear reactors at Surry and North Anna in Virginia.

Decommissioning involves the decontamination and removal of radioactive contaminants from a nuclear power station once operations have ceased, in accordance with standards established by the NRC. Amounts
collected from ratepayers and placed into trusts have been invested to fund the expected future costs of decommissioning the Surry and North Anna units.

Virginia Power believes that the decommissioning funds and their expected earnings for the Surry and North Anna units will be sufficient to cover expected decommissioning costs, particularly when combined
with future ratepayer collections and contributions to these decommissioning trusts, if such future collections and contributions are required. This reflects the long-term investment horizon, since the units will not be decommissioned for decades,
and a positive long-term outlook for trust fund investment returns. Virginia Power will continue to monitor these trusts to ensure they meet the NRC’s minimum financial assurance requirement, which may include the use of parent company
guarantees, surety bonding or other financial guarantees recognized by the NRC.

The total estimated cost to decommission
Virginia Power’s four nuclear units is $2.2 billion in 2010 dollars and is primarily based upon site-specific studies completed in 2009. The current cost estimates assume decommissioning activities will begin shortly after cessation of
operations, which will occur when the operating licenses expire. Virginia Power expects to decommission the Surry and North Anna units during the period 2032 to 2067.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

In addition to the four nuclear units discussed above, Dominion has three other licensed, operating nuclear reactors: two at Millstone in Connecticut and
one at Kewaunee in Wisconsin. A third Millstone unit ceased operations before Dominion acquired the power station. As part of Dominion’s acquisition of both Millstone and Kewaunee, it acquired decommissioning funds for the related units. Any
funds remaining in Kewaunee’s trust after decommissioning is completed are required to be refunded to Wisconsin ratepayers.

Dominion believes that the amounts currently available in the decommissioning trusts and their expected earnings will be sufficient to
cover expected decommissioning costs for the Millstone and Kewaunee units. Dominion will continue to monitor these trusts to ensure they meet the NRC’s minimum financial assurance requirement, which may include the use of parent company
guarantees, surety bonding or other financial guarantees recognized by the NRC. The total estimated cost to decommission Dominion’s eight units is $4.6 billion in 2010 dollars and is primarily based upon site-specific studies completed in 2009.
For the Millstone and Kewaunee operating units, the current cost estimate assumes decommissioning activities will begin shortly after cessation of operations, which will occur when the operating licenses expire. Millstone Unit 1 is not in service
and selected minor decommissioning activities are being performed. This unit will continue to be monitored until full decommissioning activities begin for the remaining Millstone operating units. Dominion expects to start minor decommissioning
activities at Millstone Unit 2 in 2035, with full decommissioning of Millstone Units 1, 2 and 3 during the period 2045 to 2069.

In August 2008, Dominion filed an application with the NRC to renew the Kewaunee operating license. In February 2011, the NRC renewed the
operating license, extending Kewaunee’s operation an additional 20 years through 2033. Full decommissioning of Kewaunee is expected during the period 2033 to 2065.













The estimated decommissioning costs and license expiration dates for the nuclear units
owned by Dominion and Virginia Power are shown in the following table.



NRClicenseexpirationyearMostrecentcostestimate(2010dollars)Funds intrusts atDecember 31,20102010contributionsto trusts(dollars in millions)SurryUnit 12032$541$373$1.1Unit 220335623681.2North AnnaUnit 1(1)20385502980.8Unit
2(1)20405642800.8Total (Virginia Power)2,2171,3193.9MillstoneUnit 1(2)n/a424317—Unit 22035651385—Unit 3(3)2045680374—Kewaunee—Unit
1(4)2013658502—Total (Dominion)$4,630$2,897$3.9



(1)North Anna is jointly owned by Virginia Power (88.4%) and ODEC (11.6%). However, Virginia Power is responsible for 89.26% of the decommissioning obligation.
Amounts reflect 100% of the decommissioning cost for both of North Anna’s units.

(2)Unit 1 ceased operations in 1998, before Dominion’s acquisition of Millstone.

(3)Millstone Unit 3 is jointly owned by Dominion, Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company and Central Vermont Public Service Corporation, who hold a 6.53%
undivided interest in Unit 3. Amounts reflect 100% of the decommissioning cost for Millstone Unit 3.

(4)Kewaunee Unit 1 original license expiration year is 2013, however, the cost estimate is based on the license renewal expiration year of 2033.

Dominion Energy

Dominion Energy includes Dominion’s regulated natural gas distribution companies, regulated gas transmission pipeline and storage operations, natural
gas gathering and by-products extraction activities and regulated LNG operations. Dominion Energy also includes producer services, which aggregates natural gas supply, engages in natural gas trading and marketing activities and natural gas supply
management and provides price risk management services to Dominion affiliates.

The gas transmission pipeline and storage
business serves gas distribution businesses and other customers in the Northeast, mid-Atlantic and Midwest. Included in Dominion’s gas transmission pipeline and storage business is its gas gathering and extraction activity, which sells
extracted products at market rates. Revenue provided by Dominion’s regulated gas transmission and storage and LNG operations is based primarily on rates established by FERC. Dominion’s gas distribution operations serve residential,
commercial and industrial gas sales and transportation customers. Revenue provided by its gas distribution operations is based primarily on rates established by the Ohio and West Virginia Commissions. The profitability of these businesses is
dependent on Dominion’s ability, through the rates it is permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable return on its capital investments. Variability in earnings results from operating and maintenance expenditures, as well as
changes in rates and the

demand for services, which are dependent on weather, changes in commodity prices and the economy.

In October 2008, East Ohio implemented a rate case settlement which began a transition to a straight-fixed-variable rate design. Under this rate design, East Ohio recovers a larger portion of its fixed
operating costs through a flat monthly charge accompanied by a reduced volumetric base delivery rate. Accordingly, East Ohio’s revenue is less impacted by weather-related fluctuations in natural gas consumption than under the traditional rate
design.

Revenue from Dominion’s gas transportation, gas storage and LNG storage and regasification services are largely
based on firm, fee-based contractual arrangements.

Earnings from Dominion Energy’s nonregulated business, producer
services, are subject to variability associated with changes in commodity prices. Producer services uses physical and financial arrangements to hedge this price risk.

COMPETITION

Dominion Energy’s gas transmission operations compete with
domestic and Canadian pipeline companies. Dominion also competes with gas marketers seeking to provide or arrange transportation, storage and other services. Alternative energy sources, such as oil or coal, provide another level of competition.
Although competition is based primarily on price, the array of services that can be provided to customers is also an important factor. The combination of capacity rights held on certain long-line pipelines, a large storage capability and the
availability of numerous receipt and delivery points along its own pipeline system enable Dominion to tailor its services to meet the needs of individual customers.

Retail competition for gas supply exists to varying degrees in the two states in which Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiaries operate. In Ohio, there has been no legislation enacted to require
supplier choice for residential and commercial natural gas consumers. However, Dominion has offered an Energy Choice program to customers, in cooperation with the Ohio Commission. West Virginia does not require customer choice in its retail natural
gas markets at this time. SeeRegulation—State Regulations—Gasfor additional information.

REGULATION

Dominion Energy’s natural gas transmission pipeline, storage and LNG operations are regulated primarily by FERC. Dominion
Energy’s gas distribution service, including the rates that it may charge customers, is regulated by the Ohio and West Virginia Commissions. SeeState RegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationfor more information.

PROPERTIES

Dominion Energy’s gas distribution network is located in the states of Ohio and West Virginia. This network involves approximately 21,800 miles of
pipe, exclusive of service lines of two inches in diameter or less. The rights-of-way grants for many natural gas pipelines have been obtained from the actual owner of real estate, as underlying titles have been examined. Where rights-of-way have
not been obtained, they could be acquired from private owners by condemnation, if necessary. Many natural gas pipelines are on publicly-owned property, where company rights and actions are determined on a case-by-case basis, with









results that range from reimbursed relocation to revocation of permission to operate.

Dominion Energy has approximately 11,000 miles of gas transmission, gathering and storage pipelines located in the states of Maryland, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia. Dominion
Energy operates 20 underground gas storage fields located in New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, with almost 2,000 storage wells and approximately 262,000 acres of operated leaseholds.

The total designed capacity of the underground storage fields operated by Dominion Energy is approximately 947 bcf. Certain storage fields
are jointly-owned and operated by Dominion Energy. The capacity of those fields owned by Dominion’s partners totals about 242 bcf. Dominion Energy also has about 15 bcf of above-ground storage capacity at Cove Point. Dominion Energy has about
123 compressor stations with more than 768,000 installed compressor horsepower.

In July 2008, East Ohio launched the PIR
program to replace approximately 20% of its 21,000-mile pipeline system. The project, which is anticipated to cost approximately $2.6 billion, primarily involves the replacement of East Ohio’s bare steel, cast iron, wrought iron and copper pipe
over a 25-year period. As part of this program, East Ohio will assume ownership of curb-to-meter service lines and will be responsible for line repairs or replacement. In October 2008, the Ohio Commission approved cost recovery for an initial
five-year period of the PIR program.

In 2006, FERC approved the proposed expansion of Dominion’s Cove Point terminal and
DTI pipeline and the commencement of construction of the project. The expansion project included the installation of two new LNG storage tanks at Dominion’s Cove Point terminal, each capable of storing 160,000 cubic meters of LNG, pumps,
gas-turbine generators, and vaporization capacity to increase the terminal send-out by 800,000 dekatherms per day. Dominion installed 48 miles of 36-inch pipeline to increase the terminal take-away capacity to approximately 1,800,000 dekatherms per
day. In addition, Dominion’s DTI gas pipeline and storage system was expanded by building approximately 120 miles of pipeline, two new compressor stations in Pennsylvania and upgrades to other compressor stations in West Virginia and New York.
The DTI facilities associated with the Cove Point expansion project were placed into service in December 2008, the Cove Point LNG terminal expansion was placed into service in January 2009 and the remainder of the expanded Cove Point facilities were
placed into commercial service in March 2009.

In March 2010, Dominion commenced construction of the Cove Point Pier
Reinforcement Project. The $50 million project is intended to upgrade, expand and modify the existing pier at the Cove Point terminal to accommodate the next generation of LNG vessels (up to 267,000 cubic meters) that are much larger than what can
currently be accommodated (no larger than 148,000 cubic meters). The project commenced with the south berth being taken temporarily out of service to accommodate construction activities. In October 2010, Dominion requested and received FERC
authorization to re-commence service from the south berth of the pier for vessels with cargo capacities of no greater than 148,000 cubic meters. When the south berth was returned to service, construction commenced on the north berth, which was taken
out of service. In December 2010, Dominion

requested and received authorization to place the project in service on January 21, 2011.

DTI has announced the Gathering Enhancement Project, a $253 million expansion of its natural gas gathering, processing and liquids facilities in West Virginia. The project is designed to increase the
efficiency and reduce high pressures in its gathering system, thus increasing the amount of natural gas local producers can move through DTI’s West Virginia system. Construction started in 2009 and is expected to be completed by the fourth
quarter of 2012. The cost of the project will be paid for by rates charged to producers.

DTI has also announced the proposed
development of the Keystone Connector Project, a joint venture with The Williams Companies that would transport new natural gas supplies from the Appalachian Basin to Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation’s Station 195, providing access to
markets throughout the eastern U.S. DTI is currently in discussions regarding the continued development of the Keystone Connector Project. Project timing is subject to producer drilling plans in the Appalachian Basin, as well as customer demand
throughout the mid-Atlantic and Northeast regions.

DTI has announced the proposed development of a gas pipeline project, known
as the Appalachian Gateway Project. The project is expected to provide approximately 484,000 dekatherms per day of firm transportation services for new Appalachian gas supplies from the supply areas in the Appalachian Basin in West Virginia and
southwestern Pennsylvania to an interconnection with Texas Eastern Transmission, LP at Oakford, Pennsylvania. Plans call for construction to start in 2011, with transportation services to begin by September 2012. An open season concluded in
September 2008 and the project is fully subscribed under long-term binding agreements. In June 2010, DTI filed a certificate application with the FERC seeking approval for the Appalachian Gateway project. DTI estimates the cost of the Appalachian
Gateway project to be approximately $634 million.

In June 2010, DTI entered into a 15-year firm transportation agreement with
the gas subsidiary of CONSOL. The project, known as the Northeast Expansion Project, is expected to provide approximately 200,000 dekatherms per day of firm transportation services for CONSOL’s Marcellus Shale natural gas production from
various receipt points in central and southwestern Pennsylvania to a nexus of market pipelines and storage facilities in Leidy, Pennsylvania. The $97 million project will involve the construction by DTI of new compression facilities at three
existing compressor stations in central Pennsylvania, subject to the receipt of regulatory approval. In November 2010, DTI filed a certificate application with FERC seeking approval for the Northeast Expansion Project. If the project is approved,
construction is expected to begin in March 2012, with a projected in-service date of November 2012.

In August 2010, DTI
entered into a 10-year lease agreement with TGP for firm capacity to move Marcellus shale natural gas supplies from TGP’s 300 Line pipeline system in northern Pennsylvania to its 200 Line pipeline system in upstate New York. The $46 million
project, known as the Ellisburg-to-Craigs Project, is expected to have capacity of approximately 150,000 dekatherms per day. Subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals, the project will involve the construction by DTI of additional compression
facilities and a new measurement and regulating station at the













Craigs interconnect with TGP in New York. DTI filed a certificate application with FERC in November 2010. If the Ellisburg-to-Craigs Project is approved, construction is expected to begin in
March 2012, with a planned in-service date of November 2012.

In January 2011, Dominion announced that DTI is developing a
natural gas processing and fractionation facility near New Martinsville, West Virginia. Dominion reached an agreement with PPG Industries, Inc. to purchase 56 acres at the Natrium site where DTI plans to process natural gas and NGLs.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

Dominion Energy’s natural gas supply is obtained from various sources including purchases from major and independent producers in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions, local producers in the
Appalachian area and gas marketers. Dominion’s large underground natural gas storage network and the location of its pipeline system are a significant link between the country’s major interstate gas pipelines, including the Rockies Express
East pipeline, and large markets in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic regions. Dominion’s pipelines are part of an interconnected gas transmission system, which provides access to supplies nationwide for local distribution companies, marketers,
power generators and industrial and commercial customers.

Dominion’s underground storage facilities play an important
part in balancing gas supply with consumer demand and are essential to serving the Northeast, mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions. In addition, storage capacity is an important element in the effective management of both gas supply and pipeline
transmission capacity.

SEASONALITY

Dominion Energy’s natural gas distribution business earnings vary seasonally, as a result of the impact of changes in temperature on demand by residential and commercial customers for gas to meet
heating needs. Historically, the majority of these earnings have been generated during the heating season, which is generally from November to March, however implementation of the straight fixed variable rate design at East Ohio has reduced the
earnings impact of weather-related fluctuations. Demand for services at Dominion’s pipeline and storage business can also be weather sensitive. Commodity prices can be impacted by seasonal weather changes, the effects of weather on operations
and the economy. Dominion’s producer services business is affected by seasonal changes in the prices of commodities that it transports, stores and actively markets and trades.

Corporate and Other

Corporate and Other Segment—Virginia Power

Virginia Power’s Corporate and Other segment primarily includes certain specific items attributable to its operating segments that are not included
in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

Corporate and Other Segment—Dominion

Dominion’s Corporate and Other segment includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) and the net impact of
Peoples and certain DCI operations, which

are discussed in Notes 4 and 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively. In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion’s operating segments
that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.





ENVIRONMENTALSTRATEGY

Dominion and Virginia Power are committed to being good environmental stewards. Their ongoing objective is to
provide reliable, affordable energy for their customers while being environmentally responsible. The integrated strategy to meet this objective consists of five major elements:

ŸCompliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules;

ŸConservation and load management;

ŸRenewable generation development;

ŸOther generation development to maintain fuel diversity, including clean coal, advanced nuclear energy, and natural gas; and

ŸImprovements in other energy infrastructure.

SeeGlobal Climate ChangeunderRegulation—Environmental Regulationsin this item for examples of the Companies’ efforts to reduce their impact on the environment.

Environmental Compliance

Dominion and Virginia
Power remain committed to compliance with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules related to their operations. Additional information related to Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s environmental compliance obligations can be
found in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Conservation and Load Management

Conservation plays a significant role in meeting the growing demand for electricity. The Regulation Act provides incentives for energy conservation and
sets a voluntary goal to reduce electricity consumption by retail customers in 2022 by ten percent of the amount consumed in 2006 through the implementation of conservation programs. Legislation in 2009 added definitions of peak-shaving and energy
efficiency programs and allowed for a margin on operating expenses and revenue reductions related to energy efficiency programs. Virginia Power’s DSM programs provide the first steps toward achieving the voluntary ten percent energy
conservation goal.

Virginia Power continues to assess smart grid technologies through a demonstration designed to indicate how
these technologies may enhance Virginia Power’s electric distribution system by allowing energy to be delivered more efficiently. The demonstration involves a limited deployment, within Virginia Power’s Virginia service territory, of smart
meters that use digital technology to enable two-way communication between the meter and Virginia Power’s electric distribution system. Dependent upon the outcome of the demonstration and certain regulatory proceedings, Virginia Power may make
a significant investment in replacing existing meters with Advanced Metering Infrastructure. The technology is intended to help customers monitor and control their energy use. It is also expected to lead to more efficient













use of the power grid, which is expected to result in energy savings and lower environmental emissions.

Additionally, the conservation and load management plan includes the following DSM programs, which were approved by the Virginia Commission in March 2010:

ŸResidential Lighting Program—an instant, in-store discount on the purchase of qualifying compact fluorescent lights;

ŸHome Energy Improvement—energy audits and improvements for homes of low-income customers;

ŸSmart Cooling Rewards—incentives for residential customers who voluntarily enroll to allow Virginia Power to cycle their air conditioners and heat
pumps during periods of peak demand;

ŸCommercial HVAC Upgrade Program—incentives for commercial customers to improve the energy efficiency of their heating and/or cooling units; and

ŸCommercial Lighting Program—incentives for commercial customers to install energy-efficient lighting.

Virginia Power has also proposed a redesigned distributed generation program which was not approved in its original form by the Virginia
Commission in 2010. Virginia Power plans to seek Virginia Commission approval of the redesigned distributed generation program and several other DSM programs in 2011.

In September 2010, Virginia Power filed with the North Carolina Commission an application for approval and cost recovery of the DSM programs listed above, as well as the redesigned distributed generation
program. In February 2011, the North Carolina Commission approved the five DSM programs listed above. The North Carolina Commission will make a decision regarding the appropriate rate making treatment for the programs in a separate proceeding.
Virginia Power expects to launch the five DSM programs within its North Carolina service territory in the second quarter of 2011, subject to cost recovery approval by the North Carolina Commission. Virginia Power’s request for approval of the
redesigned distributed generation program remains pending before the North Carolina Commission.

Renewable Generation

Renewable energy is also an important component of a diverse and reliable energy mix. Both Virginia and North Carolina have passed legislation setting
targets for renewable power. Virginia Power is committed to meeting Virginia’s goals of 12% renewable power by 2022 and 15% by 2025 and North Carolina’s RPS of 12.5% by 2021. In May 2010, the Virginia Commission approved Virginia
Power’s participation in the state’s RPS program. As a participant, Virginia Power is permitted to seek recovery, through rate adjustment clauses, of costs of programs designed to meet RPS goals. Virginia Power plans to meet the respective
RPS targets in Virginia and North Carolina by utilizing existing renewable facilities, as well as the Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center, which is expected to use at least 10% biomass. In addition, Virginia Power intends to purchase renewable energy
certificates, as permitted by each RPS program, to meet any remaining annual requirement needs. Virginia Power continues to explore opportunities to develop new renewable facilities within its service territory, the energy attributes of which would
qualify for inclusion in the RPS programs.

In June 2010, Virginia Power announced its plans to develop an integrated solar and
battery storage demonstration project in

Halifax County, Virginia. The proposed facility is intended to manage, store, and optimize solar energy to regulate intermittency, enable peak shaving and increase grid reliability. In November
2010, the Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission approved a $5 million grant to help fund the proposed project. Other project participants are the Halifax County Industrial Development Authority, the University of
Virginia and a battery storage manufacturer. Subject to approval by the Virginia Commission and final project development, the 4 MW facility is expected to be operational in 2013.

In addition, Dominion is a 50% owner of NedPower. Dominion’s share of this project produces 132 MW of renewable energy.

Dominion is also a 50% owner with BP of the first phase of Fowler Ridge, which has a generating capacity of 300 MW. Dominion has a
long-term agreement with Fowler Ridge to purchase 200 MW of energy, capacity and environmental attributes from this first phase. In December 2010, Dominion reached an agreement to sell its remaining share of the development assets of the second
phase of Fowler Ridge to BP.

Other Generation Development

Virginia Power has announced a comprehensive generation growth program, referred to asPowering Virginia, which involves the development, financing, construction and operation of new multi-fuel,
multi-technology generation capacity to meet the anticipated growth in demand in its core market of Virginia. Virginia Power expects that these investments collectively will provide the following benefits: expanded electricity production capability,
increased technological and fuel diversity and a reduction in the CO2emission intensity of its generation fleet. One component of thePowering Virginiaprogram involves consideration of the extent to which Virginia Power can reduce the carbon intensity of its
generation fleet by developing generation facilities with zero CO2and low CO2emissions, as well as economically viable facilities that can be equipped for CO2capture and storage. There are six generally recognized GHGs including
CO2, methane, nitrous oxide, sulfur hexafluoride,
hydrofluorocarbons, and perfluorocarbons. The focus is on new generation because there is no current economically viable technological solution to retro-fit existing fossil-fueled technology to capture and store GHG emissions. Given that new
generation units have useful lives of up to 55 years, Virginia Power will consider CO2and other GHG emissions when making these long-term decisions. SeeDominion Generation—Propertiesfor more information.

Improvements in Other Energy Infrastructure

In December 2010, Virginia Power announced its five-year
investment plan, which includes spending approximately $4 billion to upgrade or add new transmission and distribution lines, substations and other facilities to meet growing electricity demand within its service territory and maintain reliability.
These enhancements are primarily aimed at meeting Virginia Power’s continued goal of providing reliable service, and are intended to address both continued population growth and increases in electricity consumption by the typical consumer. An
additional benefit will be added capacity to efficiently deliver electricity from the renewable projects now being developed or to be developed in the













future. SeeGlobal Climate ChangeunderRegulation—Environmental Regulationsin this item for more information.

Virginia Power is taking measures to ensure that its electrical infrastructure can support the expected demand from electric vehicles,
which have significantly lower carbon intensity than conventional vehicles. Virginia Power has partnered with Ford Motor Company to help prepare Virginia for the operation of electric vehicles, in a collaboration that involves consumer outreach,
educational programs and the exchange of information on vehicle charging requirements.





REGULATION

Dominion and Virginia Power are subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission, North Carolina Commission, SEC, FERC, EPA, DOE, NRC, Army Corps of
Engineers and other federal, state and local authorities.

State Regulations

ELECTRIC

Virginia Power’s electric utility retail service is subject
to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission.

Virginia Power holds certificates of public
convenience and necessity which authorize it to maintain and operate its electric facilities now in operation and to sell electricity to customers. However, Virginia Power may not construct or incur financial commitments for construction of any
substantial generating facilities or large capacity transmission lines without the prior approval of various state and federal government agencies. In addition, the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission regulate Virginia Power’s
transactions with affiliates, transfers of certain facilities and the issuance of securities.

Electric Regulation in Virginia

Prior to the Regulation Act, which significantly changed electricity regulation in Virginia, Virginia Power’s Virginia jurisdictional base rates were
to be capped at 1999 levels until December 31, 2010, at which time Virginia was to convert to retail competition for its electric supply service. The Regulation Act ended capped rates two years early, on December 31, 2008, at which time
retail competition was made available only to individual retail customers with a demand of more than 5 MW and non-residential retail customers who obtain Virginia Commission approval to aggregate their load to reach the 5 MW threshold. Individual
retail customers are also permitted to purchase renewable energy from competitive suppliers if their incumbent electric utility does not offer a 100% renewable energy tariff.

The Regulation Act also authorizes stand-alone rate adjustment clauses for recovery of costs for new generation projects, FERC-approved transmission costs, environmental compliance, conservation and
energy efficiency programs and renewable energy programs. The Regulation Act provides for enhanced returns on capital expenditures on specific new generation projects, including but not limited to nuclear generation, clean coal/carbon capture
compatible generation and renewable generation projects. The Regulation Act also continues statutory provisions directing Virginia Power to file annual fuel cost recovery cases with the Virginia Commission.

Pursuant to the Regulation Act, the Virginia Commission entered an order in January 2009
initiating the 2009 Base Rate Review. In connection with the 2009 Base Rate Review, Virginia Power submitted base rate filings and accompanying schedules to the Virginia Commission during 2009. In February 2010, Virginia Power filed a revised
Stipulation and Recommendation with the Virginia Commission, which had the support of all of the interested parties, including the Staff of the Virginia Commission. Virginia Power’s fourth quarter 2009 results included a charge of $782 million
($477 million after-tax) representing its best estimate at the time of the probable outcome of the 2009 Base Rate Review. In March 2010, the Virginia Commission issued the Virginia Settlement Approval Order that concluded the 2009 Base Rate Review
and resolved open issues relating to Virginia Power’s fuel factor and Rider T. An ROE issue relating to Riders R, S, C1 and C2 was also resolved.

The Virginia Settlement Approval Order included the following provisions:

Credits from 2008
Revenues



ŸCredits to customers of $400 million from Virginia Power’s 2008 revenues to be applied against base rates and rider
charges.

Base Rates



ŸNo change in Virginia Power’s base rates in existence prior to September 1, 2009 until December 1, 2013 (unless emergency rate relief is
warranted by statute);

ŸRefund increased revenues collected under the interim base rates since September 1, 2009; and

ŸAn ROE of 11.9% (inclusive of a performance incentive of 60 basis points) for use in the Virginia Commission’s assessment in the upcoming
biennial rate review of Virginia Power’s earnings.

FTR Credits



ŸCredits to customers of $129 million, inclusive of any carrying charge, relating to revenues from FTRs for the period July 1, 2007 through
June 30, 2009.

Generation Riders R and S



ŸAn ROE of 12.3% (inclusive of a 100 basis point statutory enhancement) for the 2010 rate year.

Transmission Rider T



ŸWaiver of recovery, effective January 1, 2011, of deferred RTO start-up and administrative costs in the amount of $197 million (including
carrying charges) that were previously approved for recovery through Rider T.

DSM Riders C1 and C2



ŸAn ROE of 11.3% for the 2010 rate year.

Commencing in 2011, the Virginia Commission will conduct biennial reviews of Virginia Power’s base rates, terms and conditions. In the biennial review, as in the 2009 Base Rate Review, Virginia
Power’s authorized ROE can be no lower than the average of that reported by not less than a majority of comparable utilities within the Southeastern U.S., with certain limitations as described in the Regulation Act. If Virginia Power’s
earnings are













more than 50 basis points above the authorized level, such earnings will be shared with customers.

Environmental Strategy

The Virginia Commission is required to issue its orders in these proceedings by March 30, 2011.

With respect to Virginia Power’s costs of transmission service, in June 2010, the Virginia Commission approved Virginia Power’s annual update to Rider T which was effective September 1,
2010, reflecting the revenue requirement of approximately $338 million recommended by the Virginia Commission Staff and agreed to by Virginia Power. The $338 million revenue requirement reflects an increase of approximately $118 million over the
previous revenue requirement.

In April 2010, Virginia Power filed its Virginia fuel factor application with the Virginia
Commission. The application requested an annual decrease in fuel expense recovery of approximately $82 million for the period July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011. The proposed fuel factor went into effect on July 1, 2010 on an interim
basis. An evidentiary hearing on Virginia Power’s application was held in September 2010, and in October 2010, the Virginia Commission issued its final order approving the reduction in Virginia Power’s fuel factor as proposed in its
application.

If the Virginia Commission’s future rate decisions, including actions relating to Virginia Power’s
upcoming biennial review and rate adjustment clause filings, differ materially from Virginia Power’s expectations, it could adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

North Carolina Regulation

Virginia Power’s
North Carolina base rates have been subject to a five-year base rate moratorium, effective as of April 2005. Fuel rates continued to be subject to annual fuel rate adjustments, with deferred fuel accounting for over- or under-recoveries of fuel
costs.

In February 2010, in preparation for the end of the five-year base rate moratorium, Virginia Power filed an application
to increase its base rates and adjust its fuel rates. Virginia Power’s application included a proposal to recover proportionately more of its purchased power energy costs through fuel rates, which are adjusted annually, instead of being
recovered in base rates. In August 2010, Virginia Power filed its annual application for a change in its fuel rates, which updated the fuel application of February 2010 to reflect a proposed decrease of approximately $28 million when compared
to current fuel rates. Also in August 2010, Virginia Power updated its base rate application to seek a $27 million increase, instead of $29 million as originally proposed.

In September 2010, all parties to the base rate and fuel case except one, which did not oppose the settlement, filed an Agreement and Stipulation of Settlement and requested approval from the North
Carolina Commission. In December 2010, the North Carolina Commission issued the North Carolina Settlement Approval Order. The North Carolina Settlement Approval Order authorizes an increase in base revenues of approximately $8 million and a one-year
decrease in combined fuel revenues of approximately $32 million when compared to revenues produced from current rates. In addition, the North Carolina Settlement Approval Order permits the recovery through fuel rates of 85% of the net energy costs
of power purchases from both PJM and other wholesale suppliers and from the non-utility generators subject to economic dispatch that do not provide actual cost data. The













North Carolina Settlement Approval Order authorizes an ROE of 10.7% and a capital structure composed of 49% long-term debt and 51% common equity. Virginia Power does not agree that the foregoing
ROE represents its anticipated or actual cost of equity or capital structure, but accepted the resulting revenue requirement for the purpose of a global settlement of disputed issues in the proceedings. The new base and fuel rates became effective
on January 1, 2011.

GAS

Dominion’s gas distribution services are regulated by the Ohio Commission and the West Virginia Commission.

Status of Competitive Retail Gas Services

Both of the states in which Dominion has gas distribution
operations have considered legislation regarding a competitive deregulation of natural gas sales at the retail level.

Ohio—Ohio has not enacted legislation requiring supplier choice for residential or commercial natural gas consumers. However,
in cooperation with the Ohio Commission, Dominion offers retail choice to residential and commercial customers. At December 31, 2010, approximately 1 million of Dominion’s 1.2 million Ohio customers were participating in this
Energy Choice program. In October 2006, East Ohio implemented a pilot program approved by the Ohio Commission as a transitional step towards the improvement and expansion of the Energy Choice program. Under the pilot program, East Ohio entered into
gas purchase contracts with selected suppliers at a fixed price above the NYMEX month-end settlement. This Standard Service Offer pricing mechanism replaced the traditional gas cost recovery rate with a monthly market price that eliminated the
true-up adjustment, making it easier for customers to compare and switch to competitive suppliers if they so choose.

In June
2008, the Ohio Commission approved a settlement filed in response to East Ohio’s application seeking approval of Phase 2 of its plan to restructure its commodity service. Under that settlement, the existing Standard Service Offer program was
continued through March 2009 with an update to the fixed rate adder to the NYMEX price. Starting in April 2009, East Ohio buys natural gas under the Standard Service Offer program for customers not eligible to participate in the Energy Choice
program and places Energy Choice-eligible customers in a direct retail relationship with selected suppliers, which is designated on the customers’ bills. Subject to the Ohio Commission’s approval, East Ohio may eventually exit the gas
merchant function in Ohio entirely and have all customers select an alternate gas supplier. East Ohio continues to be the provider of last resort in the event of default by a supplier. Large industrial customers in Ohio also source their own natural
gas supplies.

West Virginia—At this time, West Virginia has not enacted legislation to require customer choice in
the retail natural gas markets served by Hope. However, the West Virginia Commission has issued regulations to govern pooling services, one of the tools that natural gas suppliers may utilize to provide retail customer choice in the future and has
issued rules requiring competitive gas service providers to be licensed in West Virginia.

Rates

Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiaries are subject to regulation of rates and other aspects of their businesses by the states in which

they operate—Ohio and West Virginia. When necessary, Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiaries seek general base rate increases to recover increased operating costs. In addition to
general rate increases, Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiaries make routine separate filings with their respective state regulatory commissions to reflect changes in the costs of purchased gas. The majority of these purchased gas costs are
subject to rate recovery through a mechanism that ensures dollar for dollar recovery of prudently incurred costs. Costs that are expected to be recovered in future rates are deferred as regulatory assets. The purchased gas cost recovery filings
generally cover prospective one-, three- or twelve-month periods. Approved increases or decreases in gas cost recovery rates result in increases or decreases in revenues with corresponding increases or decreases in net purchased gas cost expenses.

In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Ohio Commission approved an approximately $41 million annual base rate revenue increase and
an 8.49% allowed rate of return on rate base for East Ohio, which were reflected in revised base rates commencing December 22, 2008.

In October 2008, the Ohio Commission approved cost recovery for an initial five-year period of East Ohio’s 25-year PIR program to replace approximately 20% of its 21,000-mile pipeline system. In
August 2009, East Ohio filed an application with the Ohio Commission seeking approval of the first annual adjustment to the PIR cost recovery charge approved as part of East Ohio’s 2008 base rate case. The application included a revenue
requirement of approximately $16 million, which was subsequently reduced to approximately $13 million by an order issued by the Ohio Commission in December 2009. East Ohio opposed the order, however, its application for rehearing of the
decision was denied. In March 2010, East Ohio filed a notice of appeal with the Supreme Court of Ohio alleging that the Ohio Commission’s order in the matter was unlawful, unjust and unreasonable. Dominion cannot predict the outcome of the
appeal, however, it is not expected to have a material effect on results of operations.

In August 2010, East Ohio filed its
second annual application to adjust the cost recovery charge associated with its PIR program for actual costs and a return on investments made through June 30, 2010. The application reflected a revenue requirement of approximately $28 million.
In November 2010, the Ohio Commission approved a settlement agreement filed by East Ohio and the Staff of the Ohio Commission reflecting a revenue requirement of approximately $27 million. Other interested parties to the case neither supported nor
objected to the settlement agreement.

Under the Ohio PIPP program, eligible customers can receive energy assistance based on
their ability to pay their bill. The difference between the customer’s total bill and the PIPP plan payment amount is deferred and collected under the PIPP rider in accordance with the rules of the Ohio Commission. Due to increased
participation in the program and increases in gas costs in the period since the previous rider rate went into effect, unrecovered costs increased. Accordingly, in March 2010, the Ohio Commission approved a 12-month recovery of approximately $259
million of uncollected receivables associated with the PIPP program, comprised of accumulated PIPP arrearages of $163 million and projected arrearages of $96 million for the 12 months that the PIPP rider rate will be in effect. The PIPP













rider rate went into effect in April 2010. The Ohio Commission directed East Ohio to file an application, with arrearages calculated on a calendar year basis, to update its PIPP rider within one
year of implementation of the new PIPP rider rate and annually thereafter.

In November 2010, rule changes adopted by the Ohio
Commission to the PIPP program became effective. The rule changes established a new program, PIPP Plus, which replaced PIPP. The PIPP Plus program reduces the customer’s monthly payments from 10% to 6% of household income and provides
for forgiveness credits to the customer’s balance when required payments are received in full by the due date. Such credits may result in the elimination of the customer’s arrearage balance over 24 months.

East Ohio files an annual UEX Rider with the Ohio Commission, pursuant to which it seeks recovery of the bad debt expense of most
customers not participating in PIPP Plus. The UEX Rider is adjusted annually to achieve dollar-for-dollar recovery of East Ohio’s actual write-offs of uncollectable amounts. In 2010, East Ohio deferred approximately $55 million of bad debt
expense for recovery through the UEX Rider.

In October 2008, Hope filed a request with the West Virginia Commission for an
increase in the base rates it charges for natural gas service. The requested new base rates would have increased Hope’s revenues by approximately $34 million annually. In November 2009, the West Virginia Commission authorized an approximately
$9 million increase in base rates. In June 2010, the West Virginia Commission authorized an additional base rate increase of less than $1 million to correct a miscalculation of rates attached to the November 2009 order.

Federal Regulations

FEDERALENERGYREGULATORYCOMMISSION

Electric

Under the Federal Power Act, FERC regulates wholesale sales and transmission of electricity in interstate commerce by public utilities. Virginia Power purchases and sells electricity in the PJM wholesale
market and Dominion’s merchant generators sell electricity in the PJM, MISO and ISO-NE wholesale markets under Dominion’s market-based sales tariffs authorized by FERC. In addition, Virginia Power has FERC approval of a tariff to sell
wholesale power at capped rates based on its embedded cost of generation. This cost-based sales tariff could be used to sell to loads within or outside Virginia Power’s service territory. Any such sales would be voluntary.

In May 2005, FERC issued an order finding that PJM’s existing transmission service rate design may not be just and reasonable, and
ordered an investigation and hearings on the matter. In January 2008, FERC affirmed an earlier decision that the PJM transmission rate design for existing facilities had not become unjust and unreasonable. For recovery of costs of investments
of new PJM-planned transmission facilities that operate at or above 500 kV, FERC established a regional rate design where all customers pay a uniform rate based on the costs of such investment. For recovery of costs of investment in new PJM-planned
transmission facilities that operate below 500 kV, FERC affirmed its earlier decision to allocate costs on a beneficiary pays approach. A notice of appeal of this decision was filed in February 2008 at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit. In August

2009, the court denied the petition for review concerning the rate design for existing facilities, but granted the petition concerning the rate design for new facilities that operate at or above
500 kV, and remanded the issue of existing facilities back to FERC for further proceedings. Although Dominion and Virginia Power cannot predict the outcome of the FERC proceedings on remand, the impact of any PJM rate design changes on the
Companies’ results of operations is not expected to be material.

Dominion and Virginia Power are subject to FERC’s
Standards of Conduct that govern conduct between transmission function employees of interstate gas and electricity transmission providers and the marketing function employees of their affiliates. The rule defines the scope of transmission and
marketing-related functions that are covered by the standards and is designed to prevent transmission providers from giving their affiliates undue preferences.

Dominion and Virginia Power are also subject to FERC’s affiliate restrictions that (1) prohibit power sales between Virginia Power and Dominion’s merchant plants without first receiving
FERC authorization, (2) require the merchant plants and Virginia Power to conduct their wholesale power sales operations separately, and (3) prohibit Virginia Power from sharing market information with merchant plant operating personnel.
The rules are designed to prohibit Virginia Power from giving the merchant plants a competitive advantage.

In April 2008, FERC
granted an application for Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations to establish a forward-looking formula rate mechanism that updates transmission rates on an annual basis and approved an ROE of 11.4%, effective as of January 1,
2008. The formula rate is designed to recover the expected revenue requirement for each calendar year and is updated based on actual costs. The FERC-approved formula method, which is based on projected costs, allows Virginia Power to earn a current
return on its growing investment in electric transmission infrastructure.

In July 2008, Virginia Power filed an application
with FERC requesting a revision to its revenue requirement to reflect an additional ROE incentive adder for eleven electric transmission enhancement projects. Under the proposal, the cost of transmission service would increase to include an ROE
incentive adder for each of the eleven projects, beginning the date each project enters commercial operation (but not before January 1, 2009). Virginia Power proposed an incentive of 1.5% for four of the projects (including the Meadow
Brook-to-Loudoun line and Carson-to-Suffolk line) and an incentive of 1.25% for the other seven projects. In August 2008, FERC approved the proposal, effective September 1, 2008. The total cost for all eleven projects is estimated at $877
million, and all projects are currently expected to be completed by 2012. Numerous parties sought rehearing of the FERC order in August 2008 and rehearing is pending. Although Virginia Power cannot predict the outcome of the rehearing, it is not
expected to have a material effect on results of operations.

In March 2010, ODEC and NCEMC filed a complaint with FERC against
Virginia Power claiming that approximately $223 million in transmission costs related to specific projects were unjust, unreasonable and unduly discriminatory or preferential and should be excluded from Virginia Power’s transmission
formula rate. ODEC and NCEMC requested that FERC estab-













lish procedures to determine the amount of costs for each applicable project that should be excluded from Virginia Power’s rates. In October 2010, FERC issued an order dismissing the
complaint in part and established hearings and settlement procedures on the remaining part of the complaint. While Virginia Power cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding, it is not expected to have a material effect on results of operations.

In May 2008, the RPM Buyers filed a complaint with FERC claiming that PJM’s Reliability Pricing Model’s transitional
auctions have produced unjust and unreasonable capacity prices. The RPM Buyers requested that a refund effective date of June 1, 2008 be established and that FERC provide appropriate relief from unjust and unreasonable capacity charges within
15 months. In September 2008, FERC dismissed the complaint. The RPM Buyers requested rehearing of the FERC order in October 2008 and rehearing was denied in June 2009. A notice of appeal was filed in August 2009 by the Maryland Public Service
Commission and the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. In November 2009, the Court transferred the appeal to the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. In February 2011, the Court
of Appeals denied the petition for review, concluding that FERC had adequately explained why the rates were just and reasonable.

EPACT included provisions to create an ERO. The ERO is required to promulgate mandatory reliability standards governing the operation of
the bulk power system in the U.S. FERC has certified NERC as the ERO and also issued an initial order approving many reliability standards that went into effect in 2007. Entities that violate standards will be subject to fines of between $1 thousand
and $1 million per day, and can also be assessed non-monetary penalties, depending upon the nature and severity of the violation.

Gas

FERC regulates the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy
Act of 1978, as amended. Under the Natural Gas Act, FERC has authority over rates, terms and conditions of services performed by Dominion’s interstate natural gas company subsidiaries, including DTI, Cove Point and the Dominion South Pipeline
Company, LP. FERC also has jurisdiction over siting, construction and operation of natural gas import facilities and interstate natural gas pipeline facilities.

Dominion’s interstate gas transmission and storage activities are generally conducted on an open access basis, in accordance with certificates, tariffs and service agreements on file with FERC.

Dominion is also subject to the Pipeline Safety Act of 2002, which mandates inspections of interstate and intrastate natural
gas transmission and storage pipelines, particularly those located in areas of high-density population. Dominion has evaluated its natural gas transmission and storage properties, as required by the Department of Transportation regulations under
this Act, and has implemented a program of identification, testing and potential remediation activities. These activities are ongoing.

In May 2005, FERC approved a comprehensive rate settlement with DTI, its customers and interested state commissions. The settlement, which became effective July 1, 2005, revised DTI’s natural
gas transmission rates and reduced fuel retention levels for storage service customers. As part of the settlement, DTI and all signatory parties agreed to a rate moratorium through June 30, 2010. DTI remains subject to the terms of the tariff
rates established pursuant to the settlement.

In December 2007, DTI and the IOGA entered into a settlement agreement on
DTI’s gathering and processing rates, which DTI and IOGA agreed in May 2010 to extend through December 31, 2014. DTI, at its option, may elect to extend the agreement for an additional year through December 31, 2015. The settlement
extension maintains the gas retainage fee structure that DTI has had since 2001. The rates are 10.5% for gathering and 0.5% for processing. Under the settlement, DTI continues to retain all revenues from its liquids sales, thus maintaining cash flow
from the liquids business. DTI will file the negotiated rates associated with the agreement extension with FERC in December 2011.

Dominion is required to file a general base rate review for the FERC-jurisdictional services of Cove Point, effective no later than July 1, 2011. At that time, Cove Point’s cost of service will
be reviewed by the FERC, with rates set based on analyses of Cove Point’s costs and capital structure.

Environmental Regulations

Each of Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s operating segments faces substantial laws, regulations and compliance costs with respect to
environmental matters. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations authorize the imposition of substantial penalties for noncompliance, including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions. If expenditures
for pollution control technologies and associated operating costs are not recoverable from customers through regulated rates (in regulated jurisdictions) or market prices (in deregulated jurisdictions), those costs could adversely affect future
results of operations and cash flows. The cost of complying with appli-













cable environmental laws, regulations and rules is expected to be material to the Companies. Dominion and Virginia Power have applied for or obtained the necessary environmental permits for the
operation of their facilities. Many of these permits are subject to reissuance and continuing review. For a discussion of significant aspects of these matters, including current and planned capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance
required to be discussed in this Item, seeEnvironmental MattersinFuture Issues and Other Mattersin MD&A, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Additional information can also be found in Item 3. Legal
Proceedings and Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

GLOBALCLIMATECHANGE

General

In recent years there has
been increased national and international attention to GHG emissions and their relationship to climate change, which has resulted in federal, regional and state legislative or regulatory action in this area. Dominion and Virginia Power support
national climate change legislation to provide a consistent, economy-wide approach to addressing this issue and are taking action to protect the environment and address climate change while meeting the future needs of their growing service
territory. Dominion’s CEO and operating segment CEOs are responsible for compliance with the laws and regulations governing environmental matters, including climate change, and Dominion’s Board of Directors receives periodic updates on
these matters.

Dominion has developed a comprehensive GHG inventory for calendar year 2009. For Dominion
Generation, Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s direct
CO


equivalent emissions, based on equity share (ownership),
were approximately 54 million metric tonnes and 33 million metric tonnes, respectively, in 2009. For the DVP operating segment’s electric transmission and distribution operations, direct CO


equivalent emissions were approximately 0.2 million metric tonnes.
DTI’s (including Cove Point) direct CO


equivalent
emissions were approximately 2.5 million metric tonnes and East Ohio’s direct CO


equivalent emissions were approximately 1.4 million metric tonnes. While the Companies do not have final 2010 emissions data, they do not expect a significant variance in emissions from 2009
amounts. With respect to electric generation, primary facility stack emissions of CO


from carbon based fuel combustion are directly measured via continuous emissions monitor system methods set forth under 40 CFR Part 75 of the U.S. Electric Code of Federal Regulation. For those emission
sources not covered under 40 CFR Part 75, and for methane and nitrous oxide emissions, quantification is based on fuel combustion, higher heating values, emission factors, and global warming potentials as specified in the EPA’s Mandatory
Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule. For the DVP operating segment’s electric transmission and distribution emissions, the protocol used wasThe Climate Registry. For Dominion’s natural gas businesses, combustion related emissions
were calculated using the EPA Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule as described above. For DTI, the protocol used to calculate the non-combustion related emissions reported above wasGreenhouse Gas Emission Estimation Guidelines for
NaturalGas Transmission and Storage, Volume 1-GHG EstimationMethodologies and Procedures-Revision 2, September 28, 2005developed by the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America.

For East Ohio, the protocol used to calculate the non-combustion related emissions was the American Gas Association’s April 2008 Greenhouse Emissions Estimation Methodologies and Procedures
for Natural Gas Distribution Operations.

Climate Change Legislation and Regulation

See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on climate change legislation and regulation.

Dominion and Virginia Power’s Strategy for Voluntarily Reducing GHG Emissions

While Dominion
and Virginia Power have not established a standalone GHG emissions reduction target or timetable, they are actively engaged in voluntary reduction efforts and are working toward achieving the standards established by existing state regulations as
set forth above. The Companies have an integrated strategy for reducing GHG emission intensity that is based on maintaining a diverse fuel mix, including nuclear, coal, gas, hydro and renewable energy, investing in renewable energy projects and
promoting energy conservation and efficiency efforts. SeeEnvironmental Strategyabove for a description of Dominion and Virginia Power’s strategy for reducing GHG emission intensity. Below are some of the Companies’ efforts that
have or are expected to reduce the Companies’ carbon emissions or intensity:

ŸIn 2003, Virginia Power retired two oil-fired units at its Possum Point power station, replacing them with a new 559 MW combined-cycle natural gas
unit. Virginia Power also converted two coal-fired units to cleaner burning natural gas.

ŸSince 2000, Dominion has added over 2,600 MW of non-emitting nuclear generation and over 3,500 MW of new lower-emitting natural gas-fired
generation including nearly 1,600 MW at Virginia Power (excluding Possum Point), to its generation mix.

ŸVirginia Power added 83 MW of renewable biomass.

ŸDominion has over 800 MW of wind energy in operation or development.

ŸIn June 2010, Virginia Power announced its plans to develop an integrated solar and battery storage demonstration project in Halifax County, Virginia.

ŸVirginia Power is completing construction of the 580 MW combined-cycle natural gas-fired Bear Garden generating facility.

ŸVirginia Power has announced its plans to develop the Warren County power station development project, which is designed to be a 3-on-1,
combined-cycle, natural gas-fired power station expected to generate more than 1,300 MW of electricity. In connection with the air permit process for the Warren County project, Virginia Power reached an agreement with the National Park Service to
permanently retire the North Branch power station, a 74 MW coal fired plant located in West Virginia, once the Warren County power station begins commercial operations.

ŸVirginia Power and ODEC have received an Early Site Permit from the NRC for the possible addition of approximately 1,500 MW of nuclear generation in
Virginia. Virginia Power has not yet committed to building a new nuclear unit.

ŸIn May 2010, Virginia Power launched five new DSM programs within the Virginia service territory and has sought the approval of the North Carolina
commission to launch six new













DSM programs in North Carolina in 2011, subject to required regulatory approvals.

ŸVirginia Power has initiated a demonstration of smart grid technologies, which are designed to help reduce the electric energy consumption of Virginia
Power’s retail customers and therefore reduce generation requirements.

While, upon
entering service, Virginia Power’s new Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center, which is currently under construction in southwest Virginia, will be a new source of GHG emissions, Virginia Power has taken steps to minimize the impact on the
environment. The new plant is expected to use at least 10% biomass for fuel and is designed to be carbon-capture compatible, meaning that technology to capture CO2can be added to the station when it becomes commercially available. Also, Virginia Power has announced plans to convert
its coal units at Bremo power station to natural gas, contingent upon the Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center entering service and receipt of necessary approvals. It is currently estimated that the Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center will have the
potential to emit about 4.8 million metric tonnes of direct CO2emissions in a year assuming a 100% capacity factor and 100% coal-fired operation. Actual emissions will depend on the capacity factor of the facility and the extent to which biomass is burned. SeeDominion Generation—Propertiesfor more information on the projects above, as well as other projects under current development.

Since 2000, the Companies have tracked the emissions of their electric generation fleet. Their electric generation fleet employs a mix of fuel and renewable energy sources. Comparing annual year 2000 to
annual year 2009, Dominion and Virginia Power’s electric generating fleet (based on ownership percentage) reduced their average CO2emissions rate per MWh of energy produced from electric generation by about 16% and 5%, respectively. During such time
period the capacity of Dominion and Virginia Power’s electric generation fleet has grown.

Nuclear Regulatory Commission

All aspects of the operation and maintenance of Dominion’s and Virginia Powers’ nuclear power stations, which are part of the Dominion
Generation segment, are regulated by the NRC. Operating licenses issued by the NRC are subject to revocation, suspension or modification, and the operation of a nuclear unit may be suspended if the NRC determines that the public interest, health or
safety so requires.

From time to time, the NRC adopts new requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear
facilities. In many cases, these new regulations require changes in the design, operation and maintenance of existing nuclear facilities. If the NRC adopts such requirements in the future, it could result in substantial increases in the cost of
operating and maintaining Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s nuclear generating units.

The NRC also requires Dominion
and Virginia Power to decontaminate their nuclear facilities once operations cease. This process is referred to as decommissioning, and the Companies are required by the NRC to be financially prepared. For information on decommissioning trusts, seeDominion Generation—NuclearDecommissioningand Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

SPENTNUCLEARFUEL

A lawsuit was also filed for Kewaunee. In August 2010, Dominion and the federal government reached a settlement
resolving Dominion’s claims for damages incurred at Kewaunee through December 31, 2008. The approximately $21 million settlement payment was received in September 2010.

The Companies will continue to manage their spent fuel until it is accepted by the DOE.

Virginia Power and Kewaunee continue to recognize receivables for certain spent nuclear fuel-related costs that they believe are probable
of recovery from the DOE.

