Item 1. Business

GENERAL

Dominion,
headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and incorporated in Virginia in 1983, is one of the nation’s largest producers and transporters of energy. Dominion’s strategy is to be a leading provider of electricity, natural gas and related services
to customers primarily in the eastern region of the U.S. Dominion’s portfolio of assets includes approximately 23,600 MW of generating capacity, 6,400 miles of electric transmission lines, 57,000 miles of electric distribution lines, 10,900
miles of natural gas transmission, gathering and storage pipeline and 21,900 miles of gas distribution pipeline, exclusive of service lines. Dominion presently serves nearly 6 million utility and retail energy customers in 15 states and operates one
of the nation’s largest underground natural gas storage systems, with approximately 947 bcf of storage capacity.

Dominion
is focused on expanding its investment in regulated electric generation, transmission and distribution and regulated natural gas transmission and distribution infrastructure within and around its existing footprint. With this investment, Dominion
expects 80% to 90% of future earnings from its primary operating segments to come from regulated and long-term contracted businesses.

Dominion continues to expand and improve its regulated electric and natural gas businesses, in accordance with its five-year capital investment program. A major impetus for this program is to meet the
anticipated increase in demand in its electric utility service territory. Other drivers for the capital investment program include the construction of infrastructure to handle the increase in natural gas production from the Marcellus and Utica Shale
formations and to upgrade Dominion’s gas and electric transmission and distribution networks. Investments to gather and process natural gas production from the Utica Shale formation, in eastern Ohio and western Pennsylvania, are being made by
the Blue Racer joint venture.

In September 2013, Dominion announced the formation of Dominion Gas, a first tier wholly-owned
subsidiary holding company for the majority of Dominion’s regulated natural gas businesses. Specifically, Dominion transferred direct ownership of East Ohio, DTI and Dominion Iroquois, the latter of which holds a 24.72% general partnership
interest in Iroquois, to Dominion Gas on September 30, 2013. Dominion Gas will be the primary financing entity for Dominion’s regulated natural gas businesses and expects to become an SEC registrant in 2014.

Also in September 2013, Dominion announced its plans to form an MLP in 2014 by contributing certain of its midstream natural gas assets to
the MLP initially and over time. Dominion is currently considering the contribution to the MLP of natural gas business assets other than those owned by Dominion Gas, including interests in Cove Point and Dominion’s share of the Blue Racer joint
venture.

Dominion has transitioned to a more regulated earnings mix as evidenced by its capital investments in regulated
infrastructure, as well as dispositions of certain merchant generation facilities during 2012 and 2013 and the ongoing exit of natural gas trading and certain energy marketing activities. Dominion’s nonregulated

operations include merchant generation, energy marketing and price risk management activities and retail energy marketing operations. Dominion’s operations are conducted through various
subsidiaries, including Virginia Power.

Virginia Power, headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and incorporated in
Virginia in 1909 as a Virginia public service corporation, is a regulated public utility that generates, transmits and distributes electricity for sale in Virginia and North Carolina. In Virginia, Virginia Power conducts business under the name
“Dominion Virginia Power” and primarily serves retail customers. In North Carolina, it conducts business under the name “Dominion North Carolina Power” and serves retail customers located in the northeastern region of the state,
excluding certain municipalities. In addition, Virginia Power sells electricity at wholesale prices to rural electric cooperatives, municipalities and into wholesale electricity markets. All of Virginia Power’s common stock is owned by
Dominion.

Amounts disclosed for Dominion are inclusive of Virginia Power, where applicable.





EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2013, Dominion had approximately
14,500 full-time employees, of which approximately 5,300 employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. As of December 31, 2013, Virginia Power had approximately 6,700 full-time employees, of which approximately 3,100 employees are
subject to collective bargaining agreements.





PRINCIPALEXECUTIVEOFFICES

Dominion and Virginia Power’s principal executive offices are located at 120 Tredegar Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219 and their telephone number is (804) 819-2000.





WHEREYOUCANFINDMOREINFORMATIONABOUTDOMINIONANDVIRGINIAPOWER

Dominion and Virginia Power file their annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy
statements and other information with the SEC. Their SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document they file at the SEC’s public reference room
at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.

Dominion and Virginia Power make their SEC filings available, free of charge, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to
those reports, through Dominion’s internet website, http://www.dom.com, as soon as practicable after filing or furnishing the material to the SEC. You may also request a copy of these filings, at no cost, by writing or telephoning Dominion at:
Corporate Secretary, Dominion, 120 Tredegar Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219, Telephone (804) 819-2000. Information contained on Dominion’s website is not incorporated by reference in this report.















ACQUISITIONSANDDISPOSITIONS

Following are significant acquisitions and divestitures by Dominion and Virginia Power during the last five years. There were no significant acquisitions by either registrant during this period.

SALEOFBRAYTONPOINT, KINCAIDANDEQUITYMETHODINVESTMENTINELWOOD

In August 2013, Dominion
completed the sale of Brayton Point, Kincaid and its equity method investment in Elwood to Energy Capital Partners and received proceeds of approximately $465 million, net of transaction costs. The historical results of Brayton Point’s and
Kincaid’s operations are included in the Corporate and Other segment and presented in discontinued operations. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

SALEOFE&P PROPERTIES

In April 2010, Dominion completed the sale of substantially all of its Appalachian E&P operations, including its rights to associated Marcellus acreage, to a subsidiary of CONSOL for approximately
$3.5 billion.

SALEOFPEOPLES

In February 2010, Dominion completed the sale of Peoples to PNG Companies LLC and netted after-tax proceeds of approximately $542 million.





OPERATINGSEGMENTS

Dominion manages its daily operations
through three primary operating segments: DVP, Dominion Generation and Dominion Energy. Dominion also reports a Corporate and Other segment, which includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) and the net
impact of operations that are discontinued, which is discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion’s other operating segments that are not
included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

Virginia Power manages its daily operations through two primary operating segments: DVP and Dominion Generation. It also reports a Corporate and Other segment that primarily includes specific items
attributable to its operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

While daily operations are managed through the operating segments previously discussed, assets remain wholly-owned by Dominion and
Virginia Power and their respective legal subsidiaries.

A description of the operations included in the Companies’ primary operating segments
is as follows:



Primary OperatingSegmentDescription of OperationsDominionVirginiaPowerDVPRegulated electric distributionXXRegulated electric transmissionXXDominion GenerationRegulated electric fleetXXMerchant electric fleetXNonregulated retail energy marketing (electric and gas)(1)XDominion EnergyGas transmission and storageXGas distribution and storageXLNG servicesXProducer servicesX



(1)As a result of Dominion’s decision to realign its business units effective for 2013 year-end reporting, nonregulated retail energy marketing operations were
moved from DVP to the Dominion Generation segment.

For additional financial information on operating
segments, including revenues from external customers, see Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information on operating revenue related to Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s principal products and services, see
Notes 2 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

DVP

The DVP Operating Segment of Dominion and Virginia Powerincludes Virginia Power’s regulated electric transmission and distribution (including
customer service) operations, which serve approximately 2.5 million residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers in Virginia and North Carolina.

DVP announced its five-year investment plan, which includes spending approximately $4.8 billion from 2014 through 2018 to upgrade or add new transmission and distribution lines, substations and other
facilities to meet growing electricity demand within its service territory and maintain reliability. The proposed electric delivery infrastructure projects are intended to address both continued customer growth and increases in electricity
consumption by the typical consumer. In addition, data centers continue to contribute to anticipated demand growth.

Revenue
provided by electric distribution operations is based primarily on rates established by state regulatory authorities and state law. Variability in earnings is driven primarily by changes in rates, weather, customer growth and other factors impacting
consumption such as the economy and energy conservation, in addition to operating and maintenance expenditures. Operationally, electric distribution continues to focus on improving service levels while striving to reduce costs and link investments
to operational results. As a result, electric service reliability and customer service have improved. Metrics used in measuring electric reliability and customer service were modified in 2013 to align with industry standards. Utilizing the new
standard, Virginia Power continues to see improvement as SAIDI performance results were 106 minutes at the end of 2013, down from the three-year average of 130 minutes. Virginia Power’s customer satisfaction improved year over year when
compared to peer utilities in the South Large segment of JD Power’s rankings.













Based on the annual JD Power Customer Satisfaction results, DVP improved customer
satisfaction and moved up three positions in the South Large segment ranking. Customer service options continue to be enhanced and expanded through the use of technology. Customers now have the ability to use the Internet for routine billing and
payment transactions, connecting and disconnecting service, reporting outages and obtaining outage updates. Additionally, customers can follow progress of electric service restoration efforts following major outages by accessing Dominion’s
Facebook, Twitter or internet website. In the future, safety, electric service reliability and customer service will remain key focus areas for electric distribution.

Revenue provided by Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations is based primarily on rates approved by FERC. The profitability of this business is dependent on its ability, through the rates
it is permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable return on its capital investments. Variability in earnings primarily results from changes in rates and the timing of property additions, retirements and depreciation.

Virginia Power is a member of PJM, an RTO, and its electric transmission facilities are integrated into PJM wholesale electricity markets.
Consistent with the increased authority given to NERC by EPACT, Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations are committed to meeting NERC standards, modernizing its infrastructure and maintaining superior system reliability. Virginia
Power’s electric transmission operations will continue to focus on safety, operational performance, NERC compliance and execution of PJM’s RTEP.

Dominion’s nonregulated retail energy marketing operations are now reflected in the Dominion Generation segment. See Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

COMPETITION

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

There is no competition for electric distribution service within Virginia Power’s service territory in Virginia and North Carolina and no such competition is currently permitted. Additionally, there
traditionally has been no competition for transmission service in the PJM region and Virginia Power’s electric transmission facilities are integrated into PJM. However, competition from non-incumbent PJM transmission owners for development,
construction and ownership of certain transmission facilities in Virginia Power’s service territory is now permitted pursuant to FERC Order 1000, subject to state and local siting and permitting approvals. This could result in additional
competition to build transmission lines in Virginia Power’s service area in the future and could allow Dominion to seek opportunities to build facilities in other service territories.

REGULATION

Virginia Power’s electric retail service, including the
rates it may charge to jurisdictional customers, is subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission. Virginia Power’s wholesale electric transmission rates, tariffs and terms of service are subject to
regulation by FERC. Electric transmission siting authority remains the jurisdiction of the Virginia and North Carolina Commissions. However, EPACT provides FERC with certain backstop authority for transmission siting. SeeState Regulations and
Federal RegulationsinRegulation

and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information, including a discussion of the 2013 Biennial Review Order.

PROPERTIES

Virginia Power has approximately 6,400 miles of electric
transmission lines of 69 kV or more located in the states of North Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia. Portions of Virginia Power’s electric transmission lines cross national parks and forests under permits entitling the federal government to
use, at specified charges, any surplus capacity that may exist in these lines. While Virginia Power owns and maintains its electric transmission facilities, they are a part of PJM, which coordinates the planning, operation, emergency assistance and
exchange of capacity and energy for such facilities.

As a part of PJM’s RTEP process, PJM authorized the following
material reliability projects (including estimated cost):

ŸMt. Storm-to-Doubs line ($350 million);

ŸSurry-to-Skiffes Creek-to-Whealton lines ($155 million);

ŸDooms-to-Lexington line ($112 million);

ŸWaxpool-Brambleton-BECO line ($49 million);

ŸHarrisonburg-to-Endless Caverns line ($66 million);

ŸRadnor Heights Project ($81 million);

ŸDooms-to-Bremo line ($65 million);

ŸLoudoun voltage regulation project ($70 million); and

ŸLandstown voltage regulation project ($60 million).

In addition, Virginia Power’s electric distribution network includes approximately 57,000 miles of distribution lines, exclusive of service level lines, in Virginia and North Carolina. The grants for
most of its electric lines contain rights-of-way that have been obtained from the apparent owners of real estate, but underlying titles have not been examined. Where rights-of-way have not been obtained, they could be acquired from private owners by
condemnation, if necessary. Many electric lines are on publicly-owned property, where permission to operate can be revoked.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

DVP’s supply of electricity to
serve Virginia Power customers is produced or procured by Dominion Generation. SeeDominion Generationfor additional information.

SEASONALITY

DVP
Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

DVP’s earnings vary seasonally as a result of the impact of changes in
temperature, the impact of storms and other catastrophic weather events, and the availability of alternative sources for heating on demand by residential and commercial customers. Generally, the demand for electricity peaks during the summer and
winter months to meet cooling and heating needs. An increase in heating degree days for DVP’s electric-utility related operations does not produce the same increase in revenue as an increase in cooling degree days, due to seasonal pricing
differentials and because alternative heating sources are more readily available.

Dominion Generation

The Dominion Generation Operating Segment of Virginia Powerincludes the generation operations of the Virginia Power
regu-













lated electric utility and its related energy supply operations. Virginia Power’s utility generation operations primarily serve the supply requirements for the DVP segment’s utility
customers.The Dominion Generation Operating Segment of Dominionincludes Virginia Power’s generation facilities and its related energy supply operations as well as the generation operations of Dominion’s merchant fleet and energy
marketing and price risk management activities for these assets and Dominion’s nonregulated retail energy marketing operations.

Dominion Generation’s five-year electric utility investment plan includes spending approximately $3.3 billion from 2014 through 2018 to develop, finance and construct new generation capacity to meet
growing electricity demand within its utility service territory. Significant projects under construction include Warren County and Brunswick County, which are estimated to cost approximately $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion, excluding financing costs,
respectively. SeePropertiesfor additional information on these and other utility projects.

In addition,
Dominion’s merchant fleet has acquired and developed several renewable generation projects, which began commercial operations during the fourth quarter of 2013. The total cost of the projects is approximately $200 million, excluding financing
costs, and includes a fuel cell generation facility in Connecticut and solar generation facilities in Indiana, Georgia, and Connecticut. The output of these facilities is sold under long-term power purchase agreements with terms ranging from 15 to
25 years.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment of Virginia Power

Electric Regulation in Virginia

Regulation

The Dominion Generation
Operating Segment of Dominionderives its earnings primarily from the sale of electricity generated by Virginia Power’s utility and Dominion’s merchant generation assets, as well as from associated capacity and ancillary services.
Variability in earnings provided by Dominion’s merchant fleet relates to changes in market-based prices received for electricity

and capacity. Market-based prices for electricity are largely dependent on commodity prices, primarily natural gas, and the demand for electricity, which is primarily dependent upon weather.
Capacity prices are dependent upon resource requirements in relation to the supply available (both existing and new) in the forward capacity auctions, which are held approximately three years in advance of the associated delivery year. Dominion
manages the electric price volatility of its merchant fleet by hedging a substantial portion of its expected near-term energy sales with derivative instruments. However, earnings have been adversely impacted due to a sustained decline in commodity
prices. This sustained decline in power prices in conjunction with Dominion’s regular strategic review of its portfolio of assets led to its decision to sell or retire certain merchant generation assets, which is discussed inProperties.
Variability also results from changes in the cost of fuel consumed, labor and benefits and the timing, duration and costs of scheduled and unscheduled outages.

Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations compete in nonregulated energy markets. The retail business requires limited capital investment and currently has approximately 190 employees. The retail
customer base includes 2.1 million customer accounts and is diversified across three product lines: natural gas, electricity and energy-related products and services. Dominion has a heavy concentration of natural gas customers in markets where
utilities have a long-standing commitment to customer choice. Dominion pursues customers in electricity markets where utilities have divested of generation assets and where customers are permitted and have opted to purchase from the market. Major
growth drivers are net customer additions, new market penetration, product development and expanded sales channels and supply optimization. In January 2014, Dominion announced it will exit the electric retail energy marketing business, but will
retain its natural gas and energy-related products and services retail energy marketing businesses.

COMPETITION

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Virginia Power’s generation operations are not subject to significant competition as only a limited number of its Virginia jurisdictional electric utility customers have retail choice. SeeRegulation-State Regulations-Electricfor more information. Currently, North Carolina does not offer retail choice to electric customers.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

Unlike Dominion Generation’s regulated generation fleet, its merchant generation fleet is dependent on its ability to operate in a competitive environment and does not have a predetermined rate
structure that provides for a rate of return on its capital investments. Competition for the merchant fleet is impacted by electricity and fuel prices, new market entrants, construction by others of generating assets and transmission capacity,
technological advances in power generation, the actions of environmental and other regulatory authorities and other factors. These competitive factors may negatively impact the merchant fleet’s ability to profit from the sale of
electricity and related products and services.

Dominion Generation’s merchant assets operate within functioning RTOs and
primarily compete on the basis of price.













Competitors include other generating assets bidding to operate within the RTOs. These RTOs have clearly identified market rules that ensure the competitive wholesale market is functioning
properly. Dominion Generation’s merchant units compete in the spot market with other generators to sell a variety of products including energy, capacity and ancillary services. It is difficult to compare various types of generation given the
wide range of fuels, fuel procurement strategies, efficiencies and operating characteristics of the fleet within any given RTO. However, Dominion applies its expertise in operations, dispatch and risk management to maximize the degree to which its
merchant fleet is competitive compared to similar assets within the region.

Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations
compete against incumbent utilities and other energy marketers in nonregulated energy markets for natural gas and electricity. Customers in these markets have the right to select a retail marketer and typically do so based upon price savings or
price stability; however, incumbent utilities have the advantage of long-standing relationships with their customers and greater name recognition in their markets.

REGULATION

Virginia Power’s utility generation fleet and
Dominion’s merchant generation fleet are subject to regulation by FERC, the NRC, the EPA, the DOE, the Army Corps of Engineers and other federal, state and local authorities. Virginia Power’s utility generation fleet is also subject to
regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission. SeeStateRegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationand Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

PROPERTIES

For a listing
of Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s existing generation facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

Dominion Generation Operating
Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

The generation capacity of Virginia Power’s electric utility fleet totals approximately
19,600 MW. The generation mix is diversified and includes coal, nuclear, gas, oil, hydro, renewables, and power purchase agreements. Virginia Power’s generation facilities are located in Virginia, West Virginia and North Carolina and serve load
in Virginia and northeastern North Carolina.

Virginia Power is developing, financing, and constructing new generation capacity
to meet growing electricity demand within its service territory. Significant projects under construction or development are set forth below:

ŸIn February 2012, the Virginia Commission authorized the construction of Warren County, which is estimated to cost approximately $1.1 billion,
excluding financing costs. It is expected to generate approximately 1,329 MW of electricity when operational. Commercial operations are scheduled to commence by late 2014.

ŸIn August 2013, the Virginia Commission authorized the construction of Brunswick County, which is estimated to cost approximately $1.3 billion,
excluding financing costs. It is expected to generate 1,358 MW when operational. Construction of the facility commenced in the third quarter of 2013 with commercial operations expected to begin in spring 2016. Brunswick County is expected to offset
the expected

reduction in capacity caused by the planned retirement of coal-fired units at Chesapeake by 2015 and at Yorktown as early as 2016, primarily due to the cost of compliance with MATS.

ŸDuring 2013, Virginia Power converted three coal-fired Virginia generating stations to biomass. The conversions of the power stations in Altavista,
Hopewell and Southampton County increased Dominion’s renewable generation by 153 MW and cost approximately $157 million, excluding financing costs. The Altavista, Hopewell and Southampton County power stations commenced commercial
operations using biomass as their fuel in July, October, and November 2013, respectively.

ŸIn September 2013, the Virginia Commission authorized Virginia Power to convert Bremo Units 3 and 4 from coal to natural gas. This project will
preserve the 227 MW of capacity from the units and is expected to cost approximately $53 million, excluding financing costs. The conversion process is expected to be completed in 2014 in compliance with the Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center air
permit.

ŸVirginia Power is also considering the development of a commercial offshore wind generation project. In September 2013, the BOEM auctioned
approximately 113,000 acres of federal land off the Virginia coast as a single lease for construction of offshore wind turbines. Virginia Power bid approximately $2 million and won the lease, which would allow for development of an offshore
wind turbine farm capable of generating up to 2,000 MW of electricity. The BOEM has several milestones that Virginia Power must meet to keep the lease, with the final milestone being the submittal of a construction and operations plan within five
years of signing the lease. Once Virginia Power submits a plan, the BOEM has an undetermined amount of time to perform an environmental analysis and approve the plan. Subject to a final decision on pursuing the project, construction would be
contingent on the receipt of applicable approvals.

ŸIn addition to the projects above, Virginia Power is considering the construction of a third nuclear unit at a site located at North Anna. See Note 13
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on this project.

Dominion Generation Operating
Segment—Dominion

Dominion continually reviews its portfolio of assets to determine which assets fit strategically and support its
objectives to improve ROIC and shareholder value. In connection with these efforts, in April 2011, Dominion announced the decision to pursue the sale of Kewaunee. In the fourth quarter of 2012, Dominion announced plans to close and decommission
Kewaunee after the company was unable to find a buyer for the nuclear facility. Kewaunee ceased power production in the second quarter of 2013 and commenced decommissioning activities. In addition, during the second quarter of 2012, Dominion sold
State Line, which ceased operations in March 2012, and in August 2012, Dominion completed the sale of Salem Harbor. In the third quarter of 2012, Dominion announced its intention to pursue the sale of its coal-fired merchant power stations, Brayton
Point and Kincaid, and its 50% equity method investment in Elwood. Dominion completed the sale of these power stations in the third quarter of 2013.













Following these divestitures, the generation capacity of Dominion’s merchant fleet
totals approximately 4,000 MW. The generation mix is diversified and includes nuclear, gas, and renewables. Merchant generation facilities are located in Connecticut, Indiana, Georgia, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and West Virginia, with a majority of
that capacity concentrated in New England.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Dominion Generation uses a variety of fuels to power its electric generation and purchases power for utility system load requirements and to satisfy physical forward sale requirements, as described below.
Some of these agreements have fixed commitments and are included as contractual obligations inFuture Cash Payments for Contractual Obligations and Planned Capital Expendituresin Item 7. MD&A.

Nuclear Fuel—Dominion Generation primarily utilizes long-term contracts to support its nuclear fuel requirements. Worldwide
market conditions are continuously evaluated to ensure a range of supply options at reasonable prices which are dependent on the market environment. Current agreements, inventories and spot market availability are expected to support current and
planned fuel supply needs. Additional fuel is purchased as required to ensure optimal cost and inventory levels.

Fossil
Fuel—Dominion Generation primarily utilizes coal and natural gas in its fossil fuel plants.

Dominion
Generation’s coal supply is obtained through long-term contracts and short-term spot agreements from domestic suppliers.

Dominion Generation’s biomass supply is obtained through long-term contracts and short-term spot agreements from local suppliers.

Dominion Generation’s natural gas and oil supply is obtained from various sources including purchases from major and
independent producers in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions, purchases from local producers in the Appalachian area, purchases from gas marketers and withdrawals from underground storage fields owned by Dominion or third parties.

Dominion Generation manages a portfolio of natural gas transportation contracts (capacity) that provides for reliable natural gas
deliveries to its gas turbine fleet, while minimizing costs.

Purchased Power—Dominion Generation purchases
electricity from the PJM spot market and through power purchase agreements with other suppliers to provide for utility system load requirements.

Dominion Generation also occasionally purchases electricity from the PJM and ISO-NE spot markets to satisfy physical forward sale requirements as part of its merchant generation operations. Prior to the
shutdown of Kewaunee and divestiture of its other Midwest generation facilities, Dominion Generation also occasionally purchased electricity from the MISO spot market.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Virginia Power

Presented below is a summary of Virginia Power’s actual system output by energy source:



Source201320122011Nuclear(1)33%33%28%Purchased power, net212733Coal(2)292226Natural gas161712Other(3)111Total100%100%100%



(1)Excludes ODEC’s 11.6% ownership interest in North Anna.

(2)Excludes ODEC’s 50.0% ownership interest in the Clover power station. The average cost of coal for 2013 Virginia in-system generation was $33.00 per MWh.

(3)Includes oil, hydro and biomass.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment-Dominion

The supply of electricity to serve Dominion’s nonregulated retail energy marketing customers is procured through market wholesalers and RTO or ISO transactions. The supply of gas to serve
Dominion’s retail energy marketing customers is procured through market wholesalers or by Dominion Energy. SeeDominion Energyfor additional information.

SEASONALITY

Sales of electricity for Dominion Generation typically vary
seasonally as a result of the impact of changes in temperature and the availability of alternative sources for heating on demand by residential and commercial customers. Generally, the demand for electricity peaks during the summer and winter months
to meet cooling and heating needs. An increase in heating degree days does not produce the same increase in revenue as an increase in cooling degree days, due to seasonal pricing differentials at Virginia Power and because alternative heating
sources are more readily available.

The earnings of Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations also vary seasonally.
Generally, the demand for electricity peaks during the summer and winter months to meet cooling and heating needs, while the demand for gas peaks during the winter months to meet heating needs.

NUCLEARDECOMMISSIONING

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Virginia Power has
a total of four licensed, operating nuclear reactors at Surry and North Anna in Virginia.

Decommissioning involves the
decontamination and removal of radioactive contaminants from a nuclear power station once operations have ceased, in accordance with standards established by the NRC. Amounts collected from ratepayers are placed into trusts and are invested to fund
the expected future costs of decommissioning the Surry and North Anna units.

Virginia Power believes that the decommissioning
funds and their expected earnings for the Surry and North Anna units will be sufficient to cover expected decommissioning costs, particularly when combined with future ratepayer collections and contributions to these decommissioning trusts, if such
future collections and contributions are required. This reflects the long-













term investment horizon, since the units will not be decommissioned for decades, and a positive long-term outlook for trust fund investment returns. Virginia Power will continue to monitor these
trusts to ensure they meet the NRC minimum financial assurance requirement, which may include, if needed, the use of parent company guarantees, surety bonding or other financial guarantees recognized by the NRC.

The estimated cost to decommission Virginia Power’s four nuclear units is reflected in the table below and is primarily based upon
site-specific studies completed in 2009. These cost studies are generally completed every four to five years. The current cost estimates assume decommissioning activities will begin shortly after cessation of operations, which will occur when the
operating licenses expire. Virginia Power expects to decommission the Surry and North Anna units during the period 2032 to 2067.

Dominion
Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

In addition to the four nuclear units discussed above, Dominion has two licensed, operating
nuclear reactors at Millstone in Connecticut. A third Millstone unit ceased operations before Dominion acquired the power station. In May 2013, Dominion ceased operations at its single unit Kewaunee nuclear power station in Wisconsin and commenced
decommissioning activities using the SAFSTOR methodology. The planned decommissioning completion date is 2073, which is within the NRC allowed 60 year window.

The estimated decommissioning costs and license expiration dates for the nuclear units
owned by Dominion and Virginia Power are shown in the following table:



NRClicenseexpirationyearMostrecentcostestimate(2013dollars)(1)Funds intrusts atDecember 31,20132013contributionsto trusts(dollars in millions)SurryUnit 12032$497$501$0.6Unit 220335214930.6North AnnaUnit 1(2)20384433980.4Unit
2(2)20404563730.3Total (Virginia Power)1,9171,7651.9MillstoneUnit 1(3)n/a441419—Unit 22035556522—Unit 3(4)2045596512—Kewaunee—Unit
1(5)n/a651685—Total (Dominion)$4,161$3,903$1.9



(1)The cost estimates shown above reflect reductions for the expected future recovery of certain spent fuel costs based on the Companies’ contracts with the DOE
for disposal of spent nuclear fuel consistent with the reductions reflected in Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s nuclear decommissioning AROs.

(2)North Anna is jointly owned by Virginia Power (88.4%) and ODEC (11.6%). However, Virginia Power is responsible for 89.26% of the decommissioning obligation.
Amounts reflect 89.26% of the decommissioning cost for both of North Anna’s units.

(3)Unit 1 permanently ceased operations in 1998, before Dominion’s acquisition of Millstone.

(4)Millstone Unit 3 is jointly owned by Dominion Nuclear Connecticut, with a 6.53% undivided interest in Unit 3 owned by Massachusetts Municipal and Green Mountain.
Decommissioning cost is shown at Dominion’s ownership percentage. At December 31, 2013, the minority owners held approximately $32 million of trust funds related to Millstone Unit 3 that are not reflected in the table above.

(5)Permanently ceased operations in 2013.

Also see Note 14 and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about AROs and nuclear decommissioning, respectively.

Dominion Energy

Dominion Energy includes Dominion’s regulated natural gas distribution
companies, regulated gas transmission pipeline and storage operations, natural gas gathering and by-products extraction activities, LNG operations and its investment in the Blue Racer joint venture. Earnings from Dominion Energy’s producer
services business are unregulated, and are subject to variability associated with changes in commodity prices. Producer services uses physical and financial arrangements to hedge this price risk. In the second quarter of 2013, Dominion commenced a
restructuring of the producer services business, which aggregates natural gas supply, engages in natural gas trading and marketing activities and natural gas supply management and provides price risk management services to Dominion affiliates. The
ongoing restructuring will result in the termination of natural gas trading and certain energy marketing activities. As a result, the earnings impact from these activities has been included in the Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion.













The gas transmission pipeline and storage business serves gas distribution businesses and
other customers in the Northeast, mid-Atlantic and Midwest. Included in Dominion Energy’s gas transmission pipeline and storage business is its gas gathering and extraction activity, which sells extracted products at market rates. Dominion
Energy’s LNG operations involve the import and storage of LNG at Cove Point and the transportation of regasified LNG to the interstate pipeline grid and mid-Atlantic and Northeast markets. Dominion has received DOE approval to export LNG from
Cove Point and is awaiting other federal and state regulatory approvals to operate Cove Point as a bi-directional facility, able to import LNG, and vaporize it as natural gas, and liquefy natural gas and export it as LNG. SeeFuture Issues and
Other Mattersin MD&A for more information.

The Blue Racer joint venture concentrates on building new gathering,
processing, fractionation and NGL transportation assets as the development of the Utica Shale formation increases. Dominion has contributed or sold various assets to the joint venture. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more
information.

In September 2013, Dominion announced the formation of Dominion Gas, a first tier wholly-owned subsidiary holding
company for the majority of Dominion’s regulated natural gas businesses. Also in September 2013, Dominion announced its plans to form an MLP in 2014 by contributing certain of its midstream natural gas assets to the MLP initially and over time.
SeeGeneralabove for more information.

Dominion Energy’s five-year investment plan includes spending
approximately $3.4 billion to $3.8 billion, exclusive of financing costs, from 2014 through 2018 for its Cove Point export project. Its five-year investment plan also includes spending approximately $2.1 billion to upgrade existing infrastructure or
add new pipelines to meet growing energy needs within its service territory and maintain reliability.

Revenue provided by
Dominion Energy’s regulated gas transmission and storage and LNG operations is based primarily on rates established by FERC. Additionally, Dominion Energy receives revenue from firm fee-based contractual arrangements, including negotiated
rates, for certain gas transportation, gas storage, LNG storage and regasification services. Dominion’s gas distribution operations serve residential, commercial and industrial gas sales, transportation and gathering service customers. Revenue
provided by its gas distribution operations is based primarily on rates established by the Ohio and West Virginia Commissions. The profitability of these businesses is dependent on Dominion’s ability, through the rates it is permitted to
charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable return on its capital investments. Variability in earnings results from operating and maintenance expenditures, as well as changes in rates and the demand for services, which are dependent on weather,
changes in commodity prices and the economy.

Revenue from extraction and fractionation operations largely results from the
sale of commodities at market prices. For DTI’s extraction and processing plants, Dominion purchases the wet gas product from producers and retains some or all of the extracted NGLs as compensation for its services. This exposes
Dominion Energy to commodity price risk for the value of the spread between the NGL products and natural gas. In addition, Dominion Energy has volumetric risk since gas deliveries to DTI’s facilities are not under long-term
contracts. However, the extraction

and fractionation operations within Dominion Energy’s Blue Racer joint venture are managed under long-term fee-based contracts, which minimizes commodity and volumetric
risk. Variability in earnings largely results from changes in the quantities of natural gas and NGLs supplied to DTI’s facilities and commodity prices.

East Ohio utilizes a straight-fixed-variable rate design for a majority of its customers. Under this rate design, East Ohio recovers a larger portion of its fixed operating costs through a flat monthly
charge accompanied by a reduced volumetric base delivery rate. Accordingly, East Ohio’s revenue is less impacted by weather-related fluctuations in natural gas consumption than under the traditional rate design.

COMPETITION

Dominion
Energy’s gas transmission operations compete with domestic and Canadian pipeline companies. Dominion also competes with gas marketers seeking to provide or arrange transportation, storage and other services. Alternative energy sources, such as
oil or coal, provide another level of competition. Although competition is based primarily on price, the array of services that can be provided to customers is also an important factor. The combination of capacity rights held on certain long-line
pipelines, a large storage capability and the availability of numerous receipt and delivery points along its own pipeline system enable Dominion to tailor its services to meet the needs of individual customers.

DTI’s extraction and fractionation operations face competition in obtaining natural gas supplies for its processing and related
services. Numerous factors impact any given customer’s choice of processing services provider, including the location of the facilities, efficiency and reliability of operations, and the pricing arrangements offered.

Retail competition for gas supply exists to varying degrees in the two states in which Dominion Energy’s gas distribution
subsidiaries operate. In Ohio, there has been no legislation enacted to require supplier choice for residential natural gas consumers. However, Dominion has offered an Energy Choice program to residential and commercial customers since October 2000.
In April 2013, East Ohio began to fully exit the merchant function for its nonresidential customers, which will require those customers to choose a retail supplier or be assigned to one at a monthly variable rate set by the supplier. At
December 31, 2013, approximately 1 million of Dominion’s 1.2 million Ohio customers were participating in this Energy Choice program. West Virginia does not allow customers to choose their provider in its retail natural gas
markets at this time. SeeRegulation-State Regulations-Gasfor additional information.

REGULATION

Dominion Energy’s natural gas transmission pipeline, storage and LNG operations are regulated primarily by FERC. Dominion Energy’s gas
distribution service, including the rates that it may charge customers, is regulated by the Ohio and West Virginia Commissions. SeeState RegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationfor more information.

PROPERTIES

Dominion
Energy’s gas distribution network is located in the states of Ohio and West Virginia. This network involves approximately 21,900 miles of pipe, exclusive of service lines. The
rights-













of-way grants for many natural gas pipelines have been obtained from the actual owners of real estate, as underlying titles have been examined. Where rights-of-way have not been obtained, they
could be acquired from private owners by condemnation, if necessary. Many natural gas pipelines are on publicly-owned property, where company rights and actions are determined on a case-by-case basis, with results that range from reimbursed
relocation to revocation of permission to operate.

Dominion Energy has approximately 10,900 miles of gas transmission,
gathering and storage pipelines located in the states of Maryland, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia. Dominion Energy owns gas processing and fractionation facilities in West Virginia with a total processing capacity of
280,000 mcf per day and fractionation capacity of 580,000 gallons per day. Dominion Energy also operates 20 underground gas storage fields located in New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, with almost 2,000 storage wells and approximately
349,000 acres of operated leaseholds.

The total designed capacity of the underground storage fields operated by Dominion
Energy is approximately 947 bcf. Certain storage fields are jointly-owned and operated by Dominion Energy. The capacity of those fields owned by Dominion’s partners totals about 242 bcf. Dominion Energy also has about 15 bcf of above-ground
storage capacity at Cove Point. Dominion Energy has 140 compressor stations with approximately 830,000 installed compressor horsepower.

In December 2013, DTI closed on agreements with two natural gas producers to convey approximately 100,000 acres of Marcellus Shale development rights underneath several of its natural gas storage fields.
See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Dominion is pursuing a liquefaction project at
Cove Point, which would enable the facility to liquefy domestically-produced natural gas for export as LNG. In September 2013, the DOE conditionally authorized Dominion to export LNG from Cove Point to non-free trade agreement countries. Subject to
environmental review by FERC and final FERC and Maryland Commission approval, the Cove Point facility is authorized to export at a rate of 770 million cubic feet of natural gas per day for a period of 20 years. The DOE previously authorized
Dominion to export to countries with free trade agreements. Following receipt of regulatory and other approvals, construction of liquefaction facilities could begin in 2014 with an in-service date in 2017. See Item 2. Properties for more information
about the Cove Point facility.

In January 2011, Dominion announced the development of a natural gas processing and
fractionation facility in Natrium, West Virginia. This first phase of the project is fully contracted, was completed in the second quarter of 2013 and was contributed to Blue Racer in the third quarter of 2013 resulting in an increased equity method
investment in Blue Racer of $473 million. In September 2013, the Natrium facility was shut down following a fire at the plant and returned to service in January 2014.

In May 2012, Dominion began construction of the G-150 pipeline project, which is designed to transport approximately 27,000 barrels per day of NGLs from the Natrium facility to an interconnect with the
ATEX line of Enterprise near Follansbee, West Virginia. Transportation services on the pipeline will be subject to FERC regulation pursuant to the Interstate Commerce

Act. In November 2013, FERC granted Dominion’s petition for declaratory order and approved Dominion’s proposed (1) general rate structure, (2) rate and terms for committed
shippers, and (3) rate design for uncommitted shippers. Dominion NGL Pipelines, LLC (now Blue Racer NGL Pipelines, LLC), the owner of the 58-mile pipeline and associated equipment, was contributed in January 2014 to Blue Racer prior to
commencement of service, resulting in an increased equity method investment of $155 million.

In September 2013, DTI received
FERC authorization to construct the $42 million Natrium-to-Market project. The project is designed to provide 185,000 dekatherms per day of firm transportation from an interconnect between DTI and the Natrium facility to the Crayne interconnect.
Four customers have entered into binding precedent agreements for the full project capacity under 8-year and 13-year terms. The project is anticipated to be in service in November 2014.

In September 2013, DTI executed binding precedent agreements with several local distribution company customers for the New Market Project.
The project is expected to cost approximately $159 million and provide 112,000 dekatherms per day of firm transportation service from Leidy, Pennsylvania to interconnects with Iroquois and Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation’s distribution system
in the Albany, New York market. In 2014, DTI expects to file an application to request FERC authorization to construct and operate the project facilities, which are expected to be in service in the fourth quarter of 2016.

In October 2013, DTI executed a binding precedent agreement with CNX Gas Company LLC for the Clarington Project. The project is expected
to cost approximately $78 million and provide 250,000 dekatherms per day of firm transportation service from central West Virginia to Clarington, Ohio. In 2014, DTI expects to file an application to request FERC authorization to construct and
operate the project facilities, which are expected to be in service in the fourth quarter of 2016.

In March 2013, FERC
approved DTI’s $17 million Sabinsville-to-Morrisville project, a pipeline to move additional Marcellus supplies from a TGP pipeline in northeast Pennsylvania to its line in upstate New York. DTI previously executed a binding precedent agreement
with TGP in October 2010 to provide this firm transportation service up to 92,000 dekatherms per day for a 14-year term. Construction commenced in the second quarter of 2013 and the project was placed in service in November 2013.

In March 2013, DTI received FERC approval for its $67 million Tioga Area Expansion Project, which is designed to provide approximately
270,000 dekatherms per day of firm transportation service from supply interconnects in Tioga and Potter Counties in Pennsylvania to the Crayne interconnect and the Leidy interconnect with Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company in Clinton County,
Pennsylvania. Two customers have contracted for the service under 15-year terms. Construction commenced in the second quarter of 2013 and the project was placed in service in November 2013.

In 2012, DTI completed the Gathering Enhancement Project, a $200 million expansion of its natural gas gathering, processing and liquids
facilities in West Virginia. The project is designed to increase the efficiency and reduce high pressures in its gathering system, thus increasing the amount of natural gas local producers can move through DTI’s West Virginia system.













In September 2012, DTI completed the $575 million Appalachian Gateway Project. The project
provides approximately 484,000 dekatherms per day of firm transportation services for new Appalachian gas supplies in West Virginia and southwestern Pennsylvania to an interconnection with Texas Eastern Transmission, LP at Oakford, Pennsylvania.

In November 2012, DTI completed the $97 million Northeast Expansion Project. The project provides approximately 200,000
dekatherms per day of firm transportation services for CONSOL’s Marcellus Shale natural gas production from various receipt points in central and southwestern Pennsylvania to a nexus of market pipelines and storage facilities in Leidy,
Pennsylvania.

In November 2012, DTI completed the $46 million Ellisburg-to-Craigs project. The project’s capacity of
approximately 150,000 dekatherms per day is leased by TGP to move Marcellus Shale natural gas supplies from TGP’s 300 Line pipeline system in northern Pennsylvania to its 200 Line pipeline system in upstate New York.

In December 2012, DTI received FERC authorization for the Allegheny Storage Project, which is expected to provide approximately 7.5 bcf of
incremental storage service and 125,000 dekatherms per day of associated year-round firm transportation service to three local distribution companies under 15-year contracts. Storage capacity for the project will be provided from storage pool
enhancements at DTI and capacity leased from East Ohio. DTI intends to construct additional compression facilities and upgrade measurement and regulation in order to provide 115,000 dekatherms per day of transportation service. The remaining
10,000 dekatherms per day of transportation service will not require construction of additional facilities. The $112 million project is expected to be placed into service in the fourth quarter of 2014.

In 2008, East Ohio began PIR, aimed at replacing approximately 20% of its pipeline system. The $2.7 billion, 25-year program is ongoing.
See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about PIR.

In July 2013, East Ohio signed
long-term precedent agreements with two customers to move 300,000 dekatherms per day of processed gas from the outlet of new gas processing facilities in Ohio to interconnections with multiple interstate pipelines. The Western Access Project would
provide system enhancements to facilitate the movement of processed gas over East Ohio’s system and is expected to be completed by November 2014, and cost approximately $90 million.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

Dominion Energy’s natural gas supply is obtained from various sources including purchases from major and independent producers in the Mid-Continent
and Gulf Coast regions, local producers in the Appalachian area and gas marketers. Dominion’s large underground natural gas storage network and the location of its pipeline system are a significant link between the country’s major
interstate gas pipelines and large markets in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic regions. Dominion’s pipelines are part of an interconnected gas transmission system, which provides access to supplies nationwide for local distribution companies,
marketers, power generators and industrial and commercial customers.

Dominion’s underground storage facilities play an
important part in balancing gas supply with consumer demand and are essential to serving the Northeast, mid-Atlantic and Midwest

regions. In addition, storage capacity is an important element in the effective management of both gas supply and pipeline transmission capacity.

SEASONALITY

Dominion
Energy’s natural gas distribution business earnings vary seasonally, as a result of the impact of changes in temperature on demand by residential and commercial customers for gas to meet heating needs. Historically, the majority of these
earnings have been generated during the heating season, which is generally from November to March; however implementation of the straight-fixed-variable rate design at East Ohio has reduced the earnings impact of weather-related fluctuations. Demand
for services at Dominion’s pipeline and storage business can also be weather sensitive. Commodity prices can be impacted by seasonal weather changes, the effects of unusual weather events on operations and the economy. Dominion’s producer
services business is affected by seasonal changes in the prices of commodities that it aggregates and transports.

Corporate and Other

Corporate and Other Segment—Virginia Power

Virginia Power’s Corporate and Other segment primarily includes certain specific items attributable to its operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive
management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

Corporate and Other
Segment—Dominion

Dominion’s Corporate and Other segment includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including
unallocated debt) and the net impact of operations that are discontinued, which is discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion’s operating
segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.





ENVIRONMENTALSTRATEGY

Dominion and Virginia Power are
committed to being good environmental stewards. Their ongoing objective is to provide reliable, affordable energy for their customers while being environmentally responsible. The integrated strategy to meet this objective consists of four major
elements:

ŸCompliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules;

ŸConservation and load management;

ŸRenewable generation development; and

ŸImprovements in other energy infrastructure.

This strategy incorporates Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s efforts to voluntarily reduce GHG emissions, which are described below. SeeDominion Generation-Propertiesfor more information
on certain of the projects described below. In addition to the environmental strategy described above, Dominion formed the AES department in April 2009 to conduct research in the renewable and alternative energy technologies sector and to support













strategic investments to advance Dominion’s degree of understanding of such technologies.

Environmental Compliance

Dominion and Virginia
Power remain committed to compliance with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules related to their operations. Additional information related to Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s environmental compliance matters can be found
inFuture Issues and Other Mattersin Item 7. MD&A and in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Conservation and Load
Management

Conservation and load management play a significant role in meeting the growing demand for electricity. The Regulation Act
provides incentives for energy conservation and sets a voluntary goal for Virginia to reduce electricity consumption by retail customers in 2022 by 10% of the electric energy consumed in 2006 through the implementation of conservation programs.
Additional legislation in 2009 added definitions of peak-shaving and energy efficiency programs, and allowed for a margin on operating expenses and recovery of revenue reductions related to energy efficiency programs.

Virginia Power’s DSM programs provide important incremental steps toward achieving the voluntary 10% energy conservation goal through
activities such as energy audits and incentives for customers to upgrade or install certain energy efficient systems. The DSM programs began in Virginia in 2010 and in North Carolina in 2011.

Virginia Power currently offers the following DSM programs in Virginia:

ŸResidential Low Income Program: free energy audit for income-qualifying customers, which identifies, installs improvements and suggests additional
implementation measures that will help these customers save money on energy bills;

ŸResidential Air Conditioner Cycling Program: incentives for residential customers who allow Virginia Power to cycle their central air conditioners and
heat pump systems during peak periods;

ŸResidential Bundle Program: a bundle of four residential programs to be available with incentives to qualifying residential customers, including the
Residential Home Energy Check-up Program, Residential Duct Testing & Sealing Program, Residential Heat Pump Tune-Up Program and Residential Heat Pump Upgrade Program;

ŸNon-Residential Energy Audit Program: an on-site energy audit providing qualified non-residential customers with energy assessments;

ŸNon-Residential Duct Testing & Sealing: an incentive for qualified non-residential customers to seal poorly performing duct and air distribution
systems in qualifying non-residential facilities; and

ŸNon-Residential Distributed Generation: a program for qualified non-residential customers that provides an incentive to curtail load by operating
customer-owned backup generation when requested by Virginia Power during periods of peak demand.

In August
2013, Virginia Power requested approval from the Virginia Commission to launch three new energy efficiency DSM programs as well as requested additional measures to enhance the

current Non-Residential Energy Audit Program. The three proposed DSM programs are the Non-Residential Lighting Systems & Controls Program, the Non-Residential Heating & Cooling Efficiency
Program, and the Non-Residential Solar Window Film Program. This regulatory matter is still pending.

Virginia Power currently
offers the following programs in North Carolina:

ŸResidential Low Income Program (described above);

ŸResidential Air Conditioner Cycling Program (described above);

ŸResidential Bundle Program (described above);

ŸCommercial Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning Upgrade Program: incentives for non-residential customers to upgrade existing or install new
heating and/or cooling systems to higher efficiency models;

ŸCommercial Lighting Program: incentives for non-residential customers to upgrade existing or new lighting systems to higher efficiency models;

ŸNon-Residential Energy Audit Program (described above); and

ŸNon-Residential Duct Testing & Sealing Program (described above).

Dominion continues to evaluate opportunities to redesign current DSM programs and develop new DSM initiatives in Virginia and North
Carolina.

Virginia Power continues to upgrade meters to AMI, also referred to as smart meters, in portions of Virginia. The
AMI meter upgrades are part of an ongoing project that will help Virginia Power further evaluate the effectiveness of AMI meters in achieving voltage conservation, remotely turning off and on electric service, power outage and restoration detection
and reporting, remote daily meter readings and offering dynamic rates.

Renewable Generation

Renewable energy is also an important component of a diverse and reliable energy mix. Both Virginia and North Carolina have passed legislation setting
targets for renewable power. Virginia Power is committed to meeting Virginia’s goals of 12% of base year electric energy sales from renewable power sources by 2022, and 15% by 2025, and North Carolina’s RPS of 12.5% by 2021. In May 2010,
the Virginia Commission approved Virginia Power’s participation in the state’s RPS program. As a participant, Virginia Power is permitted to seek recovery, through rate adjustment clauses, of the costs of programs designed to meet RPS
goals. Virginia Power plans to meet the respective RPS targets in Virginia and North Carolina by utilizing existing renewable facilities, as well as through additional renewable generation. In addition, Virginia Power intends to purchase renewable
energy certificates, as permitted by each RPS program, to help meet any remaining annual requirement needs, as well as to fund renewable energy research and development initiatives at Virginia institutions of higher education. Virginia Power
continues to explore opportunities to develop new renewable facilities within its service territory, the energy attributes of which would potentially qualify for inclusion in the RPS programs. In 2013, Virginia Power converted three coal-fired
Virginia generating power stations to biomass, which increased its renewable generation by 153 MW.













Virginia Power is considering the development of a commercial offshore wind generation
project through a federal land lease off the Virginia coast.

Dominion has invested in wind energy through two joint ventures.
Dominion is a 50% owner with Shell of NedPower. Dominion’s share of this project produces 132 MW of renewable energy. Dominion is also a 50% owner with BP of the first phase of Fowler Ridge, which has a generating capacity of 300 MW. Dominion
has a long-term agreement with Fowler Ridge to purchase 200 MW of energy, capacity and environmental attributes from this first phase.

In addition, during 2013 Dominion acquired and developed 42 MW of renewable energy projects, which includes solar generation facilities in Indiana, Georgia, and Connecticut.

Virginia Power is implementing the Solar Partnership Program. The Virginia Commission requires the project be constructed and operated at
a cost to customers not to exceed $80 million. In 2013, Virginia Power announced that Old Dominion University and Canon Virginia’s Industrial Resource Technologies had been selected as participants in the program. During 2014,
Virginia Power is planning to develop six to ten additional sites with a total capacity of up to 10 MW.

In March 2013, the
Virginia Commission approved Rate Schedule SP, under which Virginia Power will purchase 100% of the energy output from up to a combined 3 MW of customer-owned solar distributed generation facilities, including all environmental attributes and
associated renewable energy credits, at a fixed price of $0.15 per kWh for five years. This fixed price has two components: an avoided cost component (including line losses) determined using Virginia Power’s Rate Schedule 19 and recovered
through Virginia Power’s fuel factor, and a voluntary environmental contribution component.

In December 2013,
Dominion placed into service a fuel cell facility in Connecticut that produces approximately 15 MW of electricity using a reactive process that converts natural gas into electricity.

SeeFuture Issues and Other Mattersin Item 7. MD&A and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information.

Improvements in Other Energy Infrastructure

Virginia Power’s five-year investment plan includes significant capital expenditures to upgrade or add new transmission and distribution lines, substations and other facilities to meet growing
electricity demand within its service territory and maintain reliability. These enhancements are primarily aimed at meeting Virginia Power’s continued goal of providing reliable service, and are intended to address both continued population
growth and increases in electricity consumption by the typical consumer. An additional benefit will be added capacity to efficiently deliver electricity from the renewable projects now being developed or to be developed in the future.

Virginia Power is taking measures to ensure that its electrical infrastructure can support the expected demand from electric vehicles,
which have significantly lower carbon intensity than conventional vehicles. Virginia Power has implemented a program designed to encourage customers to charge their electric vehicles at night when electricity demand is lower. The Virginia Commission
has approved this program through November 2016.

Dominion, in connection with its five-year growth plan, is also pursuing the construction
or upgrade of regulated infrastructure in its natural gas business.

Dominion and Virginia Power’s Strategy for Voluntarily Reducing GHG
Emissions

While Dominion and Virginia Power have not established a standalone GHG emissions reduction target or timetable, they are
actively engaged in voluntary reduction efforts, as well as working toward achieving RPS standards established by existing state regulations, as set forth above. The Companies have an integrated voluntary strategy for reducing overall GHG emission
intensity that is based on maintaining a diverse fuel mix, including nuclear, coal, gas, oil, hydro and renewable energy, investing in renewable energy projects, implementing technologies to minimize natural gas releases and promoting energy
conservation and efficiency efforts. Below are some of the Companies’ efforts that have or are expected to reduce the Companies’ overall carbon emissions or intensity:

ŸSince 2000, Dominion has added approximately 2,800 MW of non-emitting generation and approximately 5,000 MW of lower-emitting natural gas-fired
generation, including over 3,000 MW at Virginia Power, to its generation mix.

ŸVirginia Power added 153 MW of renewable biomass by completing the conversion of three coal-fired power stations.

ŸVirginia Power expects to complete the conversion of Bremo Units 3 and 4 from coal to natural gas during 2014.

ŸDominion has over 500 MW of onshore wind energy in operation or development.

ŸVirginia Power is constructing the natural gas-fired Warren County and Brunswick County power stations.

ŸVirginia Power plans to retire the coal-fired units at Chesapeake by 2015 and at Yorktown as early as 2016.

ŸVirginia Power has received an Early Site Permit from the NRC for the possible addition of approximately 1,500 MW of nuclear generation in Virginia.
Virginia Power has not yet committed to building a new nuclear unit.

ŸVirginia Power has developed and implemented the DSM programs described above.

ŸVirginia Power has initiated a demonstration of smart grid technologies as described above.

ŸVirginia Power is implementing the Solar Partnership Program as mentioned above.

ŸVirginia Power is considering the development of a commercial offshore wind generation project through a federal land lease off the Virginia coast.

ŸIn 2012, Dominion sold Salem Harbor and State Line, two coal-and fuel oil-fired facilities.

ŸIn 2013, Dominion constructed a 15 MW fuel cell power generating facility in Bridgeport, Connecticut.

ŸIn 2013, Dominion sold Brayton Point, a coal-and fuel oil-fired merchant power station, and Kincaid, a coal-fired merchant power station.

ŸIn 2013, Dominion acquired and developed 42 MW of solar generation facilities in Indiana, Georgia, and Connecticut as mentioned above.

ŸDominion has designed control programming to minimize the amount of natural gas released into the atmosphere when a station shutdown occurs, such as
would occur for routine maintenance and repairs.













ŸDominion is avoiding the use of natural gas-powered turbine starters on new turbine installations, employing electric starters, where feasible.

ŸDominion is conducting directed inspections and repairs and tracking findings and actions in an emissions tracking system.

Dominion also developed a comprehensive GHG inventory for calendar year 2012. For
Dominion Generation, Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s direct CO2equivalent emissions, based on equity share (ownership), were approximately 36.2 million metric tonnes and 24.4 million metric tonnes, respectively, in 2012, compared to 42.1 million metric
tonnes and 25.9 million metric tonnes, respectively, in 2011. The decrease in emissions from 2011 to 2012 is largely due to an increase in natural gas usage, less reliance on coal, and more renewable generation. For the DVP operating segment’s
electric transmission and distribution operations, direct CO2equivalent emissions for 2012 were 76,143 metric tonnes, representing a decrease of almost 50% from 2011 due to a decrease in gas leakage from insulating equipment. For 2012, DTI’s (including Cove Point) direct CO2equivalent emissions were approximately 1.0 million metric tonnes,
and Hope’s and East Ohio’s direct CO2equivalent
emissions were approximately 0.9 million metric tonnes, showing a 58% decrease from 2011. Dominion’s GHG inventory follows all methodologies specified in the EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule, 40 CFR Part 98 for calculating
emissions.

Since 2000, the Companies have tracked the emissions of their electric generation fleet. Their
electric generation fleet employs a mix of fuel and renewable energy sources. Comparing annual year 2000 to annual year 2012, Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s electric generating fleet (based on ownership percentage) reduced their average
CO2emissions rate per MWh of energy produced from electric
generation by about 39% and 28%, respectively. During such time period, the capacity of Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s electric generation fleet has grown. The Companies do not yet have final 2013 emissions data.

Alternative Energy Initiatives

AES conducts
research in the renewable and alternative energy technologies sector and supports strategic investments, such as the Tredegar Solar Fund I, as discussed below, to advance Dominion’s degree of understanding of such technologies. AES also
participates in federal and state policy development on alternative energy and identifies potential alternative energy resource and technology opportunities for Dominion’s business units. For example, in 2013, Virginia Power completed the
initial engineering, design and permitting work for a wind turbine demonstration facility as part of the DOE’s Offshore Wind Advanced Technology Demonstration Program. The proposed 12 MW facility would generate power via two turbines
located approximately 24 miles off the coast of Virginia, adjacent to the Virginia Wind Energy Area where Virginia Power is considering development of a commercial offshore wind generation project. Dominion has also conducted a number of
studies to evaluate potential transmission solutions for delivering offshore wind resources to its customers. One study determined the existing onshore transmission system has the capability to interconnect up to 4,500 MW of offshore wind
energy and another evaluated options for high-voltage subsea transmission lines that would connect offshore wind generation facilities to the onshore transmission system.

In 2013, Dominion continued to enhance and refine its EDGE®grid-side efficiency product suite. EDGE®is a modular and adaptive conservation voltage management solution enabling utilities to deploy incremental grid-side energy management that requires no behavioral
changes or purchases by end customers. In February 2013, Dominion was awarded a patent relating to the EDGE®technology.

In 2012, Dominion formed Tredegar Solar Fund I, an entity managed by the AES department and focused on unregulated
residential solar projects. This fund owns residential roof-top solar systems that are originated and administered by Clean Power Finance, Inc., a provider of solar finance products, in which Dominion has a small indirect equity investment. The
systems are subject to power purchase agreements with third parties. In December 2013, Dominion’s Board of Directors approved an incremental investment in this fund, for a total authorized investment of $90 million. This fund currently has
originations in process of approximately $32 million and assets in service of approximately $36 million.





REGULATION

Dominion and Virginia Power are subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission, North Carolina Commission, SEC, FERC, EPA, DOE, NRC, Army Corps of
Engineers and other federal, state and local authorities.

State Regulations

ELECTRIC

Virginia Power’s electric utility retail service is subject
to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission.

Virginia Power holds CPCNs which authorize it to
maintain and operate its electric facilities now in operation and to sell electricity to customers. However, Virginia Power may not construct generating facilities or large capacity transmission lines without the prior approval of various state and
federal government agencies. In addition, the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission regulate Virginia Power’s transactions with affiliates, transfers of certain facilities and the issuance of certain securities.

Electric Regulation in Virginia

Under the
Regulation Act enacted in 2007, Virginia Power’s base rates are set by a process that allows the recovery of operating costs and an ROIC. The Virginia Commission reviews and has the ability to adjust Virginia Power’s base rates, terms and
conditions for generation and distribution services on a biennial basis in a proceeding that involves the determination of Virginia Power’s actual earned ROE during a combined two-year historic test period, and the determination of Virginia
Power’s authorized ROE prospectively. Under certain circumstances described in the Regulation Act, the Virginia Commission may also order a base rate increase or reduction during the biennial review. Circumstances where the Virginia Commission
may order a base rate decrease include determination by the Virginia Commission that Virginia Power has exceeded its authorized level of earnings for two consecutive biennial review periods. Virginia Power’s authorized ROE can be set no lower
than the average, for a three-year historic period, of the actual returns reported to the SEC by not less than a majority of comparable utilities within the Southeastern U.S., with certain limitations as described in the Regulation Act.













The Regulation Act authorizes stand-alone rate adjustment clauses for recovery of costs for
new generation projects, FERC-approved transmission costs, environmental compliance, conservation and energy efficiency programs and renewable energy programs; and it provides for enhanced returns on capital expenditures on specific new generation
projects. The Regulation Act also continues statutory provisions directing Virginia Power to file annual fuel cost recovery cases with the Virginia Commission.

Legislation enacted in February 2013 amended the Regulation Act prospectively, including elimination of the 50 basis points RPS ROE incentive. In addition, ROE incentives for newly proposed generation
projects were eliminated, except for nuclear and offshore wind projects, which were reduced from the previous 200 basis points ROE incentive to 100 basis points. In addition, through the 2013 amendments, the Virginia Commission has the discretion to
increase or decrease a utility’s authorized ROE based on the utility’s performance consistent with Virginia Commission precedent that existed prior to 2007. The legislation included changes to the earnings test parameters defined by the
Regulation Act to allow for a wider band of 70 basis points above and below the authorized ROE in determining whether a utility’s earned ROE is either insufficient or excessive beginning with the biennial review for 2013-2014 to be filed in
2015. Additionally, if a utility is deemed to have over-earned, the customer refund share of excess earnings increases to 70% from the previous 60% level beginning with the biennial review for 2013-2014 to be filed in 2015.

If the Virginia Commission’s future rate decisions, including actions relating to Virginia Power’s rate adjustment clause
filings, differ materially from Virginia Power’s expectations, such decisions may adversely affect Virginia Power’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Electric Regulation in North Carolina

Virginia Power’s retail electric base rates in North
Carolina are regulated on a cost-of-service/rate-of-return basis subject to North Carolina statutes and the rules and procedures of the North Carolina Commission. North Carolina base rates are set by a process that allows Virginia Power to
recover its operating costs and an ROIC. If retail electric earnings exceed the authorized ROE established by the North Carolina Commission, retail electric rates may be subject to review and possible reduction by the North Carolina Commission,
which may decrease Virginia Power’s future earnings. Additionally, if the North Carolina Commission does not allow recovery of costs incurred in providing service on a timely basis, Virginia Power’s future earnings could be negatively
impacted. Fuel rates are subject to revision under annual fuel cost adjustment proceedings.

Virginia Power’s transmission
service rates in North Carolina are regulated by the North Carolina Commission as part of Virginia Power’s bundled retail service to North Carolina customers. In March 2012, Virginia Power filed an application with the North Carolina Commission
to increase base non-fuel revenues with January 1, 2013 as the proposed effective date for the permanent rate revision. In December 2012, the North Carolina Commission approved a $36 million increase in Virginia Power’s annual non-fuel
base revenues based on an authorized ROE of

10.2%, and a $14 million decrease in annual base fuel revenues for a combined total base revenue increase of $22 million. These rate changes became effective on January 1, 2013 and are being
appealed to the North Carolina Supreme Court by multiple parties. In December 2012, Virginia Power established net regulatory assets of $17 million to be recovered over five to ten years in connection with these new rates.

GAS

Dominion’s gas
distribution services are regulated by the Ohio Commission and the West Virginia Commission.

Status of Competitive Retail Gas Services

Both of the states in which Dominion has gas distribution operations have considered legislation regarding a competitive deregulation of
natural gas sales at the retail level.

Ohio-Since October 2000, East Ohio has offered the Energy Choice
program, under which residential and commercial customers are encouraged to purchase gas directly from retail suppliers or through a community aggregation program. In October 2006, East Ohio restructured its commodity service by entering into gas
purchase contracts with selected suppliers at a fixed price above the NYMEX month-end settlement and passing that gas cost to customers under the Standard Service Offer program. Starting in April 2009, East Ohio buys natural gas under the Standard
Service Offer program only for customers not eligible to participate in the Energy Choice program and places Energy Choice-eligible customers in a direct retail relationship with selected suppliers, which is designated on the customers’ bills.

In January 2013, the Ohio Commission granted East Ohio’s motion to fully exit the merchant function for its
nonresidential customers, beginning in April 2013, which requires those customers to choose a retail supplier or be assigned to one at a monthly variable rate set by the supplier. At December 31, 2013, approximately 1.0 million of
Dominion’s 1.2 million Ohio customers were participating in the Energy Choice program. Subject to the Ohio Commission’s approval, East Ohio may eventually exit the gas merchant function in Ohio entirely and have all customers select
an alternate gas supplier. East Ohio continues to be the provider of last resort in the event of default by a supplier. Large industrial customers in Ohio also source their own natural gas supplies.

West Virginia—At this time, West Virginia has not enacted legislation to allow customers to choose in the retail natural gas
markets served by Hope. However, the West Virginia Commission has issued regulations to govern pooling services, one of the tools that natural gas suppliers may utilize to provide retail customers a choice in the future and has issued rules
requiring competitive gas service providers to be licensed in West Virginia.

Rates

Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiaries are subject to regulation of rates and other aspects of their businesses by the states in which they operate—Ohio and West Virginia. When necessary,
Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiaries seek general base rate increases to recover increased operating costs and a fair return on rate base investments. Base rates are set based on the cost of service by rate class. A straight-fixed-variable
rate design, in which the majority













of operating costs are recovered through a monthly charge rather than a volumetric charge, is utilized to establish rates for a majority of East Ohio’s customers pursuant to a 2008 rate case
settlement. Base rates for Hope are designed primarily based on rate design methodology in which the majority of operating costs are recovered through volumetric charges.

In addition to general rate increases, Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiaries make routine separate filings with their respective state regulatory commissions to reflect changes in the costs of
purchased gas. The majority of these purchased gas costs are subject to rate recovery through a mechanism that ensures dollar for dollar recovery of prudently incurred costs. Costs that are expected to be recovered in future rates are deferred as
regulatory assets. The purchased gas cost recovery filings generally cover prospective one-, three- or twelve-month periods. Approved increases or decreases in gas cost recovery rates result in increases or decreases in revenues with corresponding
increases or decreases in net purchased gas cost expenses.

The Ohio Commission has also approved several stand-alone cost
recovery mechanisms to recover specified costs and a return for infrastructure projects and certain other costs that vary widely over time; such costs are excluded from general base rates. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information.

Federal Regulations

FEDERALENERGYREGULATORYCOMMISSION

Electric

Under the Federal Power Act, FERC
regulates wholesale sales and transmission of electricity in interstate commerce by public utilities. Virginia Power purchases and sells electricity in the PJM wholesale market and Dominion’s merchant generators sell electricity in the PJM,
MISO and ISO-NE wholesale markets under Dominion’s market-based sales tariffs authorized by FERC. In addition, Virginia Power has FERC approval of a tariff to sell wholesale power at capped rates based on its embedded cost of generation. This
cost-based sales tariff could be used to sell to loads within or outside Virginia Power’s service territory. Any such sales would be voluntary.

Dominion and Virginia Power are subject to FERC’s Standards of Conduct that govern conduct between transmission function employees of interstate gas and electricity transmission providers and the
marketing function employees of their affiliates. The rule defines the scope of transmission and marketing-related functions that are covered by the standards and is designed to prevent transmission providers from giving their affiliates undue
preferences.

Dominion and Virginia Power are also subject to FERC’s affiliate restrictions that (1) prohibit power
sales between Virginia Power and Dominion’s merchant plants without first receiving FERC authorization, (2) require the merchant plants and Virginia Power to conduct their wholesale power sales operations separately, and (3) prohibit
Virginia Power from sharing market information with merchant plant operating personnel. The rules are designed to prohibit Virginia Power from giving the merchant plants a competitive advantage.

EPACT included provisions to create an ERO. The ERO is required to promulgate mandatory reliability standards governing

the operation of the bulk power system in the U.S. FERC has certified NERC as the ERO and also issued an initial order approving many reliability standards that went into effect in 2007. Entities
that violate standards will be subject to fines of between $1 thousand and $1 million per day, and can also be assessed non-monetary penalties, depending upon the nature and severity of the violation.

In April 2008, FERC granted an application for Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations to establish a forward-looking
formula rate mechanism that updates transmission rates on an annual basis and approved an ROE of 11.4%, effective as of January 1, 2008. The formula rate is designed to recover the expected revenue requirement for each calendar year and is
updated based on actual costs. The FERC-approved formula method, which is based on projected costs, allows Virginia Power to earn a current return on its growing investment in electric transmission infrastructure.

Gas

FERC regulates the transportation and sale for
resale of natural gas in interstate commerce under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, as amended. Under the Natural Gas Act, FERC has authority over rates, terms and conditions of services performed by
Dominion’s interstate natural gas company subsidiaries, including DTI and Cove Point. FERC also has jurisdiction over siting, construction and operation of natural gas import and export facilities and interstate natural gas pipeline and storage
facilities.

Dominion’s interstate gas transmission and storage activities are conducted on an open access basis, in
accordance with certificates, tariffs and service agreements on file with FERC.

Dominion is also subject to the Pipeline
Safety Acts of 2002 and 2011, which mandate inspections of interstate and intrastate natural gas transmission and storage pipelines, particularly those













located in areas of high-density population. Dominion has evaluated its natural gas transmission and storage properties, as required by the Department of Transportation regulations under these
Acts, and has implemented a program of identification, testing and potential remediation activities. These activities are ongoing.

See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Environmental
Regulations

Each of Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s operating segments faces substantial laws, regulations and compliance costs
with respect to environmental matters. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations authorize the imposition of substantial penalties for noncompliance, including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions.
The cost of complying with applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules is expected to be material to the Companies. If expenditures for pollution control technologies and associated operating costs are not recoverable from customers through
regulated rates (in regulated businesses) or market prices (in unregulated businesses), those costs could adversely affect future results of operations and cash flows. Dominion and Virginia Power have applied for or obtained the necessary
environmental permits for the operation of their facilities. Many of these permits are subject to reissuance and continuing review. For a discussion of significant aspects of these matters, including current and planned capital expenditures relating
to environmental compliance required to be discussed in this Item, seeEnvironmental MattersinFuture Issues and Other Mattersin Item 7. MD&A, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Additional information can
also be found in Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

GLOBALCLIMATECHANGE

The national and international attention in recent years on GHG emissions and their
relationship to climate change has resulted in federal, regional and state legislative and regulatory action in this area. Dominion and Virginia Power support national climate change legislation that would provide a consistent, economy-wide approach
to addressing this issue and are currently taking action to protect the environment and address climate change while meeting the future needs of their growing service territory. Dominion’s CEO and operating segment CEOs are responsible for
compliance with the laws and regulations governing environmental matters, including climate change, and Dominion’s Board of Directors receives periodic updates on these matters. SeeEnvironmental Strategyabove, Environmental
MattersinFuture Issues and Other Mattersin Item 7. MD&A and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on climate change legislation and regulation, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Nuclear Regulatory Commission

All
aspects of the operation and maintenance of Dominion’s and Virginia Powers’ nuclear power stations are regulated by the NRC. Operating licenses issued by the NRC are subject to revocation, suspension or modification, and the operation of a
nuclear unit may be suspended if the NRC determines that the public interest, health or safety so requires.

From time to time, the NRC adopts new requirements for the operation and maintenance of
nuclear facilities. In many cases, these new regulations require changes in the design, operation and maintenance of existing nuclear facilities. If the NRC adopts such requirements in the future, it could result in substantial increases in the cost
of operating and maintaining Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s nuclear generating units. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

The NRC also requires Dominion and Virginia Power to decontaminate their nuclear facilities once operations cease. This process is referred to as decommissioning, and the Companies are required by the NRC
to be financially prepared. For information on decommissioning trusts, seeDominion Generation-Nuclear Decommissioningabove and Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
information on spent nuclear fuel.





CYBERSECURITY

In an
effort to reduce the likelihood and severity of cyber intrusions, the Companies have a comprehensive cybersecurity program designed to protect and preserve the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data and systems. In addition, Dominion
and Virginia Power are subject to mandatory cybersecurity regulatory requirements, interface regularly with a wide range of external organizations, and participate in classified briefings to maintain an awareness of current cybersecurity threats and
vulnerabilities. The Companies’ current security posture and regulatory compliance efforts are intended to address the evolving and changing cyber threats. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional information.





