Item 1. Business

GENERAL

Dominion, headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and
incorporated in Virginia in 1983, is one of the nation’s largest producers and transporters of energy. Dominion’s strategy is to be a leading provider of electricity, natural gas and related services to customers primarily in the eastern
region of the U.S. Dominion’s portfolio of assets includes approximately 28,142 MW of generating capacity, 6,300 miles of electric transmission lines, 56,800 miles of electric distribution lines, 11,000 miles of natural gas transmission,
gathering and storage pipeline and 21,800 miles of gas distribution pipeline, exclusive of service lines of two inches in diameter or less. Dominion also operates the nation’s largest underground natural gas storage system, with approximately
947 bcf of storage capacity, and serves nearly 6 million utility and retail energy customers in 15 states.

Dominion is focused
on expanding its investment in regulated electric generation, transmission and distribution and regulated natural gas transmission and distribution infrastructure within and around its existing footprint. As a result, regulated capital projects will
continue to receive priority treatment in its spending plans. Dominion expects this will increase its earnings contribution from regulated operations, while reducing the sensitivity of its earnings to commodity prices.

Dominion continues to expand and improve its regulated electric and natural gas businesses, in accordance with its five-year investment
program. A major impetus for this program is to meet the anticipated increase in electricity demand in its electric utility service territory as forecasted by PJM. Other drivers for the capital investment program include the need to construct
infrastructure to handle the increase in natural gas production from the Marcellus and Utica Shale formations; and to upgrade its gas distribution and electric transmission and distribution network. Dominion has announced that it may make further
substantial investments in other gas projects over the next five years.

Dominion’s nonregulated operations include
merchant generation, energy marketing and price risk management activities and retail energy marketing operations. Dominion’s operations are conducted through various subsidiaries, including Virginia Power.

Virginia Power, headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and incorporated in Virginia in 1909 as a Virginia public service corporation,
is a regulated public utility that generates, transmits and distributes electricity for sale in Virginia and North Carolina. In Virginia, Virginia Power conducts business under the name “Dominion Virginia Power.” In North Carolina, it
conducts business under the name “Dominion North Carolina Power” and serves retail customers located in the northeastern region of the state, excluding certain municipalities. In addition, Virginia Power sells electricity at wholesale
prices to rural electric cooperatives, municipalities and into wholesale electricity markets. All of Virginia Power’s common stock is owned by Dominion.

Amounts disclosed for Dominion are inclusive of Virginia Power, where applicable.





EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2011, Dominion had approximately
15,800 full-time employees, of which approximately 5,900 employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. As of December 31, 2011, Virginia Power had approximately 6,800 full-time employees, of which approximately 3,100 employees
are subject to collective bargaining agreements.





PRINCIPALEXECUTIVEOFFICES

Dominion and Virginia Power’s principal executive offices are located at 120 Tredegar Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219 and their telephone number is (804) 819-2000.





WHEREYOUCANFINDMOREINFORMATIONABOUTDOMINIONANDVIRGINIAPOWER

Dominion and Virginia Power file their annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy
statements and other information with the SEC. Their SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document they file at the SEC’s public reference room
at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.

Dominion and Virginia Power make their SEC filings available, free of charge, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to
those reports, through Dominion’s internet website, www.dom.com, as soon as practicable after filing or furnishing the material to the SEC. You may also request a copy of these filings, at no cost, by writing or telephoning Dominion at:
Corporate Secretary, Dominion, 120 Tredegar Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219, Telephone (804) 819-2000. Information contained on Dominion’s website is not incorporated by reference in this report.





ACQUISITIONSANDDISPOSITIONS

Following are
significant divestitures by Dominion and Virginia Power during the last five years. There were no significant acquisitions by either registrant during this period.

SALEOFE&P PROPERTIES

In 2010, Dominion
completed the sale of substantially all of its Appalachian E&P operations, including its rights to associated Marcellus acreage, to a newly-formed subsidiary of CONSOL for approximately $3.5 billion. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information.

In 2007, Dominion completed the sale of its non-Appalachian natural gas and oil E&P
operations and assets for approximately $13.9 billion.

The historical results of the non-Appalachian E&P operations are
included in the Corporate and Other segment. The historical results of the Appalachian E&P operations are included in the Dominion Energy segment.













SALEOFPEOPLES

In February 2010, Dominion completed the sale of Peoples to PNG Companies LLC and netted after-tax proceeds of approximately $542 million. The historical
results of these operations are included in the Corporate and Other segment and presented in discontinued operations. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

ASSIGNMENTOFMARCELLUSACREAGE

In 2008, Dominion completed a transaction with Antero Resources to assign drilling rights to approximately 117,000 acres in the Marcellus Shale formation
located in West Virginia and Pennsylvania. Dominion received proceeds of approximately $347 million. Under the agreement, Dominion received a 7.5% overriding royalty interest on future natural gas production from the assigned acreage. The overriding
royalty interest was transferred to CONSOL as part of the sale of substantially all of Dominion’s Appalachian E&P operations in 2010.

SALEOFMERCHANTFACILITIES

In March 2007, Dominion sold three Peaker facilities for net cash proceeds of $254 million. The Peaker facilities included the 625 MW Armstrong facility in Shelocta, Pennsylvania; the 600 MW Troy facility
in Luckey, Ohio; and the 313 MW Pleasants facility in St. Mary’s, West Virginia. The results of these operations were presented in discontinued operations.

SALEOFDRESDEN

In September 2007, Dominion
completed the sale of Dresden to AEP Generating Company for $85 million.

SALEOFCERTAINDCI
OPERATIONS

In March 2008, Dominion reached an agreement to sell its remaining interest in the subordinated notes of a
third-party CDO entity held as an investment by DCI and in April 2008 received proceeds of $54 million, including accrued interest. Dominion deconsolidated the CDO entity as of March 31, 2008.

In August 2007, Dominion completed the sale of Gichner, LLC, all of the issued and outstanding shares of the capital stock of Gichner,
Inc. (an affiliate of Gichner, LLC) and Dallastown Realty for approximately $30 million.





OPERATINGSEGMENTS

Dominion manages its daily operations through three primary operating segments: DVP, Dominion Generation and Dominion Energy. Dominion
also reports a Corporate and Other segment, which includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) and the net impact of the operations and sale of Peoples, which is discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion’s operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance
or allocating resources among the segments.

Virginia Power manages its daily operations through two primary operating
segments: DVP and Dominion Generation. It also reports a Corporate and Other segment that primarily includes specific items attributable to its operating segments that

are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

While daily operations are managed through the operating segments previously discussed, assets remain wholly-owned by Dominion and
Virginia Power and their respective legal subsidiaries.

A description of the operations included in the Companies’
primary operating segments is as follows:



Primary OperatingSegmentDescription of OperationsDominionVirginiaPowerDVPRegulated electric distributionXXRegulated electric transmissionXXNonregulated retail energy marketing (electric and gas)XDominion GenerationRegulated electric fleetXXMerchant electric fleetXDominion EnergyGas transmission and storageXGas distribution and storageXLNG import and storageXProducer servicesX

For additional financial information on operating segments, including revenues from external customers,
see Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information on operating revenue related to Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s principal products and services, see Notes 2 and 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
which information is incorporated herein by reference.

DVP

The DVP Operating Segment of Virginia Powerincludes Virginia Power’s regulated electric transmission and distribution (including customer service) operations, which serve approximately 2.4
million residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers in Virginia and North Carolina.

Virginia Power has
announced its five-year investment plan, which includes spending approximately $4 billion from 2012 through 2016 to upgrade or add new transmission and distribution lines, substations and other facilities to meet growing electricity demand
within its service territory and maintain reliability. The proposed electric delivery infrastructure projects are intended to address both continued population growth and increases in electricity consumption by the typical consumer. In addition,
data centers continue to contribute to anticipated demand growth, with an expected load of approximately 715 MW by the end of 2013.

Revenue provided by electric distribution operations is based primarily on rates established by state regulatory authorities and state law. Variability in earnings is driven primarily by changes in rates,
weather, customer growth and other factors impacting consumption such as the economy and energy conservation, in addition to operating and maintenance expenditures. Operationally, electric distribution continues to focus on improving service levels
while striving to reduce costs and link investments to operational results. As a result, electric service reliability and customer service have improved. The three-year average SAIDI has improved from 127 minutes at the end of 2006 to 111 minutes at
the end of 2011. Likewise, ASA has also shown significant improvement. The three-year average ASA has improved from 60













seconds at the end of 2006 to 40 seconds at the end of 2011. Customer service options continue to be enhanced and expanded through the use of technology. Customers now have the ability to use the
Internet for routine billing and payment transactions, connecting and disconnecting service, reporting outages and obtaining outage updates. Additionally, customers can follow progress to restore electric service following major outages by accessing
Facebook or Twitter. As electric distribution moves forward, safety, electric service reliability and customer service will remain key focal areas.

Revenue provided by Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations is based primarily on rates approved by FERC. The profitability of this business is dependent on its ability, through the rates
it is permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable return on its capital investments. Variability in earnings primarily results from changes in rates and the timing of property additions, retirements and depreciation.

Virginia Power is a member of PJM, an RTO, and its electric transmission facilities are integrated into PJM wholesale electricity markets.
Consistent with the increased authority given to NERC by EPACT, Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations are committed to meeting NERC standards, modernizing its infrastructure and maintaining superior system reliability. Virginia
Power’s electric transmission operations will continue to focus on safety, operational performance, NERC compliance and execution of PJM’s RTEP.

The DVP Operating Segment of Dominionincludes all of Virginia Power’s regulated electric transmission and distribution operations as discussed above, as well as Dominion’s nonregulated
retail energy marketing operations.

Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations compete in nonregulated energy markets.
The retail business requires limited capital investment and currently employs approximately 190 people. The retail customer base includes 2.2 million customers and is diversified across three product lines-natural gas, electricity and home warranty
services. Dominion has a heavy concentration of natural gas customers in markets where utilities have a long-standing commitment to customer choice. Dominion pursues customers in electricity markets where utilities have divested of generation assets
and where customers are permitted and have opted to purchase from the market. Major growth drivers are net customer additions, new market penetration, product development and expanded sales channels and supply optimization.

COMPETITION

DVP
Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Within Virginia Power’s service territory in Virginia and North Carolina, there is
no competition for electric distribution service. Additionally, since its electric transmission facilities are integrated into PJM, electric transmission services are administered by PJM and are not subject to competition in relation to transmission
service provided to customers within the PJM region. Virginia Power is seeing continued growth in new customers in its transmission and distribution operations.

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion

Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations
compete against incumbent utilities and other energy marketers in nonregulated

energy markets for natural gas and electricity. Customers in these markets have the right to select a retail marketer and typically do so based upon price savings or price stability; however,
incumbent utilities have the advantage of long-standing relationships with their customers and greater name recognition in their markets.

REGULATION

Virginia
Power’s electric retail service, including the rates it may charge to jurisdictional customers, is subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission. Virginia Power’s electric transmission rates, tariffs
and terms of service are subject to regulation by FERC. Electric transmission siting authority remains the jurisdiction of the Virginia and North Carolina Commissions. However, EPACT provides FERC with certain backstop authority for transmission
siting. SeeState Regulations and Federal RegulationsinRegulationand Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information, including a discussion of the 2011 Biennial Review Order.

PROPERTIES

Virginia Power
has approximately 6,300 miles of electric transmission lines of 69 kV or more located in the states of North Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia. Portions of Virginia Power’s electric transmission lines cross national parks and forests under
permits entitling the federal government to use, at specified charges, any surplus capacity that may exist in these lines. While Virginia Power owns and maintains its electric transmission facilities, they are a part of PJM, which coordinates the
planning, operation, emergency assistance and exchange of capacity and energy for such facilities.

Each year, as part of
PJM’s RTEP process, reliability projects are authorized. In 2011, Virginia Power completed construction of two of the major construction projects authorized in 2006, Meadow Brook-to-Loudoun and Carson-to-Suffolk, which are each designed to
improve the reliability of service to customers and the region.

As part of subsequent annual PJM RTEP processes, PJM
authorized additional electric transmission upgrade projects including Hayes-to-Yorktown in December 2008 and Mt. Storm-to-Doubs and Dooms-to-Bremo in December 2010. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information on these and other electric transmission projects.

In addition, Virginia Power’s electric distribution
network includes approximately 56,800 miles of distribution lines, exclusive of service level lines, in Virginia and North Carolina. The grants for most of its electric lines contain rights-of-way that have been obtained from the apparent owner of
real estate, but underlying titles have not been examined. Where rights-of-way have not been obtained, they could be acquired from private owners by condemnation, if necessary. Many electric lines are on publicly-owned property, where permission to
operate can be revoked.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

DVP’s supply of electricity to serve Virginia Power customers is produced or procured by Dominion Generation. SeeDominion Generationfor additional information.













DVP Operating Segment—Dominion

The supply of electricity to serve Dominion’s retail energy marketing customers is procured through market wholesalers and RTO or ISO transactions. DVP’s supply of gas to serve its customers is
procured through market wholesalers or by Dominion Energy. SeeDominion Energyfor additional information.

SEASONALITY

DVP
Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

DVP’s earnings vary seasonally as a result of the impact of changes in temperature
and the availability of alternative sources for heating on demand by residential and commercial customers. Generally, the demand for electricity peaks during the summer and winter months to meet cooling and heating needs. An increase in heating
degree-days for DVP’s electric utility related operations does not produce the same increase in revenue as an increase in cooling degree-days, due to seasonal pricing differentials and because alternative heating sources are more readily
available.

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion

The earnings of Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations also vary seasonally. Generally, the demand for electricity peaks during the summer and winter months to meet cooling and heating needs,
while the demand for gas peaks during the winter months to meet heating needs.

Dominion Generation

The Dominion Generation Operating Segment of Virginia Powerincludes the generation operations of the Virginia Power regulated electric utility and
its related energy supply operations. Virginia Power’s utility generation operations primarily serve the supply requirements for the DVP segment’s utility customers.

Earnings for the Generation operating segment of Virginia Power primarily result from the sale of electricity generated by its utility fleet. Revenue is based primarily on rates established by state
regulatory authorities and state law. Approximately 80% of revenue comes from serving Virginia jurisdictional customers. Rates for the Virginia jurisdiction are set using a modified cost-of-service rate model. The cost of fuel and purchased power is
generally collected through fuel cost-recovery mechanisms established by regulators and does not materially impact net income. Variability in earnings for Virginia Power’s generation operations results from changes in rates, the demand for
services, which is primarily weather dependent, and labor and benefit costs, as well as the timing, duration and costs of scheduled and unscheduled outages. SeeElectric Regulation in VirginiaunderRegulationand Note 14 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information, including a discussion of the 2011 Biennial Review Order.

The
Dominion Generation Operating Segment of Dominionincludes Virginia Power’s generation facilities and its related energy supply operations described above as well as the generation operations of Dominion’s merchant fleet and energy
marketing and price risk management activities for these assets. The Generation operating segment of Dominion derives its earnings primarily from the sale of electricity generated by Virginia Power’s utility and Dominion’s merchant
generation assets, as well as

associated capacity and ancillary services from Dominion’s merchant generation assets.

Variability in earnings provided by Dominion’s merchant fleet relates to changes in market-based prices received for electricity and capacity. Market-based prices for electricity are largely
dependent on commodity prices, primarily natural gas, and the demand for electricity, which is primarily dependent upon weather. Capacity prices are dependent upon resource requirements in relation to the supply available (both existing and new) in
the forward capacity auctions, which are held approximately three years in advance of the associated delivery year. Dominion manages electric and capacity price volatility of its merchant fleet by hedging a substantial portion of its expected
near-term sales with derivative instruments and also entering into long-term power sales agreements. However, earnings have been adversely impacted due to a sustained decline in commodity prices. Variability also results from changes in the cost of
fuel consumed, labor and benefits and the timing, duration and costs of scheduled and unscheduled outages.

COMPETITION

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Virginia Power’s generation operations are not subject to significant competition as only a limited number of its Virginia jurisdictional electric utility customers have retail choice. SeeRegulation-State Regulations-Electricfor more information. Currently, North Carolina does not offer retail choice to electric customers.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

Unlike Dominion Generation’s regulated generation fleet, its merchant generation fleet is dependent on its ability to operate in a competitive environment and does not have a predetermined rate
structure that allows for a rate of return on its capital investments. Competition for the merchant fleet is impacted by electricity and fuel prices, new market entrants, construction by others of generating assets and transmission capacity,
technological advances in power generation, the actions of environmental and other regulatory authorities and other factors. These competitive factors may negatively impact the merchant fleet’s ability to profit from the sale of
electricity and related products and services.

Dominion Generation’s merchant generation fleet owns and operates several
facilities in the Midwest that operate within functioning RTOs. A significant portion of the output from these facilities is sold under long-term contracts, with expiration dates ranging from December 31, 2012 to August 31, 2017, and is
therefore largely unaffected by price competition during the term of these contracts. Following expiration of these contracts, earnings could be adversely impacted if prevailing prices for energy, capacity and ancillary services are lower than the
levels currently received under these contracts.

Dominion Generation’s other merchant assets also operate within
functioning RTOs and primarily compete on the basis of price. Competitors include other generating assets bidding to operate within the RTOs. These RTOs have clearly identified market rules that ensure the competitive wholesale market is













functioning properly. Dominion Generation’s merchant units have a variety of short- and medium-term contracts, and also compete in the spot market with other generators to sell a variety of
products including energy, capacity and ancillary services. It is difficult to compare various types of generation given the wide range of fuels, fuel procurement strategies, efficiencies and operating characteristics of the fleet within any given
RTO. However, Dominion applies its expertise in operations, dispatch and risk management to maximize the degree to which its merchant fleet is competitive compared to similar assets within the region.

REGULATION

Virginia
Power’s utility generation fleet and Dominion’s merchant generation fleet are subject to regulation by FERC, the NRC, the EPA, the DOE, the Army Corps of Engineers and other federal, state and local authorities. Virginia Power’s
utility generation fleet is also subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission. SeeState RegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationfor more information.

PROPERTIES

For a listing
of Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s existing generation facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

Dominion Generation Operating
Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

The generation capacity of Virginia Power’s electric utility fleet totals 18,985 MW. The
generation mix is diversified and includes coal, nuclear, gas, oil, hydro and renewables. Virginia Power’s generation facilities are located in Virginia, West Virginia and North Carolina and serve load in Virginia and northeastern North
Carolina.

Based on available generation capacity and current estimates of growth in customer demand in its utility service
area, Virginia Power will need additional generation capacity over the next decade. Virginia Power has announced a comprehensive generation growth program, referred to asPowering Virginia, which involves the development, financing,
construction and operation of new multi-fuel, multi-technology generation capacity to meet the anticipated growing demand in its core market in Virginia. Significant projects under construction or development include:

ŸThe Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center located in Wise County, Virginia, is expected to generate about 585 MW when completed. The baseload facility is
estimated to cost $1.8 billion, excluding financing costs. Construction was approximately 95% complete at the end of 2011, and commercial operations are expected to commence in the summer of 2012.

ŸWarren County is expected to generate more than 1,300 MW of electricity when operational. In February 2012, the Virginia Commission authorized the
construction of this power station, which is estimated to cost approximately $1.1 billion, excluding financing costs. Commercial operations are scheduled to commence by late 2014. In connection with the air permit process for Warren County,
Virginia Power reached an agreement to permanently retire North Branch, a 74 MW coal-fired plant located in West Virginia, once Warren County begins commercial operations.

ŸVirginia Power plans to convert three coal-fired Virginia generating stations to biomass, a renewable energy source. The conversions of the power
stations in Altavista, Hopewell and Southampton County would increase Dominion’s renewable generation by more than 150 MW and are expected to cost approximately $165 million, excluding financing costs. After approvals by the Virginia Department
of Environmental Quality and the Virginia Commission, construction will begin; these conversions are expected to be complete by the end of 2013.

ŸSubject to the receipt of certain regulatory approvals, Virginia Power plans to construct a combined-cycle natural gas-fired power station in Brunswick
County, Virginia, that is expected to generate more than 1,300 MW. If the project is approved, commercial operations are expected to commence in 2016. Brunswick County has approved a conditional use permit to allow for construction of the
plant. This facility would more than offset the expected reduction in capacity caused by the anticipated retirement of coal-fired units at Chesapeake and Yorktown during 2015 and 2016 primarily due to the cost of compliance with MATS. The
facility would be similar to the power station being built in Warren County, Virginia, which is estimated to cost approximately $1.1 billion, excluding financing costs.

In May 2011, Virginia Power completed construction of Bear Garden, at a total cost of approximately $620 million, excluding financing
costs, and the 590 MW combined-cycle, natural gas-fired power station commenced commercial operations.

In addition to the
projects above, Virginia Power is considering the construction of a third nuclear unit at a site located at North Anna. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on this project.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

The generation capacity of Dominion’s merchant fleet totals 9,157 MW. The generation mix is diversified and includes nuclear, coal, gas, oil and renewables. Merchant generation facilities are located
in Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, West Virginia and Wisconsin with a majority of that capacity concentrated in New England. Dominion is the largest generator in ISO-NE and, mirroring the region’s load
demand, has principally baseload units with the remainder split between intermediate and peaking.

In the first quarter of
2011, Dominion decided to pursue the sale of Kewaunee. Any sale of Kewaunee would be subject to the approval of Dominion’s Board of Directors, as well as applicable state and federal approvals.

During the second quarter of 2011, Dominion announced its intention to retire State Line by mid-2014 and to retire two of the four units
at Salem Harbor by the end of 2011 and the remaining two Salem Harbor units on June 1, 2014. These decisions were prompted by the economic outlook for both facilities, in combination with the expectation that State Line would be impacted by
potential environmental regulations that would likely require significant capital expenditures. During the third quarter of 2011, Dominion announced an accelerated schedule for State Line, with the facility to be retired in the first quarter of
2012, given a continued decline in power prices and the expected cost to comply with environmental regulations.













Salem Harbor units 1 and 2 were retired as planned on December 31, 2011.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Dominion Generation
uses a variety of fuels to power its electric generation and purchases power for utility system load requirements and to satisfy physical forward sale requirements, as described below. Some of these agreements have fixed commitments and are included
as contractual obligations inFuture Cash Payments for Contractual Obligations and Planned Capital Expendituresin Item 7. MD&A.

Nuclear Fuel—Dominion Generation primarily utilizes long-term contracts to support its nuclear fuel requirements. Worldwide market conditions are continuously evaluated to ensure a range of
supply options at reasonable prices which are dependent on the market environment. Current agreements, inventories and spot market availability are expected to support current and planned fuel supply needs. Additional fuel is purchased as required
to ensure optimal cost and inventory levels.

Fossil Fuel—Dominion Generation primarily utilizes coal, oil and
natural gas in its fossil fuel plants.

Dominion Generation’s coal supply is obtained through long-term contracts and
short-term spot agreements from both domestic and international suppliers.

Dominion Generation’s natural gas and oil
supply is obtained from various sources including: purchases from major and independent producers in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions, purchases from local producers in the Appalachian area, purchases from gas marketers and withdrawals from
underground storage fields owned by Dominion or third parties.

Dominion Generation manages a portfolio of natural gas
transportation contracts (capacity) that allows flexibility in delivering natural gas to its gas turbine fleet, while minimizing costs.

Purchased Power—Dominion Generation purchases electricity from the PJM spot market and through power purchase agreements with other suppliers to provide for utility system load requirements.

Dominion Generation also occasionally purchases electricity from the PJM, ISO-NE and MISO spot markets to satisfy physical
forward sale requirements as part of its merchant generation operations.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Virginia Power

Presented below is a summary of Virginia Power’s actual system output by energy source:



Source201120102009Purchased power, net33%29%25%Nuclear(1)282832Coal(2)263133Natural gas12109Other(3)121Total100%100%100%



(1)Excludes ODEC’s 11.6% ownership interest in North Anna.

(2)Excludes ODEC’s 50.0% ownership interest in the Clover power station. The average cost of coal for 2011 Virginia in-system generation was $33.55 per MWh.

(3)Includes oil, hydro and biomass.

SEASONALITY

Sales of electricity for Dominion Generation typically vary seasonally as a result of the impact of changes in temperature and the availability of alternative sources for heating on demand by residential
and commercial customers. Generally, the demand for electricity peaks during the summer and winter months to meet cooling and heating needs. An increase in heating degree-days does not produce the same increase in revenue as an increase in cooling
degree-days, due to seasonal pricing differentials and because alternative heating sources are more readily available.

NUCLEARDECOMMISSIONING

In June 2011, the NRC amended its regulations to improve decommissioning planning. As applied to the operators of nuclear power plants, these amendments require licensees to conduct operations in a
manner minimizing introduction of residual radioactivity into the site, perform additional surveys, and maintain records of their results. In addition, the amendments make minor changes to financial assurance methods and require additional
information on decommissioning and spent fuel management costs after a plant permanently ceases operations. The revised regulations will become effective in December 2012 and are not expected to significantly affect the decommissioning cost
estimates or funding for Dominion’s or Virginia Power’s units.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia
Power

Virginia Power has a total of four licensed, operating nuclear reactors at its Surry and North Anna power stations in Virginia.

Decommissioning involves the decontamination and removal of radioactive contaminants from a nuclear power station once
operations have ceased, in accordance with standards established by the NRC. Amounts collected from ratepayers and placed into trusts have been invested to fund the expected future costs of decommissioning the Surry and North Anna units.

Virginia Power believes that the decommissioning funds and their expected earnings for the Surry and North Anna units will be sufficient
to cover expected decommissioning costs, particularly when combined with future ratepayer collections and contributions to these decommissioning trusts, if such future collections and contributions are required. This reflects the long-term
investment horizon, since the units will not be decommissioned for decades, and a positive long-term outlook for trust fund investment returns. Virginia Power will continue to monitor these trusts to ensure they meet the NRC minimum financial
assurance requirement, which may include the use of parent company guarantees, surety bonding or other financial guarantees recognized by the NRC.

The total estimated cost to decommission Virginia Power’s four nuclear units is $2.2 billion in 2011 dollars and is primarily based upon site-specific studies completed in 2009. The current cost
estimates assume decommissioning activities will begin shortly after cessation of operations, which will occur when the operating licenses expire. Virginia Power expects to decommission the Surry and North Anna units during the period 2032 to 2067.













Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

The estimated decommissioning costs and license expiration dates for the nuclear units owned by Dominion and Virginia Power are shown in the following table.



NRClicenseexpirationyearMostrecentcostestimate(2011dollars)(1)Funds intrusts atDecember 31,20112011ContributionsTo Trusts(dollars in millions)SurryUnit 12032$562$387$0.6Unit 220335843820.6North AnnaUnit 1(2)20385093100.4Unit
2(2)20405222910.3Total (Virginia Power)2,1771,3701.9MillstoneUnit 1(3)n/a450321—Unit 22035676398—Unit 3(4)2045706393—Kewaunee—Unit 12033681517—Total (Dominion)$4,690$2,999$1.9



(1)The cost estimates shown above are total decommissioning cost estimates and differ from the cost estimates used to calculate Dominion’s and Virginia
Power’s nuclear decommissioning AROs. Among other items, the cost estimates above do not reflect any reduction for the expected future

recovery from the DOE of certain spent fuel costs based on the Companies’ contracts with the DOE for disposal of spent nuclear fuel.

(2)North Anna is jointly owned by Virginia Power (88.4%) and ODEC (11.6%). However, Virginia Power is responsible for 89.26% of the decommissioning obligation. Amounts
reflect 89.26% of the decommissioning cost for both of North Anna’s units.

(3)Unit 1 ceased operations in 1998, before Dominion’s acquisition of Millstone.

(4)Millstone Unit 3 is jointly owned by Dominion Nuclear Connecticut, with a 6.53% undivided interest in Unit 3 owned by Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric
Company and Central Vermont Public Service Corporation. Decommissioning cost is shown at 100% and the trust funds are shown at Dominion’s ownership percentage. At December 31, 2011, the minority owners held approximately $27 million
of trust funds related to Millstone Unit 3 that are not reflected in the table above.

Also see Note 15 and
Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about AROs and nuclear decommissioning, respectively.

Dominion Energy

Dominion Energy includes Dominion’s regulated natural gas distribution companies, regulated gas transmission pipeline and storage
operations, natural gas gathering and by-products extraction activities and regulated LNG operations. Dominion Energy also includes producer services, which aggregates natural gas supply, engages in natural gas trading and marketing activities and
natural gas supply management and provides price risk management services to Dominion affiliates.

The gas transmission
pipeline and storage business serves gas distribution businesses and other customers in the Northeast, mid-Atlantic and Midwest. Included in Dominion’s gas transmission pipeline and storage business is its gas gathering and extraction activity,
which sells extracted products at market rates. Dominion’s LNG operations involve the import and storage of LNG at Cove Point and the transportation of regasified LNG to the interstate pipeline grid and mid-Atlantic and Northeast markets. In
connection with the recent increase in Eastern U.S. natural gas production, including from the Marcellus and Utica shale formations, Dominion has requested regulatory authority to operate Cove Point as a bi-directional facility, able to import LNG,
and vaporize it as natural gas, and liquefy natural gas and export it as LNG. SeeFuture Issues and Other Mattersin MD&A for more information.

Revenue provided by Dominion’s regulated gas transmission and storage and LNG operations is based primarily on rates established by FERC. Additionally, Dominion receives revenue from firm fee-based
contractual arrangements, including negotiated rates, for certain gas transportation, gas storage, LNG storage and regasification services. Dominion’s gas distribution operations serve residential, commercial and industrial gas sales and
transportation customers. Revenue provided by its gas distribution operations is based primarily on rates established by the Ohio and West Virginia Commissions. The profitability of these businesses is dependent on Dominion’s ability, through
the rates it is permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable return on its capital investments. Variability in earnings results from operating and maintenance expenditures, as well as changes in rates and the demand for services,
which are dependent on weather, changes in commodity prices and the economy.

In October 2008, East Ohio implemented a rate
case settlement which provided for a straight-fixed-variable rate design.













Under this rate design, East Ohio recovers a larger portion of its fixed operating costs through a flat monthly charge accompanied by a reduced volumetric base delivery rate. Accordingly, East
Ohio’s revenue is less impacted by weather-related fluctuations in natural gas consumption than under the traditional rate design.

Earnings from Dominion Energy’s producer services business are unregulated, and are subject to variability associated with changes in commodity prices. Producer services uses physical and financial
arrangements to hedge this price risk.

COMPETITION

Dominion Energy’s gas transmission operations compete with domestic and Canadian pipeline companies. Dominion also competes with gas marketers seeking to provide or arrange transportation, storage
and other services. Alternative energy sources, such as oil or coal, provide another level of competition. Although competition is based primarily on price, the array of services that can be provided to customers is also an important factor. The
combination of capacity rights held on certain long-line pipelines, a large storage capability and the availability of numerous receipt and delivery points along its own pipeline system enable Dominion to tailor its services to meet the needs of
individual customers.

Retail competition for gas supply exists to varying degrees in the two states in which Dominion’s
gas distribution subsidiaries operate. In Ohio, there has been no legislation enacted to require supplier choice for residential and commercial natural gas consumers. However, Dominion offers an Energy Choice program to customers, in cooperation
with the Ohio Commission. At December 31, 2011, approximately 1 million of Dominion’s 1.2 million Ohio customers were participating in this Energy Choice Program. West Virginia does not require customers to choose their provider in its
retail natural gas markets at this time. However, the West Virginia Commission has issued regulations to govern pooling services, one of the tools that natural gas suppliers may utilize to provide retail customers a choice in the future and has
issued rules requiring competitive gas service providers to be licensed in West Virginia. SeeRegulation-State Regulations-Gasfor additional information.

REGULATION

Dominion Energy’s natural gas transmission pipeline,
storage and LNG operations are regulated primarily by FERC. Dominion Energy’s gas distribution service, including the rates that it may charge customers, is regulated by the Ohio and West Virginia Commissions. SeeState RegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationfor more information.

PROPERTIES

Dominion Energy’s gas distribution network is located in the states of Ohio and West Virginia. This network involves approximately 21,800 miles of
pipe, exclusive of service lines of two inches in diameter or less. The rights-of-way grants for many natural gas pipelines have been obtained from the actual owner of real estate, as underlying titles have been examined. Where rights-of-way have
not been obtained, they could be acquired from private owners by condemnation, if necessary. Many natural gas pipelines are on publicly-owned property, where company rights and actions are determined on a case-by-case basis, with results that range
from reimbursed relocation to revocation of permission to operate.

Dominion Energy has approximately 11,000 miles of gas transmission, gathering and storage
pipelines located in the states of Maryland, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia. Dominion Energy operates gas processing and fractionation facilities in West Virginia with a total processing capacity of 267,000 mcf per day
and fractionation capacity of 582,000 gallons per day. Dominion Energy also operates 20 underground gas storage fields located in New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, with almost 2,000 storage wells and approximately 349,000 acres of
operated leaseholds.

The total designed capacity of the underground storage fields operated by Dominion Energy is
approximately 947 bcf. Certain storage fields are jointly-owned and operated by Dominion Energy. The capacity of those fields owned by Dominion’s partners totals about 242 bcf. Dominion Energy also has about 15 bcf of above-ground storage
capacity at Cove Point. Dominion Energy has about 128 compressor stations with more than 777,000 installed compressor horsepower.

In August 2009, Dominion announced the proposed development of the Keystone Connector Project, a joint venture with The Williams Companies that would transport new natural gas supplies from the
Appalachian Basin to Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation’s Station 195, providing access to markets throughout the eastern U.S. The joint venture was terminated in June 2011. DTI is currently independently marketing its Keystone
Connector Project. Project timing is subject to producer drilling plans in the Appalachian Basin, as well as customer demand throughout the mid-Atlantic and Northeast regions.

In January 2011, Dominion completed the $50 million Cove Point Pier Reinforcement Project to upgrade, expand and modify the existing pier at the Cove Point terminal to accommodate the next generation of
LNG vessels (up to 267,000 cubic meters) that are much larger than those that could previously be accommodated (no larger than 148,000 cubic meters).

DTI has announced the Gathering Enhancement Project, a $253 million expansion of its natural gas gathering, processing and liquids facilities in West Virginia. The project is designed to increase the
efficiency and reduce high pressures in its gathering system, thus increasing the amount of natural gas local producers can move through DTI’s West Virginia system. Construction started in 2009 and is expected to be completed by the fourth
quarter of 2012. The cost of the project will be paid for by rates charged to producers.

In June 2011, FERC approved
DTI’s $634 million Appalachian Gateway Project. The project is expected to provide approximately 484,000 dekatherms per day of firm transportation services for new Appalachian gas supplies in West Virginia and southwestern Pennsylvania to an
interconnection with Texas Eastern Transmission, LP at Oakford, Pennsylvania. Construction has commenced and transportation services are scheduled to begin by September 2012.

In August 2011, DTI received FERC authorization for the Northeast Expansion Project. The project is expected to provide approximately 200,000 dekatherms per day of firm transportation services for
CONSOL’s Marcellus Shale natural gas production from various receipt points in central and southwestern Pennsylvania to a nexus of market pipelines and storage facilities in Leidy, Pennsylvania. The project is expected to cost approximately
$100 million. Construction of new compression facilities













at three existing compressor stations in central Pennsylvania is expected to begin in March 2012, with a projected in-service date of November 2012.

In September 2011, FERC approved DTI’s proposed Ellisburg-to-Craigs project. The project is expected to have capacity of
approximately 150,000 dekatherms per day, which will be leased by TGP to move Marcellus shale natural gas supplies from TGP’s 300 Line pipeline system in northern Pennsylvania to its 200 Line pipeline system in upstate New York. The project is
expected to cost approximately $46 million. Construction of additional compression facilities and a new measurement and regulating station is expected to begin in March 2012, with a projected in-service date of November 2012.

In November 2011, DTI filed a FERC application for approval to construct the $17 million Sabinsville to Morrisville project, a pipeline to
move additional Marcellus supplies from a TGP pipeline in northeast Pennsylvania to its line in upstate New York. DTI executed a binding precedent agreement with TGP in October 2010 to provide this firm transportation service up to 92,000 dekatherms
per day for a 14-year term. Construction is expected to commence April 2013 with an expected in service date of November 2013.

DTI is developing the Allegheny Storage Project, which is expected to provide approximately 7.5 bcf of incremental storage service and
125,000 dekatherms per day of associated year-round firm transportation service to three local distribution companies under 15-year contracts. Storage capacity for the project will be provided from storage pool enhancements at DTI and capacity
leased from East Ohio. DTI intends to construct additional compression facilities and upgrade measurement and regulation in order to provide 115,000 dekatherms per day of transportation service. The remaining 10,000 dekatherms per day of
transportation service will not require construction of additional facilities. The $112 million project is expected to be in service in 2014, subject to FERC approval, which DTI requested in February 2012.

In February 2011, DTI concluded a binding open season for its $67 million Tioga Area Expansion Project, which is designed to provide
approximately 270,000 dekatherms per day of firm transportation service from supply interconnects in Tioga and Potter Counties in Pennsylvania to DTI’s Crayne interconnect with Texas Eastern Transmission, LP in Greene County, Pennsylvania and
the Leidy interconnect with Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company in Clinton County, Pennsylvania. Two customers have contracted for the service under 15-year terms. DTI filed a certificate application with FERC in November 2011. Subject to the
receipt of regulatory approvals, the project is anticipated to be in service in November 2013.

In January 2011, Dominion
announced the development of a natural gas processing and fractionation facility in Natrium, West Virginia, and in July 2011 it executed a contract for the construction of the first phase of the facility. This phase of the project is fully
contracted and is expected to be in service by December 2012. The Phase 1 costs for processing, fractionation, plant inlet and outlet natural gas transportation, gathering, and various modes of NGL transportation is approximately $500 million.
Dominion is also in negotiations for the possible construction of Phase 2 at Natrium, which could be in service by the fourth
quar-

ter of 2013. The complete project is designed to process up to 400,000 mcf of natural gas per day and fractionate up to 59,000 barrels of NGLs per day.

In March 2011, East Ohio filed a request with the Ohio Commission to accelerate the PIR program by nearly doubling its PIR spending to
more than $200 million annually. East Ohio identified 1,450 miles of pipeline that need to be replaced, in addition to the pipeline originally identified in the PIR project scope. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

Dominion Energy’s natural gas supply is obtained from various sources including purchases from major and independent producers in the Mid-Continent
and Gulf Coast regions, local producers in the Appalachian area and gas marketers. Dominion’s large underground natural gas storage network and the location of its pipeline system are a significant link between the country’s major
interstate gas pipelines, including the Rockies Express East pipeline, and large markets in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic regions. Dominion’s pipelines are part of an interconnected gas transmission system, which provides access to supplies
nationwide for local distribution companies, marketers, power generators and industrial and commercial customers.

Dominion’s underground storage facilities play an important part in balancing gas supply with consumer demand and are essential to
serving the Northeast, mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions. In addition, storage capacity is an important element in the effective management of both gas supply and pipeline transmission capacity.

SEASONALITY

Dominion
Energy’s natural gas distribution business earnings vary seasonally, as a result of the impact of changes in temperature on demand by residential and commercial customers for gas to meet heating needs. Historically, the majority of these
earnings have been generated during the heating season, which is generally from November to March, however implementation of the straight-fixed-variable rate design at East Ohio has reduced the earnings impact of weather-related fluctuations. Demand
for services at Dominion’s pipeline and storage business can also be weather sensitive. Commodity prices can be impacted by seasonal weather changes, the effects of unusual weather events on operations and the economy. Dominion’s producer
services business is affected by seasonal changes in the prices of commodities that it transports, stores and actively markets and trades.

Corporate
and Other

Corporate and Other Segment—Virginia Power

Virginia Power’s Corporate and Other segment primarily includes certain specific items attributable to its operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive
management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

Corporate and Other
Segment—Dominion

Dominion’s Corporate and Other segment includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including
unallocated debt) and the net impact of the operations and sale of Peoples, which is













discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion’s operating segments that are not included in
profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.





ENVIRONMENTALSTRATEGY

Dominion and Virginia Power are committed to being good environmental stewards. Their ongoing objective is to
provide reliable, affordable energy for their customers while being environmentally responsible. The integrated strategy to meet this objective consists of five major elements:

ŸCompliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules;

ŸConservation and load management;

ŸRenewable generation development;

ŸOther generation development to maintain fuel diversity, including clean coal, advanced nuclear energy, and natural gas; and

ŸImprovements in other energy infrastructure.

This strategy incorporates Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s efforts to voluntarily reduce GHG emissions, which are described below. SeeDominion Generation—Propertiesfor more
information on certain of the projects described below, as well as other projects under current development.

Environmental Compliance

Dominion and Virginia Power remain committed to compliance with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules related to their operations.
Additional information related to Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s environmental compliance matters can be found inFuture Issues and Other Mattersin MD&A and in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Conservation and Load Management

Conservation
plays a significant role in meeting the growing demand for electricity. The Regulation Act provides incentives for energy conservation and sets a voluntary goal to reduce electricity consumption by retail customers in 2022 by ten percent of the
amount consumed in 2006 through the implementation of conservation programs. Legislation in 2009 added definitions of peak-shaving and energy efficiency programs and allowed for a margin on operating expenses and revenue reductions related to energy
efficiency programs.

Virginia Power’s DSM programs provide important incremental steps toward achieving the voluntary ten
percent energy conservation goal. The conservation and load management plan includes the following DSM programs, which were approved by the Virginia Commission in March 2010 and were rolled out in May 2010:

ŸResidential Lighting Program—an instant, in-store discount on the purchase of qualifying compact fluorescent lights;

ŸHome Energy Improvement—energy audits and improvements for homes of low-income customers;

ŸSmart Cooling Rewards—incentives for residential customers who voluntarily enroll to allow Virginia Power to cycle their air conditioners and heat
pumps during periods of peak demand;

ŸCommercial Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning Upgrade Program—incentives for commercial customers to improve the energy efficiency of their
heating and/or cooling units; and

ŸCommercial Lighting Program—incentives for commercial customers to install energy-efficient lighting.

In September 2011, Virginia Power filed an application for approval of six additional DSM programs and to expand the approved Commercial
Lighting and Commercial Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning Upgrade programs, in addition to requesting annual recovery of DSM program costs. The proposed DSM programs include:

ŸCommercial Energy Audit Program—an on-site energy audit providing commercial customers with information to evaluate potential energy cost savings
options;

ŸCommercial Duct Testing & Sealing—an incentive for commercial customers to seal duct and air distribution systems to improve system
efficiency;

ŸCommercial Refrigeration Program—an incentive for commercial customers to install more efficient refrigeration technologies;

ŸCommercial Distributed Generation—a redesigned distributed generation program allowing customers to commit their on-site back-up generators to
Virginia Power during periods of peak demand;

ŸResidential Lighting Phase II—an extension of the initial in-store discount on the purchase of qualifying compact fluorescent lighting as well as
light-emitting diode bulbs to phase out and replace conventional incandescent bulbs; and

ŸResidential Bundle Program—a bundle of four residential programs to be available to residential customers, including a Residential Home Energy
Check-up Program, Residential Duct Testing & Sealing Program, Residential Heat Pump Tune-Up Program and Residential Heat Pump Upgrade Program.

In September 2010, Virginia Power filed with the North Carolina Commission an application for approval and its initial request for cost recovery of the five DSM programs initially approved in Virginia, as
well as the distributed generation program. In February 2011, the North Carolina Commission approved the five DSM programs approved in Virginia, and Virginia Power subsequently launched the residential lighting program in May 2011 and the remainder
of the approved programs in June 2011. In a separate order issued in September of 2011, the North Carolina Commission denied approval of Virginia Power’s proposed distributed generation program.

Virginia Power continues to assess smart grid technologies through a demonstration designed to indicate how these technologies may enhance
Virginia Power’s electric distribution system by allowing energy to be delivered more efficiently. The demonstration involves a limited deployment, within Virginia Power’s Virginia service territory, of smart meters that use digital
technology to enable two-way communication between the meter and Virginia Power’s electric distribution system. Dependent upon the outcome of the demonstration and certain regulatory proceedings, Virginia Power may make a significant investment
in replacing existing meters with Advanced Metering Infrastructure. The technology is intended to help customers monitor and control their













energy use. It is also expected to lead to more efficient use of the power grid, which is expected to result in energy savings and lower environmental emissions. Moreover, deployment of smart
grid technology is expected to provide more accurate outage information, fewer service calls, and faster service restoration.

Renewable Generation

Renewable energy is also an important component of a diverse and reliable energy mix. Both Virginia and North Carolina have passed
legislation setting targets for renewable power. Virginia Power is committed to meeting Virginia’s goals of 12% renewable power by 2022 and 15% by 2025, and North Carolina’s RPS of 12.5% by 2021. In May 2010, the Virginia Commission
approved Virginia Power’s participation in the state’s RPS program. As a participant, Virginia Power is permitted to seek recovery, through rate adjustment clauses, of the costs of programs designed to meet RPS goals. Virginia Power plans
to meet the respective RPS targets in Virginia and North Carolina by utilizing existing renewable facilities, as well as through additional renewable generation where it makes sense for customers. In addition, Virginia Power intends to purchase
renewable energy certificates, as permitted by each RPS program, to meet any remaining annual requirement needs. Virginia Power continues to explore opportunities to develop new renewable facilities within its service territory, the energy
attributes of which would qualify for inclusion in the RPS programs.

Dominion has invested in wind energy through two joint
ventures. Dominion is a 50% owner of NedPower. Dominion’s share of this project produces 132 MW of renewable energy. Dominion is also a 50% owner with BP of the first phase of Fowler Ridge, which has a generating capacity of 300 MW. Dominion
has a long-term agreement with Fowler Ridge to purchase 200 MW of energy, capacity and environmental attributes from this first phase. In the first quarter of 2011, Dominion completed the sale of its remaining share of the development assets of the
second phase of Fowler Ridge to BP.

In October 2011, Virginia Power filed with the Virginia Commission an application to
conduct a solar distributed generation demonstration program, consisting of up to a combined 30 MW of company-owned solar distributed generation facilities to be located at selected commercial, industrial and community locations throughout its
Virginia service territory, as well as up to a combined 3 MW of customer-owned solar distributed generation facilities that will be subject to a tariff filed with the Virginia Commission in 2012. If approved, this program is expected to generate
enough electricity to power about 6,000 homes during peak daylight hours.

Other Generation Development

Virginia Power has announced a comprehensive generation growth program, referred to asPowering Virginia, which involves the
development, financing, construction and operation of new multi-fuel, multi-technology generation capacity to meet the anticipated growth in demand in its core market of Virginia. Virginia Power expects that these investments collectively will
provide the following benefits: expanded electricity production capability, increased technological and fuel diversity and a reduction in the CO2emission intensity of its generation fleet.

Improvements in Other Energy Infrastructure

Virginia Power’s five-year investment plan includes significant capital expenditures to upgrade or add new transmission and distribution lines, substations and other facilities to meet growing
electricity demand within its service territory and maintain reliability. These enhancements are primarily aimed at meeting Virginia Power’s continued goal of providing reliable service, and are intended to address both continued population
growth and increases in electricity consumption by the typical consumer. An additional benefit will be added capacity to efficiently deliver electricity from the renewable projects now being developed or to be developed in the future.

Virginia Power is taking measures to ensure that its electrical infrastructure can support the expected demand from electric vehicles,
which have significantly lower carbon intensity than conventional vehicles. Virginia Power has partnered with Ford Motor Company to help prepare Virginia for the operation of electric vehicles, in a collaboration that involves consumer outreach,
educational programs and the exchange of information on vehicle charging requirements.

Dominion, in connection with its
five-year growth plan, is also pursuing the construction or upgrade of regulated infrastructure in its natural gas business.

Dominion and Virginia
Power’s Strategy for Voluntarily Reducing GHG Emissions

While Dominion and Virginia Power have not established a standalone GHG
emissions reduction target or timetable, they are actively engaged in voluntary reduction efforts, as well as working toward achieving required RPS standards established by existing state regulations, as set forth above. The Companies have an
integrated voluntary strategy for reducing overall GHG emission intensity that is based on maintaining a diverse fuel mix, including nuclear, coal, gas, oil, hydro and renewable energy, investing in renewable energy projects and promoting energy
conservation and efficiency efforts. Below are some of the Companies’ efforts that have or are expected to reduce the Companies’ overall carbon emissions or intensity:

ŸIn 2003, Virginia Power retired two oil-fired units at its Possum Point power station, replacing them with a new 559 MW combined-cycle natural gas
unit. Virginia Power also converted two coal-fired units at Possum Point to cleaner burning natural gas.

ŸSince 2000, Dominion has added over 2,600 MW of non-emitting nuclear generation and over 3,500 MW of new lower-emitting natural gas-fired
generation including nearly 1,600 MW at Virginia Power (excluding Possum Point), to its generation mix.

ŸVirginia Power added 83 MW of renewable biomass and has plans to convert three coal-fired power stations to biomass, which is anticipated to be
considered carbon neutral by regulatory agencies.

ŸDominion has over 800 MW of wind energy in operation or development.

ŸVirginia Power completed construction of the natural gas-fired Bear Garden generating facility in May 2011.

ŸVirginia Power is constructing the natural gas-fired Warren County power station. In connection with the air permit process for Warren County, Virginia
Power reached an













agreement with the National Park Service to permanently retire the North Branch power station, a 74 MW coal fired plant located in West Virginia, once Warren County begins commercial operations.

ŸVirginia Power plans to construct an additional combined-cycle natural gas-fired power station similar in size to Warren County to replace coal-fired
units at Chesapeake and Yorktown that are anticipated to be retired in 2015 and 2016.

ŸVirginia Power has received an Early Site Permit from the NRC for the possible addition of approximately 1,500 MW of nuclear generation in Virginia.
Virginia Power has not yet committed to building a new nuclear unit.

ŸVirginia Power has developed the DSM programs described above.

ŸVirginia Power has initiated a demonstration of smart grid technologies as described above.

ŸIn October 2011, Virginia Power announced plans to develop the community solar power program described above.

ŸDominion retired two coal-fired units at Salem Harbor in 2011 and announced that the remaining units at Salem Harbor will be retired during the second
quarter of 2014.

ŸDominion has announced its plans to retire State Line during the first quarter of 2012.

While Virginia Power’s new Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center, which is currently under construction in southwest
Virginia, will be a new source of GHG emissions upon entering service, Virginia Power has taken steps to minimize the impact on the environment. The new plant is expected to use at least 10% biomass for fuel and is designed to be carbon-capture
compatible, meaning that technology to capture CO2can be
added to the station if or when it becomes commercially available. Also, Virginia Power has announced plans to convert its coal units at Bremo to natural gas, contingent upon the Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center entering service and receipt of
necessary approvals. It is currently estimated that the Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center will have the potential to emit about 4.8 million metric tonnes of direct CO2emissions in a year assuming a 100% capacity factor and 100% coal-fired operation. Actual emissions will depend on the
capacity factor of the facility and the extent to which biomass is burned.

Dominion also developed a
comprehensive GHG inventory for calendar year 2010. For Dominion Generation, Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s direct
CO2equivalent emissions, based on equity share (ownership),
were approximately 52.4 million metric tonnes and 32.4 million metric tonnes, respectively. For the DVP operating segment’s electric transmission and distribution operations, direct CO2equivalent emissions were approximately 0.2 million metric tonnes.
DTI’s (including Cove Point) direct CO2equivalent
emissions were approximately 3.0 million metric tonnes and East Ohio’s direct CO2equivalent emissions were approximately 1.4 million metric tonnes. While the Companies do not have final 2011 emissions data, they do not expect a significant variance in emissions from 2010
amounts. With respect to electric generation, primary facility stack emissions of CO2from carbon based fuel combustion are directly measured via continuous emissions monitor system methods set forth under 40 CFR Part 75 of the U.S. Electric Code of Federal Regulation. For those emission
sources not covered under 40 CFR Part 75, and

for methane and nitrous oxide emissions, quantification is based on fuel combustion, higher heating values, emission factors, and global warming potentials as specified in the EPA’s
Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule. For the DVP operating segment’s electric transmission and distribution emissions, the protocol used wasThe Climate Registry. For Dominion’s natural gas businesses, combustion related
emissions were calculated using the EPA Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule as described above. For DTI, the protocol used to calculate the non-combustion related emissions reported above wasGreenhouse Gas Emission Estimation Guidelines
for Natural Gas Transmission and Storage, Volume 1-GHG Estimation Methodologies and Procedures-Revision 2, September 28, 2005developed by the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America. For East Ohio, the protocol used to calculate
the non-combustion related emissions was the American Gas Association’s April 2008 Greenhouse Emissions Estimation Methodologies and Procedures for Natural Gas Distribution Operations.

Since 2000, the Companies have tracked the emissions of their electric generation fleet. Their electric generation
fleet employs a mix of fuel and renewable energy sources. Comparing annual year 2000 to annual year 2010, Dominion and Virginia Power’s electric generating fleet (based on ownership percentage) reduced their average CO2emissions rate per MWh of energy produced from electric generation by
about 21% and 10%, respectively. During such time period the capacity of Dominion and Virginia Power’s electric generation fleet has grown.

Alternative Energy Initiatives

In addition to the
environmental strategy described above, Dominion formed the AES department in April 2009 to conduct research in the renewable and alternative energy technologies sector and to support strategic investments to advance Dominion’s base of
understanding of such technologies. AES participates in federal and state policy development on alternative energy and identifies potential alternative energy resource and technology opportunities for Dominion’s business units. For
example, in March 2011, AES initiated a Dominion scoping study for a high-voltage underwater transmission line from Virginia Beach into the ocean to support multiple offshore wind farms; the first of many steps with the goal being the development of
a transmission line making offshore wind resources available to its customers. A 2010 Dominion study of its existing transmission system in eastern Virginia showed that it is possible to interconnect large scale wind facilities up to an installed
capability of 4,500 MW.





REGULATION

Dominion and
Virginia Power are subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission, North Carolina Commission, SEC, FERC, EPA, DOE, NRC, Army Corps of Engineers and other federal, state and local authorities.

State Regulations

ELECTRIC

Virginia Power’s electric utility retail service is subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina
Commission.













Virginia Power holds certificates of public convenience and necessity which authorize it to
maintain and operate its electric facilities now in operation and to sell electricity to customers. However, Virginia Power may not construct generating facilities or large capacity transmission lines without the prior approval of various state and
federal government agencies. In addition, the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission regulate Virginia Power’s transactions with affiliates, transfers of certain facilities and the issuance of certain securities.

Electric Regulation in Virginia

In addition, the Regulation Act authorizes stand-alone rate adjustment clauses for recovery of costs for new generation facilities or major unit modifications of existing facilities, FERC-approved
transmission costs, environmental compliance, conservation and energy efficiency programs and renewable energy programs. It provides for enhanced returns on capital expenditures relating to the construction or major modification of facilities that
are nuclear-powered, clean coal/carbon capture compatible-powered, or renewable-powered, as well as conventional coal and combined-cycle combustion turbine facilities. Costs of fuel used for the generation of electricity, along with costs of
purchased power, are recovered from customers through an annually approved fuel rider, as provided under a separate section of the Virginia Code. Decisions of the Virginia Commission may be appealed to the Supreme Court of Virginia.

If the Virginia Commission’s future rate decisions, including actions relating to Virginia Power’s rate adjustment clause
filings,

differ materially from Virginia Power’s expectations, it could adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

2009 BASERATEREVIEW

Pursuant to the Regulation Act, the Virginia Commission initiated a review of Virginia Power’s base rates, terms and conditions in 2009, including a review of Virginia Power’s earnings for test
year 2008. In March 2010, the Virginia Commission issued the Virginia Settlement Approval Order, thus concluding the 2009 case and resolving open issues relating to Virginia Power’s base rates, fuel factor and Riders R, S, T, C1 and C2.

2011 BIENNIALREVIEW

Pursuant to the Regulation Act and the Virginia Settlement Approval Order, in March 2011, Virginia Power submitted its base rate filing and accompanying schedules in support of the first biennial review
of its base rates, terms and conditions, as well as of its earnings for the 2009 and 2010 test period. In November 2011, the Virginia Commission issued the Biennial Review Order.

In the 2011 Biennial Review Order, the Virginia Commission determined that Virginia Power earned an ROE of approximately 13.3% during the
2009 and 2010 combined test years, which exceeded the authorized ROE earnings band of 11.4% to 12.4% established in the Virginia Settlement Approval Order, resulting in an order that Virginia Power refund 60% of earnings above the upper end of the
authorized ROE earnings band, or approximately $78 million, to its customers. The actual refund amount is expected to total approximately $81 million, taking into account refunds to be paid to certain non-jurisdictional customers pursuant to their
customer contracts. The Virginia Commission also determined that Virginia Power’s new authorized ROE is 10.9%, inclusive of a performance incentive of 50 basis points for meeting RPS targets. Subject to the outcome of Virginia Power’s
petition for rehearing or reconsideration described below, this ROE will serve as the ROE against which Virginia Power’s earned return will be compared for all or part of the test periods in the 2013 biennial review proceeding.

With respect to Virginia Power’s rate adjustment clauses, the Virginia Commission determined that, effective December 1, 2011, the
ROE applicable to Riders C1 and C2 is 10.4% and the ROE applicable to Riders R and S is 11.4%, inclusive of a statutory enhancement of 100 basis points. The Virginia Commission also found that, as a result of its determination that credits will
be applied to customers’ bills, the Regulation Act requires the combination of its existing Riders T, C1, and C2 with Virginia Power’s base costs, revenues and investments, and these Riders will thereafter be considered part of Virginia
Power’s base costs, revenues and investments for purposes of future biennial review proceedings. Accordingly, the Virginia Commission directed that Virginia Power’s tariff filings pursuant to the Biennial Review Order reflect such
combination. The Virginia Commission has initiated a proceeding to address further implementation of this directive. As a result of the Virginia Settlement Approval Order and the Regulation Act, Virginia Power’s base rates will otherwise remain
unchanged through at least December 1, 2013.

In December 2011, Virginia Power filed a petition with the Virginia Commission
seeking rehearing or reconsideration of the Biennial Review Order, to clarify whether the effective date of the













newly authorized base ROE is prospective from the date the Virginia Commission issued the Biennial Review Order or retrospective to January 1, 2011. Also, in December 2011, Virginia Power filed
with the Virginia Commission a Notice of Appeal of the Biennial Review Order to the Supreme Court of Virginia.

See Note 14 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Electric Regulation in North Carolina

Virginia Power’s retail electric base rates in North Carolina are regulated on a cost-of-service/rate-of-return basis subject to North Carolina
statutes and the rules and procedures of the North Carolina Commission. North Carolina base rates are set by a process that allows Virginia Power to recover its operating costs and an ROIC. If retail electric earnings exceed the returns
established by the North Carolina Commission, retail electric rates may be subject to review and possible reduction by the North Carolina Commission, which may decrease Virginia Power’s future earnings. Additionally, if the North Carolina
Commission does not allow recovery of costs incurred in providing service on a timely basis, Virginia Power’s future earnings could be negatively impacted. Fuel rates are subject to revision under annual fuel cost adjustment proceedings.
Virginia Power intends to file an application with the North Carolina Commission by March 30, 2012, to increase its base rates. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

GAS

Dominion’s gas
distribution services are regulated by the Ohio Commission and the West Virginia Commission.

Status of Competitive Retail Gas Services

Both of the states in which Dominion has gas distribution operations have considered legislation regarding a competitive deregulation of
natural gas sales at the retail level.

Ohio—Ohio has not enacted legislation requiring supplier choice for
residential or commercial natural gas consumers. However, in cooperation with the Ohio Commission, Dominion offers retail choice to residential and commercial customers. At December 31, 2011, approximately 1.0 million of Dominion’s
1.2 million Ohio customers were participating in this Energy Choice program. In October 2006, East Ohio implemented a program approved by the Ohio Commission as a transitional step towards the improvement and expansion of the Energy Choice
program, under which East Ohio entered into gas purchase contracts with selected suppliers at a fixed price above the NYMEX month-end settlement. This Standard Service Offer pricing mechanism replaced the traditional gas cost recovery rate with a
monthly market price that eliminated the true-up adjustment, making it easier for customers to compare and switch to competitive suppliers if they so choose.

In June 2008, the Ohio Commission approved a settlement filed in response to East Ohio’s application seeking approval of Phase 2 of its plan to restructure its commodity service. Under that
settlement, the existing Standard Service Offer program was continued through March 2009 with an update to the fixed rate adder to the NYMEX price. Starting in April 2009, East Ohio buys natural gas under the Standard Service Offer program for
customers not eligible to participate in the Energy Choice program and places Energy Choice-eligible customers in a direct

retail relationship with selected suppliers, which is designated on the customers’ bills. Subject to the Ohio Commission’s approval, East Ohio may eventually exit the gas merchant
function in Ohio entirely and have all customers select an alternate gas supplier. East Ohio continues to be the provider of last resort in the event of default by a supplier. Large industrial customers in Ohio also source their own natural gas
supplies.

West Virginia—At this time, West Virginia has not enacted legislation to require customers to choose in
the retail natural gas markets served by Hope. However, the West Virginia Commission has issued regulations to govern pooling services, one of the tools that natural gas suppliers may utilize to provide retail customers a choice in the future and
has issued rules requiring competitive gas service providers to be licensed in West Virginia.

Rates

Federal Regulations

FEDERALENERGYREGULATORYCOMMISSION

Electric

Under the Federal Power Act, FERC
regulates wholesale sales and transmission of electricity in interstate commerce by public utilities. Virginia Power purchases and sells electricity in the PJM wholesale market and Dominion’s merchant generators sell electricity in the PJM,
MISO and ISO-NE wholesale markets under Dominion’s market-based sales tariffs authorized by FERC. In addition, Virginia Power has FERC approval of a tariff to sell wholesale power at capped rates based on its embedded cost of













generation. This cost-based sales tariff could be used to sell to loads within or outside Virginia Power’s service territory. Any such sales would be voluntary.

Dominion and Virginia Power are subject to FERC’s Standards of Conduct that govern conduct between transmission function employees of
interstate gas and electricity transmission providers and the marketing function employees of their affiliates. The rule defines the scope of transmission and marketing-related functions that are covered by the standards and is designed to prevent
transmission providers from giving their affiliates undue preferences.

Dominion and Virginia Power are also subject to
FERC’s affiliate restrictions that (1) prohibit power sales between Virginia Power and Dominion’s merchant plants without first receiving FERC authorization, (2) require the merchant plants and Virginia Power to conduct their
wholesale power sales operations separately, and (3) prohibit Virginia Power from sharing market information with merchant plant operating personnel. The rules are designed to prohibit Virginia Power from giving the merchant plants a
competitive advantage.

EPACT included provisions to create an ERO. The ERO is required to promulgate mandatory reliability
standards governing the operation of the bulk power system in the U.S. FERC has certified NERC as the ERO and also issued an initial order approving many reliability standards that went into effect in 2007. Entities that violate standards will be
subject to fines of between $1 thousand and $1 million per day, and can also be assessed non-monetary penalties, depending upon the nature and severity of the violation.

In April 2008, FERC granted an application for Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations to establish a forward-looking formula rate mechanism that updates transmission rates on an annual
basis and approved an ROE of 11.4%, effective as of January 1, 2008. The formula rate is designed to recover the

expected revenue requirement for each calendar year and is updated based on actual costs. The FERC-approved formula method, which is based on projected costs, allows Virginia Power to earn a
current return on its growing investment in electric transmission infrastructure.

Gas

FERC regulates the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, as amended. Under the Natural Gas Act,
FERC has authority over rates, terms and conditions of services performed by Dominion’s interstate natural gas company subsidiaries, including DTI, Cove Point and the Dominion South Pipeline Company, LP. FERC also has jurisdiction over siting,
construction and operation of natural gas import facilities and interstate natural gas pipeline facilities.

Dominion’s
interstate gas transmission and storage activities are generally conducted on an open access basis, in accordance with certificates, tariffs and service agreements on file with FERC.

Dominion is also subject to the Pipeline Safety Acts of 2002 and 2011, which mandate inspections of interstate and intrastate natural gas
transmission and storage pipelines, particularly those located in areas of high-density population. Dominion has evaluated its natural gas transmission and storage properties, as required by the Department of Transportation regulations under these
Acts, and has implemented a program of identification, testing and potential remediation activities. These activities are ongoing.

SeeFuture Issues and Other Mattersin MD&A and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Environmental Regulations

Each of Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s operating segments faces
substantial laws, regulations and compliance costs with respect to environmental matters. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations authorize the imposition of substantial penalties for noncompliance,
including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions. The cost of complying with applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules is expected to be material to the Companies. If expenditures for pollution control technologies and associated
operating costs are not recoverable from customers through regulated rates (in regulated jurisdictions) or market prices (in deregulated jurisdictions), those costs could adversely affect future results of operations and cash flows. Dominion and
Virginia Power have applied for or obtained the necessary environmental permits for the operation of their facilities. Many of these permits are subject to reissuance and continuing review. For a discussion of significant aspects of these matters,
including current and planned capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance required to be discussed in this Item, seeEnvironmental MattersinFuture Issues and Other Mattersin MD&A, which information is incorporated
herein by reference. Additional information can also be found in Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

GLOBALCLIMATECHANGE

The national and
international attention in recent years on GHG emissions and their relationship to climate change has resulted in federal, regional and state legislative or regulatory action in this













area. Dominion and Virginia Power support national climate change legislation that would provide a consistent, economy-wide approach to addressing this issue and are currently taking action to
protect the environment and address climate change while meeting the future needs of their growing service territory. Dominion’s CEO and operating segment CEOs are responsible for compliance with the laws and regulations governing environmental
matters, including climate change, and Dominion’s Board of Directors receives periodic updates on these matters. SeeEnvironmental Strategyabove,Environmental MattersinFuture Issues and Other Mattersin MD&A and
Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on climate change legislation and regulation, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Nuclear Regulatory Commission

All aspects of the operation and maintenance of Dominion’s and
Virginia Powers’ nuclear power stations, which are part of the Dominion Generation segment, are regulated by the NRC. Operating licenses issued by the NRC are subject to revocation, suspension or modification, and the operation of a nuclear
unit may be suspended if the NRC determines that the public interest, health or safety so requires.

From time to time, the NRC
adopts new requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear facilities. In many cases, these new regulations require changes in the design, operation and maintenance of existing nuclear facilities. If the NRC adopts such requirements in the
future, it could result in substantial increases in the cost of operating and maintaining Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s nuclear generating units. SeeNuclear MattersinFuture Issuesand Other Mattersin MD&A for
further information.

The NRC also requires Dominion and Virginia Power to decontaminate their nuclear facilities once
operations cease. This process is referred to as decommissioning, and the Companies are required by the NRC to be financially prepared. For information on decommissioning trusts, seeDominion Generation-Nuclear Decommissioningand Note 10 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on spent nuclear fuel.





