Item 1. Business

GENERAL

Dominion,
headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and incorporated in Virginia in 1983, is one of the nation’s largest producers and transporters of energy. Dominion’s strategy is to be a leading provider of electricity, natural gas and related services
to customers primarily in the eastern region of the U.S. Dominion’s portfolio of assets includes approximately 27,500 MW of generation, 6,000 miles of electric transmission lines, 56,000 miles of electric distribution lines in Virginia and
North Carolina, 12,000 miles of natural gas transmission, gathering and storage pipeline, 21,700 miles of gas distribution pipeline, exclusive of service lines of two inches in diameter or less, and 1.3 Tcfe of proved natural gas and oil reserves.
Dominion also owns the nation’s largest underground natural gas storage system, operates approximately 942 bcf of storage capacity and serves retail energy customers in twelve states.

Dominion is focused on expanding its investment in regulated electric generation, and regulated electric and natural gas transmission
infrastructure within and around its existing footprint. As a result, regulated capital projects will continue to receive priority treatment in its spending plans. Dominion expects this will increase its earnings contribution from regulated
operations, while reducing the sensitivity of its earnings to commodity prices. Dominion’s nonregulated operations include merchant generation, energy marketing and price risk management activities, retail energy marketing operations and
natural gas and oil exploration and production in the Appalachian basin of the U.S. Dominion’s operations are conducted through various subsidiaries, including Virginia Power.

Virginia Power, headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and incorporated in Virginia in 1909 as a Virginia public service corporation, is
a regulated public utility that generates, transmits and distributes electricity for sale in Virginia and northeastern North Carolina. In Virginia, Virginia Power conducts business under the name “Dominion Virginia Power.” In North
Carolina, it conducts business under the name “Dominion North Carolina Power” and serves retail customers located in the northeastern region of the state, excluding certain municipalities. In addition, Virginia Power sells electricity at
wholesale prices to rural electric cooperatives, municipalities and into wholesale electricity markets. All of Virginia Power’s common stock is owned by Dominion.

The term “Dominion” is used throughout this report and, depending on the context of its use, may represent any of the following: the legal entity, Dominion Resources, Inc., one or more of
Dominion Resources, Inc.’s consolidated subsidiaries (other than Virginia Power) or operating segments or the entirety of Dominion Resources, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

The term “Virginia Power” is used throughout this report and, depending on the context of its use, may represent any of the
following: the legal entity, Virginia Electric and Power Company, one or more of its consolidated subsidiaries or operating segments or the entirety of Virginia Power and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Amounts disclosed for Dominion are inclusive of Virginia Power, where applicable.





EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2009, Dominion had approximately 17,900 full-time employees, of which
approximately 6,600 employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. As of December 31, 2009, Virginia Power had approximately 7,400 full-time employees, of which approximately 3,300 employees are subject to collective bargaining
agreements.





PRINCIPALEXECUTIVEOFFICES

Dominion and
Virginia Power’s principal executive offices are located at 120 Tredegar Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219 and their telephone number is (804) 819-2000.





WHEREYOUCANFINDMOREINFORMATIONABOUTDOMINIONANDVIRGINIAPOWER

Dominion and Virginia Power file their annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Their SEC filings are
available to the public over the Internet at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document they file at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC
at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.

Dominion and Virginia Power make their SEC filings
available, free of charge, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, through Dominion’s internet website www.dom.com, as soon as practicable after
filing or furnishing the material to the SEC. You may also request a copy of these filings, at no cost, by writing or telephoning Dominion at: Corporate Secretary, Dominion, 120 Tredegar Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219, Telephone
(804) 819-2000. Information contained on Dominion’s website is not incorporated by reference in this report.





ACQUISITIONSANDDISPOSITIONS

Following are significant acquisitions and divestitures by Dominion and Virginia Power during the last five
years.

ACQUISITIONOFKEWAUNEENUCLEARPOWERSTATION

In July 2005, Dominion completed the acquisition of Kewaunee, a 556 MW facility in northeastern Wisconsin for
approximately $192 million in cash. The operations of Kewaunee are included in the Dominion Generation operating segment.

ACQUISITIONOFUSGENNEWENGLAND, INC. POWERSTATIONS

In January 2005, Dominion completed the acquisition of three fossil-fuel fired generation facilities for $642 million in cash. The facilities include Brayton
Point, a 1,551 MW facility in Somerset, Massachusetts; Salem Harbor, a 754 MW facility in Salem, Massachusetts; and Manchester Street, a 432 MW facility in Providence, Rhode Island. The operations of these facilities are included in the Dominion
Generation operating segment.















ASSIGNMENTOFMARCELLUSACREAGE

In 2008, Dominion completed a transaction with Antero to assign drilling rights to approximately 117,000 acres in the Marcellus Shale
formation located in West Virginia and Pennsylvania. Dominion received proceeds of approximately $347 million. Under the agreement, Dominion receives a 7.5% overriding royalty interest on future natural gas production from the assigned acreage.
Dominion retained the drilling rights in traditional formations both above and below the Marcellus Shale interval and continues its conventional drilling program on the acreage.

SALEOFE&P PROPERTIES

In 2007, Dominion
completed the sale of its non-Appalachian natural gas and oil E&P operations and assets for approximately $13.9 billion. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statement for additional information.

In 2006, Dominion received approximately $393 million of proceeds from sales of certain gas and oil properties, primarily resulting from the
sale of certain properties located in Texas and New Mexico.

The historical results of these operations are included in the
Corporate and Other segment.

SALEOFMERCHANTFACILITIES

In March 2007, Dominion sold three Peaker facilities for net cash proceeds of $254 million. The Peaker facilities included the 625 MW Armstrong facility in
Shelocta, Pennsylvania; the 600 MW Troy facility in Luckey, Ohio; and the 313 MW Pleasants facility in St. Mary’s, West Virginia. Following the decision to sell these assets in December 2006, the results of these operations were reclassified to
discontinued operations and are presented in the Corporate and Other segment.

SALEOFDRESDEN

In September 2007, Dominion completed the sale of Dresden to AEP Generating Company for $85 million.

SALEOFCERTAINDCI OPERATIONS

In August 2007, Dominion completed the sale of Gichner, LLC, all of the issued and outstanding shares of the capital stock of Gichner, Inc. (an affiliate of
Gichner, LLC) and Dallastown for approximately $30 million.

In March 2008, Dominion reached an agreement to sell its remaining
interest in the subordinated notes of a third-party CDO entity held as an investment by DCI and in April 2008 received proceeds of $54 million, including accrued interest. As discussed in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Dominion
deconsolidated the CDO entity as of March 31, 2008.



TRANSFEROFVIRGINIAPOWERENERGYMARKETING, INC.TODOMINION

On December 31, 2005,
Virginia Power completed a transfer of its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, VPEM, to Dominion through a series of dividend distributions, in exchange for a capital contribution of $633 million. VPEM provides fuel, gas supply management and price
risk management services to other Dominion affiliates and engages in energy trading and marketing activities. As a result of the transfer, VPEM’s results of operations were reclassified to discontinued operations in Virginia Power’s
Consolidated Statements of Income and presented in its Corporate and Other segment.

SALEOFPEOPLES

In March 2006, Dominion entered into an agreement with Equitable to sell two of its wholly-owned regulated gas
distribution subsidiaries, Peoples and Hope. Peoples serves approximately 358,000 customer accounts in Pennsylvania and Hope serves approximately 114,000 customer accounts in West Virginia. This sale was subject to regulatory approvals in the states
in which the companies operate, as well as antitrust clearance under the HSR Act. In January 2008, Dominion and Equitable announced the termination of that agreement, primarily due to the continued delays in achieving final regulatory approvals.
Dominion continued to seek other offers for the purchase of these utilities.

In July 2008, Dominion entered into an agreement
with an indirect subsidiary of BBIFNA to sell Peoples and Hope. In May 2009, following a change in ownership of the general partner of BBIFNA and other related transactions, BBIFNA was renamed “SteelRiver Infrastructure Fund North America
LP”. The sale of Peoples and Hope to the SteelRiver Buyer, an indirect subsidiary of the SteelRiver Fund, was expected to close in 2009, subject to state regulatory approvals in Pennsylvania and West Virginia. In November 2009, the Pennsylvania
Commission approved the settlement entered into among Dominion, Peoples, the SteelRiver Buyer and two of the active intervenors in the Peoples sale proceeding, thereby approving the sale of Peoples to the SteelRiver Buyer. In December 2009, the West
Virginia Commission denied the application for the sale of Hope. Dominion decided to retain Hope, but continue with the sale of Peoples. The sales price for Peoples was approximately $780 million, subject to changes in working capital, capital
expenditures and affiliated borrowings. In February 2010, Dominion completed the sale of Peoples and netted after-tax proceeds of approximately $542 million. A more detailed description of the sale can be found in Note 4 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

















OPERATINGSEGMENTS

Dominion manages its daily operations through three primary operating
segments: DVP, Dominion Generation and Dominion Energy. Dominion also reports a Corporate and Other segment that includes its corporate, service company and other functions and the net impact of certain operations disposed of or to be disposed of,
which are discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Corporate and Other also includes specific items attributable to Dominion’s operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in
assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2009, Hope was included in Dominion’s Corporate and Other segment and its assets and liabilities were classified as held for
sale. During the fourth quarter of 2009, following Dominion’s decision to retain this subsidiary, Hope was transferred to the Dominion Energy operating segment and its assets and liabilities were reclassified from held for sale.

Virginia Power manages its daily operations through two primary operating segments: DVP and Dominion Generation. It also reports a Corporate
and Other segment that primarily includes specific items attributable to its operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the
segments.

While daily operations are managed through the operating segments previously discussed, assets remain wholly-owned
by Dominion and Virginia Power and their respective legal subsidiaries.

A description of the operations included in the
Companies’ primary operating segments is as follows:



Primary OperatingSegmentDescription of OperationsDominionVirginiaPowerDVPRegulated electric distributionXXRegulated electric transmissionXXNonregulated retail energy     marketing (electric and gas)XDominion GenerationRegulated electric fleetXXMerchant electric fleetXDominion EnergyGas transmission and storageXGas distributionXLNG import and storageXAppalachian gas exploration and     productionXProducer servicesX

For additional financial
information on business segments, including revenues from external customers, see Notes 1 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information on operating revenue related to Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s principal
products and services, see Notes 2 and 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

DVP

The DVP Operating Segment of Virginia Powerincludes Virginia Power’s regulated electric transmission and distribution (including customer
service) operations. Virginia Power’s electric transmission and distribution operations serve residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers in Virginia and northeastern North Carolina.

The Virginia General Assembly enacted legislation in April 2007 that instituted a modified cost-of-service rate model for the Virginia
jurisdiction of Virginia Power’s utility operations, subject to base rate caps in effect through December 31, 2008. In 2009, the Virginia Commission initiated a review of Virginia Power’s base rates. A discussion of Virginia
Power’s proposal in the case, including a settlement agreement to which it is a party, is contained inElectric Regulation inVirginiaunderRegulation.

Revenue provided by Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations is based primarily on rates approved by FERC. The profitability of
this business is dependent on its ability, through the rates it is permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable return on its capital investments. Variability in earnings results from changes in rates and the timing of property
additions, retirements and depreciation.

In April 2008, FERC granted an application by Virginia Power’s electric
transmission operations to establish a forward-looking formula rate mechanism that updates transmission rates on an annual basis and approved an ROE of 11.4% on the common equity base of these operations, effective as of January 1, 2008. The
FERC ruling did not materially impact the Company’s results of operations; however, the FERC-approved formula method allows Virginia Power to earn a more current return on its growing investment in electric transmission infrastructure. In
addition, in August 2008, FERC granted an application by Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations requesting a revision to its cost of service to reflect an additional ROE incentive adder for eleven electric transmission enhancement
projects and approved an incentive of 1.5% for four of the projects and an incentive of 1.25% for the other seven. SeeFederalRegulationsinRegulationfor additional information.

Virginia Power is a member of PJM, an RTO, and its electric transmission facilities are integrated into PJM wholesale electricity markets.
Consistent with the increased authority given to NERC by EPACT, Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations are















committed to meeting NERC standards, modernizing their infrastructure and maintaining superior system reliability. Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations will continue to focus on
safety, operational performance and execution of PJM’s RTEP.

The DVP Operating Segment of Dominionincludes all of
Virginia Power’s regulated electric transmission and distribution operations as discussed above, as well as Dominion’s nonregulated retail energy marketing operations.

Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations compete in nonregulated energy markets and have experienced strong customer growth during
the past few years. The retail business requires limited capital investment and currently employs fewer than 150 people. The retail customer base is diversified across three product lines—natural gas, electricity and home warranty services. In
natural gas, Dominion has a heavy concentration of customers in markets where utilities have a long-standing commitment to customer choice. In electricity, Dominion pursues markets where utilities have divested of generation assets and where
customers are permitted and have opted to purchase from the market. Major growth drivers are customer additions, new markets/products and sales channels, and supply optimization.

COMPETITION

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Within Virginia Power’s service territory in Virginia and North Carolina, there is no competition for electric distribution service.
Additionally, since its electric transmission facilities are integrated into PJM, electric transmission services are administered by PJM and are not subject to competition in relation to transmission service provided to customers within the PJM
region. Virginia Power is seeing continued growth in new customers in its transmission and distribution operations.

DVP Operating
Segment—Dominion

Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations compete against incumbent utilities and other energy marketers in
nonregulated energy markets for natural gas and electricity. Customers in these markets have the right to select a retail marketer and typically do so based upon price savings or price stability; however, incumbent utilities have the advantage of
long-standing relationships with their customers and greater name recognition in their markets.

REGULATION

Virginia Power’s electric retail service, including the rates it may charge to jurisdictional customers, is subject to regulation by the Virginia
Commission and the North Carolina Commission. Virginia Power’s electric transmission rates, tariffs and terms of service are subject to regulation by FERC. Electric transmission siting authority remains the jurisdiction of the Virginia and
North Carolina Commissions. However, EPACT provides FERC with certain backstop authority for transmission siting. SeeState RegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationfor additional information.

PROPERTIES

Virginia Power
has approximately 6,000 miles of electric transmission lines of 69 kV or more located in the states of North Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia. Portions of Virginia Pow
- -

er’s electric transmission lines cross national parks and forests under permits entitling the federal government to use, at specified charges, any surplus capacity that may exist in these
lines. While Virginia Power owns and maintains its electric transmission facilities, they are a part of PJM, which coordinates the planning, operation, emergency assistance, and exchange of capacity and energy for such facilities.

Each year, as part of PJM’s RTEP process, reliability projects are authorized. In June 2006, PJM authorized construction of numerous
electric transmission upgrades through 2011. Virginia Power is involved in two of the major construction projects, which are designed to improve the reliability of service to customers and the region, and are subject to applicable state and federal
permits and approvals.

In October 2008, the Virginia Commission authorized construction of the Meadow Brook-to-Loudoun line
and affirmed the 65-mile route proposed for the line which is adjacent to, or within, existing transmission line right-of-ways. The Virginia Commission’s approval of the Meadow Brook-to-Loudoun line was conditioned on the respective state
commission approvals of both the West Virginia and Pennsylvania portions of the transmission line. The West Virginia Commission’s approval of Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line Company’s application became effective in February 2009 and the
Pennsylvania Commission granted approval in December 2008. In March 2009, the Sierra Club filed an appeal and request for stay of the West Virginia Commission’s approval, which was subsequently denied by the Supreme Court of West Virginia in
April 2009. An appeal of the Pennsylvania Commission’s approval by the Energy Conservation Council of Pennsylvania is pending. In February 2009, Petitions for Appeal of the Virginia Commission’s approval of the Meadow Brook-to-Loudoun line
were filed with the Supreme Court of Virginia by the Piedmont Environmental Council and others. In November 2009, the Virginia Supreme Court affirmed the Virginia Commission’s approval of the Meadow Brook-to-Loudoun line. The Meadow
Brook-to-Loudoun line is expected to cost approximately $255 million and, subject to the receipt of all regulatory approvals, is expected to be completed in June 2011.

In October 2008, the Virginia Commission authorized the construction of the Carson-to-Suffolk line. This project is estimated to cost $224 million and is expected to be completed in June 2011. The siting
and construction of these transmission lines are subject to applicable state and federal permits and approvals.

In addition,
Virginia Power’s electric distribution network includes approximately 56,000 miles of distribution lines, exclusive of service level lines, in Virginia and North Carolina. The grants for most of its electric lines contain right-of-ways that
have been obtained from the apparent owner of real estate, but underlying titles have not been examined. Where right-of-ways have not been obtained, they could be acquired from private owners by condemnation, if necessary. Many electric lines are on
publicly-owned property, where permission to operate can be revoked.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

DVP’s supply of electricity to serve Virginia Power customers is produced or procured by Dominion Generation. SeeDominion Generationfor
additional information.















DVP Operating Segment—Dominion

The supply of electricity to serve Dominion’s retail energy marketing customers is procured through market wholesalers and RTO or ISO transactions and its supply of gas to serve its customers is procured through market wholesalers or
by Dominion Energy. SeeDominion Energyfor additional information.

SEASONALITY

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

DVP’s earnings vary seasonally as a result of the impact of changes in temperature and the availability of alternative sources for heating on demand by residential and commercial customers.
Generally, the demand for electricity peaks during the summer and winter months to meet cooling and heating needs. An increase in heating degree-days for DVP’s electric utility related operations does not produce the same increase in revenue as
an increase in cooling degree-days, due to seasonal pricing differentials and because alternative heating sources are more readily available.

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion

The earnings of Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations also vary seasonally.
Generally, the demand for electricity peaks during the summer and winter months to meet cooling and heating needs, while the demand for gas peaks during the winter months to meet heating needs.

Dominion Generation

The Dominion Generation
Operating Segment of Virginia Powerincludes the generation operations of the Virginia Power regulated electric utility and its related energy supply operations. Virginia Power’s utility generation operations primarily serve the supply
requirements for the DVP segment’s utility customers. The generation mix is diversified and includes coal, nuclear, gas, oil and renewables. The generation facilities of Virginia Power’s electric utility fleet are located in Virginia, West
Virginia and North Carolina. As discussed inProperties, Virginia Power has plans to add additional generation capacity to satisfy future growth in its utility service area.

Earnings for the Generation operating segment of Virginia Power primarily result from the sale of electricity generated by its utility fleet.
Due to 1999 Virginia deregulation legislation, as amended in 2004 and 2007, revenues for serving Virginia jurisdictional retail load were based on capped rates through 2008. Additionally, fuel costs for the utility fleet, including purchased power,
were subject to fixed-rate recovery provisions until July 1, 2007. Pursuant to the 2007 amendments to the fuel cost recovery statute, annual fuel rate adjustments, with deferred fuel accounting for over- or under-recoveries of fuel costs, were
re-instituted beginning July 1, 2007 for Virginia jurisdictional customers. The Virginia General Assembly enacted legislation in April 2007 that returned the Virginia jurisdiction of Virginia Power’s generation operations to a modified
cost-of-service rate model, subject to base rate caps in effect through December 31, 2008. As a result, Virginia Power reapplied accounting guidance for cost-based regulation to those operations in April 2007, when the legislation was
enacted. In 2009, the Virginia Commission initiated a review of Virginia Power’s base rates. A discussion of

Virginia Power’s proposal in the case, including a settlement agreement to which it is a party, is contained inElectric Regulation inVirginiaunderRegulation.
Variability in earnings for Virginia Power’s generation operations results from changes in rates, the demand for services, which is primarily weather dependent, and labor and benefit costs, as well as the timing, duration and costs of scheduled
and unscheduled outages.

The Dominion Generation Operating Segment of Dominionincludes Virginia Power’s
generation facilities and its related energy supply operations described above as well as the generation operations of Dominion’s merchant fleet and energy marketing and price risk management activities for these assets. The generation
facilities of Dominion’s merchant fleet are located in Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, West Virginia and Wisconsin. In the merchant generation business, Dominion is adding generation capacity through
several new renewable energy projects and uprates, as discussed inProperties. The Generation operating segment of Dominion derives its earnings primarily from the sale of electricity generated by Virginia Power’s utility and
Dominion’s merchant generation assets, as well as associated capacity from Dominion’s merchant generation assets.

Variability in earnings provided by Dominion’s merchant fleet relates to changes in market-based prices received for electricity and capacity. Market-based prices for electricity are largely dependent on commodity prices and the demand
for electricity, which is primarily dependent upon weather. Capacity prices are dependent upon resource requirements in relation to the supply available (both existing and new) in the forward capacity auctions, which are held approximately three
years in advance of the associated delivery year. Dominion manages electric and capacity price volatility by hedging a substantial portion of its expected near-term sales with derivative instruments and also entering into long-term power sales
agreements, which should help mitigate the adverse impact on earnings from declines in commodity prices, such as those experienced during 2008 and 2009. Variability also results from changes in the cost of fuel consumed, labor and benefits and the
timing, duration and costs of scheduled and unscheduled outages.

COMPETITION

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Retail choice was made available to Virginia Power’s Virginia jurisdictional electric utility customers beginning January 1, 2003; however, no significant competition developed. In April 2007,
the Virginia General Assembly passed legislation ending retail choice for most of these customers effective January 1, 2009. SeeRegulation—State Regulations—Electricfor more information. Currently, North Carolina does not
offer retail choice to electric customers.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

Dominion Generation’s merchant generation fleet owns and operates several facilities in the Midwest that operate within functioning RTOs. A significant
portion of the output from these facilities is sold under long-term contracts, with expiration dates ranging from December 31, 2012 to August 31, 2017, and is therefore largely unaffected by competition.















Dominion Generation’s other merchant assets also operate within functioning RTOs and primarily compete on the basis of price. Competitors
include other generating assets bidding to operate within the RTOs. These RTOs have clearly identified market rules that ensure the competitive wholesale market is functioning properly. Dominion Generation’s merchant units have a variety of
short and medium-term contracts, and also compete in the spot market with other generators to sell a variety of products including energy, capacity and ancillary services. It is difficult to compare various types of generation given the wide range
of fuels, fuel procurement strategies, efficiencies and operating characteristics of the fleet within any given RTO. However, Dominion applies its expertise in operations, dispatch and risk management to maximize the degree to which its merchant
fleet is competitive compared to similar assets within the region.

REGULATION

Virginia Power’s utility generation fleet and Dominion’s merchant generation fleet are subject to regulation by FERC, the NRC, the EPA, the DOE,
the Army Corps of Engineers and other federal, state and local authorities. Virginia Power’s utility generation fleet is also subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission. SeeState RegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationfor more information.

PROPERTIES

For a listing of Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s generation facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Based on available generation capacity and current estimates of growth in customer demand in Virginia Power’s utility service area, it will need additional generation capacity over the next ten
years. Virginia Power has announced a comprehensive generation growth program, referred to asPowering Virginia, which involves the development, financing, construction and operation of new multi-fuel, multi-technology generation capacity to
meet the growing demand in its core market in Virginia. As part of this program, the following projects have recently been completed or are in various stages of development:

In June 2008, Virginia Power commenced the operation of two additional natural gas-fired electric generating units (Units 3 and 4) totaling
321 MW at its Ladysmith power station to supply electricity during periods of peak demand. In addition, in April 2009, a fifth combustion turbine (Unit 5) with 160 MW of capacity commenced operations.

The Virginia Commission issued a final order in March 2008 (Final Order), approving a certificate to construct and operate the Virginia City
Hybrid Energy Center located in Wise County, Virginia, which once operational, will generate about 585 MW. In July 2008, the SELC, on behalf of four environmental groups, filed a Petition for Appeal of the Final Order with the Supreme Court of
Virginia. In April 2009, the Virginia Supreme Court affirmed the Virginia Commission’s Final Order. In its Final Order, the Virginia Commission approved an initial return on common equity for the facility of 12.12%, consisting of a base return
of 11.12% plus a 100 basis point enhancement that Virginia law provides for new conventional coal generation facili
- -

ties. The Virginia Commission also authorized Virginia Power to apply for an additional 100 basis point enhancement upon a demonstration that the plant is carbon-capture compatible. The enhanced
return will apply to the Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center during construction and through the first twelve years of the facility’s service life.

Virginia Power is
considering the construction of a third nuclear unit at a site located at North Anna, which Virginia Power owns along with ODEC. Virginia Power and ODEC have obtained an Early Site Permit for the North Anna site from the NRC. In November 2007,
Virginia Power, along with ODEC, filed an application with the NRC for a COL that references a specific reactor design and which would allow Virginia Power to build and operate a new nuclear unit at North Anna. In January 2008, the NRC accepted
Virginia Power’s application for the COL and deemed it complete. In December 2008, Virginia Power terminated a long-lead agreement with its vendor with respect to the reactor design identified in its COL application and certain related
equipment. A competitive process was initiated in 2009 to determine if vendors can provide an advanced technology reactor that could be licensed and built under terms acceptable to Virginia Power. If, as a result of this process, Virginia Power
chooses a different reactor design, it will amend its COL application, as necessary. Virginia Power has not yet committed to building a new nuclear unit.

The NRC is required to conduct a hearing in all COL proceedings. In August 2008, the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board of the NRC granted a request for a hearing on one of eight contentions filed by the
Blue Ridge Environmental Defense League. In August 2009, the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board dismissed this contention as moot, but in November 2009 admitted a new contention filed by Blue Ridge Environmental Defense League. Virginia Power filed a
motion for reconsideration of this ruling that is pending before the Atomic Safety and Licensing















Board. Absent additional contentions, the mandatory NRC hearing will be uncontested with respect to other issues. Virginia Power has a cooperative agreement with the DOE to share equally the cost
of developing a COL that references a specific reactor technology; however, this agreement may not remain in effect going forward if Virginia Power chooses a different reactor technology.

In June 2008, the DOE issued a solicitation announcement inviting the submission of applications for loan guarantees from the DOE under its
Loan Guarantee Program in support of debt financing for nuclear power facility projects in the U.S. In May 2009, the DOE announced the names of four energy companies that were selected to begin negotiations for federal loan guarantees for proposed
new nuclear units in the U.S. Although Virginia Power, in a two-part process, submitted an application for a federal loan guarantee for the proposed North Anna unit, the Company was not among those selected. While Virginia Power can provide no
assurance, because of the dynamic nature of the market for new nuclear units, there may be other opportunities to secure a loan guarantee with the DOE.

In March 2008, Virginia Power purchased the Bear Garden power station development project which, once constructed, will generate about 580 MW. The air and water permits for the combined-cycle, natural
gas-fired power station have been amended to allow for Virginia Power’s project designs and schedules. Authorization was granted by the Virginia Commission in March 2009 to build the proposed combined-cycle, natural gas-fired power station and
transmission interconnection line for an estimated $619 million, excluding financing costs. A gas pipeline is scheduled to be constructed by Columbia Gas of Virginia to provide gas supply to the power station.

In March 2008, Virginia Power also purchased a power station development project in Warren County, Virginia for future development. If
developed, the project will involve the construction of a combined-cycle, natural gas-fired power station expected to generate more than 600 MW of electricity and will be subject to necessary regulatory approvals.

In April 2008, Virginia Power announced a joint effort with BP to evaluate wind energy projects, which, if completed, would increase the
renewable energy capacity of Virginia Power’s utility generation fleet.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

In addition to thePowering Virginiaprojects, Dominion has invested in several wind farm projects. In December 2006, Dominion
acquired a 50% interest in NedPower. NedPower consists of two phases totaling 264 MW. The first (164 MW) and second (100 MW) phases began commercial operations in July and December 2008, respectively.

In January 2008, Dominion acquired a 50% interest in Fowler Ridge. The first phase consisting of 300 MW achieved full commercial operations
in March 2009. Dominion has a long-term agreement with Fowler Ridge to purchase 200 MW of energy, capacity and environmental attributes from this first phase. In June 2009, Dominion reached an agreement with BP to split the development assets of the
final 350 MW phase. Under

the agreement, Dominion will own 150 MW of the development assets and BP will retain the remaining development assets. Closing of this transaction was effective in December 2009.

In April 2008, Dominion announced plans to develop Prairie Fork. Construction of this wind turbine facility is subject to receipt of all
necessary permits and approvals.

In 2008 and 2009, Dominion completed two uprates totaling 120 MW at Fairless. Additionally,
in January 2009, Dominion successfully implemented an NRC-approved 7% uprate at Unit 3 of Millstone. This increased the unit’s output by approximately 77 MW from 1,150 MW to 1,227 MW, or enough to power an additional 60,000 homes.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Dominion Generation
uses a variety of fuels to power its electric generation and purchases power for utility system load requirements and to satisfy physical forward sale requirements, as described below. Some of these agreements have fixed commitments and are included
as contractual obligations inFuture Cash Payments for Contractual Obligations and Planned Capital Expendituresin Item 7. MD&A.

Nuclear Fuel—Dominion Generation primarily utilizes long-term contracts to support its nuclear fuel requirements. Worldwide market conditions are continuously evaluated to ensure a range of
supply options at reasonable prices which are dependent on the market environment. Current agreements, inventories and spot market availability are expected to support current and planned fuel supply needs. Additional fuel is purchased as required
to ensure optimal cost and inventory levels.

Fossil Fuel—Dominion Generation primarily utilizes coal, oil and
natural gas in its fossil fuel plants. Dominion Generation’s coal supply is obtained through long-term contracts and short-term spot agreements from both domestic and international suppliers.

Dominion Generation’s natural gas and oil supply is obtained from various sources including: purchases from major and independent
producers in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions; purchases from local producers in the Appalachian area; purchases from gas marketers; and withdrawals from underground storage fields owned by Dominion or third parties.

Dominion Generation manages a portfolio of natural gas transportation contracts (capacity) that allows flexibility in delivering natural gas
to its gas turbine fleet, while minimizing costs.

Purchased Power—Dominion Generation purchases electricity from
the PJM spot market and through power purchase agreements with other suppliers to provide for utility system load requirements.

Dominion Generation also occasionally purchases electricity from the PJM, ISO-NE and MISO spot markets to satisfy physical forward sale requirements as part of its merchant generation operations.















Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Virginia Power

Presented below is a summary of Virginia Power’s actual system output by energy source:



2009Source2008Source2007SourceCoal(1)33%33%35%Nuclear(2)323129Purchased power, net252928Natural gas966Oil112Total100%100%100%



(1)Excludes ODEC’s 50% ownership interest in the Clover Power Station. The average cost of coal for 2009 Virginia in-system generation was $33.58 per MWh.

(2)Excludes ODEC’s 11.6% ownership interest in North Anna.

SEASONALITY

Sales of electricity for Dominion Generation typically vary
seasonally as a result of the impact of changes in temperature and the availability of alternative sources for heating on demand by residential and commercial customers. Generally, the demand for electricity peaks during the summer and winter months
to meet cooling and heating needs. An increase in heating degree-days for Virginia Power’s utility operations does not produce the same increase in revenue as an increase in cooling degree-days, due to seasonal pricing differentials and because
alternative heating sources are more readily available.

NUCLEARDECOMMISSIONING

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Virginia Power has a total of four licensed, operating nuclear reactors at its Surry and North Anna power stations in Virginia.

Decommissioning involves the decontamination and removal of radioactive contaminants from a nuclear power station once operations have
ceased, in accordance with standards established by the NRC. Amounts collected from ratepayers and placed into trusts have been invested to fund the expected future costs of decommissioning the Surry and North Anna units.

Virginia Power believes that the decommissioning funds and their expected earnings for the Surry and North Anna units will be sufficient to
cover expected decommissioning costs, particularly when combined with future ratepayer collections and contributions to these decommissioning trusts, if such future collections and contributions are required. This reflects the long-term investment
horizon, since the units will not be decommissioned for decades, and a positive long-term outlook for trust fund investment returns. Virginia Power will continue to monitor these trusts to ensure they meet the minimum financial assurance
requirement, which may include the use of parent company guarantees, surety bonding or other financial guarantees recognized by the NRC.

The total estimated cost to decommission Virginia Power’s four nuclear units is $2.2 billion in 2009 dollars and is primarily based upon site-specific studies completed in 2009. The current cost
estimates assume decommissioning activities will begin shortly after cessation of operations, which will occur when the operating licenses expire. Virginia Power expects to decommission the Surry and North Anna units during the period 2032 to 2067.



Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

The estimated decommissioning costs and license expiration dates
for the nuclear units owned by Dominion and Virginia Power are shown in the following table.



NRClicenseexpirationyearMostrecentcostestimate(2009dollars)Funds intrusts atDecember 31,20092009contributionsto trusts(dollars in millions)SurryUnit 12032$526$340$1.3Unit 220335463341.4North AnnaUnit 1(1)20385342730.9Unit 2(1)20405472570.9Total (Virginia Power)2,1531,2044.5MillstoneUnit 1(2)n/a394286—Unit 22035632345—Unit 3(3)2045660340—Kewaunee—Unit 1(4)2013639450—Total (Dominion)$4,478$2,625$4.5















(1)North Anna is jointly owned by Virginia Power (88.4%) and ODEC (11.6%). However, Virginia Power is responsible for 89.26% of the decommissioning obligation. Amounts
reflect 100% of the decommissioning cost for both of North Anna’s units.

(2)Unit 1 ceased operations in 1998, before Dominion’s acquisition of Millstone.

(3)Millstone Unit 3 is jointly owned by Dominion Nuclear Connecticut and a 6.53% undivided interest in Unit 3 is owned by Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric
Company and Central Vermont Public Service Corporation. Amounts reflect 100% of the decommissioning cost for Millstone Unit 3.

(4)Kewaunee Unit 1 original license expiration year is 2013. The cost estimate is based on the license renewal expiration year of 2033.

Dominion Energy

Dominion Energy includes
Dominion’s Ohio and West Virginia regulated natural gas distribution companies, regulated gas transmission pipeline and storage operations, natural gas gathering and by-products extraction activities, regulated LNG operations and Appalachian
E&P operations. Dominion Energy also includes producer services, which aggregates natural gas supply, engages in natural gas trading and marketing activities and natural gas supply management and provides price risk management services to
Dominion affiliates.

The gas transmission pipeline and storage business serves gas distribution businesses and other customers
in the Northeast, mid-Atlantic and Midwest. Included in Dominion’s gas transmission pipeline and storage business is its gas gathering and extraction activity, which sells extracted products at market rates. Revenue provided by Dominion’s
regulated gas transmission and storage, and LNG operations is based primarily on rates established by FERC. Dominion’s gas distribution operations serve residential, commercial and industrial gas sales and transportation customers in Ohio and
West Virginia. Revenue provided by its gas distribution operations is based primarily on rates established by the Ohio and West Virginia Commissions. The profitability of these businesses is dependent on Dominion’s ability, through the rates it
is permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable return on its capital investments. Variability in earnings results from operating and maintenance expenditures, as well as changes in rates and the demand for services, which can be
dependent on weather, changes in commodity prices and the economy.

Revenue from gas transportation, gas storage, and LNG
storage and regasification services are largely based on firm, fee-based contractual arrangements.

In October 2008, Dominion
East Ohio implemented a rate case settlement which began a transition to a Straight Fixed Variable rate design. Under this rate design, Dominion East Ohio recovers a larger portion of its fixed operating costs through a flat monthly charge
accompanied by a reduced volumetric base delivery rate. Accordingly, Dominion East Ohio’s revenue is less impacted by weather-related fluctuations in natural gas consumption than under the traditional rate design.

Dominion’s Appalachian E&P business generates income from the sale of natural gas and oil it produces from its reserves, including
fixed-term overriding royalty interests formerly associated with its VPP agreements (VPP royalty interests) discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Variability in earnings relates to changes in commodity prices, which are
largely market-based, production volumes, which are impacted by numerous factors including drilling success and timing of development projects, and drilling costs which may be impacted

by drilling rig availability and other external factors. Production from VPP royalty interests declined significantly due to the expiration of these interests in February 2009. Dominion manages
commodity price volatility by hedging a substantial portion of its near-term expected production, which should help mitigate the adverse impact on earnings from declines in gas and oil prices, such as those experienced in 2008 and 2009. These
hedging activities may require cash deposits to satisfy collateral requirements. Dominion’s Appalachian E&P business added 138 bcfe to its gas and oil reserves as a result of its drilling program during 2009, as compared to production of 50
bcfe in 2009, excluding production from VPP royalty interests.

Earnings from Dominion Energy’s other nonregulated
business, producer services, are subject to variability associated with changes in commodity prices. Producer services uses physical and financial arrangements to hedge this price risk.

COMPETITION

Dominion Energy’s gas transmission operations compete with
domestic and Canadian pipeline companies. Dominion also competes with gas marketers seeking to provide or arrange transportation, storage and other services. Alternative energy sources, such as oil or coal, provide another level of competition.
Although competition is based primarily on price, the array of services that can be provided to customers is also an important factor. The combination of capacity rights held on certain long-line pipelines, a large storage capability and the
availability of numerous receipt and delivery points along its own pipeline system enable Dominion to tailor its services to meet the needs of individual customers.

Retail competition for gas supply exists to varying degrees in the two states in which Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiaries operate. In Ohio, there has been no legislation enacted to require
supplier choice for residential and commercial natural gas consumers. However, Dominion has offered an Energy Choice program to customers, in cooperation with the Ohio Commission. West Virginia does not require customer choice in its retail natural
gas markets at this time. SeeRegulation—State Regulations—Gasfor additional information.

REGULATION

Dominion Energy’s natural gas transmission pipeline, storage and LNG operations are regulated primarily by FERC. Dominion Energy’s
gas distribution service, including the rates that it may charge customers, is regulated by the Ohio and West Virginia Commissions. SeeState RegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationfor more information.

PROPERTIES

Dominion
Energy’s gas distribution network is located in the states of Ohio and West Virginia. This network involves approximately 21,700 miles of pipe, exclusive of service lines of two inches in diameter or less. The rights-of-way grants for many
natural gas pipelines have been obtained from the actual owner of real estate, as underlying titles have been examined. Where rights-of-way have not been obtained, they could be acquired from private owners by condemnation, if necessary. Many
natural gas pipelines are on publicly-owned property, where company rights and actions are determined on a case-by-case basis, with results that range from reimbursed relocation to revocation of permission to operate.















Dominion Energy has approximately 12,000 miles of gas transmission, gathering and storage pipelines located in the states of Maryland, New York,
Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia. Dominion Energy operates 20 underground gas storage fields located in New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, with almost 2,000 storage wells and approximately 349,000 acres of operated
leaseholds.

The total designed capacity of the underground storage fields operated by Dominion Energy is approximately 942
bcf. Certain storage fields are jointly-owned and operated by Dominion Energy. The capacity of those fields owned by Dominion’s partners totals about 242 bcf. Dominion Energy also has about 15 bcf of above-ground storage capacity at its Cove
Point LNG facility. Dominion Energy has about 134 compressor stations with more than 747,000 installed compressor horsepower.

Dominion Energy also owns about 1.3 Tcfe of proved natural gas and oil reserves and produces approximately 137 million cubic feet equivalent of natural gas and oil per day from its leasehold acreage and facility investments in Appalachia.

In 2006, FERC approved the proposed expansion of Dominion’s Cove Point terminal and DTI pipeline and the commencement of
construction of the project. The expansion project included the installation of two new LNG storage tanks at Dominion’s Cove Point terminal, each capable of storing 160,000 cubic meters of LNG, pumps, gas-turbine generators, and vaporization
capacity to increase the terminal send-out by 800,000 dekatherms per day. Dominion installed 48 miles of 36-inch pipeline to increase the terminal take-away capacity to approximately 1,800,000 dekatherms per day. In addition, Dominion’s DTI gas
pipeline and storage system was expanded by building approximately 120 miles of pipeline, two new compressor stations in Pennsylvania and other upgrades to other compressor stations in West Virginia and New York. The DTI facilities associated with
the Cove Point expansion project were placed into service in December 2008, the Cove Point LNG terminal expansion was placed into service in January 2009 and the remainder of the expanded Cove Point facilities were placed into commercial service in
March 2009.

In September 2008, Dominion completed a transaction with Antero to assign drilling rights to approximately 117,000
acres in the Marcellus Shale formation located in West Virginia and Pennsylvania. Dominion received proceeds of approximately $347 million. Under the agreement, Dominion receives a 7.5% overriding royalty interest on future natural gas production
from the assigned acreage. Dominion retained the drilling rights in traditional formations both above and below the Marcellus Shale interval and continues its conventional drilling program on the acreage. Following this transaction, Dominion
controls drilling rights on approximately 450,000 acres in the Marcellus Shale formation. Dominion plans to monetize its remaining acreage within the next two years in order to reduce or eliminate its equity financing needs.

DTI has announced the proposed development of a gas pipeline project, known as the Appalachian Gateway Project, which is designed to
transport gas on a firm basis out of the Appalachian Basin in West Virginia and southwestern Pennsylvania to DTI’s interconnect with Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation at Oakford, Pennsylvania. An open season for the project concluded in
September 2008. The project is fully subscribed under long

term binding agreements. The Appalachian Gateway Project is expected to be fully placed into service by the fall of 2012.

Dominion has announced the Gathering Enhancement Project, a $253 million expansion of its natural gas gathering, processing and liquids
facilities in West Virginia. The project is designed to increase the efficiency and reduce high pressures in its gathering system, thus increasing the amount of natural gas local producers can move through Dominion’s West Virginia system.
Construction started in 2009 and will be completed by the fourth quarter of 2012. The cost of the project will be paid for by rates charged to producers.

Dominion has also announced the proposed development of the Keystone Connector Project, a joint venture with The Williams Companies that would transport new natural gas supplies from the Appalachian Basin
to Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation’s Station 195, providing access to markets throughout the eastern U.S. Dominion is currently in discussions regarding the continued development of the Keystone Connector Project. Project timing is
subject to producer drilling plans in the Appalachian Basin, as well as customer demand throughout the mid-Atlantic and Northeast regions.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

Dominion’s large underground natural
gas storage network and the location of its pipeline system are a significant link between the country’s major interstate gas pipelines, including the Rockies Express East pipeline and large markets in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic regions.
Dominion’s pipelines are part of an interconnected gas transmission system, which provides access to supplies nationwide for local distribution companies, marketers, power generators and industrial and commercial customers.

Dominion’s underground storage facilities play an important part in balancing gas supply with consumer demand and are essential to
serving the Northeast, mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions. In addition, storage capacity is an important element in the effective management of both gas supply and pipeline transmission capacity. Dominion Energy’s natural gas supply is obtained
from various sources including Dominion’s own production, less royalties, purchases from major and independent producers in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions, local producers in the Appalachian area and gas marketers.

SEASONALITY

Dominion
Energy’s natural gas distribution business earnings vary seasonally, as a result of the impact of changes in temperature on demand by residential and commercial customers for gas to meet heating needs. Historically, the majority of these
earnings have been generated during the heating season, which is generally from November to March, however implementation of the Straight Fixed Variable rate design at Dominion East Ohio has reduced the earnings impact of weather-related
fluctuations. Demand for services at Dominion’s pipelines and storage business can also be weather sensitive. Dominion Energy’s Appalachian E&P business can be impacted by seasonal changes in the demand for natural gas and oil.
Commodity prices, including prices for Dominion’s unhedged natural gas and oil production, can be impacted by seasonal weather changes, the effects of weather on operations and the economy. Dominion’s producer services business is affected
by seasonal changes in the prices of















commodities that it transports, stores and actively markets and trades.

Corporate and Other

Corporate and Other Segment—Virginia Power

Virginia Power’s Corporate and Other segment primarily includes specific items attributable to its operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in
assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

Corporate and Other Segment—Dominion

Dominion’s Corporate and Other segment includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) and
the net impact of certain operations disposed of or to be disposed of, which are discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operations disposed of during 2007 included all of Dominion’s non-Appalachian E&P operations,
three natural gas-fired merchant generation peaker facilities and certain DCI operations. Operations disposed of during 2008 included certain DCI operations. Operations to be disposed of at December 31, 2009 include Peoples, which Dominion sold in
February 2010. In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion’s operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or
allocating resources among the segments.





ENVIRONMENTALSTRATEGY

Dominion and Virginia Power are committed to being good environmental stewards. Their ongoing objective is to provide reliable, affordable energy for their customers while being environmentally responsible. The integrated strategy to meet
this objective consists of five major elements:

ŸConservation and load management;

ŸRenewable generation development;

ŸOther generation development to maintain their fuel diversity, including clean coal, advanced nuclear energy, and natural gas;

ŸImprovements in other energy infrastructure; and

ŸCompliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules.

Conservation plays a role in meeting the growing demand for electricity. Virginia re-regulation legislation enacted in 2007 provides
incentives for energy conservation and sets a goal to reduce electricity consumption by retail customers in 2022 by ten percent of the amount consumed in 2006 through the implementation of conservation programs. A description of Virginia
Power’s conservation and load management programs is detailed below.

Dominion and Virginia Power are working to improve
their own energy efficiency, both in using less fuel to produce the same amount of energy and to use less energy in their operations. Recent uprates of their facilities have resulted in significant increases in generation capacity and lower
emissions to meet the needs of their customers.

Renewable energy is also an important component of a diverse and reliable
energy mix. Both Virginia and North Carolina have

passed legislation setting targets for renewable power. Virginia Power is committed to meeting Virginia’s goals of 12% renewable power by 2022 and 15% by 2025 and North Carolina’s
renewable portfolio standard of 12.5% by 2021. In July 2009, Virginia Power applied to the Virginia Commission for approval to participate in Virginia’s renewable energy portfolio standard program. The application identifies a Renewable
Portfolio Standard Plan for meeting Virginia’s goals and includes a combination of existing renewable energy sources, development of new renewable energy facilities and purchase of renewable energy certificates. Virginia Power also anticipates
using at least 10% biomass (woodwaste) at the Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center.

In addition, Dominion is a 50% owner of the
NedPower wind energy facility in Grant County, West Virginia. Dominion’s share of this project produces 132 MW of renewable energy. Dominion has also acquired a 50% interest in a joint venture with BP to develop the Fowler Ridge wind-turbine
facility in Benton County, Indiana. The first phase with a generating capacity of 300 MW reached full commercial operations in March 2009. Dominion has a long-term agreement with the joint venture to purchase 200 MW of energy, capacity and
environmental attributes from this first phase. In June 2009, Dominion reached an agreement with BP to split the development assets of the final 350 MW phase. Under the agreement with BP, Dominion will own 150 MW of the development assets and BP
will retain the remaining development assets. Closing of this transaction was effective in December 2009.

Virginia Power has announced a comprehensive generation growth program, referred to asPowering Virginia, which involves the development, financing, construction and operation of new multi-fuel, multi-technology generation capacity
to meet the growing demand in the core market of Virginia. Virginia Power expects that these investments collectively will provide the following benefits: expanded electricity production capability; increased technological and fuel diversity; and a
reduction in the CO2emission intensity of its generation
fleet. A critical aspect of thePowering Virginiaprogram is the extent to which Virginia Power seeks to reduce the carbon intensity of its generation fleet by developing generation facilities with zero CO2and low CO2emissions, as well as economically viable facilities that can be equipped for CO2capture and storage. There is no current economically viable
technological solution to retro-fit existing fossil-fueled technology to capture and store GHG emissions. There are six generally recognized GHGs including CO2, methane, nitrous oxide, sulfur hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons, and perfluorocarbons. Given that new generation units
have useful lives of up to 55 years, Virginia Power will give full consideration to CO2and other GHG emissions when making long-term decisions. SeeDominion Generation—Propertiesfor more information.

Virginia Power plans to make a significant investment in improving the capabilities and reliability of its electric transmission and distribution system. These enhancements are primarily aimed at meeting
Virginia Power’s continued goal of providing reliable service. An additional benefit will be added capacity to efficiently deliver electricity from the renewable projects now being developed or to be developed in the future. SeeGlobal
Climate ChangeunderRegulationsfor more information.

In further support of the Companies’ environmental
strategy, Dominion and Virginia Power remain committed to compliance with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules















related to our operations. Additional information related to our environmental compliance obligations can be found in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Energy Efficiency and Peak Shaving Programs

In July
2009, Virginia Power filed with the Virginia Commission an application for approval and cost recovery of eleven DSM programs. Virginia Power plans to use DSM, along with its traditional and renewable supply-side resources, to meet its projected load
growth over the next 15 years. The DSM programs provide the first steps toward achieving Virginia’s goal of reducing, by 2022, the electric energy consumption of Virginia Power’s retail customers by ten percent of what was consumed in
2006. Virginia Power expects to launch the DSM programs in early 2010, subject to approval by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission, as applicable.

A key component of the plan is the demonstration of “smart grid” technologies that are designed to enhance Virginia Power’s electric distribution system by allowing energy to be delivered
more efficiently. Dependent upon the outcome of demonstration and certain regulatory proceedings, Virginia Power may make a significant investment in replacing existing meters with Advanced Metering Infrastructure. The technology is expected to lead
to improvements in service reliability and the ability of customers to monitor and control their energy use. Additionally, programs in the DSM plan include:

ŸIncentives for construction of energy-efficient homes that meet the federal government’s Energy Star®standards;

ŸIncentives for residential and commercial customers to install energy-efficient lighting;

ŸEnergy audits and improvements for homes of low-income customers;

ŸIncentives for residential customers who voluntarily enroll to allow Virginia Power to cycle their air conditioners and heat pumps during periods of
peak demand; and

ŸIncentives for residential and commercial customers to improve the energy efficiency of their heating and/or cooling units.





REGULATION

Dominion and
Virginia Power are subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission, North Carolina Commission, SEC, FERC, EPA, DOE, NRC, Army Corps of Engineers and other federal, state and local authorities.

State Regulations

ELECTRIC

Virginia Power’s electric utility retail service is subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission.

Virginia Power holds certificates of public convenience and necessity which authorize it to maintain and operate its electric
facilities now in operation and to sell electricity to customers. However, Virginia Power may not construct or incur financial commitments for construction of any substantial generating facilities or large capacity transmission lines without the
prior approval of various state and federal government agencies. In addition, the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina

Commission regulate Virginia Power’s transactions with affiliates, transfers of certain facilities and the issuance of securities.

Electric Regulation in Virginia

In March 2009,
Virginia Power filed with the Virginia Commission, pursuant to the Regulation Act, a petition to recover from Virginia jurisdictional customers an annual net increase of approximately $78 million in costs related to FERC-approved transmission
charges and PJM demand response programs. This amount also included a portion of costs discussed further inFederal Regulations. In a final order in June 2009, the Virginia Commission approved recovery of approximately $218 million through
Rider T, which includes approximately $150 million of transmission-related costs that were traditionally incorporated in base rates, plus an incremental increase of approximately $68 million. The Virginia Commission also ruled that approximately $10
million that the Company had proposed to collect in Rider T would be more appropriately recovered through base rates, and those costs have been incorporated into the Company’s revised base rate filing that was submitted in July 2009. Rider T
became effective on September 1, 2009, and increased a typical 1,000 kWh Virginia jurisdictional residential customer’s bill by approximately $1.11 per month.

Virginia Power also has filed with the Virginia Commission an application for approval and cost recovery of eleven DSM programs, including one peak-shaving program and ten energy efficiency programs.
Virginia Power plans to use DSM, along with its traditional and renewable supply-side resources, to meet its projected load growth over the next 15 years. The DSM programs provide the first steps toward achieving Virginia’s goal of reducing, by
2022, the electric energy consumption of the Company’s retail customers by ten percent of what was consumed in 2006. In February 2010, the Virginia Commission concluded an evidentiary hearing to consider the DSM programs and the related
recovery. The Company has requested approval of two rate adjustment clauses for the associated cost recovery to be effective April 1, 2010. Specifically, the two rate adjustment clauses for recovery from Virginia jurisdictional customers
represent an annual net increase in costs of approximately $48 million for the period April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011. If approved by the Virginia Commission, the rate adjustment clauses will be expected, on a combined basis, to increase a
typical 1,000 kWh residential bill by approximately $0.91 per month. The Regulation Act gives the Virginia Commission until the end of March 2010 to act on Virginia Power’s application.

In March 2009, Virginia Power filed with the Virginia Commission its first annual update to the rate adjustment clause for the Virginia City
Hybrid Energy Center requesting an increase of approximately $99 million for financing costs to be recovered through rates in 2010. As part of this filing Virginia Power requested that the 13.5% ROE proposed in its March 31, 2009 base rate filing be
applied to Rider S, plus the 100 basis point enhancement for construction of a new coal-fired generation facility, for a requested total ROE of 14.5%. An evidentiary hearing was held before a hearing examiner in August 2009, at which Virginia Power
presented a proposed Stipulation and Recommendation that, among other things, would reduce the increase in the revenue requirement by approximately $8 million to $91 million. In December 2009, the hearing examiner’s report















was issued recommending approval of the Rider S increase as set forth in the proposed Stipulation, and thereafter the Virginia Commission approved the Rider S increase consistent with this
recommendation. The Rider S revenue requirement approved for 2010 remains subject to revision to reflect the Virginia Commission’s ROE determination in the pending base rate proceeding.

In March 2009, Virginia Power also filed a petition with the Virginia Commission for recovery of approximately $77 million of
construction-related financing costs associated with Bear Garden through the initiation of Rider R. As part of this filing Virginia Power requested that the 13.5% ROE proposed in its March 31, 2009 base rate filing be applied to the Bear Garden
facility rate adjustment clause, with a 100 basis point enhancement for construction of a combined-cycle facility, as authorized by the Regulation Act, for a requested total ROE of 14.5%. An evidentiary hearing was held before a hearing examiner in
August 2009. In Virginia Power’s post-hearing brief, it unilaterally agreed to reduce the revenue requirement by $4 million to $73 million. In December 2009, the Virginia Commission approved Rider R with the $73 million revenue requirement for
2010. The Rider R revenue requirement approved for 2010 remains subject to revision to reflect the Virginia Commission’s ROE determination in the pending base rate proceeding. In accordance with the Virginia Commission’s approval of Rider
R, the enhanced return will apply to the Bear Garden facility during construction and through the first ten years of the facility’s service life.

Pursuant to
the Regulation Act, the Virginia Commission entered an order in January 2009 initiating reviews of the base rates and terms and conditions of all investor-owned electric utilities in Virginia. In response, Virginia Power submitted base rate filings
and accompanying schedules during 2009 to the Virginia

Commission, which, as amended, propose to increase its Virginia jurisdictional base rates by approximately $250 million annually. Virginia Power’s initial March 2009 filing proposed a 12.5%
ROE, plus an additional 100 basis point performance incentive pursuant to the Regulation Act based on Virginia Power’s generating plant performance, customer service, and operating efficiency, resulting in a total ROE request of 13.5%. In July
2009, in response to rulings by the Virginia Commission relating to the appropriate rate year and capital structure to be used in the Company’s base rate review, Virginia Power submitted a revised filing reflecting a number of adjustments,
including an upward adjustment of 50 basis points in the proposed ROE. The base rate increase became effective on an interim basis on September 1, 2009, subject to refund and adjustment by the Virginia Commission and increases a typical 1,000
kWh Virginia jurisdictional residential customer’s bill by approximately $5.22 per month.

If the Virginia Commission’s future rate actions, including actions relating to Virginia Power’s 2009 base rate review, DSM
programs, recovery of Virginia fuel expenses, and additional rate adjustment clause filings differ materially from Virginia Power’s expectations it could adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

North Carolina Regulation

In 2004, the
North Carolina Commission commenced a review of Virginia Power’s North Carolina base rates and subsequently ordered Virginia Power to file a general rate case to show cause















why its North Carolina jurisdictional base rates should not be reduced. The rate case was filed in September 2004, and in March 2005 the North Carolina Commission approved a settlement that
included a prospective $12 million annual reduction in current base rates and a five-year base rate moratorium, effective as of April 2005. Fuel rates are still subject to annual fuel rate adjustments, with deferred fuel accounting for over- or
under-recoveries of fuel costs.

In February 2010, Virginia Power filed an application with the North Carolina Commission to
increase its electric retail rates in North Carolina by approximately $46 million effective January 2011. The requested rate increase would consist of a base rate increase of approximately $29 million and approximately $17 million in purchased power
costs to be recovered by means of the existing pass-through fuel adjustment charge. These purchased power costs have previously been considered part of the Company’s cost of service for recovery through base rates. The application entails a
proposed ROE of 11.9%. The proposed base rate increase of $29 million would increase a typical 1,000 kWh North Carolina jurisdictional customer’s bill by approximately 9% or $8.96 per month when compared to residential bills under the currently
approved rates. If the entire $17 million increase related to purchased power costs were to be approved for recovery in the 2011 fuel adjustment charge, and if none of those costs are offset by reductions in costs for other fuel types, the
additional impact on residential customer bills would be approximately 5% or $4.94 per month. It is anticipated that a public hearing on the proposed base rate increase will be consolidated with the Company’s annual fuel adjustment proceeding
in the fourth quarter of 2010 so as to facilitate a North Carolina Commission order in both matters before the end of 2010.

GAS

Dominion’s gas distribution services are regulated by the Ohio Commission, the Pennsylvania Commission
and the West Virginia Commission.

Status of Competitive Retail Gas Services

Each of the three states in which Dominion has gas distribution operations has enacted or considered legislation regarding a competitive deregulation of natural gas sales at the retail level.

Ohio—Ohio has not enacted legislation requiring supplier choice for residential or commercial natural gas consumers. However,
in cooperation with the Ohio Commission, Dominion has offered retail choice to residential and commercial customers. At December 31, 2009, approximately 1 million of Dominion’s 1.2 million Ohio customers were participating in
this Energy Choice program. In October 2006, Dominion East Ohio implemented a pilot program approved by the Ohio Commission as a transitional step towards the improvement and expansion of the Energy Choice program. Under the pilot program, Dominion
East Ohio entered into gas purchase contracts with selected suppliers at a fixed price above the NYMEX month-end settlement. This Standard Service Offer pricing mechanism replaced the traditional gas cost recovery rate with a monthly market price
that eliminated the true-up adjustment, making it easier for customers to compare and switch to competitive suppliers if they so choose.

In June 2008, the Ohio Commission approved a settlement filed in response to Dominion East Ohio’s application seeking

approval of Phase 2 of its plan to restructure its commodity service. Under that settlement, the existing Standard Service Offer program was continued through March 2009 with an update to the
fixed rate adder to the NYMEX price. Starting in April 2009, Dominion East Ohio buys natural gas under the Standard Service Offer program for customers not eligible to participate in the Energy Choice program, but places Energy Choice-eligible
customers in a direct retail relationship with selected suppliers, which is designated on the customers’ bills. Subject to ultimate Ohio Commission approval, Dominion East Ohio may exit the gas merchant function in Ohio entirely and have all
customers select an alternate gas supplier. Dominion East Ohio will continue to be the provider of last resort in the event of default by a supplier. Large industrial customers in Ohio also source their own natural gas supplies.

Pennsylvania—In Pennsylvania, supplier choice is available for all residential and small commercial customers of Peoples. At
December 31, 2009, approximately 94,000 of Peoples’ 358,000 residential and small commercial customers had opted for Energy Choice in the Pennsylvania service area. Nearly all Pennsylvania industrial and large commercial customers buy
natural gas from nonregulated suppliers.

West Virginia—At this time, West Virginia has not enacted legislation to
require customer choice in the retail natural gas markets served by Hope. However, the West Virginia Commission has issued regulations to govern pooling services, one of the tools that natural gas suppliers may utilize to provide retail customer
choice in the future and has issued rules requiring competitive gas service providers to be licensed in West Virginia.

Rates

Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiaries are subject to regulation of rates and other aspects of their businesses by the states in which they
operate—Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. When necessary, Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiaries seek general base rate increases to recover increased operating costs. In addition to general rate increases, Dominion’s gas
distribution subsidiaries make routine separate filings with their respective state regulatory commissions to reflect changes in the costs of purchased gas. The majority of these purchased gas costs are subject to rate recovery through a mechanism
that ensures dollar for dollar recovery of prudently incurred costs. Costs that are expected to be recovered in future rates are deferred as regulatory assets. The purchased gas cost recovery filings generally cover prospective one, three or
twelve-month periods. Approved increases or decreases in gas cost recovery rates result in increases or decreases in revenues with corresponding increases or decreases in net purchased gas cost expenses.

In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Ohio Commission approved an approximately $41 million annual revenue increase and an 8.49% allowed rate of
return on rate base for Dominion East Ohio, which were reflected in revised rates commencing December 22, 2008.

In
October 2008, Hope filed a request with the West Virginia Commission for an increase in the base rates it charges for natural gas service. The requested new base rates would have increased Hope’s revenues by approximately $34 million annually.
In November 2009, the West Virginia Commission authorized an approximately $9 million increase in base rates.















Regulatory Approval of Sale of Peoples

In September 2008, Dominion and BBIFNA each filed a Premerger Notification and Report Form with the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission under the HSR Act. In October 2008, the
mandatory waiting period under the HSR Act related to the proposed sale of Peoples and Hope to the SteelRiver Buyer expired. In September 2009, Dominion and the SteelRiver Fund each filed a renewed Premerger Notification and Report Form with the
U.S. Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission. In October 2009, Dominion and the SteelRiver Fund were granted early termination of the mandatory waiting period under the HSR Act.

In September 2008, Peoples, Dominion and the SteelRiver Buyer filed a joint petition with the Pennsylvania Commission seeking approval of the
purchase by the SteelRiver Buyer of all of the stock of Peoples. In September 2009, Peoples, Dominion, the SteelRiver Buyer and two of the active intervenors in the Peoples sale proceeding reached a settlement on issues involved in the Peoples sale.
In November 2009, the Pennsylvania Commission approved the settlement, thereby approving the sale of Peoples to the SteelRiver Buyer.

In October 2008, Hope, Dominion and the SteelRiver Buyer filed a joint petition seeking West Virginia Commission approval of the purchase by the SteelRiver Buyer of all of the stock of Hope. In December
2009, the West Virginia Commission denied the application for the sale of Hope.

Dominion decided to retain Hope, but continue
with the sale of Peoples, which closed in February 2010.

Federal Regulations

EPACTANDTHEREPEALOFPUHCA

EPACT was signed into law in August 2005. Among other things, EPACT repealed PUHCA, which regulated many significant aspects of a registered holding company system, such as Dominion’s. As a result of PUHCA’s repeal, utility
holding companies, including Dominion’s system, are no longer limited to a single integrated public utility system. Further, utility holding companies are no longer restricted from acquiring businesses that may not be related to the utility
business. Jurisdiction over certain holding company related activities has been transferred to the FERC, including the issuance of securities by public utilities, the acquisition of securities of utilities, the acquisition or sale of certain utility
assets, and the merger with another electric utility or holding company. In addition, both FERC and state regulators are permitted to review the books and records of any company within a holding company system.

EPACT contains key provisions affecting the electric power industry. These provisions include tax changes for the utility industry,
incentives for emissions reductions and federal insurance and incentives to build new nuclear power plants. It gives the FERC “backstop” transmission siting authority, as well as increased utility merger oversight. The law also provides
incentives and funding for clean coal technologies and initiatives to voluntarily reduce GHG emissions. FERC has issued regulations implementing EPACT. Dominion and Virginia Power do not expect compliance with these regulations to have a material
adverse impact on their financial condition or results of operations.



FEDERALENERGYREGULATORYCOMMISSION

Electric

Dominion and Virginia Power are subject to FERC’s Standards of Conduct that govern conduct between transmission function employees of interstate gas and electricity transmission providers and the
marketing function employees of their affiliates. The rule defines the scope of transmission and marketing-related functions that are covered by the standards and is designed to prevent transmission providers from giving their affiliates undue
preferences.

Dominion and Virginia Power are also subject to FERC’s affiliate restrictions that (1) prohibit power
sales between Virginia Power and Dominion’s merchant plants without first receiving FERC authorization, (2) require the merchant plants and Virginia Power to conduct their wholesale power sales operations separately, and (3) prohibit
Virginia Power from sharing market information with merchant plant operating personnel. The rules are designed to prohibit Virginia Power from giving the merchant plants a competitive advantage.

EPACT included provisions to create an Electric Reliability Organization. The Electric Reliability Organization is required to promulgate
mandatory reliability standards governing the operation of the bulk power system in the U.S. FERC has certified NERC as the Electric Reliability Organization and also issued an initial order approving many reliability standards that went into effect
on January 1, 2007. Entities that violate standards will be subject to fines of between $1 thousand and $1 million per day, and can also be assessed non-monetary penalties, depending upon the nature and severity of the violation.















Dominion and Virginia Power have planned and operated their facilities in compliance with
earlier NERC voluntary standards for many years and are aware of the new requirements. Dominion and Virginia Power participate on various NERC committees, track the development and implementation of standards, and maintain proper compliance
registration with NERC’s regional organizations. While Dominion and Virginia Power expect that there will be some additional cost involved in maintaining compliance as standards evolve, they do not expect the operations and maintenance
expenditures to be significant.

In April 2008, FERC granted an application for Virginia Power’s electric transmission
operations to establish a forward-looking formula rate mechanism that updates transmission rates on an annual basis and approved an ROE of 11.4% on the common equity base of these operations, effective as of January 1, 2008. The formula rate is
designed to cover the expected cost of service for each calendar year and is trued up based on actual costs. While other transmission owners in the PJM region use a formula rate based on historic costs, Virginia Power’s formula rate is based on
projected costs. The FERC ruling did not materially impact Virginia Power’s results of operations; however, the FERC-approved formula method allows Virginia Power to earn a more current return on its growing investment in electric transmission
infrastructure.

In July 2008, Virginia Power filed an application with FERC requesting a revision to its cost of service to
reflect an additional ROE incentive adder for eleven electric transmission enhancement projects. Under the proposal, the cost of transmission service would increase to include an ROE incentive adder for each of the eleven projects, beginning the
date each project enters commercial operation (but not before January 1, 2009). Virginia Power proposed an incentive of 150 basis points or 1.5% for four of the projects (including the Meadow Brook-to-Loudoun line and Carson-to-Suffolk line)
and an incentive of 125 basis points or 1.25% for the other seven projects. In August 2008, FERC approved the proposal, effective September 1, 2008. The total cost for all eleven projects is estimated at $877 million, and all projects are
currently expected to be completed by 2012. Numerous parties sought rehearing of the FERC order in August 2008 and rehearing is pending. Virginia Power cannot predict the outcome of the rehearing.

In May 2008, the Maryland Public Service Commission, Delaware Public Service Commission, Pennsylvania Commission, New Jersey Board of Public
Utilities and several other organizations representing consumers in the PJM region (the RPM Buyers) filed a complaint at FERC claiming that PJM’s Reliability Pricing Model’s transitional auctions have produced unjust and unreasonable
capacity prices. The RPM Buyers requested that a refund effective date of June 1, 2008 be established and that FERC provide appropriate relief from unjust and unreasonable capacity charges within 15 months. In September 2008, FERC dismissed the
complaint. The RPM Buyers requested rehearing of the FERC order in October 2008 and rehearing was denied in June 2009. A notice of appeal was filed in August 2009 by the Maryland Public Service Commission and the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities
at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Dominion and Virginia Power cannot predict the outcome of the appeal.

In December 2008, FERC approved the Companies’ DRC request to become effective January
1, 2009, which allows recovery of approximately $153 million of Dominion’s RTO costs, including $140 million at Virginia Power, that were deferred due to a statutory base rate cap established under Virginia law. In June 2009, the Virginia
Commission approved full recovery of the DRC from Virginia Power’s retail customers through Rider T. Recovery of the DRC began September 1, 2009. In July 2009, FERC issued an order denying the Office of the Attorney General of Virginia and the
Virginia Commission’s requests for rehearing of its December 2008 order. Notices of appeal were filed in September 2009 at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit and the appeal is currently pending. In the fourth quarter of 2009,
Dominion and Virginia Power wrote off substantially all of these regulatory assets, since recovery is no longer probable based on the proposed settlement of Virginia Power’s rate case proceedings discussed further in Note 14 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Gas

FERC
regulates the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, as amended. Under the Natural Gas Act, FERC has authority over rates, terms and
conditions of services performed by Dominion’s interstate natural gas company subsidiaries, including DTI, DCP and the Dominion South Pipeline Company, LP. FERC also has jurisdiction over siting, construction and operation of natural gas import
facilities and interstate natural gas pipeline facilities.

Dominion’s interstate gas transmission and storage activities
are generally conducted on an “open access” basis, in accordance with certificates, tariffs and service agreements on file with FERC.

Dominion is also subject to the Pipeline Safety Act of 2002 (2002 Act), which mandates inspections of interstate and intrastate natural gas transmission and storage pipelines, particularly those located
in areas of high-density population. Dominion has evaluated its natural gas transmission and storage properties, as required by the Department of Transportation regulations under the 2002 Act, and has implemented a program of identification, testing
and potential remediation activities. These activities are ongoing.

In May 2005, FERC approved a comprehensive rate settlement
with Dominion’s subsidiary, DTI, and its customers and interested state commissions. The settlement, which became effective July 1, 2005, revised Dominion’s natural gas transmission rates and reduced fuel retention levels for storage
service customers. As part of the settlement, DTI and all signatory parties agreed to a rate moratorium through June 30, 2010.

In December 2007, DTI and the Independent Oil and Gas Association of West Virginia, Inc. reached a settlement agreement on DTI’s gathering and processing rates for the period January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. This settlement
maintained the gas retainage fee structure that DTI has had since 2001. The rates are 10.5% for gathering and 0.5% for processing. Under the settlement, DTI continues to retain all revenues from its liquids sales, thus maintaining cash flow from the
liquids business. In connection with the settlement, DTI has committed to invest at least $20 million annually in Appalachian gathering-related assets. The new rates have been approved by FERC as negotiated rates.















Environmental Regulations

Each of
Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s operating segments faces substantial laws, regulations and compliance costs with respect to environmental matters. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations
authorize the imposition of substantial penalties for noncompliance, including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions. If expenditures for pollution control technologies and associated operating costs are not recoverable from customers through
regulated rates (in regulated jurisdictions) or market prices (in deregulated jurisdictions), those costs could adversely affect future results of operations and cash flows. The cost of complying with applicable environmental laws, regulations and
rules is expected to be material to the Companies. Dominion and Virginia Power have applied for or obtained the necessary environmental permits for the operation of their facilities. Many of these permits are subject to reissuance and continuing
review. For a discussion of significant aspects of these matters, including current and planned capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance required to be discussed in this Item, seeEnvironmental MattersinFuture Issues and
Other Mattersin MD&A. Additional information can also be found in Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

GLOBALCLIMATECHANGE

General

In recent years there has been increased national and international attention to GHG emissions and their relationship to climate change, which has resulted
in federal, regional and state legislative or regulatory action in this area. Dominion and Virginia Power support national climate change legislation to provide a consistent, economy-wide approach to addressing this issue and are taking action to
protect the environment and address climate change while meeting the future needs of their growing service territory. Dominion’s CEO and operating segment CEOs are responsible for compliance with the laws and regulations governing environmental
matters, including climate change, and Dominion’s Board of Directors receives periodic updates on these matters.

Dominion developed a more comprehensive GHG inventory for calendar year 2008. For Dominion Generation, Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s direct CO2equivalent emissions, based on equity share (ownership), were approximately 56 million metric tonnes and 33
million metric tonnes, respectively, in 2008. For the DVP operating segment’s electric transmission and distribution operations, direct CO2equivalent emissions were approximately 0.2 million metric tonnes. DTI’s (including Dominion’s Cove Point LNG
facility) direct CO2equivalent emissions were approximately
2.5 million metric tonnes, Dominion East Ohio’s direct CO2equivalent emissions were approximately 1.4 million metric tonnes and Dominion E&P’s direct CO2equivalent emissions were approximately 0.7 million metric tonnes. While the Companies do not have final 2009 emissions
data, they do not expect a significant variance in emissions from 2008 amounts. With respect to electric generation, primary facility stack emissions of CO2from carbon based fuel combustion are directly measured via continuous emissions monitor system methods set forth under 40
CFR Part 75 of the United States Code. For those emission sources not covered under 40 CFR Part

75, and for methane and nitrous oxide emissions, quantification is based on fuel combustion, higher heating values, emission factors, and global warming potentials as specified in the new EPA
Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule, effective December 2009. Although the reporting rule does not apply until calendar year 2010 emissions, Dominion and Virginia Power have proactively implemented the data collection methodologies
specified in the rule. For the DVP operating segment’s electric transmission and distribution emissions, the protocol used wasThe Climate Registry. For Dominion’s natural gas businesses, combustion related emissions were calculated
using the EPA Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule as described above. For DTI, the protocol used to calculate the non-combustion related emissions reported above wasGreenhouse Gas Emission Estimation Guidelines for Natural Gas
Transmission and Storage, Volume 1—GHG Estimation Methodologies and Procedures—Revision 2, September 28, 2005developed by the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America. For Dominion East Ohio, the protocol used to calculate the
non-combustion related emissions was the American Gas Association’s April 2008 Greenhouse Emissions Estimation Methodologies and Procedures for Natural Gas Distribution Operations. For Dominion E&P emissions, the protocol used was the
American Petroleum Institute August 2009 Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry.

Climate Change
Legislation and Regulation

See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on climate change legislation and
regulation.

Physical Risks

Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s results of operations can be affected by changes in the weather. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. In
addition, severe weather, including hurricanes and winter storms, can be destructive, causing outages and property damage that require incurring additional expenses. Additionally, droughts can result in reduced water levels that could adversely
affect operations at some of the Companies’ power stations. Furthermore, the Companies’ operations could be adversely affected and their physical plant placed at greater risk of damage should changes in global climate produce, among other
possible conditions, unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and, for operations located on or near coastlines, a change in sea level.

Dominion and Virginia Power’s Strategy for Voluntarily Reducing GHG Emissions

While Dominion and Virginia Power have not established a standalone GHG emissions reduction target or timetable, they are actively
engaged in voluntary reduction efforts and are working toward achieving the standards established by existing state regulations as set forth above. The Companies have an integrated strategy for reducing GHG emission intensity that is based on
maintaining a diverse fuel mix, including nuclear, coal, gas, hydro and renewable energy, investing in renewable energy projects, and promoting energy conservation and efficiency efforts. SeeEnvironmental Strategyabove for a description of
Dominion and















Virginia Power’s strategy for reducing GHG emission intensity. Some recent efforts that have or are expected to reduce the Companies’ carbon intensity include:

ŸIn 2003, Virginia Power retired two oil-fired units at its Possum Point power station, replacing them with a new 559 MW combined-cycle natural gas
technology. Virginia Power also converted two coal-fired units to cleaner burning natural gas.

ŸSince 2000, Dominion has added more than 2,500 MW of non-emitting nuclear generation and approximately 3,050 MW of new lower-emitting natural gas-fired
generation including 1,450 MW at Virginia Power (excluding Possum Point), to its generation mix.

ŸVirginia Power has also added 83 MW of renewable biomass.

ŸDominion has completed electrical generation uprates of 120 MW at its gas-fired Fairless power station and 77 MW at Millstone.

ŸDominion has over 900 MW of wind energy in operation or development. Also, in April 2008, Virginia Power announced an agreement with BP to jointly
develop, own and operate wind energy projects in Virginia.

ŸIn 2009, Virginia Power began constructing the 580 MW combined-cycle natural gas-fired Bear Garden generating facility.

ŸVirginia Power has received an Early Site Permit from the NRC for the possible addition of approximately 1,500 MW of nuclear generation in Virginia.
Virginia Power has not yet committed to building a new nuclear unit.

ŸIn 2009, Virginia Power filed with the Virginia Commission for approval of eleven DSM programs, including the demonstration of “smart grid”
technologies, which are designed to help reduce the electric energy consumption of Virginia Power’s retail customers and therefore reduce generation requirements.

While, upon entering service, Virginia Power’s new Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center, which is currently under
construction in Southwest Virginia, will be a new source of GHG emissions, Virginia Power has taken steps to minimize the impact on the environment. The new plant is expected to use at least ten percent biomass for fuel and was designed to be
carbon-capture compatible, meaning that technology to capture CO2can be added to the station when it becomes commercially available. Also, Virginia Power has announced plans to convert its coal units at Bremo power station to natural gas, contingent upon the Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center entering
service and receipt of necessary approvals. It is currently estimated that the Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center will have the potential to emit about 4.8 million metric tonnes of direct CO2emissions in a year assuming a 100% capacity factor and 100% coal-fired operation. Actual emissions will
depend on the capacity factor of the facility, and the extent to which biomass is burned. SeeDominion Generation—Propertiesfor more information on the projects above, as well as other projects under current development.

Since 2000, the Companies have tracked the emissions of their electric generation fleet. Their electric generation fleet
employs a mix of fuel and renewable energy sources. Comparing annual year 2000 to annual year 2008, Dominion and Virginia Power’s electric generating fleet (based on ownership percentage) reduced their average CO2emissions rate per MWh of energy

produced from electric generation by about 15% and 8%, respectively. During such time period the capacity of Dominion and Virginia Power’s electric generation fleet has grown.

Nuclear Regulatory Commission

All aspects of the
operation and maintenance of nuclear power stations, which are part of the Dominion Generation segment, are regulated by the NRC. Operating licenses issued by the NRC are subject to revocation, suspension or modification, and the operation of a
nuclear unit may be suspended if the NRC determines that the public interest, health or safety so requires.

From time to time,
the NRC adopts new requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear facilities. In many cases, these new regulations require changes in the design, operation and maintenance of existing nuclear facilities. If the NRC adopts such
requirements in the future, it could result in substantial increases in the cost of operating and maintaining Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s nuclear generating units.

The NRC also requires Dominion and Virginia Power to decontaminate their nuclear facilities once operations cease. This process is referred
to as decommissioning, and the Companies are required by the NRC to be financially prepared. For information on decommissioning trusts, seeDominion Generation—Nuclear Decommissioningand Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

SPENTNUCLEARFUEL















A lawsuit was also filed for Dominion’s Kewaunee power station, and that lawsuit is presently stayed through March 15, 2010. The Companies will continue to manage their spent fuel until
it is accepted by the DOE.

