Item 1. Business

GENERAL

Dominion, headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and
incorporated in Virginia in 1983, is one of the nation’s largest producers and transporters of energy. Dominion’s strategy is to be a leading provider of electricity, natural gas and related services to customers primarily in the eastern
region of the U.S. Dominion’s portfolio of assets includes approximately 27,500 MW of generating capacity, 6,300 miles of electric transmission lines, 56,900 miles of electric distribution lines, 11,000 miles of natural gas transmission,
gathering and storage pipeline and 21,800 miles of gas distribution pipeline, exclusive of service lines of two inches in diameter or less. Dominion also operates one of the nation’s largest underground natural gas storage systems, with
approximately 947 bcf of storage capacity, and serves nearly 6 million utility and retail energy customers in 15 states.

Dominion is focused on expanding its investment in regulated electric generation, transmission and distribution and regulated natural gas
transmission and distribution infrastructure within and around its existing footprint. Dominion expects this will continue to increase its earnings contribution from regulated operations, while reducing the sensitivity of its earnings to commodity
prices.

Dominion continues to expand and improve its regulated electric and natural gas businesses, in accordance with its
five-year capital investment program. A major impetus for this program is to meet the anticipated increase in electricity demand in its electric utility service territory. Other drivers for the capital investment program include the construction of
infrastructure to handle the increase in natural gas production from the Marcellus and Utica Shale formations; and to upgrade Dominion’s gas distribution and electric transmission and distribution networks. Planned investments to gather and
process natural gas production from the Utica Shale formation, in eastern Ohio and western Pennsylvania, are expected to be made by the newly-formed Blue Racer joint venture.

Dominion’s nonregulated operations include merchant generation, energy marketing and price risk management activities and retail energy marketing operations. Dominion is in the process of
transitioning to a more regulated earnings mix as evidenced by its capital investments in regulated infrastructure, as well as dispositions of certain merchant generation facilities during 2012 and its announcement that other merchant generation
facilities are expected to be sold or decommissioned in 2013. Dominion’s operations are conducted through various subsidiaries, including Virginia Power.

Virginia Power, headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and incorporated in Virginia in 1909 as a Virginia public service corporation, is a regulated public utility that generates, transmits and
distributes electricity for sale in Virginia and North Carolina. In Virginia, Virginia Power conducts business under the name “Dominion Virginia Power” and primarily serves retail customers. In North Carolina, it conducts business under
the name “Dominion North Carolina Power” and serves retail customers located in the northeastern region of the state, excluding certain municipalities. In addition, Virginia Power sells electricity at wholesale prices to rural electric
cooperatives, municipalities and into wholesale electricity markets. All of Virginia Power’s common stock is owned by Dominion.

Amounts disclosed for Dominion are inclusive of Virginia Power, where applicable.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2012, Dominion had approximately 15,500 full-time employees, of which approximately 5,800 employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. As of
December 31, 2012, Virginia Power had approximately 6,800 full-time employees, of which approximately 3,100 employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements.





PRINCIPALEXECUTIVEOFFICES

Dominion and
Virginia Power’s principal executive offices are located at 120 Tredegar Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219 and their telephone number is (804) 819-2000.





WHEREYOUCANFINDMOREINFORMATIONABOUTDOMINIONANDVIRGINIAPOWER

Dominion and Virginia Power file their annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Their SEC filings are
available to the public over the Internet at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document they file at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC
at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.

Dominion and Virginia Power make their SEC filings
available, free of charge, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, through Dominion’s internet website, www.dom.com, as soon as practicable after
filing or furnishing the material to the SEC. You may also request a copy of these filings, at no cost, by writing or telephoning Dominion at: Corporate Secretary, Dominion, 120 Tredegar Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219, Telephone
(804) 819-2000. Information contained on Dominion’s website is not incorporated by reference in this report.





ACQUISITIONSANDDISPOSITIONS

Following are significant divestitures by Dominion and Virginia Power during the last five years. There were
no significant acquisitions by either registrant during this period.

SALEOFE&P
PROPERTIES

In 2010, Dominion completed the sale of substantially all of its Appalachian E&P operations, including its
rights to associated Marcellus acreage, to a subsidiary of CONSOL for approximately $3.5 billion. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The historical results of the Appalachian E&P operations are
included in the Dominion Energy segment.

SALEOFPEOPLES

In February 2010, Dominion completed the sale of Peoples to PNG Companies LLC and netted after-tax proceeds of approximately $542 million. The historical
results of these operations are included in the Corporate and Other segment and presented in discontinued operations. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.













ASSIGNMENTOFMARCELLUSACREAGE

In 2008, Dominion completed a transaction with Antero Resources to assign drilling rights to approximately 117,000 acres in the Marcellus
Shale formation located in West Virginia and Pennsylvania. Dominion received proceeds of approximately $347 million. Under the agreement, Dominion received a 7.5% overriding royalty interest on future natural gas production from the assigned
acreage. The overriding royalty interest was transferred to CONSOL as part of the sale of substantially all of Dominion’s Appalachian E&P operations in 2010.

SALEOFCERTAINDCI OPERATIONS

In March 2008, Dominion reached an agreement to sell its remaining interest in the subordinated notes of a third-party CDO entity held as an investment by
DCI and in April 2008 received proceeds of $54 million, including accrued interest. Dominion deconsolidated the CDO entity as of March 31, 2008.





OPERATINGSEGMENTS

Dominion manages its daily operations through three primary operating segments: DVP, Dominion Generation and Dominion Energy. Dominion
also reports a Corporate and Other segment, which includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) and the net impact of operations that are expected to be or are currently discontinued, which is discussed in
Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion’s operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the
segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

Virginia Power manages its daily operations through two
primary operating segments: DVP and Dominion Generation. It also reports a Corporate and Other segment that primarily includes specific items attributable to its operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive
management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

While daily operations are
managed through the operating segments previously discussed, assets remain wholly-owned by Dominion and Virginia Power and their respective legal subsidiaries.

A description of the operations included in the Companies’ primary operating segments is as follows:



Primary OperatingSegmentDescription of OperationsDominionVirginiaPowerDVPRegulated electric distributionXXRegulated electric transmissionXXNonregulated retail energy marketing (electric and gas)XDominion GenerationRegulated electric fleetXXMerchant electric fleetXDominion EnergyGas transmission and storageXGas distribution and storageXLNG import and storageXProducer servicesX

For additional financial information on operating segments, including revenues from external customers,
see Note 25 to the

Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information on operating revenue related to Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s principal products and services, see Notes 2 and 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

DVP

The DVP Operating Segment of Virginia Powerincludes Virginia Power’s regulated electric transmission and distribution (including customer
service) operations, which serve approximately 2.5 million residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers in Virginia and North Carolina.

DVP has announced its five-year investment plan, which includes spending approximately $4.5 billion from 2013 through 2017 to upgrade or add new transmission and distribution lines, substations and
other facilities to meet growing electricity demand within its service territory and maintain reliability. The proposed electric delivery infrastructure projects are intended to address both continued customer growth and increases in electricity
consumption by the typical consumer. In addition, data centers continue to contribute to anticipated demand growth, with an expected load of approximately 715 MW by the end of 2013.

Revenue provided by electric distribution operations is based primarily on rates established by state regulatory authorities and state
law. Variability in earnings is driven primarily by changes in rates, weather, customer growth and other factors impacting consumption such as the economy and energy conservation, in addition to operating and maintenance expenditures. Operationally,
electric distribution continues to focus on improving service levels while striving to reduce costs and link investments to operational results. As a result, electric service reliability and customer service have improved. The three-year average
SAIDI has improved from 125 minutes at the end of 2007 to 105 minutes at the end of 2012. Likewise, ASA has also shown significant improvement. The three-year average ASA has improved from 57 seconds at the end of 2007 to 38 seconds at the end
of 2012. Customer service options continue to be enhanced and expanded through the use of technology. Customers now have the ability to use the Internet for routine billing and payment transactions, connecting and disconnecting service, reporting
outages and obtaining outage updates. Additionally, customers can follow progress of electric service restoration efforts following major outages by accessing Facebook or Twitter. In the future, safety, electric service reliability and customer
service will remain key focal areas for electric distribution.

Revenue provided by Virginia Power’s electric transmission
operations is based primarily on rates approved by FERC. The profitability of this business is dependent on its ability, through the rates it is permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable return on its capital investments.
Variability in earnings primarily results from changes in rates and the timing of property additions, retirements and depreciation.

Virginia Power is a member of PJM, an RTO, and its electric transmission facilities are integrated into PJM wholesale electricity markets. Consistent with the increased authority given to NERC by EPACT,
Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations are committed to meeting NERC standards, modernizing its infrastructure and maintaining superior system reliability. Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations will continue to focus
on













safety, operational performance, NERC compliance and execution of PJM’s RTEP.

The DVP Operating Segment of Dominionincludes all of Virginia Power’s regulated electric transmission and distribution operations as discussed above, as well as Dominion’s nonregulated
retail energy marketing operations.

Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations compete in nonregulated energy markets.
The retail business requires limited capital investment and currently employs approximately 190 people. The retail customer base includes 2.1 million customer accounts and is diversified across three product lines-natural gas, electricity and
energy-related products and services. Dominion has a heavy concentration of natural gas customers in markets where utilities have a long-standing commitment to customer choice. Dominion pursues customers in electricity markets where utilities have
divested of generation assets and where customers are permitted and have opted to purchase from the market. Major growth drivers are net customer additions, new market penetration, product development and expanded sales channels and supply
optimization.

COMPETITION

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Within Virginia Power’s
service territory in Virginia and North Carolina, there is no competition for electric distribution service. Additionally, since its electric transmission facilities are integrated into PJM, electric transmission services are administered by PJM and
are not subject to competition in relation to transmission service provided to customers within the PJM region. Virginia Power is seeing continued growth in new customers in its transmission and distribution operations. In its Order 1000 compliance
filing, PJM has proposed tariff changes that, if approved by FERC, could allow certain transmission facilities to be constructed in Virginia Power’s service territory by entities other than Virginia Power beginning in 2013.

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion

Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations compete against incumbent utilities and other energy marketers in nonregulated energy markets for
natural gas and electricity. Customers in these markets have the right to select a retail marketer and typically do so based upon price savings or price stability; however, incumbent utilities have the advantage of long-standing relationships with
their customers and greater name recognition in their markets.

REGULATION

Virginia Power’s electric retail service, including the rates it may charge to jurisdictional customers, is subject to regulation by the Virginia
Commission and the North Carolina Commission. Virginia Power’s wholesale electric transmission rates, tariffs and terms of service are subject to regulation by FERC. Electric transmission siting authority remains the jurisdiction of the
Virginia and North Carolina Commissions. However, EPACT provides FERC with certain backstop authority for transmission siting. SeeState Regulations and Federal RegulationsinRegulationand Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information, including a discussion of the 2011 Biennial Review Order.

PROPERTIES

Virginia Power has approximately 6,300 miles of electric transmission lines of 69 kV or more located in the states of North Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia. Portions of Virginia Power’s electric
transmission lines cross national parks and forests under permits entitling the federal government to use, at specified charges, any surplus capacity that may exist in these lines. While Virginia Power owns and maintains its electric transmission
facilities, they are a part of PJM, which coordinates the planning, operation, emergency assistance and exchange of capacity and energy for such facilities.

Each year, as part of PJM’s RTEP process, reliability projects are authorized. In December 2012, Virginia Power completed construction of the Hayes-to-Yorktown line at a total project cost of $79
million. This previously authorized PJM project was designed to improve the reliability of service to customers and the region. Previously approved PJM-authorized reliability projects such as the Waxpool-Brambleton-BECO line ($49 million), the
Harrisonburg-to-Endless Caverns line ($66 million) the Radnor Heights Project ($81 million), and the Dooms-to-Bremo line ($65 million) continue to progress and are expected to be completed on time.

As part of subsequent annual PJM RTEP processes, PJM authorized additional electric transmission upgrade projects including the Mt.
Storm-to-Doubs line ($350 million) in December 2010 and the Surry-to-Skiffes Creek-to-Whealton lines ($155 million) in 2012. Also approved as a reliability project in 2012 was the Dooms-to-Lexington line ($112 million). See Note 13 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding electric transmission projects.

In addition, Virginia
Power’s electric distribution network includes approximately 56,900 miles of distribution lines, exclusive of service level lines, in Virginia and North Carolina. The grants for most of its electric lines contain rights-of-way that have been
obtained from the apparent owners of real estate, but underlying titles have not been examined. Where rights-of-way have not been obtained, they could be acquired from private owners by condemnation, if necessary. Many electric lines are on
publicly-owned property, where permission to operate can be revoked.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

DVP’s supply of electricity to serve Virginia Power customers is produced or procured by Dominion Generation. SeeDominion Generationfor
additional information.

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion

The supply of electricity to serve Dominion’s retail energy marketing customers is procured through market wholesalers and RTO or ISO transactions. The supply of gas to serve Dominion’s retail
energy marketing customers is procured through market wholesalers or by Dominion Energy. SeeDominion Energyfor additional information.

SEASONALITY

DVP
Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

DVP’s earnings vary seasonally as a result of the impact of changes in
temperature, the impact of storms and other cata-













strophic weather events, and the availability of alternative sources for heating on demand by residential and commercial customers.

Generally, the demand for electricity peaks during the summer and winter months to meet cooling and heating needs. An increase in heating degree days for DVP’s electric-utility related operations
does not produce the same increase in revenue as an increase in cooling degree days, due to seasonal pricing differentials and because alternative heating sources are more readily available.

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion

The earnings of Dominion’s retail energy
marketing operations also vary seasonally. Generally, the demand for electricity peaks during the summer and winter months to meet cooling and heating needs, while the demand for gas peaks during the winter months to meet heating needs.

Dominion Generation

The Dominion Generation
Operating Segment of Virginia Powerincludes the generation operations of the Virginia Power regulated electric utility and its related energy supply operations. Virginia Power’s utility generation operations primarily serve the supply
requirements for the DVP segment’s utility customers.

Earnings for the Generation operating segment of Virginia Power
primarily result from the sale of electricity generated by its utility fleet. Revenue is based primarily on rates established by state regulatory authorities and state law. Approximately 80% of revenue comes from serving Virginia jurisdictional
customers. Rates for the Virginia jurisdiction are set using a modified cost-of-service rate model. The cost of fuel and purchased power is generally collected through fuel cost-recovery mechanisms established by regulators and does not materially
impact net income. Variability in earnings for Virginia Power’s generation operations results from changes in rates, the demand for services, which is primarily weather dependent, and labor and benefit costs, as well as the timing, duration and
costs of scheduled and unscheduled outages. SeeElectric Regulation in VirginiaunderRegulationand Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

The Dominion Generation Operating Segment of Dominionincludes Virginia Power’s generation facilities and its related energy
supply operations described above as well as the generation operations of Dominion’s merchant fleet and energy marketing and price risk management activities for these assets. The Generation operating segment of Dominion derives its earnings
primarily from the sale of electricity generated by Virginia Power’s utility and Dominion’s merchant generation assets, as well as from associated capacity and ancillary services.

Variability in earnings provided by Dominion’s merchant fleet relates to changes in market-based prices received for electricity and
capacity. Market-based prices for electricity are largely dependent on commodity prices, primarily natural gas, and the demand for electricity, which is primarily dependent upon weather. Capacity prices are dependent upon resource requirements in
relation to the supply available (both existing and new) in the forward capacity auctions, which are held approximately three years in advance of the associated delivery year. Dominion manages electric and capacity price volatility of its merchant
fleet by hedging a substantial portion of its expected near-term sales with

derivative instruments and also entering into long-term power sales agreements. However, earnings have been adversely impacted due to a sustained decline in commodity prices. This sustained
decline in power prices in conjunction with Dominion’s regular strategic review of its portfolio of assets has led to its decision to pursue the sale or retirement of certain merchant generation assets, which is discussed in more detail below.
Variability also results from changes in the cost of fuel consumed, labor and benefits and the timing, duration and costs of scheduled and unscheduled outages.

COMPETITION

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and
Virginia Power

Virginia Power’s generation operations are not subject to significant competition as only a limited number of its
Virginia jurisdictional electric utility customers have retail choice. SeeRegulation-State Regulations-Electricfor more information. Currently, North Carolina does not offer retail choice to electric customers.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

Unlike Dominion Generation’s regulated generation fleet, its merchant generation fleet is dependent on its ability to operate in a competitive environment and does not have a predetermined rate
structure that allows for a rate of return on its capital investments. Competition for the merchant fleet is impacted by electricity and fuel prices, new market entrants, construction by others of generating assets and transmission capacity,
technological advances in power generation, the actions of environmental and other regulatory authorities and other factors. These competitive factors may negatively impact the merchant fleet’s ability to profit from the sale of
electricity and related products and services.

Dominion Generation’s merchant generation fleet owns and operates several
facilities in the Midwest that operate within functioning RTOs. A significant portion of the output from these facilities is sold under long-term contracts, the majority of which expire between December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, and is
therefore largely unaffected by price competition during the terms of these contracts. It was announced during the third quarter of 2012 that Dominion would pursue the sale of these Midwest assets, excluding its wind facilities. In the fourth
quarter of 2012, Dominion announced that Kewaunee is expected to be decommissioned beginning in 2013.

Dominion
Generation’s other merchant assets also operate within functioning RTOs and primarily compete on the basis of price. Competitors include other generating assets bidding to operate within the RTOs. These RTOs have clearly identified market rules
that ensure the competitive wholesale market is functioning properly. Dominion Generation’s merchant units compete in the spot market with other generators to sell a variety of products including energy, capacity and ancillary services. It is
difficult to compare various types of generation given the wide range of fuels, fuel procurement strategies, efficiencies and operating characteristics of the fleet within any given RTO. However, Dominion applies its expertise in operations,
dispatch and risk management to maximize the degree to which its merchant fleet is competitive compared to similar assets within the region.













REGULATION

Virginia Power’s utility generation fleet and Dominion’s merchant generation fleet are subject to regulation by FERC, the NRC, the EPA, the DOE, the Army Corps of Engineers and other federal,
state and local authorities. Virginia Power’s utility generation fleet is also subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission. SeeState RegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationfor more information.

PROPERTIES

For a listing of Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s existing generation facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

The generation
capacity of Virginia Power’s electric utility fleet totals 17,708 MW. The generation mix is diversified and includes coal, nuclear, gas, oil, hydro and renewables. Virginia Power’s generation facilities are located in Virginia, West
Virginia and North Carolina and serve load in Virginia and northeastern North Carolina.

Based on available generation capacity
and current estimates of growth in customer demand in its utility service area, Virginia Power will need additional generation capacity over the next decade. Virginia Power has announced a comprehensive generation growth program, referred to asPowering Virginia, which involves the development, financing, construction and operation of new multi-fuel, multi-technology generation capacity to meet the anticipated growing demand in its core market in Virginia. Significant projects under
construction or development are set forth below:

ŸIn February 2012, the Virginia Commission authorized the construction of Warren County which is estimated to cost approximately $1.1 billion, excluding
financing costs. It is expected to generate approximately 1,329 MW of electricity when operational. Commercial operations are scheduled to commence by late 2014. In connection with the air permit process for Warren County, Virginia Power reached an
agreement to permanently retire North Branch, a 74 MW coal-fired plant located in West Virginia, once Warren County begins commercial operations. During the fourth quarter of 2012, Virginia Power sold North Branch to a salvage company that plans to
demolish the station and resell the land.

ŸVirginia Power is converting three coal-fired Virginia generating stations to biomass, a renewable energy source. The conversions of the power stations
in Altavista, Hopewell and Southampton County will increase Dominion’s renewable generation by more than 150 MW and are expected to cost approximately $157 million, excluding financing costs. Construction activities have started at all three
sites, and these conversions are expected to be complete by the end of 2013.

ŸSubject to the receipt of certain regulatory approvals, Virginia Power plans to construct Brunswick County, which is expected to generate approximately
1,358 MW when operational. If the project is approved, commercial operations are expected to commence in 2016, at an estimated cost of approximately $1.3 billion, excluding financing costs. A

conditional use permit has been approved to allow for construction of the plant. Brunswick County would offset the expected reduction in capacity caused by the planned retirement of
coal-fired units at Chesapeake and Yorktown by 2015 primarily due to the cost of compliance with MATS.

ŸSubject to the necessary regulatory approvals, Virginia Power plans to convert Bremo Units 3 and 4 from coal to natural gas. This project would
preserve the 227 MW of capacity from the units and is expected to cost approximately $53 million, excluding financing costs. The conversion process is expected to be complete in 2014 in compliance with the Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center air
permit.

The Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center located in Wise County, Virginia started commercial
operations in July 2012. The summer capacity of this clean coal generating facility is approximately 600 MW. The project cost was approximately $1.8 billion, excluding financing and supplemental costs.

In addition to the projects above, Virginia Power is considering the construction of a third nuclear unit at a site located at North Anna.
See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on this project.

Dominion Generation Operating
Segment—Dominion

The generation capacity of Dominion’s merchant fleet totals 7,880 MW, including 3,954 MW of announced planned
facility divestitures and decommissionings. The remaining generation mix is diversified and includes nuclear, gas, and renewables. Merchant generation facilities are located in Connecticut, Indiana, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and West Virginia with
a majority of that capacity concentrated in New England.

Dominion continually reviews its portfolio of assets to determine
which assets fit strategically and support its objectives to improve ROIC and shareholder value. In connection with these efforts, previously Dominion had announced its intention to retire State Line and Salem Harbor. During the second quarter of
2012, Dominion sold State Line, which ceased operations in March 2012, and in August 2012, Dominion completed the sale of Salem Harbor. In the third quarter of 2012, Dominion announced its intention to pursue the sale of its coal-fired merchant
power stations, Brayton Point and Kincaid, and its 50% equity method investment in Elwood. In April 2011, Dominion announced the decision to pursue the sale of Kewaunee. In the fourth quarter of 2012, Dominion announced plans to close and
decommission Kewaunee after the company was unable to find a buyer for the nuclear facility. Kewaunee is expected to cease power production in the second quarter of 2013 and commence decommissioning activities.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Dominion Generation
uses a variety of fuels to power its electric generation and purchases power for utility system load requirements and to satisfy physical forward sale requirements, as described below. Some of these agreements have fixed commitments and are included
as contractual obligations inFuture Cash Payments for Contractual Obligations and Planned Capital Expendituresin Item 7. MD&A.













Nuclear Fuel—Dominion Generation primarily utilizes long-term contracts to
support its nuclear fuel requirements. Worldwide market conditions are continuously evaluated to ensure a range of supply options at reasonable prices which are dependent on the market environment. Current agreements, inventories and spot market
availability are expected to support current and planned fuel supply needs. Additional fuel is purchased as required to ensure optimal cost and inventory levels.

Fossil Fuel—Dominion Generation primarily utilizes coal and natural gas in its fossil fuel plants.

Dominion Generation’s coal supply is obtained through long-term contracts and short-term spot agreements from both domestic and international suppliers.

Dominion Generation’s natural gas and oil supply is obtained from various sources including: purchases from major and independent
producers in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions, purchases from local producers in the Appalachian area, purchases from gas marketers and withdrawals from underground storage fields owned by Dominion or third parties.

Dominion Generation manages a portfolio of natural gas transportation contracts (capacity) that allows flexibility in delivering natural
gas to its gas turbine fleet, while minimizing costs.

Purchased Power—Dominion Generation purchases electricity
from the PJM spot market and through power purchase agreements with other suppliers to provide for utility system load requirements.

Dominion Generation also occasionally purchases electricity from the PJM, ISO-NE and MISO spot markets to satisfy physical forward sale requirements as part of its merchant generation operations.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Virginia Power

Presented below is a summary of Virginia Power’s actual system output by energy source:



Source201220112010Nuclear(1)33%28%28%Purchased power, net273329Coal(2)222631Natural gas171210Other(3)112Total100%100%100%



(1)Excludes ODEC’s 11.6% ownership interest in North Anna.

(2)Excludes ODEC’s 50.0% ownership interest in the Clover power station. The average cost of coal for 2012 Virginia in-system generation was $33.00 per MWh.

(3)Includes oil, hydro and biomass.

SEASONALITY

Sales of
electricity for Dominion Generation typically vary seasonally as a result of the impact of changes in temperature and the availability of alternative sources for heating on demand by residential and commercial customers. Generally, the demand for
electricity peaks during the summer and winter months to meet cooling and heating needs. An increase in heating degree days does not produce the same increase in revenue as an increase in cooling degree days, due to seasonal pricing differentials at
Virginia Power and because alternative heating sources are more readily available.

NUCLEARDECOMMISSIONING

In June 2011, the NRC amended its regulations to improve decommissioning planning. As applied to the operators of nuclear power plants, these
amendments require licensees to conduct operations in a manner minimizing introduction of residual radioactivity into the site, perform additional surveys, and maintain records of their results. In addition, the amendments make minor
changes to financial assurance methods and require additional information on decommissioning and spent fuel management costs after a plant permanently ceases operations. The revised regulations became effective in December 2012 and did not
significantly affect the decommissioning cost estimates or funding for Dominion’s or Virginia Power’s units.

Dominion Generation
Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Virginia Power has a total of four licensed, operating nuclear reactors at Surry and
North Anna in Virginia.

Decommissioning involves the decontamination and removal of radioactive contaminants from a nuclear
power station once operations have ceased, in accordance with standards established by the NRC. Amounts collected from ratepayers and placed into trusts have been invested to fund the expected future costs of decommissioning the Surry and North Anna
units.

Virginia Power believes that the decommissioning funds and their expected earnings for the Surry and North Anna units
will be sufficient to cover expected decommissioning costs, particularly when combined with future ratepayer collections and contributions to these decommissioning trusts, if such future collections and contributions are required. This reflects the
long-term investment horizon, since the units will not be decommissioned for decades, and a positive long-term outlook for trust fund investment returns. Virginia Power will continue to monitor these trusts to ensure they meet the NRC minimum
financial assurance requirement, which may include the use of parent company guarantees, surety bonding or other financial guarantees recognized by the NRC.

The estimated cost to decommission Virginia Power’s four nuclear units is reflected in the table below and is primarily based upon site-specific studies completed in 2009. These cost studies are
generally completed every four years. The current cost estimates assume decommissioning activities will begin shortly after cessation of operations, which will occur when the operating licenses expire. Virginia Power expects to decommission the
Surry and North Anna units during the period 2032 to 2067.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

In addition to the four nuclear units discussed above, Dominion has three licensed, operating nuclear reactors, two at Millstone in Connecticut and one at
Kewaunee in Wisconsin. A third Millstone unit ceased operations before Dominion acquired the power station. In October 2012, Dominion announced that it plans to cease operations at Kewaunee in 2013 and commence decommissioning activities using the
SAFSTOR methodology. The planned decommissioning completion date is 2073, which is within the NRC allowed 60 year window.

As
part of Dominion’s acquisition of both Millstone and Kewaunee, it acquired decommissioning funds for the related units. Any funds remaining in Kewaunee’s trust after
decom-













missioning is completed are required to be refunded to Wisconsin ratepayers. Dominion believes that the amounts currently available in the decommissioning trusts and their expected earnings will
be sufficient to cover expected decommissioning costs for the Millstone and Kewaunee units. Dominion will continue to monitor these trusts to ensure they meet the NRC financial assurance requirements, which may include, if needed, the use of parent
company guarantees, surety bonding or other financial guarantees recognized by the NRC. The estimated cost to decommission Dominion’s eight units is reflected in the table below and is primarily based upon site-specific studies completed in
2009, with the exception of Kewaunee for which a site-specific study was initiated in 2012 and subsequently finalized in early 2013. For the Millstone operating units, the current cost estimate assumes decommissioning activities will begin shortly
after cessation of operations, which will occur when the operating licenses expire. Millstone Unit 1 is in SAFSTOR decommissioning status and will continue to be monitored until full decommissioning activities begin for the remaining Millstone
operating units. Dominion expects to start minor decommissioning activities at Millstone Unit 2 in 2035, with full decommissioning of Millstone Units 1, 2 and 3 following the permanent cessation of operations of Millstone Unit 3 during the period
2045 to 2069.

The estimated decommissioning costs and license expiration dates for the nuclear units owned by Dominion and
Virginia Power are shown in the following table:



NRClicenseexpirationyearMostrecentcostestimate(2012dollars)(1)Funds intrusts atDecember 31,20122012contributionsto trusts(dollars in millions)SurryUnit 12032$496$429$0.6Unit 220335204220.6North AnnaUnit 1(2)20384323420.4Unit
2(2)20404433220.3Total (Virginia Power)1,8911,5151.9MillstoneUnit 1(3)n/a455356—Unit 22035568444—Unit 3(4)2045671437—Kewaunee—Unit 12033666578—Total (Dominion)$4,251$3,330$1.9



(1)The cost estimates shown above reflect reductions for the expected future recovery of certain spent fuel costs based on the Companies’ contracts with the DOE
for disposal of spent nuclear fuel consistent with the reductions reflected in Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s nuclear decommissioning AROs.

(2)North Anna is jointly owned by Virginia Power (88.4%) and ODEC (11.6%). However, Virginia Power is responsible for 89.26% of the decommissioning obligation. Amounts
reflect 89.26% of the decommissioning cost for both of North Anna’s units.

(3)Unit 1 permanently ceased operations in 1998, before Dominion’s acquisition of Millstone.

(4)Millstone Unit 3 is jointly owned by Dominion Nuclear Connecticut, with a 6.53% undivided interest in Unit 3 owned by Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric
Company and Green Mountain Power Corporation. Decommissioning cost is shown at Dominion’s ownership percentage. At December 31, 2012, the minority owners held approximately $28 million of trust funds related to Millstone Unit 3 that are not
reflected in the table above.

Also see Note 14 and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information about AROs and nuclear decommissioning, respectively.

Dominion Energy

Dominion Energy includes Dominion’s regulated natural gas distribution companies, regulated gas transmission pipeline and storage operations, natural gas gathering and by-products extraction
activities, regulated LNG operations and its investment in the Blue Racer joint venture. Dominion Energy also includes producer services, which aggregates natural gas supply, engages in natural gas trading and marketing activities and natural gas
supply management and provides price risk management services to Dominion affiliates.

The gas transmission pipeline and
storage business serves gas distribution businesses and other customers in the Northeast, mid-Atlantic and Midwest. Included in Dominion’s gas transmission pipeline and storage business is its gas gathering and extraction activity, which sells
extracted products at market rates. Dominion’s LNG operations involve the import and storage of LNG at Cove Point and the transportation of regasified LNG to the interstate pipeline grid and mid-Atlantic and Northeast markets. In connection
with the recent increase in Eastern U.S. natural gas production, including from the Marcellus and Utica Shale formations, Dominion has requested regulatory authority to operate Cove Point as a bi-directional facility, able to import LNG, and
vaporize it as natural gas, and liquefy natural gas and export it as LNG. SeeFuture Issues and Other Mattersin MD&A for more information. The Blue Racer joint venture will concentrate on building new gathering, processing, fractionation
and NGL transportation assets as the development of the Utica Shale formation increases. Dominion will contribute to the joint venture a network of wet gas gathering assets, the Natrium extraction plant and other assets.

Revenue provided by Dominion’s regulated gas transmission and storage and LNG operations is based primarily on rates established by
FERC. Additionally, Dominion receives revenue from firm fee-based contractual arrangements, including negotiated rates, for certain gas transportation, gas storage, LNG storage and regasification services. Dominion’s gas distribution operations
serve residential, commercial and industrial gas sales, transportation and gathering service customers. Revenue provided by its gas distribution operations is based primarily on rates established by the Ohio and West Virginia Commissions. The
profitability of these businesses is dependent on Dominion’s ability, through the rates it is permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable return on its capital investments. Variability in earnings results from operating and
maintenance expenditures, as well as changes in rates and the demand for services, which are dependent on weather, changes in commodity prices and the economy.

In October 2008, East Ohio implemented a rate case settlement which provided for a straight-fixed-variable rate design for a majority of its customers. Under this rate design, East Ohio recovers a larger
portion of its fixed operating costs through a flat monthly charge accompanied by a reduced volumetric base delivery rate. Accordingly, East Ohio’s revenue is less impacted by weather-related fluctuations in natural gas consumption than under
the traditional rate design.















Earnings from Dominion Energy’s producer services business are unregulated, and are
subject to variability associated with changes in commodity prices. Producer services uses physical and financial arrangements to hedge this price risk.

COMPETITION

Dominion Energy’s gas transmission operations compete with
domestic and Canadian pipeline companies. Dominion also competes with gas marketers seeking to provide or arrange transportation, storage and other services. Alternative energy sources, such as oil or coal, provide another level of competition.
Although competition is based primarily on price, the array of services that can be provided to customers is also an important factor. The combination of capacity rights held on certain long-line pipelines, a large storage capability and the
availability of numerous receipt and delivery points along its own pipeline system enable Dominion to tailor its services to meet the needs of individual customers.

Retail competition for gas supply exists to varying degrees in the two states in which Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiaries operate. In Ohio, there has been no legislation enacted to require
supplier choice for residential natural gas consumers. However, Dominion has offered an Energy Choice program to residential and commercial customers since October 2000. In January 2013, the Ohio Commission granted East Ohio’s motion to fully
exit the merchant function for its nonresidential customers, beginning in April 2013, which will require those customers to choose a retail supplier or be assigned to one at a monthly variable rate set by the supplier. At December 31, 2012,
approximately 1 million of Dominion’s 1.2 million Ohio customers were participating in this Energy Choice Program. West Virginia does not require customers to choose their provider in its retail natural gas markets at this time. SeeRegulation-State Regulations-Gasfor additional information.

REGULATION

Dominion Energy’s natural gas transmission pipeline, storage and LNG operations are regulated primarily by FERC. Dominion Energy’s gas
distribution service, including the rates that it may charge customers, is regulated by the Ohio and West Virginia Commissions. SeeState RegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationfor more information.

PROPERTIES

Dominion
Energy’s gas distribution network is located in the states of Ohio and West Virginia. This network involves approximately 21,800 miles of pipe, exclusive of service lines of two inches in diameter or less. The rights-of-way grants for many
natural gas pipelines have been obtained from the actual owners of real estate, as underlying titles have been examined. Where rights-of-way have not been obtained, they could be acquired from private owners by condemnation, if necessary. Many
natural gas pipelines are on publicly-owned property, where company rights and actions are determined on a case-by-case basis, with results that range from reimbursed relocation to revocation of permission to operate.

Dominion Energy has approximately 11,000 miles of gas transmission, gathering and storage pipelines located in the states of Maryland, New
York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia. Dominion Energy operates gas processing and fractionation facilities in West Virginia with a total processing capacity of

267,000 mcf per day and fractionation capacity of 582,000 gallons per day. Dominion Energy also operates 20 underground gas storage fields located in New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania and West
Virginia, with almost 2,000 storage wells and approximately 349,000 acres of operated leaseholds.

The total designed capacity
of the underground storage fields operated by Dominion Energy is approximately 947 bcf. Certain storage fields are jointly-owned and operated by Dominion Energy. The capacity of those fields owned by Dominion’s partners totals about 242 bcf.
Dominion Energy also has about 15 bcf of above-ground storage capacity at Cove Point. Dominion Energy has 133 compressor stations with more than 832,000 installed compressor horsepower.

In 2012, DTI completed the Gathering Enhancement Project, a $200 million expansion of its natural gas gathering, processing and liquids
facilities in West Virginia. The project is designed to increase the efficiency and reduce high pressures in its gathering system, thus increasing the amount of natural gas local producers can move through DTI’s West Virginia system.

In September 2012, DTI completed the $575 million Appalachian Gateway Project. The project provides approximately 484,000
dekatherms per day of firm transportation services for new Appalachian gas supplies in West Virginia and southwestern Pennsylvania to an interconnection with Texas Eastern Transmission, LP at Oakford, Pennsylvania.

In November 2012, DTI completed the $97 million Northeast Expansion Project. The project provides approximately 200,000 dekatherms per day
of firm transportation services for CONSOL’s Marcellus Shale natural gas production from various receipt points in central and southwestern Pennsylvania to a nexus of market pipelines and storage facilities in Leidy, Pennsylvania.

In November 2012, DTI completed the $46 million Ellisburg-to-Craigs project. The project’s capacity of approximately 150,000
dekatherms per day is leased by TGP to move Marcellus Shale natural gas supplies from TGP’s 300 Line pipeline system in northern Pennsylvania to its 200 Line pipeline system in upstate New York.

In November 2011, DTI filed a FERC application for approval to construct the $17 million Sabinsville-to-Morrisville project, a pipeline to
move additional Marcellus supplies from a TGP pipeline in northeast Pennsylvania to its line in upstate New York. DTI executed a binding precedent agreement with TGP in October 2010 to provide this firm transportation service up to 92,000 dekatherms
per day for a 14-year term. Construction is expected to commence in April 2013 with an expected in service date of November 2013.

In December 2012, DTI received FERC authorization for the Allegheny Storage Project, which is expected to provide approximately 7.5 bcf of incremental storage service and 125,000 dekatherms per day of
associated year-round firm transportation service to three local distribution companies under 15-year contracts. Storage capacity for the project will be provided from storage pool enhancements at DTI and capacity leased from East Ohio. DTI intends
to construct additional compression facilities and upgrade measurement and regulation in order to provide 115,000 dekatherms per day of transportation service. The remaining 10,000 dekatherms per day of transportation service will not require
construction of additional facilities. The $112 million project is expected to be in service in 2014.













In February 2011, DTI concluded a binding open season for its $67 million Tioga Area
Expansion Project, which is designed to provide approximately 270,000 dekatherms per day of firm transportation service from supply interconnects in Tioga and Potter Counties in Pennsylvania to DTI’s Crayne interconnect with Texas Eastern
Transmission, LP in Greene County, Pennsylvania and the Leidy interconnect with Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company in Clinton County, Pennsylvania. Two customers have contracted for the service under 15-year terms. DTI filed a certificate
application with FERC in November 2011. Subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals, the project is anticipated to be in service in November 2013.

In January 2011, Dominion announced the development of a natural gas processing and fractionation facility in Natrium, West Virginia, and in July 2011 it executed a contract for the construction of the
first phase of the facility. This first phase of the project is fully contracted and is expected to be in service by March 2013. Once completed, the plant and related facilities are expected to be contributed into the Blue Racer joint venture.
The Phase 1 costs for processing, fractionation, plant inlet and outlet natural gas transportation, gathering, and various modes of NGL transportation are approximately $550 million.

In May 2012, Dominion began construction of a $125 million pipeline project, which is included in the Natrium cost estimate above. The
pipeline is designed to transport approximately 27,000 barrels per day of ethane from the Natrium facility to an interconnect with the ATEX line of Enterprise near Follansbee, West Virginia. Dominion NGL Pipelines, LLC, a subsidiary of Dominion,
owns the 58-mile pipeline and associated equipment. Following the installation of the pipeline and the satisfaction of certain other conditions, Dominion NGL Pipelines, LLC is also expected to be contributed to Blue Racer. The facilities are
anticipated to be available the later of January 1, 2014 or the date Enterprise commences operation of the ATEX line. Transportation services on the pipeline will be subject to FERC regulation under the Interstate Commerce Act.

In November 2012, DTI filed a FERC application for approval to construct the $42 million Natrium to Market project. The project is
designed to provide 185,000 dekatherms per day of firm transportation from an interconnect between DTI and the Natrium facility to DTI’s interconnect with Texas Eastern Transmission, LP in Greene County Pennsylvania. Four customers have entered
into binding precedent agreements for the full project capacity under 8-year and 13-year terms. Subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals, the project is anticipated to be in service in November 2014.

In 2008, East Ohio began PIR, aimed at replacing approximately 20% of its pipeline system. The $2.7 billion, 25-year program is ongoing.
See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about PIR.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

Dominion Energy’s natural gas supply is obtained from various sources including purchases
from major and independent producers in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions, local producers in the Appalachian area and gas marketers. Dominion’s large underground natural gas storage network and the location of its pipeline system are a
significant link between the country’s major interstate gas pipelines and large markets in the Northeast

and mid-Atlantic regions. Dominion’s pipelines are part of an interconnected gas transmission system, which provides access to supplies nationwide for local distribution companies,
marketers, power generators and industrial and commercial customers.

Dominion’s underground storage facilities play an
important part in balancing gas supply with consumer demand and are essential to serving the Northeast, mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions. In addition, storage capacity is an important element in the effective management of both gas supply and
pipeline transmission capacity.

SEASONALITY

Dominion Energy’s natural gas distribution business earnings vary seasonally, as a result of the impact of changes in temperature on demand by residential and commercial customers for gas to meet
heating needs. Historically, the majority of these earnings have been generated during the heating season, which is generally from November to March; however implementation of the straight-fixed-variable rate design at East Ohio has reduced the
earnings impact of weather-related fluctuations. Demand for services at Dominion’s pipeline and storage business can also be weather sensitive. Commodity prices can be impacted by seasonal weather changes, the effects of unusual weather events
on operations and the economy. Dominion’s producer services business is affected by seasonal changes in the prices of commodities that it transports, stores and actively markets and trades.

Corporate and Other

Corporate and Other
Segment—Virginia Power

Virginia Power’s Corporate and Other segment primarily includes certain specific items attributable to
its operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

Corporate and Other Segment—Dominion

Dominion’s Corporate and Other segment
includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) and the net impact of operations that are expected to be and are currently discontinued, which is discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion’s operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating
resources among the segments.





ENVIRONMENTALSTRATEGY

Dominion and Virginia Power are committed to being good environmental stewards. Their ongoing objective is to provide reliable, affordable energy for their customers while being environmentally
responsible. The integrated strategy to meet this objective consists of five major elements:

ŸCompliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules;

ŸConservation and load management;

ŸRenewable generation development;

ŸOther generation development to maintain fuel diversity, including clean coal, advanced nuclear energy, and natural gas; and

ŸImprovements in other energy infrastructure.













This strategy incorporates Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s efforts to voluntarily
reduce GHG emissions, which are described below. SeeDominion Generation—Propertiesfor more information on certain of the projects described below, as well as other projects under current development. In addition to the environmental
strategy described above, Dominion formed the AES department in April 2009 to conduct research in the renewable and alternative energy technologies sector and to support strategic investments to advance Dominion’s degree of understanding of
such technologies.

Environmental Compliance

Dominion and Virginia Power remain committed to compliance with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules related to their operations. Additional information related to Dominion’s and
Virginia Power’s environmental compliance matters can be found inFuture Issues and Other Mattersin Item 7. MD&A and in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Conservation and Load Management

Conservation plays a significant role in meeting the growing demand
for electricity. The Regulation Act provides incentives for energy conservation and sets a voluntary goal for Virginia to reduce electricity consumption by retail customers in 2022 by ten percent of the amount consumed in 2006 through the
implementation of conservation programs. Legislation in 2009 added definitions of peak-shaving and energy efficiency programs, and allowed for a margin on operating expenses and revenue reductions related to energy efficiency programs.

Virginia Power’s DSM programs provide important incremental steps toward achieving the voluntary ten percent energy conservation
goal. The conservation and load management plan includes the following DSM programs, which were approved by the Virginia Commission in March 2010 and rolled out in May 2010:

ŸResidential Lighting Program—an instant, in-store discount on the purchase of qualifying compact fluorescent lights; this program ended in
Virginia on December 31, 2011;

ŸResidential Low Income Program—free energy audit for income-qualifying customers, which identifies, installs improvements and suggests additional
implementation measures that will help these customers save money on energy bills;

ŸResidential Air Conditioner Cycling Program—incentives for residential customers who allow Virginia Power to cycle their central air conditioners
and heat pump systems during peak periods;

ŸCommercial Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning Upgrade Program—incentives for commercial customers to improve the energy efficiency of their
heating and/or cooling units; and

ŸCommercial Lighting Program—incentives for commercial customers to install energy-efficient lighting.

In September 2011, Virginia Power filed an application for approval of several DSM programs and for additional funding for the approved
Commercial Lighting and Commercial Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning Upgrade programs, in addition to requesting annual recovery of DSM program costs. In April 2012, the Virginia Commission approved the following programs:

ŸCommercial Energy Audit Program—an on-site energy audit providing commercial customers information to evaluate potential energy cost savings
options;

ŸCommercial Duct Testing & Sealing—an incentive for commercial customers to seal duct and air distribution systems to improve system
efficiency;

ŸCommercial Distributed Generation—a program for customers to operate their on-site back-up generators when requested by Virginia Power during
periods of peak demand; and

ŸResidential Bundle Program—a bundle of four residential programs to be available to qualifying residential customers, including the Residential
Home Energy Check-up Program, Residential Duct Testing & Sealing Program, Residential Heat Pump Tune-Up Program and Residential Heat Pump Upgrade Program.

The Virginia Commission denied additional funding for the Commercial Lighting and Commercial Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning
Upgrade programs. As a result, Virginia Power began winding down these programs in the second quarter of 2012. These two programs are no longer available in Virginia.

In August 2012, Virginia Power filed an application for approval to extend two residential DSM programs (the Air Conditioner Cycling program and the Low Income program) beyond April 30, 2013 for periods
of five years and two years, respectively. Virginia Power also filed for approval of updated rate adjustment clauses for DSM program cost recovery, and for Electric Vehicle Pilot Program cost recovery. This case is pending.

In September 2010, Virginia Power filed with the North Carolina Commission an application for approval and its initial request for cost
recovery of the five DSM programs initially approved in Virginia in 2010, as well as the distributed generation program. In February 2011, the North Carolina Commission approved the five DSM programs approved in Virginia, and Virginia Power
subsequently launched the residential lighting program in May 2011 and the remainder of the approved Virginia DSM programs in June 2011. The Residential Lighting Program ended in North Carolina on December 31, 2011. In a separate order issued in
September of 2011, the North Carolina Commission denied approval of Virginia Power’s proposed distributed generation program.

In August 2011, Virginia Power filed with the North Carolina Commission an application for approval and its updated request for cost recovery of the five DSM programs approved in North Carolina, as well
as the then-pending distributed generation program. In December 2011, the North Carolina Commission approved updated cost recovery for the five DSM programs, as Virginia Power withdrew its cost recovery request for the distributed generation
program. In a separate order issued in August 2012, the North Carolina Commission approved Virginia Power’s request to suspend the Commercial Lighting and Commercial Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning Upgrade programs which had been
wound down and closed in Virginia.

In August 2012, Virginia Power filed with the North Carolina Commission an application for
approval and its updated request for cost recovery for the five DSM programs approved in North Carolina, as well as cost recovery for projected costs of Commercial Lighting and Commercial Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning Upgrade programs on
a North Carolina-only basis. In December 2012, the North Carolina Commission approved updated cost recovery for the five DSM programs, and requested an additional filing on whether the Commercial Lighting and the













Commercial Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning Upgrade programs will be offered on a North Carolina-only basis. Virginia Power made this additional filing in February 2013.

Virginia Power continues to evaluate opportunities to redesign current DSM programs and develop new DSM initiatives in Virginia and North
Carolina.

Virginia Power is currently evaluating the effectiveness and benefits of installing AMI meters on homes and
businesses throughout Virginia. The AMI meter demonstrations test the effectiveness of AMI meters in achieving voltage conservation, remotely turning off and on electric service, power outage and restoration detection and reporting, remote daily
meter readings and offering dynamic rates. The AMI meter demonstrations are an on-going project that will help Virginia Power to further evaluate the technology and verify the potential impacts to its system.

Renewable Generation

Dominion has invested in wind energy through two
joint ventures. Dominion is a 50% owner with Shell of NedPower. Dominion’s share of this project produces 132 MW of renewable energy. Dominion is also a 50% owner with BP of the first phase of Fowler Ridge, which has a generating capacity of
300 MW. Dominion has a long-term agreement with Fowler Ridge to purchase 200 MW of energy, capacity and environmental attributes from this first phase.

See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Other Generation
Development

Virginia Power has announced a comprehensive generation growth program, referred to asPowering Virginia, which
involves the development, financing, construction and operation of new

multi-fuel, multi-technology generation capacity to meet the anticipated growth in demand in its core market of Virginia. Virginia Power expects that these investments collectively will provide
the following benefits: expanded electricity production capability, increased technological and fuel diversity and a reduction in the CO2emission intensity of its generation fleet.

Improvements in Other Energy Infrastructure

Virginia Power’s five-year investment plan includes
significant capital expenditures to upgrade or add new transmission and distribution lines, substations and other facilities to meet growing electricity demand within its service territory and maintain reliability. These enhancements are primarily
aimed at meeting Virginia Power’s continued goal of providing reliable service, and are intended to address both continued population growth and increases in electricity consumption by the typical consumer. An additional benefit will be added
capacity to efficiently deliver electricity from the renewable projects now being developed or to be developed in the future.

Virginia Power is taking measures to ensure that its electrical infrastructure can support the expected demand from electric vehicles,
which have significantly lower carbon intensity than conventional vehicles. Virginia Power has partnered with Ford Motor Company to help prepare Virginia for the operation of electric vehicles, in a collaboration that involves consumer outreach,
educational programs and the exchange of information on vehicle charging requirements. In July 2011, the Virginia Commission approved Virginia Power’s application to establish an Electric Vehicle Pilot Program, including two experimental and
voluntary electric vehicle rate options.

Dominion, in connection with its five-year growth plan, is also pursuing the
construction or upgrade of regulated infrastructure in its natural gas business.

Dominion and Virginia Power’s Strategy for Voluntarily Reducing
GHG Emissions

While Dominion and Virginia Power have not established a standalone GHG emissions reduction target or timetable, they are
actively engaged in voluntary reduction efforts, as well as working toward achieving required RPS standards established by existing state regulations, as set forth above. The Companies have an integrated voluntary strategy for reducing overall GHG
emission intensity that is based on maintaining a diverse fuel mix, including nuclear, coal, gas, oil, hydro and renewable energy, investing in renewable energy projects and promoting energy conservation and efficiency efforts. Below are some of the
Companies’ efforts that have or are expected to reduce the Companies’ overall carbon emissions or intensity:

ŸSince 2000, Dominion has added approximately 3,300 MW of non-emitting generation and over 5,000 MW of lower-emitting natural gas-fired generation,
including over 3,000 MW at Virginia Power, to its generation mix.

ŸVirginia Power added 83 MW of renewable biomass and is converting three coal-fired power stations to biomass, which is anticipated to be considered
carbon neutral by regulatory agencies.

ŸVirginia Power has requested approval from the Virginia Commission to convert Bremo Units 3 and 4 from coal to natural gas.













ŸDominion has over 800 MW of wind energy in operation or development.

ŸVirginia Power is constructing the natural gas-fired Warren County power station.

ŸVirginia Power has filed an application with the Virginia Commission for approval to construct an additional combined-cycle natural gas-fired power
station and related transmission interconnection facilities in Brunswick County.

ŸVirginia Power has stated that coal-fired units at Chesapeake and Yorktown are planned to be retired by 2015.

ŸVirginia Power has received an Early Site Permit from the NRC for the possible addition of approximately 1,500 MW of nuclear generation in Virginia.
Virginia Power has not yet committed to building a new nuclear unit.

ŸVirginia Power has developed and implemented the DSM programs described above.

ŸVirginia Power has initiated a demonstration of smart grid technologies as described above.

ŸIn October 2011, Virginia Power announced plans to develop a community solar power program.

ŸIn 2012, Dominion sold Salem Harbor and State Line, two coal-and fuel oil-fired facilities.

ŸIn the third quarter of 2012, Dominion announced its intention to pursue the sale of its coal-fired merchant power stations, Brayton Point and Kincaid.

ŸIn December 2012, Dominion announced its plans to develop a 15 MW fuel cell power generating facility in Bridgeport, Connecticut.

While Virginia Power’s new Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center, which started
commercial operations in July 2012, is a new source of GHG emissions, Virginia Power has taken steps to minimize the impact on the environment. The new plant is expected to use at least 10% biomass for fuel and is designed to be carbon-capture
compatible, meaning that technology to capture CO2can be
added to the station if or when it becomes commercially available. It is currently estimated that the Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center will have the potential to emit about 4.8 million metric tonnes of direct CO2emissions in a year assuming a 100% capacity factor and 100% coal-fired
operation. Actual emissions will depend on the capacity factor of the facility and the extent to which biomass is burned.

Dominion also developed a comprehensive GHG inventory for calendar year 2011. For Dominion Generation, Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s direct CO2equivalent emissions, based on equity share (ownership), were
approximately 42.1 million metric tonnes and 25.9 million metric tonnes, respectively, in 2011. The decrease in emissions from 2010 to 2011 is proportional to a decrease in generated MW, due mainly to lower demand and milder weather in
2011. For the DVP operating segment’s electric transmission and distribution operations, direct CO2equivalent emissions for 2011 stayed the same as in 2010 at 0.2 million metric tonnes. For 2011, DTI’s (including Cove Point) direct CO2equivalent emissions were approximately 1.2 million metric tonnes and East Ohio’s direct CO2equivalent emissions were approximately 1.1 million metric tonnes.
The emissions appear to have decreased significantly compared to previous year’s inventories. These differences may not be comparable, however, due to a change in calculation methodologies required under the

EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule, 40 CFR Part 98. Dominion’s GHG inventory now follows all methodologies specified in the EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule, 40 CFR Part
98 for calculating emissions.

Since 2000, the Companies have tracked the emissions of their electric
generation fleet. Their electric generation fleet employs a mix of fuel and renewable energy sources. Comparing annual year 2000 to annual year 2011, Dominion and Virginia Power’s electric generating fleet (based on ownership percentage)
reduced their average CO2emissions rate per MWh of energy
produced from electric generation by about 29% and 18%, respectively. During such time period, the capacity of Dominion and Virginia Power’s electric generation fleet has grown. The Companies do not yet have final 2012 emissions data.

Alternative Energy Initiatives

The AES
department conducts research in the renewable and alternative energy technologies sector and supports strategic investments to advance Dominion’s degree of understanding of such technologies. AES participates in federal and state policy
development on alternative energy and identifies potential alternative energy resource and technology opportunities for Dominion’s business units. For example, in December 2012, Virginia Power was selected by the DOE to begin negotiations
for initial engineering, design and permitting work for a wind turbine demonstration facility approximately 24 miles off the coast of Virginia. The proposed 12 MW grid-connected facility would generate power via two turbines mounted on
foundations driven into the ocean floor. In March 2011, Dominion issued a report evaluating high-voltage underwater transmission lines from Virginia Beach into the ocean to support multiple offshore wind farms; the first of many steps with the goal
being the development of a transmission line making offshore wind resources available to its customers. A 2010 Dominion study of its existing transmission system in eastern Virginia showed that it is possible to interconnect large scale wind
facilities up to an installed capability of 4,500 MW.

In 2012, Dominion continued to enhance and refine
its EDGE®grid-side efficiency product suite. EDGE®is a modular and adaptive conservation voltage management solution enabling utilities to deploy incremental grid-side energy management that requires no behavioral
changes or purchases by end customers. In February 2013, Dominion was awarded a patent relating to the EDGE®technology.





REGULATION

Dominion and Virginia Power are subject to regulation by the
Virginia Commission, North Carolina Commission, SEC, FERC, EPA, DOE, NRC, Army Corps of Engineers and other federal, state and local authorities.













State Regulations

ELECTRIC

Virginia Power’s electric utility retail service is subject
to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission.

Virginia Power holds certificates of public
convenience and necessity which authorize it to maintain and operate its electric facilities now in operation and to sell electricity to customers. However, Virginia Power may not construct generating facilities or large capacity transmission lines
without the prior approval of various state and federal government agencies. In addition, the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission regulate Virginia Power’s transactions with affiliates, transfers of certain facilities and the
issuance of certain securities.

Electric Regulation in Virginia

In addition, the Regulation Act authorizes stand-alone rate adjustment clauses for recovery of costs for new generation
facilities or major unit modifications of existing facilities, FERC-approved transmission costs, environmental compliance, conservation and energy efficiency programs and renewable energy programs. It provides for enhanced returns on capital
expenditures relating to the construction or major modification of facilities that are nuclear-powered, clean coal/carbon capture compatible-powered, or renewable-powered, as well as conventional coal and combined-cycle
combustion turbine facilities.

Costs of fuel used for the generation of electricity, along with costs of purchased power, are recovered from customers through an annually approved fuel rider, as provided
under a separate section of the Virginia Code. Decisions of the Virginia Commission may be appealed to the Supreme Court of Virginia.

If the Virginia Commission’s future rate decisions, including actions relating to Virginia Power’s rate adjustment clause filings, differ materially from Virginia Power’s expectations, it
could adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

SeeFuture Issues and Other
Mattersin Item 7. MD&A for changes to the Regulation Act enacted in 2013.

See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information.

Electric Regulation in North Carolina

Virginia Power’s retail electric base rates in North Carolina are regulated on a cost-of-service/rate-of-return basis subject to North Carolina statutes and the rules and procedures of the North
Carolina Commission. North Carolina base rates are set by a process that allows Virginia Power to recover its operating costs and an ROIC. If retail electric earnings exceed the authorized ROE established by the North Carolina Commission,
retail electric rates may be subject to review and possible reduction by the North Carolina Commission, which may decrease Virginia Power’s future earnings. Additionally, if the North Carolina Commission does not allow recovery of costs
incurred in providing service on a timely basis, Virginia Power’s future earnings could be negatively impacted. Fuel rates are subject to revision under annual fuel cost adjustment proceedings.

Virginia Power’s transmission service rates in North Carolina are regulated by the North Carolina Commission as part of Virginia
Power’s bundled retail service to North Carolina customers.

In March 2012, Virginia Power filed an application with the North Carolina
Commission to increase base non-fuel revenues with January 1, 2013 as the proposed effective date for the permanent rate revision. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

GAS

Dominion’s gas
distribution services are regulated by the Ohio Commission and the West Virginia Commission.

Status of Competitive Retail Gas Services

Both of the states in which Dominion has gas distribution operations have considered legislation regarding a competitive deregulation of
natural gas sales at the retail level.

Ohio—Since October 2000, East Ohio has offered the Energy Choice program,
under which residential and commercial customers are encouraged to purchase gas directly from retail suppliers or through a community aggregation program. In October 2006, East Ohio restructured its commodity service by entering into gas purchase
contracts with selected suppliers at a fixed price above the NYMEX month-end settlement and passing that gas cost to customers under the Standard Service Offer program. Starting in April 2009, East Ohio buys natural gas under the Standard Service
Offer program only for customers not eligible to participate in the Energy Choice program and places













Energy Choice-eligible customers in a direct retail relationship with selected suppliers, which is designated on the customers’ bills.

In January 2013, the Ohio Commission granted East Ohio’s motion to fully exit the merchant function for its nonresidential customers,
beginning in April 2013, which will require those customers to choose a retail supplier or be assigned to one at a monthly variable rate set by the supplier. At December 31, 2012, approximately 1.0 million of Dominion’s 1.2 million Ohio
customers were participating in the Energy Choice program. Subject to the Ohio Commission’s approval, East Ohio may eventually exit the gas merchant function in Ohio entirely and have all customers select an alternate gas supplier. East Ohio
continues to be the provider of last resort in the event of default by a supplier. Large industrial customers in Ohio also source their own natural gas supplies.

West Virginia—At this time, West Virginia has not enacted legislation to require customers to choose in the retail natural gas markets served by Hope. However, the West Virginia Commission has
issued regulations to govern pooling services, one of the tools that natural gas suppliers may utilize to provide retail customers a choice in the future and has issued rules requiring competitive gas service providers to be licensed in West
Virginia.

Rates

Dominion’s gas
distribution subsidiaries are subject to regulation of rates and other aspects of their businesses by the states in which they operate—Ohio and West Virginia. When necessary, Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiaries seek general base rate
increases to recover increased operating costs and a fair return on rate base investments. Base rates are set based on the cost of service by rate class. A straight-fixed-variable rate design, in which the majority of operating costs are recovered
through a monthly charge rather than a volumetric charge, is utilized to establish rates for a majority of East Ohio’s customers pursuant to a 2008 rate case settlement. Base rates for Hope are designed primarily based on rate design
methodology in which the majority of operating costs are recovered through volumetric charges. In addition to general rate increases, Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiaries make routine separate filings with their respective state
regulatory commissions to reflect changes in the costs of purchased gas. The majority of these purchased gas costs are subject to rate recovery

through a mechanism that ensures dollar for dollar recovery of prudently incurred costs. Costs that are expected to be recovered in future rates are
deferred as regulatory assets. The purchased gas cost recovery filings generally cover prospective one-, three- or twelve-month periods. Approved increases or decreases in gas cost recovery rates result in increases or decreases in revenues with
corresponding increases or decreases in net purchased gas cost expenses. The Ohio Commission has also approved several stand-alone cost recovery mechanisms to recover specified costs and a return for infrastructure projects and certain other costs
that vary widely over time; such costs are excluded from general base rates. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Federal Regulations

FEDERALENERGYREGULATORYCOMMISSION

Electric

Under the Federal Power Act, FERC
regulates wholesale sales and transmission of electricity in interstate commerce by public utilities. Virginia Power purchases and sells electricity in the PJM wholesale market and Dominion’s merchant generators sell electricity in the PJM,
MISO and ISO-NE wholesale markets under Dominion’s market-based sales tariffs authorized by FERC. In addition, Virginia Power has FERC approval of a tariff to sell wholesale power at capped rates based on its embedded cost of generation. This
cost-based sales tariff could be used to sell to loads within or outside Virginia Power’s service territory. Any such sales would be voluntary.

Dominion and Virginia Power are subject to FERC’s Standards of Conduct that govern conduct between transmission function employees of interstate gas and electricity transmission providers and the
marketing function employees of their affiliates. The rule defines the scope of transmission and marketing-related functions that are covered by the standards and is designed to prevent transmission providers from giving their affiliates undue
preferences.

Dominion and Virginia Power are also subject to FERC’s affiliate restrictions that (1) prohibit power
sales between Virginia Power and Dominion’s merchant plants without first receiving FERC authorization, (2) require the merchant plants and Virginia Power to conduct their wholesale power sales operations separately, and (3) prohibit
Virginia Power from sharing market information with merchant plant operating personnel. The rules are designed to prohibit Virginia Power from giving the merchant plants a competitive advantage.

EPACT included provisions to create an ERO. The ERO is required to promulgate mandatory reliability standards governing the operation of
the bulk power system in the U.S. FERC has certified NERC as the ERO and also issued an initial order approving many reliability standards that went into effect in 2007. Entities that violate standards will be subject to fines of between $1 thousand
and $1 million per day, and can also be assessed non-monetary penalties, depending upon the nature and severity of the violation.

Dominion and Virginia Power plan and operate their facilities in compliance with approved NERC reliability requirements. Dominion and Virginia Power employees participate on various NERC committees, track
the development and implementation of standards, and maintain proper compliance registration with NERC’s regional organizations. Dominion and Virginia Power anticipate incurring additional compliance expenditures over the next several years as
a result of the implementation of new cybersecurity programs as well as efforts to ensure appropriate facility ratings for Virginia Power’s transmission lines. In October 2010, NERC issued an industry alert identifying possible discrepancies
between the design and actual field conditions of transmission facilities as a potential reliability issue. The alert recommends that entities review their current facilities rating methodology to verify that the methodology is based on actual field
conditions, rather than solely on design documents, and to take corrective action if necessary. Virginia Power is evaluating its transmission facilities for any discrepancies between design and













actual field conditions. In addition, NERC has requested the industry to increase the number of assets subject to NERC reliability standards that are designated as critical assets, including
cybersecurity assets. While Dominion and Virginia Power expect to incur additional compliance costs in connection with the above NERC requirements and initiatives, such expenses are not expected to significantly affect results of operations.

In April 2008, FERC granted an application for Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations to establish a
forward-looking formula rate mechanism that updates transmission rates on an annual basis and approved an ROE of 11.4%, effective as of January 1, 2008. The formula rate is designed to recover the expected revenue requirement for each calendar
year and is updated based on actual costs. The FERC-approved formula method, which is based on projected costs, allows Virginia Power to earn a current return on its growing investment in electric transmission infrastructure.

Gas

FERC regulates the transportation and sale for
resale of natural gas in interstate commerce under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, as amended. Under the Natural Gas Act, FERC has authority over rates, terms and conditions of services performed by
Dominion’s interstate natural gas company subsidiaries, including DTI and Cove Point. FERC also has jurisdiction over siting, construction and operation of natural gas import facilities and interstate natural gas pipeline facilities.

Dominion’s interstate gas transmission and storage activities are generally conducted on an open access basis, in
accordance with certificates, tariffs and service agreements on file with FERC.

Dominion is also subject to the Pipeline
Safety Acts of 2002 and 2011, which mandate inspections of interstate and intrastate natural gas transmission and storage pipelines, particularly those located in areas of high-density population. Dominion has evaluated its natural gas transmission
and storage properties, as required by the Department of Transportation regulations under these Acts, and has implemented a program of identification, testing and potential remediation activities. These activities are ongoing.

SeeFuture Issues and Other Mattersin Item 7. MD&A and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information.

Environmental Regulations

Each of Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s operating segments faces substantial laws, regulations and compliance costs with respect to
environmental matters. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations authorize the imposition of substantial penalties for noncompliance, including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions. The cost of
complying with applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules is expected to be material to the Companies. If expenditures for pollution control technologies and associated operating costs are not recoverable from customers through regulated
rates (in regulated jurisdictions) or market prices (in deregulated jurisdictions), those costs could adversely affect future results of operations and cash flows. Dominion and Virginia Power have applied for or obtained the necessary environmental
permits for the operation of their facilities. Many of these permits are subject to reissuance and continuing review. For a discussion of significant aspects of these matters, including current and planned

capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance required to be discussed in this Item, seeEnvironmental MattersinFuture Issues and Other Mattersin Item 7.
MD&A, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Additional information can also be found in Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

GLOBALCLIMATECHANGE

The national and international attention in recent years on GHG emissions and their relationship to climate change has resulted in federal, regional and state legislative or regulatory action in this
area. Dominion and Virginia Power support national climate change legislation that would provide a consistent, economy-wide approach to addressing this issue and are currently taking action to protect the environment and address climate change while
meeting the future needs of their growing service territory. Dominion’s CEO and operating segment CEOs are responsible for compliance with the laws and regulations governing environmental matters, including climate change, and Dominion’s
Board of Directors receives periodic updates on these matters. SeeEnvironmental Strategyabove, Environmental MattersinFuture Issues and Other Mattersin Item 7. MD&A and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information on climate change legislation and regulation, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Nuclear Regulatory
Commission

All aspects of the operation and maintenance of Dominion’s and Virginia Powers’ nuclear power stations are regulated
by the NRC. Operating licenses issued by the NRC are subject to revocation, suspension or modification, and the operation of a nuclear unit may be suspended if the NRC determines that the public interest, health or safety so requires.

From time to time, the NRC adopts new requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear facilities. In many cases, these new
regulations require changes in the design, operation and maintenance of existing nuclear facilities. If the NRC adopts such requirements in the future, it could result in substantial increases in the cost of operating and maintaining Dominion’s
and Virginia Power’s nuclear generating units. SeeNuclear MattersinFuture Issues and Other Mattersin Item 7 MD&A for further information.

The NRC also requires Dominion and Virginia Power to decontaminate their nuclear facilities once operations cease. This process is referred to as decommissioning, and the Companies are required by the NRC
to be financially prepared. For information on decommissioning trusts, seeDominion Generation-Nuclear Decommissioningand Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information
on spent nuclear fuel.





CYBERSECURITY

In an
effort to reduce the likelihood and severity of cyber intrusions, the Companies have a comprehensive cybersecurity program designed to protect and preserve the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data and systems. In addition, Dominion
and Virginia Power are subject to mandatory cybersecurity regulatory requirements, interface regularly with a wide range of external organizations, and participate in classified briefings to maintain an awareness of current cybersecurity threats and
vulnerabilities. The Companies’ current security posture and regulatory compliance efforts are intended to address the evolving and changing cyber threats.















