Item 1. Business

GENERAL

Dominion, headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and
incorporated in Virginia in 1983, is one of the nation’s largest producers and transporters of energy. Dominion’s strategy is to be a leading provider of electricity, natural gas and related services to customers primarily in the eastern
region of the U.S. As of December 31, 2015, Dominion’s portfolio of assets includes approximately 24,300 MW of generating capacity, 6,500 miles of electric transmission lines, 57,300 miles of electric distribution lines, 12,200 miles of
natural gas transmission, gathering and storage pipeline and 22,000 miles of gas distribution pipeline, exclusive of service lines. As of December 31, 2015, Dominion serves over 5 million utility and retail energy customers in 14 states
and operates one of the nation’s largest underground natural gas storage systems, with approximately 933 bcf of storage capacity.

In March 2014, Dominion formed Dominion Midstream, an MLP designed to grow a portfolio of natural gas terminaling, processing, storage, transportation and related assets. In October 2014, Dominion
Midstream launched its initial public offering and issued 20,125,000 common units (including 2,625,000 common units issued pursuant to the exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option) representing limited partner interests. Dominion has
recently and may continue to investigate opportunities to acquire assets that meet its strategic objective for Dominion Midstream. At December 31, 2015, Dominion owns the general partner and 64.1% of the limited partner interests in Dominion
Midstream, which owns a preferred equity interest and the general partner interest in Cove Point, DCG and a 25.93% noncontrolling partnership interest in Iroquois. Dominion Midstream is consolidated by Dominion, and is an SEC registrant. However,
its Form 10-K is filed separately and is not combined herein.

Dominion is focused on expanding its investment in regulated
electric generation, transmission and distribution and regulated natural gas transmission and distribution infrastructure. Dominion expects 80% to 90% of earnings from its primary operating segments to come from regulated and long-term contracted
businesses.

Dominion continues to expand and improve its regulated and long-term contracted electric and natural gas
businesses, in accordance with its existing five-year capital investment program. A major impetus for this program is to meet the anticipated increase in demand in its electric utility service territory. Other drivers for the capital investment
program include the construction of infrastructure to handle the increase in natural gas production from the Marcellus and Utica Shale formations, to upgrade Dominion’s gas and electric transmission and distribution networks, and to meet
environmental requirements and standards set by various regulatory bodies. Investments in utility solar generation are expected to be a focus in meeting such environmental requirements, particularly in Virginia. Blue Racer is investing in natural
gas gathering and processing assets in Ohio and West Virginia, targeting primarily the Utica Shale formation. In September 2014, Dominion announced the formation of Atlantic Coast Pipeline. Atlantic Coast Pipeline is focused on constructing an
approximately 600-mile natural gas pipeline

running from West Virginia through Virginia to North Carolina, to increase natural gas supplies in the region.

Dominion has transitioned to a more regulated, less volatile earnings mix as evidenced by its capital investments in regulated infrastructure and infrastructure whose output is sold under long-term
purchase agreements, as well as dispositions of certain merchant generation facilities during 2013 and the sale of the electric retail energy marketing business in March 2014. Dominion’s nonregulated operations include merchant generation,
energy marketing and price risk management activities and natural gas retail energy marketing operations. Dominion’s operations are conducted through various subsidiaries, including Virginia Power and Dominion Gas.

Virginia Power, headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and incorporated in Virginia in 1909 as a Virginia public service corporation,
is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion and a regulated public utility that generates, transmits and distributes electricity for sale in Virginia and North Carolina. In Virginia, Virginia Power conducts business under the name “Dominion
Virginia Power” and primarily serves retail customers. In North Carolina, it conducts business under the name “Dominion North Carolina Power” and serves retail customers located in the northeastern region of the state, excluding
certain municipalities. In addition, Virginia Power sells electricity at wholesale prices to rural electric cooperatives, municipalities and into wholesale electricity markets. All of Virginia Power’s stock is owned by Dominion.

Dominion Gas,

Amounts and
information disclosed for Dominion are inclusive of Virginia Power and/or Dominion Gas, where applicable.

















EMPLOYEES

At
December 31, 2015, Dominion had approximately 14,700 full-time employees, of which approximately 5,300 employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. At December 31, 2015, Virginia Power had approximately 6,800 full-time
employees, of which approximately 3,100 employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. At December 31, 2015, Dominion Gas had approximately 2,800 full-time employees, of which approximately 2,000 employees are subject to collective
bargaining agreements.





WHEREYOUCANFINDMOREINFORMATIONABOUTTHECOMPANIES

The Companies file their annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other
information with the SEC. Their SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document they file at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street,
N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330for further information on the public reference room.

The Companies make their SEC filings available, free of charge, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports,
through Dominion’s internet website, http://www.dom.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing the material to the SEC. Information contained on Dominion’s website is not incorporated by reference in this report.





ACQUISITIONSANDDISPOSITIONS

Following are
significant acquisitions and divestitures by the Companies during the last five years.

PROPOSEDACQUISITIONOFQUESTAR

Under the terms of the Questar Combination announced in February 2016, upon closing, Dominion has
agreed to pay Questar’s shareholders approximately $4.4 billion in cash as well as assume Questar’s outstanding debt. Subject to receipt of Questar shareholder and any required regulatory approvals and meeting closing conditions,
Dominion targets closing by the end of 2016. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements andLiquidity and Capital Resourcesin Item 7. MD&A for additional information.

ACQUISITIONOFWHOLLY-OWNEDMERCHANTSOLARPROJECTS

Throughout 2015, Dominion completed the acquisition of various wholly-owned merchant solar projects in California and Virginia for $381 million. The
projects are expected to cost approximately $588 million to construct, including the initial acquisition cost, and are expected to generate approximately 182 MW.

Throughout 2014, Dominion completed the acquisition of various wholly-owned solar development projects in California for $200 million. The projects cost $578 million to construct, including the initial
acquisition cost, and generate approximately 179 MW.

See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

ACQUISITIONOFNON-WHOLLY-OWNEDMERCHANTSOLARPROJECTS

In 2015, Dominion acquired 50% of the units in Four Brothers and Three Cedars from SunEdison for $107 million. The
projects are expected to cost approximately $1.2 billion to construct, including the initial acquisition cost. The facilities are expected to begin commercial operations in the third quarter of 2016, generating approximately 530 MW. See Note 3 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

SALEOFINTERESTINMERCHANTSOLARPROJECTS

In September 2015, Dominion signed an agreement to
sell a noncontrolling interest (consisting of 33% of the equity interests) in all of its then wholly-owned merchant solar projects, 24 solar projects totaling approximately 425 MW, to SunEdison for approximately $300 million. In December 2015, the
sale of interest in 15 of the solar projects closed for $184 million with the sale of interest in the remaining projects completed in January 2016. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

DOMINIONMIDSTREAMACQUISITIONOFINTERESTINIROQUOIS

In September 2015, Dominion Midstream acquired from NG and NJNR a 25.93% noncontrolling partnership interest in
Iroquois. The investment was recorded at $216 million based on the value of Dominion Midstream’s common units at closing. The common units issued to NG and NJNR are reflected as noncontrolling interest in Dominion’s Consolidated Financial
Statements. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

ACQUISITIONOFDCG

In January 2015, Dominion completed the acquisition of 100% of the equity interests of DCG from SCANA Corporation for $497 million in
cash, as adjusted for working capital. In April 2015, Dominion contributed DCG to Dominion Midstream. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

SALEOFELECTRICRETAILENERGYMARKETINGBUSINESS

In March 2014, Dominion completed the sale of its electric retail energy marketing business. The proceeds were $187 million, net of transaction costs. The
sale of the electric retail energy marketing business did not qualify for discontinued operations classification. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

SALEOFPIPELINESANDPIPELINESYSTEMS

In March 2014, Dominion Gas sold the Northern System to an affiliate that subsequently sold the Northern System to Blue Racer for consideration of $84
million. Dominion Gas’ consideration consisted of $17 million in cash proceeds and the extinguishment of affiliated current borrowings of $67 million and Dominion’s consideration consisted of cash proceeds of $84 million.

In September 2013, DTI sold Line TL-388 to Blue Racer for $75 million in cash proceeds.















In December 2012, East Ohio sold two pipeline systems to an affiliate for consideration of
$248 million. East Ohio’s consideration consisted of $61 million in cash proceeds and the extinguishment of affiliated long-term debt of $187 million and Dominion’s consideration consisted of a 50% interest in Blue Racer and cash proceeds
of $115 million.

See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on sales of pipelines and
pipeline systems.

ASSIGNMENTSOFSHALEDEVELOPMENTRIGHTS

In March 2015, Dominion Gas and a natural gas producer closed on an amendment to a December 2013 agreement, which included the immediate
conveyance of approximately 9,000 acres of Marcellus Shale development rights and a two-year extension of the term of the original agreement. The conveyance of development rights resulted in the recognition of $43 million of previously deferred
revenue. Also in March 2015, Dominion Gas conveyed to a natural gas producer approximately 11,000 acres of Marcellus Shale development rights underneath one of its natural gas storage fields and received proceeds of $27 million and an overriding
royalty interest in gas produced from the acreage. In September 2015, Dominion Gas closed on an agreement with a natural gas producer to convey approximately 16,000 acres of Utica and Point Pleasant Shale development rights underneath one of its
natural gas storage fields. The agreement provided for a payment to Dominion Gas, subject to customary adjustments, of $52 million and an overriding royalty interest in gas produced from the acreage.

In November 2014, Dominion Gas closed an agreement with a natural gas producer to convey over time approximately 24,000 acres of Marcellus
Shale development rights underneath one of its natural gas storage fields. The agreement provides for payments to Dominion Gas, subject to customary adjustments, of approximately $120 million over a period of four years, and an overriding royalty
interest in gas produced from the acreage.

In December 2013, Dominion Gas closed on agreements with two natural gas producers
to convey over time approximately 100,000 acres of Marcellus Shale development rights underneath several natural gas storage fields. The agreements provide for payments to Dominion Gas, subject to customary adjustments, of approximately $200 million
over a period of nine years, and overriding royalty interest in gas produced from that acreage.

See Note 10 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these sales of Marcellus acreage.

SALEOFBRAYTONPOINT, KINCAIDANDEQUITYMETHODINVESTMENTINELWOOD

In August 2013, Dominion completed the sale of Brayton Point, Kincaid and its equity method investment in Elwood to Energy Capital Partners and received
proceeds of $465 million, net of transaction costs. The historical results of Brayton Point’s and Kincaid’s operations are included in the Corporate and Other segment and presented in discontinued operations. See Note 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information.



OPERATINGSEGMENTS

Dominion manages its daily operations through three primary operating segments: DVP, Dominion Generation and Dominion Energy. Dominion also reports a Corporate and Other segment, which includes its
corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) and the net impact of operations that are discontinued, which is discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, Corporate and Other includes
specific items attributable to Dominion’s other operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

Virginia Power manages its daily operations through two primary operating segments: DVP and Dominion Generation. It also reports a
Corporate and Other segment that primarily includes specific items attributable to its operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources
among the segments.

Dominion Gas manages its daily operations through its primary operating segment: Dominion Energy. It also
reports a Corporate and Other segment that primarily includes specific items attributable to its operating segment that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segment’s performance.

While daily operations are managed through the operating segments previously discussed, assets remain wholly-owned by the Companies and
their respective legal subsidiaries.

A description of the operations included in the Companies’ primary operating
segments is as follows:



Primary OperatingSegmentDescription of OperationsDominionVirginiaPowerDominionGasDVPRegulated electric distributionXXRegulated electric transmissionXXDominion GenerationRegulated electric fleetXXMerchant electric fleetXDominion EnergyGas transmission and storageX(1)XGas distribution and storageXXGas gathering and processingXXLNG import and storageXNonregulated retailenergy marketing(2)X



(1)Includes remaining producer services activities.

(2)As a result of Dominion’s decision to realign its business units effective for 2015 year-end reporting, nonregulated retail energy marketing operations were
moved from the Dominion Generation segment to the Dominion Energy segment. See Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.















For additional financial information on operating segments, including revenues from
external customers, see Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information on operating revenue related to the Companies’ principal products and services, see Notes 2 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
which information is incorporated herein by reference.

DVP

The DVP Operating Segment of Dominion and Virginia Powerincludes Virginia Power’s regulated electric transmission and distribution (including customer service) operations, which serve
approximately 2.5 million residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers in Virginia and North Carolina.

DVP’s existing five-year investment plan includes spending approximately $7.7 billion from 2016 through 2020 to upgrade or add new transmission and distribution lines, substations and other
facilities to meet growing electricity demand within its service territory and maintain reliability. The proposed electric delivery infrastructure projects are intended to address both continued customer growth and increases in electricity
consumption by the typical consumer. In addition, data centers continue to contribute to anticipated demand growth.

Revenue
provided by electric distribution operations is based primarily on rates established by state regulatory authorities and state law. Variability in earnings is driven primarily by changes in rates, weather, customer growth and other factors impacting
consumption such as the economy and energy conservation, in addition to operating and maintenance expenditures. Operationally, electric distribution continues to focus on improving service levels while striving to reduce costs and link investments
to operational results. SAIDI performance results, excluding major events, were 120 minutes at the end of 2015, up from the three-year average of 113 minutes, due to increased weather related outages. Virginia Power’s overall customer
satisfaction, however, improved year over year when compared to its 2014 score in the South Large segment of J.D. Power and Associates’ rankings. In the future, safety, electric service reliability and customer service will remain key focus
areas for electric distribution.

Revenue provided by Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations is based primarily
on rates approved by FERC. The profitability of this business is dependent on its ability, through the rates it is permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable return on its capital investments. Variability in earnings primarily
results from changes in rates and the timing of property additions, retirements and depreciation.

Virginia Power is a member
of PJM, an RTO, and its electric transmission facilities are integrated into PJM wholesale electricity markets. Consistent with the increased authority given to NERC by EPACT, Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations are committed to
meeting NERC standards, modernizing its infrastructure and maintaining superior system reliability. Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations will continue to focus on safety, operational performance, NERC compliance and execution of
PJM’s RTEP.

COMPETITION

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

There is no competition for
electric distribution service within Virginia Power’s service territory in Virginia and North Carolina and no such competition is currently permitted. Historically, since its electric transmission facilities are integrated into PJM and electric
transmission services are administered by PJM, there was no competition in relation to transmission service provided to customers within the PJM region. However, competition from non-incumbent PJM transmission owners for development, construction
and ownership of certain transmission facilities in Virginia Power’s service territory is now permitted pursuant to FERC Order 1000, subject to state and local siting and permitting approvals. This could result in additional competition to
build transmission lines in Virginia Power’s service area in the future and could allow Dominion to seek opportunities to build facilities in other service territories.

REGULATION

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Virginia Power’s electric retail service, including the rates it may charge to jurisdictional customers, is subject to regulation by
the Virginia and North Carolina Commissions. Virginia Power’s wholesale electric transmission rates, tariffs and terms of service are subject to regulation by FERC. Electric transmission siting authority remains the jurisdiction of the Virginia
and North Carolina Commissions. However, EPACT provides FERC with certain backstop authority for transmission siting. SeeState Regulations and Federal RegulationsinRegulationand Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information, including a discussion of the February 2015 amendment to the Regulation Act and the 2015 Biennial Review Order.

PROPERTIES

DVP
Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Virginia Power has approximately 6,500 miles of electric transmission lines of 69 kV or
more located in the states of North Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia. Portions of Virginia Power’s electric transmission lines cross national parks and forests under permits entitling the federal government to use, at specified charges, any
surplus capacity that may exist in these lines. While Virginia Power owns and maintains its electric transmission facilities, they are a part of PJM, which coordinates the planning, operation, emergency assistance and exchange of capacity and energy
for such facilities.

As a part of PJM’s RTEP process, PJM authorized the following material reliability projects
(including Virginia Power’s estimated cost):

•Surry-to-Skiffes Creek-to-Whealton ($150 million);

•Dooms-to-Lexington ($112 million);

•Cunningham-to-Elmont ($106 million);

•Landstown voltage regulation ($70 million);

•Warrenton (including Remington CT-to-Warrenton, Vint Hill-to-Wheeler-to-Gainesville, and Vint Hill and Wheeler switching stations) ($105 million);















•Carolina-to-Kerr Dam ($58 million);

•Remington/Gordonsville/Pratts Area Improvement (including Remington-to-Gordonsville, and new Gordonsville substation transformer) ($104 million);

•Kings Dominion-to-Fredericksburg ($51 million); and

•Cunningham-to-Dooms ($110 million).

Over the next 5 years, Virginia Power plans to increase transmission substation physical security and to invest in a new system operations center. Virginia Power expects to invest $300 million-$400
million during that time to strengthen its electrical system to better protect critical equipment, enhance its spare equipment process and create multiple levels of security.

In addition, Virginia Power’s electric distribution network includes approximately 57,300 miles of distribution lines, exclusive of service level lines, in Virginia and North Carolina. The grants for
most of its electric lines contain rights-of-way that have been obtained from the apparent owners of real estate, but underlying titles have not been examined. Where rights-of-way have not been obtained, they could be acquired from private owners by
condemnation, if necessary. Many electric lines are on publicly-owned property, where permission to operate can be revoked.

Virginia legislation in 2014 provides for the recovery of costs, subject to approval by the Virginia Commission, for Virginia Power to
move approximately 4,000 miles of electric distribution lines underground. The program, designed to reduce restoration outage time, has an annual investment cap of approximately $175 million and is expected to be implemented over the next decade. In
December 2015, Virginia Power re-filed its application with the Virginia Commission seeking approval to place its most outage-prone overhead distribution lines underground as part of the initial phase of this program.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

DVP Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

DVP’s supply of electricity to
serve Virginia Power customers is produced or procured by Dominion Generation. SeeDominion Generationfor additional information.

SEASONALITY

DVP
Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

DVP’s earnings vary seasonally as a result of the impact of changes in
temperature, the impact of storms and other catastrophic weather events, and the availability of alternative sources for heating on demand by residential and commercial customers. Generally, the demand for electricity peaks during the summer and
winter months to meet cooling and heating needs. An increase in heating degree days for DVP’s electric utility-related operations does not produce the same increase in revenue as an increase in cooling degree days, due to seasonal pricing
differentials and because alternative heating sources are more readily available.

Dominion Generation

The Dominion Generation Operating Segment of Virginia Powerincludes the generation operations of the Virginia Power regulated electric
utility and its related energy supply operations. Virginia Power’s utility generation operations primarily serve the

supply requirements for the DVP segment’s utility customers.The Dominion Generation Operating Segment of Dominionincludes Virginia Power’s generation facilities and its
related energy supply operations as well as the generation operations of Dominion’s merchant fleet and energy marketing and price risk management activities for these assets.

Dominion Generation’s existing five-year electric utility investment plan includes spending approximately $8.0 billion from 2016
through 2020 to construct new generation capacity to meet growing electricity demand within its utility service territory and to continue to replace coal-fired generating capacity with less carbon-intensive natural gas and solar. The most
significant project currently under construction is Brunswick County, which is estimated to cost approximately $1.2 billion, excluding financing costs. SeePropertiesandEnvironmental Strategyfor additional information on this and
other utility projects.

In addition, Dominion’s merchant fleet has acquired and developed numerous renewable generation
projects, which include a fuel cell generation facility in Connecticut and solar generation facilities in California, Indiana, Georgia, Tennessee, Utah and Connecticut. The output of these facilities is sold under long-term power purchase agreements
with terms generally ranging from 15 to 25 years. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding certain solar projects.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment of Virginia Power

Electric Regulation in Virginia

Regulation

The Dominion Generation Operating Segment of Dominionderives its earnings primarily from the sale of
electricity generated by Virginia Power’s utility and Dominion’s merchant generation assets, as well as from associated capacity and ancillary services. Variability in earnings provided by Dominion’s nonrenewable merchant fleet
relates to changes in market-based prices receivedfor electricity and capacity. Market-based prices for electricity are largely dependent on commodity prices, primarily natural gas, and















the demand for electricity, which is primarily dependent uponweather. Capacity prices are dependent upon resource requirements in relation to the supply available (both existing and
new) in the forward capacity auctions, which are held approximately three years in advance of the associated delivery year. Dominion manages the electric price volatility of its merchant fleet by hedging a substantial portion of its expected
near-term energy sales with derivative instruments. Variability also results from changes in the cost of fuel consumed, labor and benefits and the timing, duration and costs of scheduled and unscheduled outages.

COMPETITION

Dominion
Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Virginia Power’s generation operations are not subject to significant
competition as only a limited number of its Virginia jurisdictional electric utility customers have retail choice. SeeRegulation-State Regulations-Electricfor more information. Currently, North Carolina does not offer retail choice to
electric customers.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

Dominion Generation’s recently acquired and developed renewable generation projects are not subject to significant competition as the output from these facilities is primarily sold under long-term
power purchase agreements with terms generally lasting between 15 and 25 years. Competition for the nonrenewable merchant fleet is impacted by electricity and fuel prices, new market entrants, construction by others of generating assets and
transmission capacity, technological advances in power generation, the actions of environmental and other regulatory authorities and other factors. These competitive factors may negatively impact the merchant fleet’s ability to profit from
the sale of electricity and related products and services.

Unlike Dominion Generation’s regulated generation fleet, its
nonrenewable merchant generation fleet is dependent on its ability to operate in a competitive environment and does not have a predetermined rate structure that provides for a rate of return on its capital investments. Dominion Generation’s
nonrenewable merchant assets operate within functioning RTOs and primarily compete on the basis of price. Competitors include other generating assets bidding to operate within the RTOs. These RTOs have clearly identified market rules that ensure the
competitive wholesale market is functioning properly. Dominion Generation’s nonrenewable merchant units compete in the wholesale market with other generators to sell a variety of products including energy, capacity and ancillary services. It is
difficult to compare various types of generation given the wide range of fuels, fuel procurement strategies, efficiencies and operating characteristics of the fleet within any given RTO. However, Dominion applies its expertise in operations,
dispatch and risk management to maximize the degree to which its nonrenewable merchant fleet is competitive compared to similar assets within the region.

REGULATION

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and
Virginia Power

Virginia Power’s utility generation fleet and Dominion’s merchant generation fleet are subject to regulation by
FERC, the

NRC, the EPA, the DOE, the Army Corps of Engineers and other federal, state and local authorities. Virginia Power’s utility generation fleet is also subject to regulation by the Virginia
Commission and the North Carolina Commission. SeeRegulation, Future Issues and Other Mattersin Item 7. MD&A and Notes 13 and 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

The Clean Power Plan and related proposed rules discussed represent a significant regulatory development affecting this segment. SeeFuture Issues and Other Mattersin Item 7. MD&A.

PROPERTIES

For a listing of Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s existing generation facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

The generation capacity of Virginia Power’s electric utility fleet totals approximately 20,000 MW. The generation mix is diversified and includes coal, nuclear, gas, oil, hydro, renewables and power
purchase agreements. Virginia Power’s generation facilities are located in Virginia, West Virginia and North Carolina and serve load in Virginia and northeastern North Carolina.

Virginia Power is developing, financing and constructing new generation capacity to meet growing electricity demand within its service
territory. Significant projects under construction or development are set forth below:

•In August 2013, the Virginia Commission authorized the construction of Brunswick County, which is estimated to cost approximately $1.2 billion,
excluding financing costs. Construction of the facility commenced in the third quarter of 2013 with commercial operations expected to begin in mid-2016. Brunswick County is expected to offset the expected reduction in capacity caused by the
retirement of coal-fired units at Chesapeake in December 2014 and at Yorktown as early as 2017, primarily due to the cost of compliance with MATS.

•Virginia Power has filed for approval to construct certain solar facilities in Virginia. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more
information.

•Virginia Power is considering the construction of a third nuclear unit at a site located at North Anna. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for more information on this project.

•The BOEM auctioned approximately 113,000 acres of federal land off the Virginia coast as a single lease for construction of offshore wind turbines.
Virginia Power was awarded the lease, effective November 1, 2013. The BOEM has several lease milestones with which Virginia Power must comply as conditions to being awarded the lease.

•Virginia Power is also considering the development of a commercial offshore wind generation project through a federal land lease off the Virginia
coast. Virginia Power and several partners are collaborating to develop a 12 MW offshore wind demonstration project, which is proposed to be located approximately 24 miles off the coast of Virginia. In May 2014, the DOE selected the Virginia
Offshore Wind Technology Advancement project as one of three projects to receive up to $47 million of follow-on funding. This project may be operational as early as the end of 2018, pending regulatory approvals.















•Subject to the receipt of certain regulatory approvals, Virginia Power plans to construct and operate Greensville County and related transmission
interconnection facilities. If the project is approved, commercial operations are expected to commence in late 2018, at an estimated cost of approximately $1.3 billion, excluding financing costs.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

The generation capacity of Dominion’s merchant fleet totals approximately 4,300 MW. The generation mix is diversified and includes nuclear, natural gas and renewables. Merchant non-renewable
generation facilities are located in Connecticut, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, with a majority of that capacity concentrated in New England. Dominion’s merchant renewable generation facilities include a fuel cell generation facility in
Connecticut, solar generation facilities in Indiana, Georgia, California, Tennessee, Utah and Connecticut, and wind generation facilities in Indiana and West Virginia. Additional solar projects under construction are as set forth below:

•In June 2015, Dominion acquired 50% of the units in Four Brothers from SunEdison for $64 million of consideration. Four Brothers’ purpose is to
develop and operate four solar projects located in Utah, which will produce and sell electricity and renewable energy credits. The projects are expected to cost approximately $730 million to construct, including the initial acquisition cost. The
facilities are expected to begin commercial operations in the third quarter of 2016, generating approximately 320 MW.

•In September 2015, Dominion acquired 50% of the units in Three Cedars from SunEdison for $43 million of consideration. Three Cedars’ purpose is to
develop and operate three solar projects located in Utah, which will produce and sell electricity and renewable energy credits. The projects are expected to cost approximately $425 million to construct. The facilities are expected to begin
commercial operations in the third quarter of 2016, generating approximately 210 MW.

•In November 2015, Dominion acquired 100% of the equity interests of the Eastern Shore Solar project in Virginia from Community Energy, Inc. for $34
million. The project is expected to cost approximately $212 million once constructed, including the initial acquisition cost. The facility is expected to begin commercial operations in October 2016 and generate approximately 80 MW.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Dominion Generation uses a variety of fuels to power its electric generation and purchases power for utility system load requirements and to satisfy physical forward sale requirements, as described below.
Some of these agreements have fixed commitments and are included as contractual obligations inFuture Cash Payments for Contractual Obligations and Planned Capital Expendituresin Item 7. MD&A.

Nuclear Fuel—Dominion Generation primarily utilizes long-term contracts to support its nuclear fuel requirements. Worldwide
market conditions are continuously evaluated to ensure a range of supply options at reasonable prices which are dependent

on the market environment. Current agreements, inventories and spot market availability are expected to support current and planned fuel supply needs. Additional fuel is purchased as required
to ensure optimal cost and inventory levels.

Fossil Fuel—Dominion Generation primarily utilizes natural gas
and coal in its fossil fuel plants. All recent fossil fuel plant construction for Dominion Generation, with the exception of the Virginia City Hybrid Energy Center, involves natural gas generation.

Dominion Generation’s natural gas and oil supply is obtained from various sources including purchases from major and independent
producers in the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions, purchases from local producers in the Appalachian area and Marcellus and Utica regions, purchases from gas marketers and withdrawals from underground storage fields owned by Dominion or third
parties. Dominion Generation manages a portfolio of natural gas transportation contracts (capacity) that provides for reliable natural gas deliveries to its gas turbine fleet, while minimizing costs.

Dominion Generation’s coal supply is obtained through long-term contracts and short-term spot agreements from domestic suppliers.

Biomass—Dominion Generation’s biomass supply is obtained through long-term contracts and short-term spot
agreements from local suppliers.

Purchased Power—Dominion Generation purchases electricity from the PJM
spot market and through power purchase agreements with other suppliers to provide for utility system load requirements.

Dominion Generation also occasionally purchases electricity from the PJM and ISO-NE spot markets to satisfy physical forward sale
requirements as part of its merchant generation operations.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Virginia Power

Presented below is a summary of Virginia Power’s actual system output by energy source:



Source201520142013Nuclear(1)30%33%33%Purchased power, net151921Coal(2)263029Natural gas231516Other(3)631Total100%100%100%



(1)Excludes ODEC’s 11.6% ownership interest in North Anna.

(2)Excludes ODEC’s 50.0% ownership interest in the Clover power station. The average cost of coal for 2015 Virginia in-system generation was $31.29 per MWh.

(3)Includes oil, hydro, biomass and solar.

SEASONALITY

Dominion
Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Sales of electricity for Dominion Generation typically vary seasonally as a
result of the impact of changes in temperature and the availability of alternative sources for heating on demand by residential and commercial customers. SeeDVP-Seasonalityabove for additional considerations that also apply to Dominion
Generation.















NUCLEARDECOMMISSIONING

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion and Virginia Power

Virginia Power has a total of four licensed, operating nuclear reactors at Surry and North Anna in Virginia.

Decommissioning involves the decontamination and removal of radioactive contaminants from a nuclear power station once operations have ceased, in accordance with standards established by the NRC. Amounts
collected from ratepayers are placed into trusts and are invested to fund the expected future costs of decommissioning the Surry and North Anna units.

Virginia Power believes that the decommissioning funds and their expected earnings for the Surry and North Anna units will be sufficient to cover expected decommissioning costs, particularly when combined
with future ratepayer collections and contributions to these decommissioning trusts, if such future collections and contributions are required. This reflects the long-term investment horizon, since the units will not be decommissioned for decades,
and a positive long-term outlook for trust fund investment returns. Virginia Power will continue to monitor these trusts to ensure they meet the NRC minimum financial assurance requirements, which may include, if needed, the use of parent company
guarantees, surety bonding or other financial instruments recognized by the NRC.

The estimated cost to decommission Virginia
Power’s four nuclear units is reflected in the table below and is primarily based upon site-specific studies completed in 2014. These cost studies are generally completed every four to five years. The current cost estimates assume
decommissioning activities will begin shortly after cessation of operations, which will occur when the operating licenses expire. Virginia Power expects to decommission the Surry and North Anna units during the period 2032 to 2078.

Dominion Generation Operating Segment—Dominion

In addition to the four nuclear units discussed above, Dominion has two licensed, operating nuclear reactors at Millstone in Connecticut. A third Millstone unit ceased operations before Dominion acquired
the power station. In May 2013, Dominion ceased operations at its single unit Kewaunee in Wisconsin and commenced decommissioning activities using the SAFSTOR methodology. The planned decommissioning completion date is 2073, which is within the NRC
allowed 60-year window.

As part of Dominion’s acquisition of both Millstone and Kewaunee, it acquired decommissioning
funds for the related units. Any funds remaining in Kewaunee’s trust after decommissioning is completed are required to be refunded to Wisconsin ratepayers. Dominion believes that the amounts currently available in the decommissioning trusts
and their expected earnings will be sufficient to cover expected decommissioning costs for the Millstone and Kewaunee units. Dominion will continue to monitor these trusts to ensure they meet the NRC minimum financial assurance requirements, which
may include, if needed, the use of parent company guarantees, surety bonding or other financial instruments recognized by the NRC. The estimated cost to decommission Dominion’s eight units is reflected in the table below and is primarily based
upon site-specific studies completed for Surry, North Anna and Millstone in 2014 and for Kewaunee in 2013.

The estimated decommissioning costs and license expiration dates for the nuclear units
owned by Dominion and Virginia Power are shown in the following table:



NRClicenseexpirationyearMostrecentcostestimate(2015dollars)(1)Funds intrusts atDecember 31,20152015contributionsto trusts(dollars in millions)SurryUnit 12032$588$551$0.6Unit 220336085430.6North AnnaUnit 1(2)20385034390.4Unit
2(2)20405154120.3Total (Virginia Power)2,2141,9451.9MillstoneUnit 1(3)N/A369444—Unit 22035552570—Unit 3(4)2045669563—KewauneeUnit
1(5)N/A494661—Total (Dominion)$4,298$4,183$1.9



(1)The cost estimates shown above reflect reductions for the expected future recovery of certain spent fuel costs based on Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s
contracts with the DOE for disposal of spent nuclear fuel consistent with the reductions reflected in Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s nuclear decommissioning AROs.

(2)North Anna is jointly owned by Virginia Power (88.4%) and ODEC (11.6%). However, Virginia Power is responsible for 89.26% of the decommissioning obligation.
Amounts reflect 89.26% of the decommissioning cost for both of North Anna’s units.

(3)Unit 1 permanently ceased operations in 1998, before Dominion’s acquisition of Millstone.

(4)Millstone Unit 3 is jointly owned by Dominion Nuclear Connecticut, with a 6.53% undivided interest in Unit 3 owned by Massachusetts Municipal and Green Mountain.
Decommissioning cost is shown at Dominion’s ownership percentage. At December 31, 2015, the minority owners held $35 millionof trust funds related to Millstone Unit 3 that are not reflected in the table above.

(5)Permanently ceased operations in 2013.

Also see Note 14 and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about AROs and nuclear decommissioning, respectively, and Note 9 for information about nuclear decommissioning
trust investments.

Dominion Energy

The Dominion Energy Operating Segment of Dominion Gasincludes the majority of Dominion’s regulated natural gas operations. DTI, the gas
transmission pipeline and storage business, serves gas distribution businesses and other customers in the Northeast, mid-Atlantic and Midwest. Included in the transmission pipeline and storage business is gas gathering and processing
activity, which includes the sale of extracted products at market rates. As discussed further underProperties and Investments, Dominion Gas has requested approval from FERC to transfer these gathering and processing assets from DTI to
another wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion Gas. East Ohio, the primary gas distribution business of Dominion, serves residential, commercial and industrial gas sales, transportation and gathering service customers. Dominion Iroquois holds a 24.72%
noncontrolling partnership interestin















Iroquois, which provides service to local gas distribution companies, electric utilities and electric power generators, as well as marketers and other end users, through interconnecting
pipelines and exchanges primarily in New York.

Earnings for theDominion Energy Operating Segment of Dominion
Gasprimarily result from rates established by FERC and the Ohio Commission. The profitability of this business is dependent on Dominion Gas’ ability, through the rates it is permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable
return on its capital investments. Variability in earnings results from changes in operating and maintenance expenditures, as well as changes in rates and the demand for services, which are dependent on weather, changes in commodity prices and the
economy.

Approximately 96% of the transmission capacity under contract on DTI’s pipeline is subscribed with long-term
contracts (two years or greater). The remaining 4% is contracted on a year-to-year basis. Less than 1% of firm transportation capacity is currently unsubscribed. Less than 1% of storage services are unsubscribed. All contracted storage is subscribed
with long-term contracts.

Revenue from processing and fractionation operations largely results from the sale of commodities at
market prices. For DTI’s processing plants, Dominion Gas receives the wet gas product from producers and may retain the extracted NGLs as compensation for its services. This exposes Dominion Gas to commodity price risk for the value
of the spread between the NGL products and natural gas. In addition, Dominion Gas has volumetric risk as customers receiving these services are not required to deliver minimum quantities of gas.

East Ohio utilizes a straight-fixed-variable rate design for a majority of its customers. Under this rate design, East Ohio recovers a
large portion of its fixed operating costs through a flat monthly charge accompanied by a reduced volumetric base delivery rate. Accordingly, East Ohio’s revenue is less impacted by weather-related fluctuations in natural gas consumption than
under the traditional rate design.

In addition to the operations of Dominion Gas,the Dominion Energy Operating Segment of
Dominionalso includes LNG operations, Hope’s gas distribution operations in West Virginia, and nonregulated retail natural gas marketing, as well as Dominion’s investments in the Blue Racer joint venture, Atlantic Coast Pipeline and
Dominion Midstream. SeeProperties and Investmentsbelow for additional information regarding the Atlantic Coast Pipeline investment. Dominion’s LNG operations involve the import and storage of LNG at Cove Point and the transportation of
regasified LNG to the interstate pipeline grid and mid-Atlantic and Northeast markets. Dominion has received DOE and FERC approval to export LNG from Cove Point and has begun construction on a bi-directional facility, which will be able to import
LNG and vaporize it as natural gas and liquefy natural gas and export it as LNG. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

In 2014, Dominion formed Dominion Midstream, an MLP initially consisting of a preferred equity interest in Cove Point. SeeGeneralabove for more information. Also seeAcquisitions andDispositionsabove and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of Dominion’s acquisition of DCG, which Dominion contributed to Dominion Midstream in April 2015, as well as Dominion Midstream’s acquisition
of an additional partnership interest in Iroquois in September 2015.

Blue Racer concentrates on building and operating new gathering, processing, fractionation
and NGL transportation assets as the development of the Utica Shale formation increases. Dominion has contributed or sold various assets to the joint venture. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

Dominion Energy’s existing five-year investment plan includes spending approximately $7.3 billion from 2016 through 2020 to upgrade
existing infrastructure or add new pipelines to meet growing energy needs within its service territory and maintain reliability. Demand for natural gas is expected to continue to grow as the Clean Power Plan and other initiatives to transition to
gas from more carbon-intensive fuels are implemented. This plan includes spending for the Atlantic Coast Pipeline Project and approximately $1.4 billion, exclusive of financing costs, for the Liquefaction Project.

In addition to the earnings drivers noted above for Dominion Gas, earnings for theDominion Energy Operating Segment of Dominionprimarily include the results of rates established by FERC and the West Virginia Commission. Additionally, Dominion Energy receives revenue from firm fee-based contractual arrangements, including negotiated rates, for certain LNG storage and
regasification services. Hope’s gas distribution operations in West Virginia serve residential, commercial and industrial gas sales, transportation and gathering service customers. Revenue provided by Hope’s operations is based primarily
on rates established by the West Virginia Commission. DCG’s revenues are primarily derived from reservation charges for firm transportation services as provided for in its FERC approved tariff. The profitability of these businesses is dependent
on their ability, through the rates they are permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable return on their capital investments. Variability in earnings results from changes in operating and maintenance expenditures, as well as changes
in rates and the demand for services, which are dependent on weather, changes in commodity prices and the economy. The processing and fractionation operations within Dominion Energy’s Blue Racer joint venture are primarily managed under
long-term fee-based contracts, which minimizes direct commodity price risk. However, commodity prices do impact customer demand for Blue Racer’s services.

Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations compete in nonregulated energy markets. In March 2014, Dominion completed the sale of its electric retail energy marketing business; however, it still
participates in the retail natural gas and energy-related products and services businesses. The remaining customer base includes approximately 1.3 million customer accounts. Dominion has a heavy concentration of natural gas customers in markets
where utilities have a long-standing commitment to customer choice, primarily in the states of Ohio and Pennsylvania.

COMPETITION

Dominion
Energy Operating Segment—Dominion and Dominion Gas

Dominion Gas’ natural gas transmission operations compete with domestic and
Canadian pipeline companies. Dominion Gas also competes with gas marketers seeking to provide or arrange transportation, storage and other services. Alternative energy sources, such as oil or coal, provide another level of competition. Although
competition is based primarily on price, the array of services that















can be provided to customers is also an important factor. The combination of capacity rights held on certain long-line pipelines, a large storage capability and the availability of numerous
receipt and delivery points along its own pipeline system enable Dominion to tailor its services to meet the needs of individual customers.

DTI’s processing and fractionation operations face competition in obtaining natural gas supplies for its processing and related services. Numerous factors impact any given customer’s choice of
processing services provider, including the location of the facilities, efficiency and reliability of operations, and the pricing arrangements offered.

In Ohio, there has been no legislation enacted to require supplier choice for natural gas distribution consumers. However, East Ohio has offered an Energy Choice program to residential and commercial
customers since October 2000. East Ohio has since taken various steps approved by the Ohio Commission toward exiting the merchant function, including restructuring its commodity service and placing Energy Choice-eligible customers in a direct retail
relationship with participating suppliers. Further, in April 2013, East Ohio fully exited the merchant function for its nonresidential customers, which are now required to choose a retail supplier or be assigned to one at a monthly variable rate set
by the supplier. At December 31, 2015, approximately 1 million of East Ohio’s 1.2 million Ohio customers were participating in the Energy Choice program.

Dominion Energy Operating Segment—Dominion

For Hope, West Virginia does not allow
customers to choose their provider in its retail natural gas markets at this time. SeeRegulation-State Regulations-Gasfor additional information.

Cove Point’s gas transportation, LNG import and storage operations, as well as the Liquefaction Project’s capacity are contracted primarily under long-term fixed reservation fee agreements.
However, in the future Cove Point may compete with other independent terminal operators as well as major oil and gas companies on the basis of terminal location, services provided and price. Competition from terminal operators primarily comes from
refiners and distribution companies with marketing and trading arms.

DCG’s pipeline system generates a substantial
portion of its revenue from long-term firm contracts for transportation services and is therefore insulated from competitive factors during the terms of the contracts. When these long-term contracts expire, DCG’s pipeline system faces
competitive pressures from similar facilities that serve the South Carolina and southeastern Georgia area in terms of location, rates, terms of service, and flexibility and reliability of service.

Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations compete against incumbent utilities and other energy marketers in nonregulated energy
markets for natural gas. Customers in these markets have the right to select a retail marketer and typically do so based upon price savings or price stability; however, incumbent utilities have the advantage of long-standing relationships with their
customers and greater name recognition in their markets.

REGULATION

Dominion Energy Operating Segment—Dominion and Dominion Gas

Dominion Gas’
natural gas transmission, storage, processing and gathering operations are regulated primarily by FERC. East Ohio’s gas distribution operations, including the rates that it may charge to customers, are regulated by the Ohio Commission. SeeState RegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationfor more information.

Dominion Energy Operating
Segment—Dominion

Cove Point’s and DCG’s operations are regulated primarily by FERC. Hope’s gas distribution
operations, including the rates that it may charge customers, are regulated by the West Virginia Commission. SeeState RegulationsandFederal RegulationsinRegulationfor more information.

PROPERTIESANDINVESTMENTS

For a description of Dominion’s and Dominion Gas’ existing facilities see Item 2. Properties.

Dominion Energy Operating Segment—Dominion and Dominion Gas

Dominion Gas has the
following significant projects under construction or development to better serve customers or expand its service offerings within its service territory.

In July 2013, East Ohio signed long-term precedent agreements with two customers to move 320,000 Dths per day of processed gas from the outlet of new gas processing facilities in Ohio to interconnections
with multiple interstate pipelines. The first phase of the Western Access project provides system enhancements to facilitate the movement of processed gas over East Ohio’s system. The initial phase of the project was completed in the fourth
quarter of 2014 and cost approximately $85 million. During the second and third quarters of 2014, East Ohio executed long-term precedent agreements with customers for 450,000 Dths per day of service to new interconnects with interstate
pipelines. This second phase of the Western Access project will expand the number of interstate pipelines to which East Ohio will deliver processed gas to four. East Ohio commenced service to the Western Access II project customers in January
2016 at a cost of approximately $130 million.

In September 2014, DTI announced its intent to construct and operate the Supply
Header project which is expected to cost approximately $500 million and provide 1,500,000 Dths per day of firm transportation service to various customers. In October 2014, DTI requested authorization to use FERC’s pre-filing process. The
application to request FERC authorization to construct and operate the project facilities was filed in September 2015, with the facilities expected to be in service in the fourth quarter of 2018. In December 2014, DTI entered into a precedent
agreement with Atlantic Coast Pipeline for the Supply Header project.

In June 2014, DTI executed binding precedent agreements
with two power generators for the Leidy South project. In November 2014, one of the power generators assigned a portion of its capacity to an affiliate, bringing the total number of project customers to three. The project is expected to cost
approximately















$210 million and provide 155,000 Dths per day of firm transportation service from Clinton County, Pennsylvania to Loudoun County, Virginia. The application to request FERC authorization to
construct and operate the project facilities was filed in May 2015. Service under the 20-year contracts is expected to commence in the fourth quarter of 2017.

During the second quarter of 2014, DTI executed a binding precedent agreement with a customer for the Monroe-to-Cornwell project. The project is expected to cost approximately $70 million and provide
205,000 Dths per day of firm transportation service from Monroe County, Ohio to an interconnect near Cornwell, West Virginia. In December 2015, DTI received FERC authorization to construct, operate and maintain the project facilities, which are
expected to be in service in the fourth quarter of 2016. Construction is expected to commence in March 2016.

In the first
quarter of 2014, DTI executed a binding precedent agreement for the Lebanon West II project. The project is expected to cost approximately $112 million and provide 130,000 Dths per day of firm transportation service from Butler County, Pennsylvania
to an interconnect with Texas Gas Pipeline in Lebanon, Ohio. In November 2015, DTI received FERC authorization to construct, operate and maintain the project facilities, which are expected to be in service in the fourth quarter of 2016. Construction
commenced in January 2016.

In September 2013, DTI executed binding precedent agreements with several local distribution
company customers for the New Market project. The project is expected to cost approximately $159 million and provide 112,000 Dths per day of firm transportation service from Leidy, Pennsylvania to interconnects with Iroquois and Niagara Mohawk Power
Corporation’s distribution system in the Albany, New York market. In June 2014, DTI filed an application to request FERC authorization to construct, operate and maintain the project facilities, which are expected to be in service in the fourth
quarter of 2016.

In October 2013, DTI executed a binding precedent agreement with CNX Gas Company LLC for the Clarington
project. The project is expected to cost approximately $78 million and provide 250,000 Dths per day of firm transportation service from central West Virginia to Clarington, Ohio. In August 2015, DTI received FERC authorization to construct, operate
and maintain the project facilities. Construction commenced in December 2015. The project is expected to be placed into service in the fourth quarter of 2016.

In 2008, East Ohio began PIR, aimed at replacing approximately 4,100 miles of its pipeline system at a cost of $2.7 billion. In 2011, approval was obtained to include an additional 1,450 miles and to
increase annual capital investment to meet the program goal. The program will replace approximately 25% of the pipeline system and is anticipated to take place over a total of 25 years.

In October 2015, DTI filed an application with FERC seeking authority to abandon by sale its gathering and processing facilities to
Dominion Gathering and Processing, Inc., a newly-formed wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion Gas. Pending approval by FERC, these gathering and processing facilities with a carrying value of approximately $430 million are expected to be transferred
in 2016.

Dominion Energy Operating Segment—Dominion

Dominion has the following significant projects under construction or development.

Cove Point—Dominion is pursuing the Liquefaction Project, which would enable Cove Point to liquefy domestically-produced
natural gas for export as LNG. The DOE previously authorized Dominion to export LNG to countries with free trade agreements. In September 2013, the DOE authorized Dominion to export LNG from Cove Point to non-free trade agreement countries.

In May 2014, the FERC staff issued its EA for the Liquefaction Project. In the EA, the FERC staff addressed a variety of
topics related to the proposed construction and development of the Liquefaction Project and its potential impact to the environment, and determined that with the implementation of appropriate mitigation measures, the Liquefaction Project can be
built and operated safely with no significant impact to the environment. In September 2014, Cove Point received the FERC order authorizing the Liquefaction Project with certain conditions. The conditions regarding the Liquefaction Project set forth
in the FERC order largely incorporate the mitigation measures proposed in the EA. In October 2014, Cove Point commenced construction of the Liquefaction Project, with an in-service date anticipated in late 2017. The Cove Point facility is authorized
to export at a rate of 770 million cubic feet of natural gas per day for a period of 20 years.

In April 2013, Dominion
announced it had fully subscribed the capacity of the project with 20-year terminal service agreements. ST Cove Point, LLC, a joint venture of Sumitomo Corporation, a Japanese corporation that is one of the world’s leading trading companies,
and Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd., a Japanese corporation that is the largest natural gas utility in Japan, and GAIL Global (USA) LNG LLC, a wholly-owned indirect U.S. subsidiary of GAIL (India) Ltd., have each contracted for half of the capacity. Following
completion of the front-end engineering and design work, Dominion also announced it had awarded its EPC contract for new liquefaction facilities to IHI/Kiewit Cove Point, a joint venture between IHI E&C International Corporation and Kiewit
Energy Company.

Cove Point has historically operated as an LNG import facility under various long-term import contracts. Since
2010, Dominion has renegotiated certain existing LNG import contracts in a manner that will result in a significant reduction in pipeline and storage capacity utilization and associated anticipated revenues during the period from 2017 through 2028.
Such amendments created the opportunity for Dominion to explore the Liquefaction Project, which, assuming it becomes operational, will extend the economic life of Cove Point and contribute to Dominion’s overall growth plan. In total, these
renegotiations reduced Cove Point’s expected annual revenues from the import-related contracts by approximately $150 million from 2017 through 2028, partially offset by approximately $50 million of additional revenues in the years 2013 through
2017.

In 2014, DCG executed binding precedent agreements with three customers for the Transco-to-Charleston project. The
project is expected to cost approximately $120 million, and provide 80,000 Dths per day of firm transportation service from an existing interconnect with Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company, LLC in Spartanburg County, South Carolina to customers
in Dillon, Marlboro, Sumter, Charleston, Lexington and Richland















counties, South Carolina. In July 2015, DCG requested authorization to utilize FERC’s pre-filing process. DCG expects to file the application to request FERC authorization to
construct and operate the project facilities in the first quarter of 2016. The project is expected to be placed into service in the fourth quarter of 2017.

Dominion Energy Equity Method Investments—In September 2015, Dominion, through Dominion Midstream, acquired an additional 25.93% interest in Iroquois. Dominion Gas holds a 24.72% interest
with TransCanada holding a 44.48% interest and TEN Transmission Company holding a 4.87% interest. Iroquois owns and operates a 416-mile FERC regulated interstate natural gas pipeline providing service to local gas distribution companies, electric
utilities and electric power generators, as well as marketers and other end users, through interconnecting pipelines and exchanges. Iroquois’ pipeline extends from the U.S.-Canadian border at Waddington, New York through the state of
Connecticut to South Commack, Long Island, New York and continuing on from Northport, Long Island, New York through the Long Island Sound to Hunts Point, Bronx, New York. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information about Dominion’s equity method investment in Iroquois.

In September 2014, Dominion, along with Duke Energy,
Piedmont and AGL, announced the formation of Atlantic Coast Pipeline. The members, which are subsidiaries of the above-referenced parent companies, hold the following membership interests: Dominion, 45%; Duke Energy, 40%; Piedmont, 10%; and AGL, 5%.
In October 2015, Duke Energy entered into a merger agreement with Piedmont. The Atlantic Coast Pipeline partnership agreement includes provisions to allow Dominion an option to purchase additional ownership interest in Atlantic Coast Pipeline
to maintain a leading ownership percentage. Atlantic Coast Pipeline is focused on constructing an approximately 600-mile natural gas pipeline running from West Virginia through Virginia to North Carolina, which has a total expected cost of $4.5
billion to $5.0 billion, excluding financing costs. In October 2014, Atlantic Coast Pipeline requested approval from FERC to utilize the pre-filing process under which environmental review for the natural gas pipeline project will commence. It filed
its FERC application in September 2015 and expects to be in service in late 2018. The project is subject to FERC, state and other federal approvals. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about Dominion’s
equity method investment in Atlantic Coast Pipeline.

In December 2012, Dominion formed Blue Racer with Caiman to provide
midstream services to natural gas producers operating in the Utica Shale region in Ohio and portions of Pennsylvania. Blue Racer is an equal partnership between Dominion and Caiman, with Dominion contributing midstream assets and Caiman contributing
private equity capital. Midstream services offered by Blue Racer include gathering, processing, fractionation, and natural gas liquids transportation and marketing. Blue Racer is expected to leverage Dominion’s existing presence in the Utica
region with significant additional new capacity designed to meet producer needs as the development of the Utica Shale formation increases. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about Dominion’s equity
method investment in Blue Racer.

SOURCESOFENERGYSUPPLY

Dominion’s and Dominion Gas’ natural gas supply is obtained from various sources including purchases from major and independent producers in the
Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions, local producers in the Appalachian area and gas marketers. Dominion’s and Dominion Gas’ large underground natural gas storage network and the location of their pipeline systems are a significant link
between the country’s major interstate gas pipelines and large markets in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic regions. Dominion’s and Dominion Gas’ pipelines are part of an interconnected gas transmission system, which provides access to
supplies nationwide for local distribution companies, marketers, power generators and industrial and commercial customers.

Dominion’s and Dominion Gas’ underground storage facilities play an important part in balancing gas supply with consumer demand
and are essential to serving the Northeast, mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions. In addition, storage capacity is an important element in the effective management of both gas supply and pipeline transmission capacity.

The supply of gas to serve Dominion’s retail energy marketing customers is procured through market wholesalers or by Dominion Energy.

SEASONALITY

Dominion Energy’s natural gas distribution business earnings vary seasonally, as a result of the impact of changes in temperature on demand by
residential and commercial customers for gas to meet heating needs. Historically, the majority of these earnings have been generated during the heating season, which is generally from November to March; however, implementation of the
straight-fixed-variable rate design at East Ohio has reduced the earnings impact of weather-related fluctuations. Demand for services at Dominion’s pipeline and storage business can also be weather sensitive. Earnings are also impacted by
changes in commodity prices driven by seasonal weather changes, the effects of unusual weather events on operations and the economy.

The earnings of Dominion’s retail energy marketing operations also vary seasonally. Generally, the demand for gas peaks during the winter months to meet heating needs.

Corporate and Other

Corporate and Other
Segment—Virginia Power and Dominion Gas

Virginia Power’s and Dominion Gas’ Corporate and Other segments primarily include
certain specific items attributable to their operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

Corporate and Other Segment—Dominion

Dominion’s Corporate and Other segment includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) and the net impact of
operations that are discontinued, which is discussed in Note 3 and Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion’s operating segments that are not included in
profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments’ performance or allocating resources among the segments.

















REGULATION

The Companies
are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities, including the Virginia Commission, North Carolina Commission, Ohio Commission, West Virginia Commission, Maryland Commission, SEC, FERC, EPA, DOE, NRC, Army Corps of
Engineers, and the Department of Transportation.

State Regulations

ELECTRIC

Virginia Power’s electric utility retail service is subject
to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission.

Virginia Power holds CPCNs which authorize it to
maintain and operate its electric facilities now in operation and to sell electricity to customers. However, Virginia Power may not construct generating facilities or large capacity transmission lines without the prior approval of various state and
federal government agencies. In addition, the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission regulate Virginia Power’s transactions with affiliates, transfers of certain facilities and the issuance of certain securities.

Electric Regulation in Virginia

The Regulation Act
enacted in 2007 instituted a cost-of-service rate model, ending Virginia’s planned transition to retail competition for electric supply service to most classes of customers.

The Regulation Act authorizes stand-alone rate adjustment clauses for recovery of costs for new generation projects, FERC-approved
transmission costs, underground distribution lines, environmental compliance, conservation and energy efficiency programs and renewable energy programs, and also contains statutory provisions directing Virginia Power to file annual fuel cost
recovery cases with the Virginia Commission. As amended, it provides for enhanced returns on capital expenditures on specific newly-proposed generation projects.

If the Virginia Commission’s future rate decisions, including actions relating to Virginia Power’s rate adjustment clause filings, differ materially from Virginia Power’s expectations, it
may adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Regulation Act Legislation

In February 2015, the Virginia Governor signed legislation into law which will keep Virginia Power’s base rates unchanged until at least December 1,
2022. In addition, no biennial reviews will be conducted by the Virginia Commission for the five successive 12-month test periods beginning January 1, 2015, and ending December 31, 2019. The legislation states that Virginia Power’s 2015
biennial review, filed in March 2015, would proceed for the sole purpose of reviewing and determining whether any refunds are due to customers based on earnings performance for generation and distribution services during the 2013 and 2014 test
periods. In addition the legislation requires the Virginia Commission to conduct proceedings in 2017 and 2019 to determine the utility’s ROE for use in connection with rate adjustment clauses and requires utilities to file integrated resource
plans annually rather than biennially. However, in November 2015, the Virginia Commission ordered testimony, briefs and separate bifurcated

hearing in Virginia Power’s currently pending Rider B, Rider R, Rider S and Rider W cases on whether the Virginia Commission can adjust the ROE applicable to these rate adjustment clauses
prior to 2017. The legislation also required Virginia Power to write-off $85 million of prior-period deferred fuel costs during the first quarter of 2015. In addition, the legislation required the Virginia Commission to implement a fuel rate
reduction for Virginia Power as soon as practicable based on this non-recovery as well as any over-recovery for the 2014-2015 fuel year and projected fuel expense for the 2015-2016 fuel year. The legislation also deems the construction or purchase
of one or more utility-scale solar facilities located in Virginia up to 500 MW in total to be in the public interest.

2015 Biennial Review

Pursuant to the Regulation Act, in March 2015, Virginia Power filed its base rate case and schedules for the Virginia Commission’s
2015 biennial review of Virginia Power’s rates, terms and conditions. Per legislation enacted in February 2015, this biennial review was limited to reviewing Virginia Power’s earnings on rates for generation and distribution services for
the combined 2013 and 2014 test period, and determining whether credits are due to customers in the event Virginia Power’s earnings exceeded the earnings band determined in the 2013 Biennial Review Order. In November 2015, the Virginia
Commission issued the 2015 Biennial Review Order.

After deciding several contested regulatory earnings adjustments, the
Virginia Commission ruled that Virginia Power earned on average an ROE of approximately 10.89% on its generation and distribution services for the combined 2013 and 2014 test periods. Because this ROE was more than 70 basis points above Virginia
Power’s authorized ROE of 10.0%, the Virginia Commission ordered that approximately $20 million in excess earnings be credited to customer bills based on usage in 2013 and 2014 over a six-month period beginning within 60 days of the 2015
Biennial Review Order. Based upon 2015 legislation keeping Virginia Power’s base rates unchanged until at least December 1, 2022, the Virginia Commission did not order certain existing rate adjustment clauses to be combined with Virginia
Power’s base rates. The Virginia Commission did not determine whether Virginia Power had a revenue deficiency or sufficiency when projecting the annual revenues generated by base rates to the revenues required to recover costs of service and
earn a fair return. In December 2015, a group of large industrial customers filed notices of appeal with the Supreme Court of Virginia from both the 2015 Biennial Review Order and the Virginia Commission’s order denying their petition for
rehearing or reconsideration. This appeal is pending.

See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information.

Electric Regulation in North Carolina

Virginia Power’s retail electric base rates in North Carolina are regulated on a cost-of-service/rate-of-return basis subject to North Carolina statutes and the rules and procedures of the North
Carolina Commission. North Carolina base rates are set by a process that allows Virginia Power to recover its operating costs and an ROIC. If retail electric earnings exceed the authorized ROE established by the North Carolina Commission,
retail electric















rates may be subject to review and possible reduction by the North Carolina Commission, which may decrease Virginia Power’s future earnings. Additionally, if the North Carolina Commission
does not allow recovery of costs incurred in providing service on a timely basis, Virginia Power’s future earnings could be negatively impacted. Fuel rates are subject to revision under annual fuel cost adjustment proceedings.

Virginia Power’s transmission service rates in North Carolina are regulated by the North Carolina Commission as part of Virginia
Power’s bundled retail service to North Carolina customers. In March 2012, Virginia Power filed an application with the North Carolina Commission to increase base non-fuel revenues with January 1, 2013 as the proposed effective date for
the permanent rate revision. In December 2012, the North Carolina Commission approved a $36 million increase in Virginia Power’s annual non-fuel base revenues based on an authorized ROE of 10.2%, and a $14 million decrease in annual base fuel
revenues for a combined total base revenue increase of $22 million. These rate changes became effective on January 1, 2013. Following an appeal to the Supreme Court of North Carolina, the North Carolina Commission issued an opinion reaffirming
its 10.2% ROE determination in July 2015.

In August 2015, Virginia Power submitted its annual filing to the North Carolina
Commission to adjust the fuel component of its electric rates. Virginia Power proposed an $11 million decrease to the fuel component of its electric rates for the rate year beginning January 1, 2016. This decrease includes the North Carolina
Commission’s previous approval to defer recovering 50% of Virginia Power’s estimated $17 million jurisdictional deferred fuel balance to the 2016 fuel year, without interest. In December 2015, the North Carolina Commission approved
Virginia Power’s proposed fuel charge adjustment.

See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information.

GAS

East Ohio’s natural gas distribution services, including the rates it may charge its customers, are regulated by the Ohio Commission. Hope’s natural gas distribution services are regulated by
the West Virginia Commission.

Gas Regulation in Ohio

East Ohio is subject to regulation of rates and other aspects of its business by the Ohio Commission. When necessary, East Ohio seeks general base rate increases to recover increased operating costs and a
fair return on rate base investments. Base rates are set based on the cost of service by rate class. A straight-fixed-variable rate design, in which the majority of operating costs are recovered through a monthly charge rather than a volumetric
charge, is utilized to establish rates for a majority of East Ohio’s customers pursuant to a 2008 rate case settlement which included an authorized ROE of 10.38%.

In addition to general base rate increases, East Ohio makes routine filings with the Ohio Commission to reflect changes in the costs of gas purchased for operational balancing on its system. These
purchased gas costs are subject to rate recovery through a mechanism that ensures dollar for dollar recovery of prudently incurred costs. Costs that are expected to be recovered in future rates are deferred as regulatory assets. The rider filings
cover

unrecovered gas costs plus prospective annual demand costs. Increases or decreases in gas cost rider rates result in increases or decreases in revenues with corresponding increases or decreases
in net purchased gas cost expenses.

The Ohio Commission has also approved several stand-alone cost recovery mechanisms to
recover specified costs and a return for infrastructure projects and certain other costs that vary widely over time; such costs are excluded from general base rates. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Gas Regulation in West Virginia

Dominion’s gas distribution subsidiary is subject to regulation of rates and other aspects of its business by the West Virginia Commission. When
necessary, Hope seeks general base rate increases to recover increased operating costs and a fair return on rate base investments. Base rates are set based on the cost of service by rate class. Base rates for Hope are designed primarily based on
rate design methodology in which the majority of operating costs are recovered through volumetric charges.

In addition to
general rate increases, Hope makes routine separate filings with the West Virginia Commission to reflect changes in the costs of purchased gas. The majority of these purchased gas costs are subject to rate recovery through a mechanism that ensures
dollar for dollar recovery of prudently incurred costs. Costs that are expected to be recovered in future rates are deferred as regulatory assets. The purchased gas cost recovery filings generally cover a prospective twelve-month period. Approved
increases or decreases in gas cost recovery rates result in increases or decreases in revenues with corresponding increases or decreases in net purchased gas cost expenses.

Legislation was passed in West Virginia authorizing a stand-alone cost recovery mechanism to recover specified costs and a return for infrastructure upgrades, replacements and expansions between general
base rate cases.

Status of Competitive Retail Gas Services

Both of the states in which Dominion and Dominion Gas have gas distribution operations have considered legislation regarding a competitive deregulation of natural gas sales at the retail level.

Ohio—Since October 2000, East Ohio has offered the Energy Choice program, under which residential and commercial
customers are encouraged to purchase gas directly from retail suppliers or through a community aggregation program. In October 2006, East Ohio restructured its commodity service by entering into gas purchase contracts with selected suppliers at a
fixed price above the New York Mercantile Exchange month-end settlement and passing that gas cost to customers under the Standard Service Offer program. Starting in April 2009, East Ohio buys natural gas under the Standard Service Offer program only
for customers not eligible to participate in the Energy Choice program and places Energy Choice-eligible customers in a direct retail relationship with selected suppliers, which is designated on the customers’ bills.

In January 2013, the Ohio Commission granted East Ohio’s motion to fully exit the merchant function for its nonresidential customers,
beginning in April 2013, which requires those customers to choose a retail supplier or be assigned to one at a monthly variable rate set by the supplier. At December 31, 2015,















approximately 1.0 million of Dominion Gas’ 1.2 million Ohio customers were participating in the Energy Choice program. Subject to the Ohio Commission’s approval, East Ohio may
eventually exit the gas merchant function in Ohio entirely and have all customers select an alternate gas supplier. East Ohio continues to be the provider of last resort in the event of default by a supplier. Large industrial customers in Ohio also
source their own natural gas supplies.

West Virginia—At this time, West Virginia has not enacted legislation
allowing customers to choose providers in the retail natural gas markets served by Hope. However, the West Virginia Commission has issued regulations to govern pooling services, one of the tools that natural gas suppliers may utilize to provide
retail customers a choice in the future and has issued rules requiring competitive gas service providers to be licensed in West Virginia.

Federal Regulations

FEDERALENERGYREGULATORYCOMMISSION

Electric

Under the Federal Power Act, FERC regulates wholesale sales and transmission of electricity in interstate commerce by public utilities. Virginia Power purchases and sells electricity in the PJM wholesale
market and Dominion’s merchant generators sell electricity in the PJM, MISO, CAISO and ISO-NE wholesale markets, and to wholesale purchasers in the states of Tennessee, Georgia, California and Utah, under Dominion’s market-based sales
tariffs authorized by FERC. In addition, Virginia Power has FERC approval of a tariff to sell wholesale power at capped rates based on its embedded cost of generation. This cost-based sales tariff could be used to sell to loads within or outside
Virginia Power’s service territory. Any such sales would be voluntary.

Dominion and Virginia Power are subject to
FERC’s Standards of Conduct that govern conduct between transmission function employees of interstate gas and electricity transmission providers and the marketing function employees of their affiliates. The rule defines the scope of
transmission and marketing-related functions that are covered by the standards and is designed to prevent transmission providers from giving their affiliates undue preferences.

Dominion and Virginia Power are also subject to FERC’s affiliate restrictions that (1) prohibit power sales between Virginia Power and Dominion’s merchant plants without first receiving
FERC authorization, (2) require the merchant plants and Virginia Power to conduct their wholesale power sales operations separately, and (3) prohibit Virginia Power from sharing market information with merchant plant operating personnel.
The rules are designed to prohibit Virginia Power from giving the merchant plants a competitive advantage.

EPACT included
provisions to create an ERO. The ERO is required to promulgate mandatory reliability standards governing the operation of the bulk power system in the U.S. FERC has certified NERC as the ERO and also issued an initial order approving many
reliability standards that went into effect in 2007. Entities that violate standards will be subject to fines of up to $1 million per day, per violation and can also be assessed non-monetary penalties, depending upon the nature and severity of the
violation.

In April 2008, FERC granted an application for Virginia Power’s electric transmission operations to
establish a forward-looking formula rate mechanism that updates transmission rates on an annual basis and approved an ROE of 11.4%, effective as of January 1, 2008. The formula rate is designed to recover the expected revenue requirement for
each calendar year and is updated based on actual costs. The FERC-approved formula method, which is based on projected costs, allows Virginia Power to earn a current return on its growing investment in electric transmission infrastructure.

Gas

FERC regulates the transportation
and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, as amended. Under the Natural Gas Act, FERC has authority over rates, terms and conditions of services performed by
DTI, DCG, Iroquois and certain services performed by Cove Point. Pursuant to FERC’s February 2014 approval of DTI’s uncontested settlement offer, DTI’s base rates for storage and transportation services are subject to a moratorium
through the end of 2016. The design, construction and operation of Cove Point’s LNG facility, including associated natural gas pipelines, the Liquefaction Project and the import and export of LNG are also regulated by FERC.

Dominion Gas’ interstate gas transmission and storage activities are conducted on an open access basis, in accordance with
certificates, tariffs and service agreements on file with FERC and FERC regulations.

Dominion Gas operates in compliance with
FERC standards of conduct, which prohibit the sharing of certain non-public transmission information or customer specific data by its interstate gas transmission and storage companies with non-transmission function employees. Pursuant to these
standards of conduct, Dominion Gas also makes certain informational postings available on Dominion’s website.















See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Safety Regulations

Dominion Gas is
also subject to the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 and the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011, which mandate inspections of interstate and intrastate natural gas transmission and storage pipelines,
particularly those located in areas of high-density population. Dominion Gas has evaluated its natural gas transmission and storage properties, as required by the Department of Transportation regulations under these Acts, and has implemented a
program of identification, testing and potential remediation activities. These activities are ongoing.

The Companies are
subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and comparable state statutes, whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of workers. The Companies have an internal
safety, health and security program designed to monitor and enforce compliance with worker safety requirements, which is routinely reviewed and considered for improvement. The Companies believe that they are in material compliance with all
applicable laws and regulations related to worker health and safety. Nothwithstanding these preventive measures, incidents may occur that are outside of the Companies’ control.

Environmental Regulations

Environmental Matters

Future Issues and Other Matters

GLOBALCLIMATECHANGE

The national and
international attention in recent years on GHG emissions and their relationship to climate change has resulted in federal, regional and state legislative and regulatory action in this area. See, for example, the discussion of the Clean Power Plan

and the United Nation’s Paris Agreement inEnvironmentalMattersinFuture Issues and OtherMattersin Item 7. MD&A. The Companies support national
climate change legislation that would provide a consistent, economy-wide approach to addressing this issue and are currently taking action to protect the environment and address climate change while meeting the growing needs of their service
territory. The Companies are actively developing plans to comply with new Clean Power Plan and NSPS regulations for new and existing electric generating sources and its natural gas business. Dominion’s CEO and operating segment CEOs are
responsible for compliance with the laws and regulations governing environmental matters, including climate change, and Dominion’s Board of Directors receives periodic updates on these matters. SeeEnvironmental Strategybelow,
Environmental MattersinFuture Issues and Other Mattersin Item 7. MD&A and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on climate change legislation and regulation, which information is incorporated herein
by reference.

WATER

The CWA is a comprehensive program requiring a broad range of regulatory tools including a permit program to authorize and regulate discharges to surface waters with strong enforcement mechanisms.
Dominion must comply with applicable aspects of the CWA programs at its operating facilities.

THREATENEDANDENDANGEREDSPECIES

The Endangered Species Act establishes prohibitions on activities that can result in harm
of specific species of plants and animals. In some cases those prohibitions could result in impacts to the viability of projects or requirements for capital expenditures to reduce a facility’s impacts on a species.

Nuclear Regulatory Commission

All aspects of the
operation and maintenance of Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s nuclear power stations are regulated by the NRC. Operating licenses issued by the NRC are subject to revocation, suspension or modification, and the operation of a nuclear unit
may be suspended if the NRC determines that the public interest, health or safety so requires.

From time to time, the NRC
adopts new requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear facilities. In many cases, these new regulations require changes in the design, operation and maintenance of existing nuclear facilities. If the NRC adopts such requirements in the
future, it could result in substantial increases in the cost of operating and maintaining Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s nuclear generating units. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

The NRC also requires Dominion and Virginia Power to decontaminate their nuclear facilities once operations cease. This process is
referred to as decommissioning, and Dominion and Virginia Power are required by the NRC to be financially prepared. For information on decommissioning trusts, seeDominionGeneration-Nuclear Decommissioningabove and Note 9 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on spent nuclear fuel.

















ENVIRONMENTALSTRATEGY

Environmental stewardship is embedded in the Companies’ culture and core values and is the responsibility of all employees. They are committed to working with their stakeholders to find sustainable
solutions to the energy and environmental challenges that confront our company and our nation. It is the Companies’ belief that sustainable solutions must balance the interdependent goals of environmental stewardship and economic prosperity.
Their integrated strategy to meet this objective consists of four major elements:

•Compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules;

•Conservation and load management;

•Renewable generation development; and

•Improvements in other energy infrastructure, including natural gas operations.

This strategy incorporates the Companies’ efforts to voluntarily reduce GHG emissions, which are described below. SeeDominion
Generation-PropertiesandDominion Energy-Propertiesfor more information on certain of the projects described below.

Environmental
Compliance

The Companies remain committed to compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules related to their
operations. As part of their commitment to compliance with such laws, Dominion and Virginia Power have sold or closed a number of coal-fired generation units over the past several years, and have plans to close additional units in the future. A
significant recent development in environmental regulation was the EPA’s issuance in August 2015 of final carbon standards for existing fossil fuel power plants known as the Clean Power Plan, which involves coordination with the states on
specific plans to reduce carbon emissions to specified levels. In February 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court stayed the Clean Power Plan pending resolution of litigation challenging the regulations. Additional information related to these and other of
the Companies’ environmental compliance matters can be found inOperating SegmentsandFuture Issues and Other Mattersin Item 7. MD&A and in Notes 3, 6 and 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Conservation and Load Management

Conservation and
load management play a significant role in meeting the growing demand for electricity. The Regulation Act provides incentives for energy conservation through the implementation of conservation programs. Additional legislation

in 2009 added definitions of peak-shaving and energy efficiency programs, and allowed for a margin on operating expenses and recovery of revenue
reductions related to energy efficiency programs.

Virginia Power’s DSM programs, implemented with Virginia Commission
approval, provide important incremental steps in assisting customers to reduce energy consumption through programs that include energy audits and incentives for customers to upgrade or install certain energy efficient measures and/or systems. The
DSM programs began in Virginia in 2010 and in North Carolina in 2011. Currently, there are residential and non-residential DSM programs active in the two states. Virginia Power continues to evaluate opportunities to redesign current DSM programs and
develop new DSM initiatives in Virginia and North Carolina.

In Ohio, East Ohio offers three DSM programs, approved by the Ohio Commission, designed to
help customers reduce their energy consumption.

Virginia Power continues to upgrade meters to AMI, also referred to as smart
meters, in areas throughout Virginia. The AMI meter upgrades are part of an ongoing project that will help Virginia Power further evaluate the effectiveness of AMI meters in monitoring voltage stability, remotely turning off and on electric service,
power outage and restoration detection and reporting, remote daily meter readings and offering dynamic rates.

Renewable Generation

Renewable energy is also an important component of a diverse and reliable energy mix. Both Virginia and North Carolina have passed legislation setting
targets for renewable power. Virginia Power is committed to meeting Virginia’s goals of 12% of base year electric energy sales from renewable power sources by 2022, and 15% by 2025, and North Carolina’s Renewable Portfolio Standard of
12.5% by 2021 and plans to add utility solar capacity in Virginia.

SeeOperating Segmentsand Item 2. Properties
for additional information, including Dominion’s merchant solar properties.

Improvements in Other Energy Infrastructure

Virginia Power’s existing five-year investment plan includes significant capital expenditures to upgrade or add new electric transmission and
distribution lines, substations and other facilities to meet growing electricity demand within its service territory, maintain reliability and address environmental requirements. These enhancements are primarily aimed at meeting Virginia
Power’s continued goal of providing reliable service, and are intended to address both continued population growth and increases in electricity consumption by the typical consumer. An additional benefit will be added capacity to efficiently
deliver electricity from the renewable projects now being developed or to be developed in the future. SeePropertiesin Item 1.,Operating Segments, DVPfor additional information.

Dominion and Dominion Gas, in connection with their existing five-year investment plans, are also pursuing the construction or upgrade of
regulated infrastructure in their natural gas businesses. SeeProperties and Investmentsin Item 1.,Operating Segments, Dominion Energyfor additional information, including natural gas infrastructure projects.

The Companies’ Strategy for Voluntarily Reducing GHG Emissions

The Companies have not established a standalone GHG emissions reduction target or timetable, but they are actively engaged in voluntary reduction efforts. The Companies have an integrated voluntary
strategy for reducing GHG emission intensity with diversification as its cornerstone. The six principal components of the strategy include initiatives that address electric energy management, electric energy production, electric energy delivery and
natural gas storage, transmission and delivery, as follows:

•Enhance conservation and energy efficiency programs to help customers use energy wisely and reduce environmental impacts;

•Expand the Companies’ renewable energy portfolio, principally wind power, solar, fuel cells and biomass, to help diversify the Companies’
fleet, meet state renewable energy targets and lower the carbon footprint;















•Evaluate other new generating capacity, including low emissions natural-gas fired and emissions-free nuclear units to meet customers’ future
electricity needs;

•Construct new electric transmission infrastructure to modernize the grid, promote economic security and help deliver more green energy to population
centers where it is needed most;

•Construct new natural gas infrastructure to expand availability of this cleaner fuel, to reduce emissions, and to promote energy and economic security
both in the U.S. and abroad; and

•Implement and enhance voluntary methane mitigation measures through the EPA’s Natural Gas Star Program.

Since 2000, Dominion and Virginia Power have tracked the emissions of their electric generation fleet, which employs
a mix of fuel and renewable energy sources. Comparing annual year 2000 to annual year 2014, the entire electric generating fleet (based on ownership percentage) reduced its average CO2emissions rate per MWh of energy produced from electric generation by approximately 39%. Comparing annual year 2000 to
annual year 2014, the regulated electric generating fleet (based on ownership percentage) reduced its average
CO2emissions rate per MWh of energy produced from electric
generation by approximately 20%. Dominion and Virginia Power do not yet have final 2015 emissions data.

Dominion also developed a comprehensive GHG inventory for calendar year 2014. For Dominion Generation,
Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s direct CO2equivalent emissions, based on equity share (ownership), were 33.6 million metric tons and 30.1 million metric tons, respectively, in 2014, compared to 33.9 million metric tons and 30.2 million metric tons, respectively, in 2013.
For the DVP operating segment’s electric transmission and distribution operations, direct CO2equivalent emissions for 2014 were 75,671 metric tons, compared to 46,446 metric tons in 2013. The increase was due to new containing equipment purchased and installed to handle growth in the electric
transmission and distribution system. Although emissions from the equipment increased, the leak rate has remained relatively consistent at 1.1%. For 2014, DTI’s and Cove Point’s direct CO2equivalent emissions together were 1.3 million metric tons, and
Hope’s and East Ohio’s direct CO2equivalent
emissions together were 0.9 million metric tons, similar to 2013. Dominion’s GHG inventory follows all methodologies specified in the EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule, 40 CFR Part 98 for calculating emissions.





CYBERSECURITY

In an effort to reduce the likelihood and severity of cyber
intrusions, the Companies have a comprehensive cybersecurity program designed to protect and preserve the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data and systems. In addition, the Companies are subject to mandatory cybersecurity regulatory
requirements, interface regularly with a wide range of external organizations, and participate in classified briefings to maintain an awareness of current cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities. The Companies’ current security posture and
regulatory compliance efforts are intended to address the evolving and changing cyber threats. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional information.



