ITEM1BUSINESS



General



We are a global leader in the development, manufacturing, distribution and marketing of medical products for the diagnosis, treatment and
management of respiratory disorders, with a focus on sleep-disordered breathing, or SDB. SDB includes obstructive sleep apnea, or OSA, and other respiratory disorders that occur during sleep. When we were formed in 1989, our primary purpose was to
commercialize a treatment for OSA. This treatment, nasal Continuous Positive Airway Pressure, or CPAP, was the first successful noninvasive treatment for OSA. CPAP systems deliver pressurized air, typically through a nasal mask, to prevent collapse
of the upper airway during sleep.



Since the
development of CPAP, we have developed a number of innovative products for SDB and other respiratory disorders including airflow generators, diagnostic products, mask systems, headgear and other accessories. Our growth has been fuelled by geographic
expansion, our research and product development efforts, and an increasing awareness of SDB and respiratory conditions as a significant health concern among physicians and patients around the world.



We employ approximately 4,100 people and sell our products in
approximately 100 countries through a combination of wholly owned subsidiaries and independent distributors.



- 1 -



Our web site address is www.resmed.com. We make our periodic reports, together with any
amendments, available on our web site, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish the reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Information contained on the website is not part of or
incorporated into this annual report.



Corporate History



ResMed Inc., a Delaware corporation, was formed in March 1994 as the ultimate holding company for our operating subsidiaries. On
June 1, 1995, we completed an initial public offering of common stock and on June 2, 1995 our common stock commenced trading on the NASDAQ National Market. On September 30, 1999 we transferred our principal public listing to the New
York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, trading under the ticker symbol RMD. On November 25, 1999, we established a secondary listing of our common stock via Chess Depositary Instruments, or CDI’s, on the Australian Stock Exchange (now known as the
Australian Securities Exchange), or ASX, also under the symbol RMD. Ten CDI’s on the ASX represent one share of our common stock on the NYSE.



Our Australian subsidiary, ResMed Holdings Limited, was originally organized in 1989 by Dr. Peter Farrell to acquire from Baxter
Center for Medical Research Pty Limited, or Baxter, the rights to certain technology relating to CPAP treatment as well as Baxter’s existing CPAP device business. Baxter acquired the rights to the technology in 1987, and sold CPAP devices in
Australia from 1988 until our acquisition of the business.



Since formation we have acquired a number of businesses including distributors, suppliers, developers of medical equipment and related technologies.



Segment Information



We believe that, given the single market focus of our
operations in the sleep and respiratory disorders sector of the medical device industry, and the inter-dependence of its products, we operate in a single operating segment. See Note 15 – Segment Information of the Notes to Financial
Statements (Part II, Item 8) for financial information regarding segment reporting. Financial information about our revenues from and assets located in foreign countries is also included in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements.



The Market



Sleep is a complex neurological process that includes two
distinct states: rapid eye movement, or REM, sleep and non-rapid eye movement, or non-REM, sleep. REM sleep, which is about 20-25% of total sleep experienced by adults, is characterized by a high level of brain activity, bursts of rapid eye
movement, increased heart and respiration rates, and paralysis of many muscles. Non-REM sleep is subdivided into four stages that generally parallel sleep depth; stage 1 is the lightest and stage 4 is the deepest.



The upper airway has no rigid support and is held open by
active contraction of upper airway muscles. Normally, during REM sleep and deeper levels of non-REM sleep, upper airway muscles relax and the airway narrows. Individuals with narrow upper airways or poor muscle tone are prone to temporary collapses
of the upper airway during sleep, called apneas, and to near closures of the upper airway called hypopneas. These breathing events result in a lowering of blood oxygen concentration, causing the central nervous system to react to the lack of oxygen
or increased carbon dioxide and signaling the body to respond. Typically, the individual subconsciously arouses from sleep, causing the throat muscles to contract, opening the airway. After a few gasping breaths, blood oxygen levels increase and the
individual can resume a deeper sleep until the cycle repeats itself. Sufferers of OSA



- 2 -



typically experience ten or more such cycles per hour. While these awakenings greatly impair the quality of sleep, the individual is not normally aware of these disruptions. In addition, OSA has
recently been recognized as a cause of hypertension and a significant co-morbidity for heart disease, stroke and diabetes.



A 2013 epidemiology study estimated that 26% of adults age 30-70 have some form of obstructive sleep apnea. In the United States alone,
this represents approximately 46 million people. Despite the high prevalence of OSA, there is a general lack of awareness of OSA among both the medical community and the general public. It is estimated that less than 20% of those with OSA have
been diagnosed or treated. Many healthcare professionals are often unable to diagnose OSA because they are unaware that such non-specific symptoms as excessive daytime sleepiness, snoring, hypertension and irritability are characteristic of OSA.



While OSA has been diagnosed in a broad
cross-section of the population, it is predominant among middle-aged men and those who are obese, smoke, consume alcohol in excess or use muscle-relaxing and pain-killing drugs. A strong association has been discovered between OSA and a number of
cardiovascular diseases. Studies have shown that SDB is present in approximately 83% of patients with drug-resistant hypertension, approximately 72% of patients with type 2 diabetes, approximately 77% of patients with obesity and approximately 76%
of patients with congestive heart failure.



Sleep-Disordered Breathing and Obstructive Sleep Apnea



Sleep-disordered breathing encompasses all disease processes
that cause abnormal breathing patterns during sleep. Manifestations include OSA, central sleep apnea, or CSA, and hypoventilation syndromes that occur during sleep. Hypoventilation syndromes are generally associated with obesity, chronic obstructive
lung disease and neuromuscular disease. OSA is the most common form of SDB.



Sleep fragmentation and the loss of the deeper levels of sleep caused by OSA can lead to excessive daytime sleepiness, reduced cognitive function, including memory loss and lack of concentration,
depression and irritability. OSA sufferers also experience an increase in heart rate and an elevation of blood pressure during the cycle of apneas. Several studies indicate that the oxygen desaturation, increased heart rate and elevated blood
pressure caused by OSA may be associated with increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality due to angina, stroke and heart attack. Patients with OSA have been shown to have impaired daytime performance in a variety of cognitive functions
including problem solving, response speed and visual motor coordination, and studies have linked OSA to increased occurrences of traffic and workplace accidents.



Generally, an individual seeking treatment for the symptoms
of OSA is referred by a general practitioner to a sleep specialist for further evaluation. The diagnosis of OSA typically requires monitoring the patient during sleep at either a sleep clinic or the patient’s home. During overnight testing,
respiratory parameters and sleep patterns may be monitored, along with other vital signs such as heart rate and blood oxygen levels. Simpler tests, using devices such as our Apnealink, or our automatic positive airway pressure devices, monitor
airflow during sleep, and use computer programs to analyze airflow patterns. These tests allow sleep clinicians to detect any sleep disturbances such as apneas, hypopneas or subconscious awakenings.



There are many studies being conducted that provide new
evidence that treating SDB and OSA can improve health, quality of life and also mitigate the dangers of sleep apnea in occupational health and safety, especially in the transport industry. Evidence continues to mount supporting the role of SDB
therapy for disease prevention, improvement of quality of life and healthcare cost reduction.



- 3 -



Existing Therapies



Before 1981, the primary treatment for OSA was a tracheotomy, a surgical procedure to create a hole in the
patient’s windpipe. Alternative surgical treatments have involved either uvulopalatopharyngoplasty, or UPPP, in which surgery is performed on the upper airway to remove excess tissue and to streamline the shape of the airway or implanting a
device to add support to the soft palate. UPPP alone has a poor success rate; however, when performed in conjunction with multi-stage upper airway surgical procedures, a greater success rate has been claimed. These combined procedures, performed by
highly specialized surgeons, are expensive and involve prolonged and often painful recovery periods. Surgical treatments are not considered first line therapy for OSA. Other alternative treatments available today include nasal surgery, mandibular
advancement surgery, dental appliances, palatal implants, somnoplasty and nasal devices. Alternative treatments reported to be under development include pharmaceutical therapies and electrical stimulation of the nerves or muscles.



A variety of devices are marketed for the treatment of OSA.
Most are only partially effective, but CPAP is a reliable treatment for all severities of OSA and is considered first-line therapy. Use of mandibular advancement devices is increasing as a second-line option in patients unable to use CPAP or those
with mild OSA. These devices cause the mandible and tongue to be pulled forward and improve the dimensions of the upper airway. CPAP is a non-invasive means of treating OSA. CPAP was first used as a treatment for OSA in 1980 by Dr. Colin
Sullivan, the past Chairman of our Medical Advisory Board and was commercialized for treatment of OSA in the United States in the mid 1980’s. During CPAP treatment, a patient sleeps with a nasal interface connected to a small portable airflow
generator that delivers room air at a positive pressure. The patient breathes in air from the flow generator and breathes out through an exhaust port in the interface. Continuous air pressure applied in this manner acts as a pneumatic splint to keep
the upper airway open and unobstructed. Interfaces include nasal masks and nasal pillows. Sometimes, when a patient leaks air through their mouth, a full-face mask may need to be used, rather than a nasal interface.



CPAP is not a cure and therefore, must be used on a nightly
basis as long as treatment is required. Patient compliance has been a major factor in the efficacy of CPAP treatment. Early generations of CPAP units provided limited patient comfort and convenience. Patients experienced soreness from the repeated
use of nasal masks and had difficulty falling asleep with the CPAP device operating at the prescribed pressure. In more recent years, product innovations to improve patient comfort and compliance have been developed. These include more comfortable
patient interface systems; delay timers that gradually raise air pressure allowing the patient to fall asleep more easily; bilevel air flow generators, including Variable Positive Airway Pressure, or VPAP systems, which provide different air
pressures for inhalation and exhalation; heated humidification systems to make the airflow more comfortable; and autotitration devices that reduce the average pressure delivered during the night.



Business Strategy



We believe that the SDB market will continue to grow in the
future due to a number of factors including increasing awareness of OSA, improved understanding of the role of SDB treatment in the management of cardiac, neurologic, metabolic and related disorders, and an increase in home-based diagnosis. Our
strategy for expanding our business operations and capitalizing on the growth of the SDB market consists of the following key elements:



Continue Product Development and Innovation.We are committed to ongoing innovation in developing products
for the diagnosis and treatment of SDB. We have been a leading innovator of products designed to treat SDB more effectively, increase patient comfort and encourage compliance with prescribed therapy. For example, in 2011, we introduced the S9
bilevel range of flow generators, the Quattro FX full face mask, the Swift FX for Her nasal pillow mask, the Mirage FX nasal mask,



- 4 -



the Mirage FX for Her nasal mask and the Stellar ventilation device. In 2012, we introduced Swift FX Bella mask, Pixi pediatric mask, Quattro FX for Her and the EasyCare compliance management
solution. In 2013, we introduced new products across both our mask and flow generator categories, including the VPAP COPD, Quattro Air, Swift FX Bella, Swift FX Nano and ResMed’s SleepSeeker. In 2014, we introduced the AirFit™ P10 nasal
pillows system, AirFit™ N10 nasal mask, AirFit™ F10 full-face mask and the Astral™ platform, our new generation of life support ventilators. We believe that continued product development and innovation are key factors to our ongoing
success. Approximately 13% of our employees are devoted to research and development activities. In fiscal year 2014, we invested $118.2 million, or approximately 8% of our net revenues, in research and development.



Expand Geographic Presence.We
market our products in more than 100 countries to sleep clinics, home healthcare dealers and third-party payors. We intend to increase our sales and marketing efforts in our principal markets, as well as expand the depth of our presence in other
geographic regions.



Increase Public and
Clinical Awareness.We intend to continue to expand our existing promotional activities to increase awareness of SDB and our treatment alternatives. These promotional activities target both the population with
predisposition to SDB and medical specialists, such as cardiologists, neurologists and pulmonologists. In addition, we also target special interest groups, including the National Stroke Association, the American Heart Association and the National
Sleep Foundation. In concert with other industry participants, we sponsor educational programs targeted at the primary care physician community, which should further enlighten both doctors and patients about the relationship between SDB or OSA and
co-morbidities such as cardiac disease, diabetes, hypertension and obesity. The programs should also support our efforts to inform the community of the dangers of sleep apnea with regard to occupational health and safety, especially in the transport
industry.



Expand into New Clinical
Applications.We continually seek to identify new applications of our technology for significant unmet medical needs. Studies have established a clinical association between OSA and both stroke and congestive heart
failure, and have recognized SDB as a cause of hypertension or high blood pressure. Research also indicates that SDB is independently associated with glucose intolerance and insulin resistance. We have developed a device for the treatment of
Cheyne-Stokes breathing in patients with congestive heart failure. In addition, we maintain close working relationships with a number of prominent physicians to explore new medical applications for our products and technology. In 2007, we received
Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, clearance and launched a new product in the United States for the treatment of respiratory insufficiency due to central sleep apnea, mixed apnea and periodic breathing, called the Adapt SV. The Adapt SV uses a
technology known as adaptive servo-ventilation which utilizes an advanced algorithm to calculate a patient-specific minute ventilation target and automatically adjusts pressure support to maintain the target. We believe this technology has allowed
physicians to successfully treat complex breathing disorders in some patients who had previously tried and failed traditional positive airway pressure therapy.



Leverage the Experience of our Management Team.Our senior management team has extensive experience in the
medical device industry in general, and in the field of SDB in particular. We intend to continue to leverage the experience and expertise of these individuals to maintain our innovative approach to the development of products and increase awareness
of the serious medical problems caused by SDB.



Products



Our portfolio of products includes airflow generators, diagnostic products, mask systems, headgear and other accessories.



- 5 -



Air Flow Generators



We produce CPAP, VPAP and AutoSet systems for the titration and treatment of SDB. The flow generator systems
deliver positive airway pressure through a patient interface, either a small nasal mask, nasal pillows system, or full-face mask. Our VPAP units deliver ultra-quiet, comfortable bilevel therapy. AutoSet systems are based on a proprietary technology
to monitor breathing and can also be used in the diagnosis, treatment and management of OSA.



The VS and Elisée range of products complement our VPAP Adapt SV and Autoset CS2 for patients who need ventilatory assistance. During fiscal year 2011, we launched the Stellar 100 and 150
ventilation devices, which provide both invasive and non-invasive ventilation applications for adult and pediatric patients. In 2014, we launched the Astral™, our new generation of portable, lightweight, and user-friendly life support
ventilators.



Flow generators in total accounted
for approximately 54% of our net revenues in each of the fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.



The tables below provide a selection of products, as known by our trademarks, which have been released during the last five years.



CONTINUOUSPOSITIVEAIRWAYPRESSUREPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONS9 ElitePremium level CPAP device in ResMed’s sleek, compact S9 Series. Features Enhanced Easy-Breathe motor, Expiratory Pressure Relief (EPR) and detailed data options. The device
also has an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine tube.February 2010S9 EscapeAs the Standard CPAP model of the S9 Series, the S9 Escape features Expiratory Pressure
Relief (EPR) and other innovative features including Climate Control and the enhanced Easy-Breathe motor. The device also has an optional integrated humidifier (H5i).September 2010



VARIABLEPOSITIVEAIRWAYPRESSUREPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONVPAP Tx Lab SystemVPAP Tx therapy device features all ResMed’s sleep therapy modes. Tx Link connection modulerelays signals from the device to PSG equipment. The system is controlled through the user-friendly EasyCare Tx titration software.March 2010S9 VPAP SBilevel pressure support therapy device in ResMed’s sleek, compact S9 Series. Designed
forcomfort and compliance with the Easy-Breath waveform in S-mode* and pressures up to 25 cmH2O. The device also has an optional integrated
humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine tube.March 2011



- 6 -





VARIABLEPOSITIVEAIRWAYPRESSUREPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTION



S9 VPAP STBilevel pressure support therapy device with pressures up to 25 cmH2O designed for comfort, effective therapy with the assurance of back up rate up to 50 bpm. The device also has
an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine tube.March 2011



S9 VPAP AutoPremium auto-adjusting device with the unique VAuto mode and Easy-Breathe technology designed for patients requiring both higher pressures and pressure relief. VAuto mode
features enhanced AutoSet technology with central sleep apnea (CSA) detection. The device may be used with an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine tubeMarch 2011



S9 VPAP AdaptAdaptive Servo-Ventilator specifically designed to provide a rapid response to periodic breathing for the treatment of central and/or mixed apneas, providing ventilatory support
when it is needed packaged in ResMed’s sleek, compact S9 Series. The device also offers an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine tube.March 2011



S9 AutoSet CSAdaptive Servo-Ventilator specifically designed to provide a rapid response to Cheyne-Stokes breathing and periodic breathing associated with Heart Failure for the treatment of
central and/or mixed apneas, providing ventilatory support when it is needed. Packaged in ResMed’s sleek, compact S9 Series. The device also has an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight
SlimLine tube.March 2011



S9 Auto 25#Premium auto-adjusting device with the unique VAuto mode and Easy-Breathe technology designed for patients requiring both higher pressures
and pressure relief. VAuto mode features enhanced AutoSet technology with central sleep apnea (CSA) detection. The device may be used with an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine
tubeMarch 2011



- 7 -



VARIABLEPOSITIVEAIRWAYPRESSUREPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONS9 VPAP ST-ABilevel pressure support therapy device with pressures up to 30 cmH2O designed for comfort, effective therapy with the assurance of back up rate up to 50 bpm and alarms. The
device also has an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine tube.March 2013S9 VPAP COPDBilevel pressure support up to pressure 30cmH2O with both fixed and adjustable alarms. This device has been specifically designed for COPD.April 2013



AUTOMATICPOSITIVEAIRWAYPRESSUREPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONS9 AutoSetPremium APAP device packaged in ResMed’s sleek, compact S9 Series. Features Enhanced AutoSet (with Central Sleep Apnea Detection), Enhanced Easy-Breathe motor,
expiratory pressure relief (EPR) and detailed data options. The device also has, an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine tube.February 2010S9 Escape AutoThe S9 Escape Auto is the Standard APAP device packaged in ResMed’s sleek, compact S9 Series. It features an intelligent algorithm
with Easy-Breathe expiratory pressure relief (EPR) and delivers whisper-quiet therapy in a smooth waveform. The device also offers an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), Climate Control with the ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight
SlimLine tube.September 2010



VENTILATIONPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONStellar 100 and 150Pressure support ventilator for invasive and non-invasive purposes so it can be used from the hospital to the home.March 2011AstralPressure support and volume ventilator for invasive and non-invasive purposes so it can be used from the hospital to the homeMay 2014



- 8 -



Masks, Accessories, Motors and Diagnostic Products



Masks, accessories, motors and diagnostic products together
accounted for approximately 46% of our net revenues in each of the fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.



Mask Systems and Diagnostic Products



Mask systems are one of the most important elements of SDB treatment systems. Masks are a primary determinant of patient comfort and as
such may drive or impede patient compliance with therapy. We have been a consistent innovator in masks, improving patient comfort while minimizing size and weight.



MASKPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONSwift FXFourth generation nasal pillows system offering a fully flexible design for comfort and performanceSeptember 2009Mirage SoftGelNasal mask offering a gel cushion, interchangeable with the Activa LT system to improve choice and comfortOctober 2009Quattro FXFull Face mask offering unobtrusive fitSeptember 2010Swift FX for HerFourth generation nasal pillows system offering a fully flexible design for comfort and performance with female specific design featuresSeptember 2010Mirage FXNasal mask offering auto adjusting forehead support and SoftEdge headgearOctober 2010Mirage FX for HerNasal mask offering auto adjusting forehead support and SoftEdge headgear with female specific design featuresApril 2011Pixi Pediatric MaskA pediatric mask designed for children 2 years and olderSeptember 2011Quattro FX for HerFull face mask offering unobtrusive fit with female specific design featuresOctober 2011Swift FX BellaFourth generation nasal pillows system with an alternative headgear designJanuary 2012Quattro AirNext Generation lightweight Full Face Mask with improved comfortJune 2013Swift FX NanoA compact nasal mask designed to deliver an excellent user experience, without compromising on fit, comfort and ease of use.June 2013AirFit P10A compact, lightweight nasal pillows system that has only three parts, including a new soft and stable QuickFit™
headgear.January 2014



- 9 -



MASKPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONAirFit F10A compact, lightweight full-face mask that delivers comfort, stability, and performance in a simple and elegant design.April 2014AirFit N10A compact nasal mask that stands out with its comfort and visual freedom in a user-friendly design.April 2014



We market sleep
recorders for the diagnosis and titration of SDB in sleep clinics and hospitals. These diagnostic systems record relevant respiratory and sleep data, which can be analyzed by a sleep specialist or physician who can then tailor an appropriate OSA
treatment regimen for the patient.



DIAGNOSTICPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONApneaLink Plus (U.S.)A portable diagnostic device with oximetry measurement and respiratory effort measurementJune 2009Apnealink AirA portable diagnostic device which measures oximetry, respiratory effort, pulse, nasal flow and snoring. Works with EasyCare Online to
provide comprehensive diagnostic solution to clinicians.December 2013



- 10 -



Accessories and Other Products



To assist those professionals diagnosing or managing the
treatment of patients there are data communications and control products such as EasyCare, ResLink, ResControl, ResControl II, TxControl, ResScan and ResTraxx modules that facilitate the transfer of data and other information to and from the flow
generators. To enhance patient comfort, convenience and compliance, we market a variety of other products and accessories. These products include humidifiers, such as H5i and H4i, which connect directly with the CPAP, VPAP and AutoSet flow
generators to humidify and heat the air delivered to the patient, helping to prevent the drying of nasal passages that can cause discomfort. Other optional accessories include cold passover humidifiers, carry bags and breathing circuits.



DATA/
PATIENTMANAGEMENTPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONS9 Embletta AdapterThe S9 Embletta Adapter provides a connection between an S9 device and an Embletta Portable Diagnostic SystemNovember 2010ResScan v3.14An easy and flexible patient monitoring system providing therapy insights. This version included support for S9 bilevel and cross-patient first 30 days compliance
reporting.April 2011ResTraxx v17.1ResMed’s web-based compliance monitoring system which introduced several new features to ResTraxx Online reports and enhanced support for S9 VPAP devices.April 2011ResTraxx v 18.3ResMed’s web-based compliance monitoring system introducing EasyCare Card – online compliance reporting direct from device SD card to ResTraxx OnlineNovember 2011ResScan V3.16ResMed’s easy and flexible patient monitoring system providing therapy insights and supporting VS and Elise ventilation products (Europe)November 2011EasyCareResMed’s new compliance management solution offers both wireless and card-to-cloud functionality, providing access to patient data anywhere with an internet connection.
Intuitive user interface, easy to understand reports and automated compliance notification.April 2012U-SleepA flexible compliance solution that monitors CPAP device usage and helps HMEs manage their patients during their initial acclimatization
and ongoing therapy.August 2012



Product Development
and Clinical Trials



We have a strong track
record in innovation in the sleep market. In 1989, we introduced our first CPAP device. Since then we have been committed to an ongoing program of product advancement and development. Currently, our product development efforts are focused on not
only improving our current product offerings, but also expanding into new product applications.



- 11 -



We continually seek to identify new applications of our technology for significant unmet
medical needs. SDB is associated with a number of symptoms beyond excessive daytime sleepiness and irritability. Studies have established a clinical association between SDB and hypertension, stroke, congestive heart failure and diabetes. We support
clinical trials in many countries including the United States, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Italy, Switzerland, China and Australia to develop new clinical applications for our technology.



We consult with physicians at major sleep centers throughout
the world to identify technological trends in the treatment of SDB. New product ideas are also identified by our marketing staff, direct sales force, network of distributors, customers and patients.



In fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012 we invested $118.2
million, $120.1 million and $109.7 million, respectively, on research and development.



Sales and Marketing



We currently market our products in more than 100 countries through a network of distributors and our direct sales force. We attempt to tailor our marketing approach to each national market, based on
regional awareness of SDB as a health problem, physician referral patterns, consumer preferences and local reimbursement policies. See Note 15 – Segment Information of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8)
for financial information about our geographic areas.



North America and Latin America.Our products are typically purchased by a home healthcare dealer who then sells the products to the patient. The decision to purchase our
products, as opposed to those of our competitors, is made or influenced by one or more of the following individuals or organizations: the prescribing physician and his or her staff; the home healthcare dealer; the insurer and the patient. In North
and Latin America, our sales and marketing activities are conducted through a field sales organization made up of regional territory representatives, program development specialists and regional sales directors. Our field sales organization markets
and sells products to home healthcare dealer branch locations throughout the North and Latin America.



We also market our products directly to sleep clinics. Patients who are diagnosed with OSA and prescribed CPAP treatment are typically
referred by the diagnosing sleep clinic to a home healthcare dealer to fill the prescription. The home healthcare dealer, in consultation with the referring physician, will assist the patient in selecting the equipment, fit the patient with the
appropriate mask and set the flow generator pressure to the prescribed level.



Sales in North and Latin America accounted for 54%, 56% and 55% of our net revenues for fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.



Europe.We market our products
in most major European countries. We have wholly-owned subsidiaries in Austria, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Norway, Netherlands, Poland, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. We use independent distributors to sell our
products in other areas of Europe. Distributors are selected in each country based on their knowledge of respiratory medicine and a commitment to SDB therapy. In each country in which we sell our products direct, a local senior manager is
responsible for direct national sales. In many countries in Europe, we sell our products to home healthcare dealers who then sell the products to the patients. In Germany, we also operate a home healthcare company, in which we provide products and
services directly to patients, and receive reimbursement directly from third-party payors.



Sales in Europe accounted for 36%, 33% and 35% of our total net revenues for fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.



- 12 -



Asia Pacific.We have wholly-owned subsidiaries in Australia,
China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, and Taiwan. We use a combination of our direct sales force and independent distributors to sell our products in Asia Pacific. Sales in Asia Pacific accounted for 10%, 11% and 10% of our total net
revenues for the fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.



Market Growth Opportunities



We view the future as having three horizons of growth within the sleep and respiratory disorders sector of the medical device industry. The first horizon includes our existing market in OSA treatment,
where telemedicine is becoming an important factor. The use of technologies that allow remote collection and transfer of information may change the current clinical pathways for following up patients on our devices and provides an opportunity to
improve our services. We are investing in expanding our capabilities in this area.



The second horizon includes the use of our devices for the treatment of respiratory failure both in the hospital and the home. An area of growth is expected to be in the treatment of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, or COPD, which is an increasingly common chronic disease. Some patients with advanced COPD may benefit from the use of ventilation at night, but until recently only a small number of COPD patients were treated using ventilation on
a long term basis. A study published in 2014 has demonstrated a reduction in mortality and an improvement in quality of life and exercise capacity in COPD patients with stable but severe disease using non-invasive ventilation or NIV, nightly for 6
months. The findings from this study and our associated marketing activities may result in an increase in the size of the homecare market for NIV. Additionally, the use of NIV is becoming routine in most acute care hospitals, as guidelines stipulate
its use in acute exacerbations and familiarity with the techniques involved increases.



The focus of the third horizon is the cardiology market. There is a growing body of evidence concerning the links between cardiology diseases and SDB. It is established that OSA is a secondary cause of
hypertension and is common in hypertensive populations, particularly those resistant to therapy. OSA is related to atrial fibrillation with a high prevalence in patients and there is a strong association between OSA and stroke with a high prevalence
in the period after a stroke. OSA is also known to be a strong risk factor for the development of acute coronary disease and cardiovascular disease in general. Our main focus in cardiology is on heart failure as it is the most costly of the cardiac
diseases in Western societies. We have developed a device which effectively treats central sleep apnea, a form of breathing seen in approximately a third of chronic heart failure patients, and which is associated with a poor prognosis and risk of
re-admission to the hospital. We are performing two clinical trials to show the efficacy of this device in treating heart failure. In addition to clinical trials we pursue suitable opportunities with professional and healthcare associations to raise
awareness of the importance of SDB in cardiology patients. The findings from the two clinical trials and our associated marketing activities may result in an increase in demand for our devices.



We are also continuing our work to raise awareness of SDB in
diabetes. OSA is common in diabetic patient populations and those with metabolic syndrome. OSA has a number of deleterious effects in these diseases and importantly raises the risk of cardiovascular disease, if left untreated. This association is
being recognized by diabetologists and patients, and in June 2008, the International Diabetes Federation, or IDF, released a statement on SDB and type 2 diabetes. The IDF Taskforce on Epidemiology and Prevention strongly recommended that health
professionals working in both type 2 diabetes and SDB adopt clinical practices to ensure that a patient presenting with one condition is considered for the other. Furthermore, the IDF recommended that people with type 2 diabetes should be screened
for OSA particularly when they present classical symptoms such as witnessed apneas, heavy snoring or daytime sleepiness and poor workplace performance. In March 2011, the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists published updated medical
guidelines for developing a



- 13 -



comprehensive care plan for patients with diabetes, recommending screening for OSA/SDB in adults with type 2 diabetes, especially men older than 50 years. We are also actively engaged with groups
such as diabetes nurse educators to further raise awareness.



We are also working with occupational health professionals to raise awareness of the issues caused by untreated OSA in the workplace including accidents, absenteeism and reduced productivity, plus
increased costs for employers who provide healthcare coverage for employees.



We continue to provide research funding in these strategic areas while at the same time providing educational support to physicians working within these various specialties. We believe that the increasing
awareness among physicians supports the efforts and investment we are making in new markets.



Manufacturing



Our manufacturing operations consist primarily of assembly and testing of our flow generators, masks and accessories. Of the numerous raw materials, parts and components purchased for assembly of our
therapeutic and diagnostic sleep disorder products, most are off-the-shelf items available from multiple vendors. We also purchase uniquely configured components from various suppliers, including some who are single-source suppliers for us. Any
reduction or halt in supply from one of these single-source suppliers could limit our ability to manufacture our products or devices until a replacement supplier is found and qualified. We generally manufacture to our internal sales forecasts and
fill orders as received. Over the last few years, the manufacturing processes have been transformed along lean manufacturing guidelines to flow lines staffed by dedicated teams. Each team is responsible for the manufacture and quality of their
product group and decisions are based on performance and quality measures, including customer feedback.



Our principal manufacturing facility is located in Sydney, Australia and comprises a 155,000 square foot manufacturing facility. We have a
174,000 square foot assembly and distribution facility in South Carolina; the plant specializes in regional customization of our flow generators. We have a 95,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Singapore to complement the Sydney manufacturing
site. The plant assembles masks, flow generators and electric motors. We have a 46,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Malaysia. The plant specializes in the manufacture of headgear material for our masks and accessories. We have a 43,000
square foot manufacturing facility in Paris, France. The facility is primarily responsible for the assembly of mechanical ventilators and associated accessories. We have a 43,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Freudenstadt, Germany; the plant
specializes in the manufacture of medical humidification products. We also manufacture high-quality electric motors for our flow generator devices at a 72,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Chatsworth, California.



Our quality management system is based upon the requirements
of ISO 9001, ISO 13485, FDA Quality System Regulations for Medical Devices, the Medical Device Directive (93/42/EEC) and other applicable regulations for the markets in which we sell. All of our manufacturing sites are accredited to ISO 13485.
These sites are subject to third-party audits, conducted by the ISO notified bodies, at regular intervals.



Third-Party Coverage and Reimbursement



The cost of medical care in many of the countries in which we operate is funded in substantial part by government and private insurance
programs. In Germany, we receive payments directly from these payors. Outside Germany, although we do not generally receive payments for our products directly from these payors, our success in major markets is dependent upon the ability of patients
to obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payors for our products.



- 14 -



In the United States, our products are purchased primarily by home healthcare dealers,
hospitals or sleep clinics, which then invoice third-party payors directly for reimbursement. Domestic third-party payors include government payors such as Medicare and Medicaid and commercial health insurance plans. These payors may deny coverage
and reimbursement if they determine that a device is not used in accordance with certain covered treatment methods, or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. The long-term trend towards cost-containment, through managed healthcare, or other
legislative proposals to reform healthcare, could control or significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products and could result in lower prices for our products. In some foreign markets, such as France, Germany and Japan,
government reimbursement is currently available for purchase or rental of our products, subject to constraints such as price controls or unit sales limitations. In Australia and in some other foreign markets, there is currently limited or no
reimbursement for devices that treat OSA.



The
past decade of legislative reform in the United States, including, by way of example, the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the PPACA), Medicare Improvement
for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (MIPPA), Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA), and the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA), has significantly impacted reimbursement for products that we provide. The
longer term impact, though not entirely predictable, continues to bring significant changes to the third-party payor landscape.



Beginning in 2005, the MMA reduced payment amounts for five categories of HME, froze payment amounts for certain covered home medical
equipment (HME) items through 2007, established a Medicare competitive acquisition program for HME and imposed quality standards and accreditation requirements for HME suppliers. The DRA capped the Medicare rental period for certain capped rental
items, including CPAP devices, at 13 months of continuous use, after which time title of the equipment would transfer automatically to the beneficiary. MIPPA retroactively delayed the implementation of competitive bidding for eighteen months and
decreased the 2009 Medicare fee schedule payment amounts for HME by 9.5% for product categories included in competitive bidding. In addition, on an annual basis, legislatively-defined update factors are applied by the Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services (CMS) to the Medicare fee schedule payment amounts. For 2013, the fee schedule amounts were increased by 0.8% and for 2014, by 1.0%.



Effective January 1, 2011, CMS implemented the first round of competitive bidding in 9 competitive bidding areas, or CBAs, and
included home medical equipment that we manufacture and develop, specifically, CPAP and respiratory assist devices, and related supplies and accessories. The average reduction from current Medicare payment rates in the first round of competitive
bidding implemented was approximately 32% overall and 34% for CPAP and respiratory devices. On January 30, 2013, CMS announced the single payment amounts for the second round, which covered a total of 91 CBAs. For CPAP and respiratory devices,
the average reduction from current Medicare payment rates in the second round was approximately 47% on a weighted average basis, effective July 1, 2013. CMS is required by law to recompete these contracts at least once every three years.
Accordingly, on July 15, 2014, CMS announced plans to conduct a Round 2 Recompete, where suppliers awarded contracts in the second round of competitive bidding will recompete. CMS expects to announce the bidding schedule in Fall 2014.



The PPACA, which was passed both to expand the
number of individuals with healthcare coverage and to develop additional revenue sources, includes, among other things, a deductible excise tax equal to 2.3% of the price for which medical devices are sold in the United States on any entity that
manufactures or imports medical devices, with limited exceptions, beginning in 2013. This excise tax is applicable to our products that are primarily used in hospitals and sleep labs, which includes the ApneaLink, VPAP Tx, certain Respiratory Care
and dental sleep products. The PPACA also provides



- 15 -



for a number of Medicare regulatory requirements, including new face-to-face encounter requirements for durable medical equipment and home health services; and a requirement that by 2016, the
competitive bidding process must be rolled-out nationally or prices in non-competitive bidding areas must be adjusted to match competitive bidding prices.



We cannot predict at this time the full impact of the PPACA, or any U.S. legislation enacted in the future will have on our revenues,
profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations.



Service and Warranty



We generally offer either one-year or two-year limited warranties on our flow generator products. Warranties on mask systems are for 90 days. Our distributors either repair our products with parts
supplied by us or arrange shipment of products to our facilities for repair or replacement.



We receive returns of our products from the field for various reasons. We believe that the level of returns experienced to date is consistent with levels typically experienced by manufacturers of similar
devices. We provide for warranties and returns based on historical data.



Competition



The markets for our products are highly competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors in all of our markets are product features, reliability and price. Customer support, reputation and
efficient distribution are also important factors.



We compete on a market-by-market basis with various companies, some of which have greater financial, research, manufacturing and marketing
resources than us. Our primary competitors include Philips BV; DeVilbiss Healthcare; Fisher & Paykel Healthcare Corporation Limited; Apex Medical Corporation; BMC Medical Co. Ltd.; and regional manufacturers. The disparity between our
resources and those of our competitors may increase as a result of the trend towards consolidation in the healthcare industry. In addition, some of our competitors, such as Weinmann Geräte für Medizin GmbH + Co. KG, are affiliates of
customers of ours, which may make it difficult to compete with them. Finally, our products compete with surgical procedures and dental appliances designed to treat OSA and other SDB-related respiratory conditions. The development of new or
innovative procedures or devices by others could result in our products becoming obsolete or noncompetitive, which would harm our revenues and financial condition.



Any product developed by us that gains regulatory clearance
will have to compete for market acceptance and market share. An important factor in such competition may be the timing of market introduction of competitive products. Accordingly, the speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical
testing and regulatory clearance processes and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market are important competitive factors. In addition, our ability to compete will continue to be dependent on successfully protecting our patents and
other intellectual property.



Patents and
Proprietary Rights and Related Litigation



We
rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks and non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary technology and rights.



Through our various subsidiaries, as of the date of this annual report, we own or have licensed rights to approximately 859 issued United
States patents (including approximately 369 design patents) and approximately 1,535 issued foreign patents. In addition, there are approximately 462 pending United



- 16 -



States patent applications (including approximately 63 design patent applications), approximately 909 pending foreign patent applications, approximately 1,162 registered foreign designs and 74
pending foreign designs. Some of these patents, patent applications and designs relate to significant aspects and features of our products.



Of our patents, 156 United States patents and 229 foreign patents are due to expire in the next five years. There are 36 foreign patents
due to expire in 2015, 12 in 2016, 28 in 2017, 98 in 2018. and 55 in 2019. There are 22 United States patents due to expire in 2015, 7 United States patents in 2016, 29 United States patents in 2017, 63 United States patents in 2018, and 35 United
States patents in 2019. We believe that the expiration of these patents will not have a material adverse impact on our competitive position.



Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect our rights, or to defend third-party claims of infringement by us
of the proprietary rights of others. The defense and prosecution of patent claims, including pending claims, as well as participation in other inter-party proceedings, can be expensive and time-consuming, even in those instances in which the outcome
is favorable to us. Patent laws regarding the enforceability of patents vary from country to country. Therefore, there can be no assurance that patent issues will be uniformly resolved, or that local laws will provide us with consistent rights and
benefits.



Government Regulations



FDA



Our products are subject to extensive regulation
particularly as to safety, efficacy and adherence to FDA Quality System Regulation, and related manufacturing standards. Medical device products are subject to rigorous FDA and other governmental agency regulations in the United States and similar
regulations of foreign agencies abroad. The FDA regulates the design, development, research, preclinical and clinical testing, introduction, manufacture, advertising, labeling, packaging, marketing, distribution, import and export, and record
keeping for such products, in order to ensure that medical products distributed in the United States are safe and effective for their intended use. In addition, the FDA is authorized to establish special controls to provide reasonable assurance of
the safety and effectiveness of most devices. Non-compliance with applicable requirements can result in import detentions, fines, civil and administrative penalties, injunctions, suspensions or losses of regulatory approvals, recall or seizure of
products, operating restrictions, refusal of the government to approve product export applications or allow us to enter into supply contracts, and criminal prosecution.



Unless an exemption applies, the FDA requires that a
manufacturer introducing a new medical device or a new indication for use of an existing medical device obtain either a Section 510(k) premarket notification clearance or a premarket approval, or PMA, before introducing it into the U.S. market.
The type of marketing authorization is generally linked to the classification of the device. The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes (Class I, II or III) based on the degree of risk the FDA determines to be associated with a
device and the level of regulatory control deemed necessary to ensure the device’s safety and effectiveness.



Our products currently marketed in the United States are marketed in reliance on 510(k) pre-marketing clearances as either Class I or
Class II devices. The process of obtaining a Section 510(k) clearance generally requires the submission of performance data and often clinical data, which in some cases can be extensive, to demonstrate that the device is “substantially
equivalent” to a device that was on the market before 1976 or to a device that has been found by the FDA to be “substantially equivalent” to such a pre-1976 device, a predecessor device is referred to as “predicate device.”
As a result, FDA clearance requirements may extend the development process for a considerable length of time. In addition, in some cases, the FDA may require additional review by an advisory panel, which



- 17 -



can further lengthen the process. The PMA process, which is reserved for new devices that are not substantially equivalent to any predicate device and for high-risk devices or those that are used
to support or sustain human life, may take several years and requires the submission of extensive performance and clinical information.



Medical devices can be marketed only for the indications for which they are cleared or approved. After a device has received 510(k)
clearance for a specific intended use, any change or modification that significantly affects its safety or effectiveness, such as a significant change in the design, materials, method of manufacture or intended use, may require a new 510(k)
clearance or PMA approval and payment of an FDA user fee. The determination as to whether or not a modification could significantly affect the device’s safety or effectiveness is initially left to the manufacturer using available FDA guidance;
however, the FDA may review this determination to evaluate the regulatory status of the modified product at any time and may require the manufacturer to cease marketing and recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or PMA approval is
obtained. The manufacturer may also be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. The FDA is currently reviewing its guidance describing when it believes a manufacturer is obligated to submit a new 510(k) for modifications or changes to a
previously cleared device. The FDA is expected to issue revised guidance to assist device manufacturers in making this determination. It is unclear whether the FDA’s approach in this new guidance will result in substantive changes to existing
policy and practice regarding the assessment of whether a new 510(k) is required for changes or modifications to existing devices.



Any devices we manufacture and distribute pursuant to clearance or approval by the FDA are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation
by the FDA and certain state agencies. These include product listing and establishment registration requirements, which help facilitate FDA inspections and other regulatory actions. As a medical device manufacturer, all of our manufacturing
facilities are subject to inspection on a routine basis by the FDA. We are required to adhere to applicable regulations setting forth detailed cGMP requirements, as set forth in the QSR, which require, manufacturers, including third-party
manufacturers, to follow stringent design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during all phases of the design and manufacturing process. Noncompliance with these standards can result in, among other things, fines,
injunctions, civil penalties, recalls or seizures of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal of the government to grant 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of devices, withdrawal of marketing approvals and criminal prosecutions. We
believe that our design, manufacturing and quality control procedures are in compliance with the FDA’s regulatory requirements.



We must also comply with post-market surveillance regulations, including medical device reporting, or MDR, requirements which require that
we review and report to the FDA any incident in which our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury. We must also report any incident in which our product has malfunctioned if that malfunction would likely cause or
contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur.



Labeling and promotional activities are subject to scrutiny by the FDA and, in certain circumstances, by the Federal Trade Commission. Medical devices approved or cleared by the FDA may not be promoted
for unapproved or uncleared uses, otherwise known as “off-label” promotion. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly
promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including substantial monetary penalties and criminal prosecution.



Sales of medical devices outside the United States are subject to regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country.
Approval for sale of our medical devices in Europe is through the CE mark process. Where appropriate, our products are CE marked to the European Union’s Medical



- 18 -



Device Directive. Under the CE marketing scheme, our products are classified as either Class I or Class II. Our devices are listed in Australia with the Therapeutic Goods Administration, and in
Canada with Health Canada.



Other Healthcare
Laws



Even though we do not submit claims or
bill governmental programs and other third-party payers directly for reimbursement for our products sold in the United States, we are still subject to a number of laws and regulations that may restrict our business practices, including, without
limitation, anti-kickback, false claims, physician payment transparency and data privacy and security laws. The government has interpreted these laws broadly to apply to the marketing and sales activities of manufacturers and distributors like us.



The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits,
among other things, persons or entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the
purchase, lease, order or recommendation of, any good, facility, item or service for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. In addition, a claim including items or services
resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act.



The federal civil False Claims Act prohibits, among other things, any person or entity from knowingly presenting, or causing to be
presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval to the federal government or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim to the federal government. A claim
includes “any request or demand” for money or property presented to the U.S. government. The civil False Claims Act also applies to false submissions that cause the government to be paid less than the amount to which it is entitled, such
as a rebate. Intent to deceive is not required to establish liability under the civil False Claims Act.



The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created federal criminal statutes that prohibit among
other actions, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payors, knowingly and willfully embezzling or stealing from a healthcare benefit program,
willfully obstructing a criminal investigation of a healthcare offense, and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the
delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. Like the Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of these statutes or specific intent to violate them in order to have committed a violation.



Also, many states have similar fraud and abuse
statutes or regulations that may be broader in scope and may apply regardless of payor, in addition to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs.



Under HIPAA, the Department of Health and Human Services, or
HHS, has issued regulations to protect the privacy and security of protected health information used or disclosed by covered entities including health care providers, such as us. HIPAA also regulates standardization of data content, codes and
formats used in health care transactions and standardization of identifiers for health plans and providers. Penalties for violations of HIPAA regulations include civil and criminal penalties. In addition to federal privacy and security regulations,
there are a number of state laws governing confidentiality and security of health information that are applicable to our business. New laws governing privacy may be adopted in the future as well. Failure to comply with privacy requirements could
result in civil or criminal penalties, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business.



- 19 -



Additionally, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of
payments and transfers of value provided to healthcare professionals or entities. The Physician Payment Sunshine Act was enacted in law as part of PPACA, which imposed new annual reporting requirements on device manufacturers for payments and other
transfers of value provided by them, directly or indirectly, to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their family members. A manufacturer’s failure to submit timely, accurately
and completely the required information for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests may result in civil monetary penalties. Certain states also mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs, impose
restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices and/or require the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to healthcare professionals and entities.



The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust systems to comply with
different compliance or reporting requirements in multiple jurisdictions increase the possibility that a healthcare company may fail to comply fully with one or more of these requirements. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the
health regulatory laws described above or any other laws that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including potentially significant criminal and civil and administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, imprisonment, exclusion from
participation in government healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, administrative burdens, diminished profits and future earnings, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our
ability to operate our business and our results of operations.



Employees



As of June 30, 2014, we had approximately 4,100 employees or full-time consultants, of which approximately 1,620 persons were employed in warehousing and manufacturing, 550 in research and
development and 1,930 in sales, marketing and administration. Of our employees and consultants, approximately, 1,260 were located in Australia, 820 in North and Latin America, 1,320 in Europe and 700 in Asia.



We believe that the success of our business will depend, in
part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel.



