ITEM 1 BUSINESS



General



We are a leading developer, manufacturer and distributor of medical equipment for treating, diagnosing, and managing sleep-disordered
breathing and other respiratory disorders. Sleep-disordered breathing, or SDB, includes obstructive sleep apnea, or OSA, and other respiratory disorders that occur during sleep. When we were formed in 1989, our primary purpose was to commercialize a
treatment for OSA developed by Professor Colin Sullivan. This treatment, nasal Continuous Positive Airway Pressure, or CPAP, was the first successful noninvasive treatment for OSA. CPAP systems deliver pressurized air, typically through a nasal
mask, to prevent collapse of the upper airway during sleep.



Since the development of CPAP, we have developed a number of innovative products for SDB and other respiratory disorders including airflow generators, diagnostic products, mask systems, headgear and other
accessories. Our growth has been fuelled by geographic expansion, increased awareness of respiratory conditions as a significant health concern among physicians and patients, and our research and product development efforts.



We employ approximately 3,450 people and sell our products in
over 70 countries through a combination of wholly owned subsidiaries and independent distributors.



- 2 -




Our web site address is www.resmed.com. We make our periodic reports, together with any
amendments, available on our web site, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish the reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Information contained on the website is not part of or
incorporated into the annual report.



Corporate
History



ResMed Inc., a Delaware corporation,
was formed in March 1994 as the ultimate holding company for our operating subsidiaries. On June 1, 1995, we completed an initial public offering of common stock and on June 2, 1995 our common stock commenced trading on the NASDAQ National
Market. On September 30, 1999 we transferred our principal public listing to the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, trading under the ticker symbol RMD. On November 25, 1999, we established a secondary listing of our common stock via Chess
Depositary Instruments, or CDI’s, on the Australian Stock Exchange (now known as the Australian Securities Exchange), or ASX, also under the symbol RMD. Ten CDI’s on the ASX represent one share of our common stock on the NYSE. On
July 1, 2002, we converted our ASX listing status from a foreign exempt listing to a full listing.



Our Australian subsidiary, ResMed Holdings Limited, was originally organized in 1989 by Dr. Peter Farrell to acquire from Baxter
Center for Medical Research Pty Limited, or Baxter, the rights to certain technology relating to CPAP treatment as well as Baxter’s existing CPAP device business. Baxter had sold CPAP devices in Australia since 1988, having acquired the rights
to the technology in 1987.



Since formation we
have acquired a number of operating businesses including distributors, suppliers and developers of medical equipment.



Segment Information



We believe that, given the single market focus of our operations solely in the sleep-disordered breathing sector of the respiratory
medicine industry, and the inter-dependence of its products, we operate as a single operating segment. See Note 15 – Segment Information of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8) for financial information regarding
segment reporting. Financial information about our revenues from and assets located in foreign countries is also included in the notes to our consolidated financial statements.



The Market



Sleep is a complex neurological process that includes two
distinct states: rapid eye movement, or REM, sleep and non-rapid eye movement, or non-REM, sleep. REM sleep, which is about 20-25% of total sleep experienced by adults, is characterized by a high level of brain activity, bursts of rapid eye
movement, increased heart and respiration rates, and paralysis of many muscles. Non-REM sleep is subdivided into four stages that generally parallel sleep depth; stage 1 is the lightest and stage 4 is the deepest.



The upper airway has no rigid support and is held open by
active contraction of upper airway muscles. Normally, during REM sleep and deeper levels of non-REM sleep, upper airway muscles relax and the airway narrows. Individuals with narrow upper airways or poor muscle tone are prone to temporary collapses
of the upper airway during sleep, called apneas, and to near closures of the upper airway called hypopneas. These breathing events result in a lowering of blood oxygen concentration, causing the central nervous system to react to the lack of oxygen
or increased carbon dioxide and signaling the body to respond. Typically, the individual subconsciously arouses from sleep, causing the throat muscles to contract, opening the airway. After a few gasping breaths, blood oxygen levels



- 3 -




increase and the individual can resume a deeper sleep until the cycle repeats itself. Sufferers of OSA typically experience ten or more such cycles per hour. While these awakenings greatly impair
the quality of sleep, the individual is not normally aware of these disruptions. In addition, OSA has recently been recognized as a cause of hypertension and a significant co-morbidity for heart disease, stroke and diabetes.



It is estimated that one in five adults have some form of
obstructive sleep apnea. In the United States alone, this represents approximately 40 million people. Despite the high prevalence of OSA, there is a general lack of awareness of OSA among both the medical community and the general public. It is
estimated that less than 10% of those with OSA have been diagnosed or treated. Many healthcare professionals are often unable to diagnose OSA because they are unaware that such non-specific symptoms as excessive daytime sleepiness, snoring,
hypertension and irritability are characteristic of OSA.



While OSA has been diagnosed in a broad cross-section of the population, it is predominant among middle-aged men and those who are obese, smoke, consume alcohol in excess or use muscle-relaxing and
pain-killing drugs. A strong association has been discovered between OSA and a number of cardiovascular diseases. Studies have shown that SDB is present in approximately 83% of patients with drug-resistant hypertension, approximately 72% of patients
with type 2 diabetes, approximately 77% of patients with obesity and approximately 76% of patients with congestive heart failure. In relation to diabetes, recent studies indicate that SDB is independently associated with glucose intolerance and
insulin resistance.



Sleep-Disordered Breathing
and Obstructive Sleep Apnea



Sleep-disordered
breathing encompasses all disease processes that cause abnormal breathing patterns during sleep. Manifestations include OSA, central sleep apnea, or CSA, and hypoventilation syndromes that occur during sleep. Hypoventilation syndromes are generally
associated with obesity, chronic obstructive lung disease and neuromuscular disease. OSA is the most common form of SDB.



Sleep fragmentation and the loss of the deeper levels of sleep caused by OSA can lead to excessive daytime sleepiness, reduced cognitive
function, including memory loss and lack of concentration, depression and irritability. OSA sufferers also experience an increase in heart rate and an elevation of blood pressure during the cycle of apneas. Several studies indicate that the oxygen
desaturation, increased heart rate and elevated blood pressure caused by OSA may be associated with increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality due to angina, stroke and heart attack. Patients with OSA have been shown to have impaired
daytime performance in a variety of cognitive functions including problem solving, response speed and visual motor coordination, and studies have linked OSA to increased occurrences of traffic and workplace accidents.



Generally, an individual seeking treatment for the symptoms
of OSA is referred by a general practitioner to a sleep specialist for further evaluation. The diagnosis of OSA typically requires monitoring the patient during sleep at either a sleep clinic or the patient’s home. During overnight testing,
respiratory parameters and sleep patterns may be monitored, along with other vital signs such as heart rate and blood oxygen levels. Simpler tests, using devices such as our Apnealink, or our automatic positive airway pressure devices, monitor
airflow during sleep, and use computer programs to analyze airflow patterns. These tests allow sleep clinicians to detect any sleep disturbances such as apneas, hypopneas or subconscious awakenings. We estimate that there are currently around 3,300
sleep clinics in the United States, a substantial portion of which are affiliated with hospitals. The number of sleep clinics has expanded significantly from approximately 100 such facilities in 1985.



- 4 -




Existing Therapies



Before 1981, the primary treatment for OSA was a tracheotomy, a surgical procedure to create a hole in the
patient’s windpipe. Alternative surgical treatments have involved either uvulopalatopharyngoplasty, or UPPP, in which surgery is performed on the upper airway to remove excess tissue and to streamline the shape of the airway or implanting a
device to add support to the soft palate. UPPP alone has a poor success rate; however, when performed in conjunction with multi-stage upper airway surgical procedures, a greater success rate has been claimed. These combined procedures, performed by
highly specialized surgeons, are expensive and involve prolonged and often painful recovery periods. Surgical treatments are not considered first line therapy for OSA. Other alternative treatments available today include nasal surgery, mandibular
advancement surgery, dental appliances, palatal implants, somnoplasty and nasal devices. Alternative treatments reported to be under development include pharmaceutical therapies and electrical stimulation of the nerves or muscles.



A variety of devices are marketed for the treatment of OSA.
Most are only partially effective, but CPAP is a reliable treatment for all severities of OSA and is considered first line therapy. Use of mandibular advancement devices is increasing as a second line option in patients unable to use CPAP or those
with mild OSA. These devices cause the mandible and tongue to be pulled forward and improve the dimensions of the upper airway. CPAP is a non-invasive means of treating OSA. CPAP was first used as a treatment for OSA in 1980 by Dr. Colin
Sullivan, the past Chairman of our Medical Advisory Board and was commercialized for treatment of OSA in the United States in the mid 1980’s.



During CPAP treatment, a patient sleeps with a nasal interface connected to a small portable airflow generator that delivers room air at a
positive pressure. The patient breathes in air from the flow generator and breathes out through an exhaust port in the interface. Continuous air pressure applied in this manner acts as a pneumatic splint to keep the upper airway open and
unobstructed. Interfaces include nasal masks and nasal pillows. Sometimes, when a patient leaks air through their mouth, a full-face mask may need to be used, rather than a nasal interface.



CPAP is not a cure and therefore, must be used on a nightly basis as long as treatment is required. Patient
compliance has been a major factor in the efficacy of CPAP treatment. Early generations of CPAP units provided limited patient comfort and convenience. Patients experienced soreness from the repeated use of nasal masks and had difficulty falling
asleep with the CPAP device operating at the prescribed pressure. In more recent years, product innovations to improve patient comfort and compliance have been developed. These include more comfortable patient interface systems; delay timers that
gradually raise air pressure allowing the patient to fall asleep more easily; bilevel air flow generators, including Variable Positive Airway Pressure, or VPAP systems, which provide different air pressures for inhalation and exhalation; heated
humidification systems to make the airflow more comfortable; and autotitration devices that reduce the average pressure delivered during the night.



Business Strategy



We believe that the SDB market will continue to grow in the future due to a number of factors including increasing awareness of OSA,
improved understanding of the role of SDB treatment in the management of cardiac, neurologic, metabolic and related disorders, and an increase in home-based diagnosis. Our strategy for expanding our business operations and capitalizing on the growth
of the SDB market consists of the following key elements:



Continue Product Development and Innovation.We are committed to ongoing innovation in developing products for the diagnosis and treatment of SDB. We have been a leading
innovator of products designed to more effectively treat SDB, increase patient comfort and encourage compliance



- 5 -






Expand Geographic Presence.We market our products in over 70 countries to sleep
clinics, home healthcare dealers and third party payers. We intend to increase our sales and marketing efforts in our principal markets, as well as expand the depth of our presence in other geographic regions.



Increase Public and Clinical
Awareness.We intend to continue to expand our existing promotional activities to increase awareness of SDB and our treatment alternatives. These promotional activities target the population with predisposition to SDB as
well as specialists, such as cardiologists, neurologists and pulmonologists. In addition, we also target special interest groups, including the National Stroke Association, the American Heart Association and the National Sleep Foundation. In concert
with other industry participants we sponsor educational programs targeted at the primary care physician community, which should further enlighten both doctors and patients about the relationship between sleep-disordered breathing/obstructive sleep
apnea and co-morbidities such as cardiac disease, diabetes, hypertension and obesity. The programs should also support our efforts to inform the community of the dangers of sleep apnea with regard to occupational health and safety, especially in the
transport industry.



During fiscal years 2011,
2010 and 2009, we donated $1.0 million, $3.0 million and $3.5 million, respectively, to the ResMed Foundation in the United States, and the ResMed Foundation in Australia, to further enhance research and awareness of SDB. The contributions to the
Foundations reflect ResMed’s commitment to medical research into sleep-disordered breathing, particularly the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea.



Expand into New Clinical Applications.We continually seek to identify new applications of our technology
for significant unmet medical needs. Studies have established a clinical association between OSA and both stroke and congestive heart failure, and have recognized SDB as a cause of hypertension or high blood pressure. Research also indicates that
SDB is independently associated with glucose intolerance and insulin resistance. We have developed a device for the treatment of Cheyne-Stokes breathing in patients with congestive heart failure. In addition, we maintain close working relationships
with a number of prominent physicians to explore new medical applications for our products and technology. In 2007, we received Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, clearance and launched a new product in the United States for the treatment of
respiratory insufficiency due to central sleep apnea, mixed apnea and periodic breathing, called the Adapt SV. The Adapt SV uses a technology known as adaptive servo-ventilation and was first made available to a select group of U.S. key opinion
leader sites beginning in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006. Adapt SV utilizes an



- 6 -




advanced algorithm to calculate a patient-specific minute ventilation target and automatically adjusts pressure support to maintain the target. We believe this technology has allowed physicians
to successfully treat complex breathing disorders in some patients who had previously tried and failed traditional positive airway pressure therapy.



Leverage the Experience of our Management Team.Our senior management team has extensive experience in the
medical device industry in general, and in the field of SDB in particular. We intend to continue to leverage the experience and expertise of these individuals to maintain our innovative approach to the development of products and increase awareness
of the serious medical problems caused by SDB.



Products



Our portfolio of products includes airflow generators, diagnostic products, mask systems, headgear and other accessories.



Air Flow Generators



We produce CPAP, VPAP and AutoSet systems for the titration
and treatment of SDB. The flow generator systems deliver positive airway pressure through a patient interface, either a small nasal mask, nasal pillows system, or full-face mask. Our VPAP units deliver ultra-quiet, comfortable bilevel therapy. There
are two preset pressures: a higher pressure as the patient breathes in, and a lower pressure as the patient breathes out. Breathing out against a lower pressure makes treatment more comfortable, particularly for patients who need high pressure
levels or for those with impaired breathing ability. AutoSet systems are based on a proprietary technology to monitor breathing and can also be used in the diagnosis, treatment and management of OSA.



With the acquisition of ResMed Paris SAS, previously Saime
SA, in May 2005, we increased our presence in the European homecare ventilation market. The VS and Elisée range of products are sophisticated, yet easy to use for physicians, clinicians and patients. We believe these devices compliment our
VPAP III, VPAP Adapt SV and Autoset CS2 for patients who need ventilatory assistance. During the fiscal year 2011 we also launched the Stellar 100 and 150 ventilation devices, which provide both invasive and non invasive ventilation applications for
adult and pediatric patients.



Flow generators in
total accounted for approximately 56%, 58% and 58% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



The tables below provide a selection of products, as known by our trademarks, which have been released during the last five years.



CONTINUOUSPOSITIVEAIRWAYPRESSUREPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONC-Series TangoAn entry level CPAP device with optional humidification.March 2007ResMed S8 Series IIA small CPAP device with enhanced feature set to the original S8 Series, with improved patient therapy comfort. The device has an optional
integrated humidifier.April 2008



-
 -




CONTINUOUSPOSITIVEAIRWAYPRESSUREPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONS8 Elite II (U.S.)A small CPAP device with enhanced feature set to the original S8 Elite, with further improved patient therapy comfort. The device has an optional integrated
humidifier.April 2008S8 Escape II (U.S.)A small CPAP device with enhanced feature set to the original S8 Escape, with further improved patient therapy comfort. The device has an optional integrated
humidifier.June 2008S8 Escape (Lightweight) II (ROW, ex Japan)A small CPAP device with enhanced feature set to the original S8 Escape (Lightweight), with further improved patient therapy comfort. The device has an optional integrated
humidifier.September 2008S9 ElitePremium level CPAP device in ResMed’s sleek, compact S9 Series. Features Enhanced Easy-Breathe motor, Expiratory Pressure Relief (EPR) and detailed data options. The device
also has an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine tube.February 2010S9 EscapeAs the Standard CPAP model of the S9 Series, the S9 Escape features Expiratory Pressure Relief (EPR) and other innovative features
including Climate Control and the enhanced Easy-Breathe motor. The device also has an optional integrated humidifier (H5i).September 2010



VARIABLEPOSITIVEAIRWAYPRESSUREPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONVPAP MalibuAuto-adjusting bilevel device utilizing the smooth pressure waveform of the VPAP Adapt SV to achieve ultimate comfort for non-compliant CPAP users.April 2007VPAP AutoAuto-bilevel device on the compact S8 platform utilizing the easy-breathe waveform and Autoset algorithms.January 2008VPAP Adapt SV – EnhancedRevised VPAP Adapt SV increasing pressure range from 4-20 cmH2O to 4-25 cmH2O and AHI resporting.February 2008VPAP STSmall compact Bi-level ST device in an S8 box with VAuto for U.S.June 2008VPAP Auto 25Small compact Bi-level ST device in an S8 box with VAuto for U.S.June 2008VPAP III STA with QuickNavAn upgraded Bi-level device with alarm history, instant efficacy data and a large screen.July 2008



- 8 -






VARIABLEPOSITIVEAIRWAYPRESSUREPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTION



VPAP S / VPAP IVBi-level device that provides S and CPAP modes with the pressure up to 25 cmH2O in a compact and convenient S8 design.September 2008



VPAP IV ST#Small compact Bi-level ST device in an S8 box with VAuto for Europe.September 2008



S8 Auto 25Bi-level device that provides the Easy-Breathe wave on the AutoSet algorithm and the pressure up to 25cm H2O in a compact and convenient S8 design.October 2008



VPAP Tx Lab SystemVPAP Tx therapy device features all ResMed’s sleep therapy modes. Tx Link connection module relays signals from the device to PSG equipment. The system is controlled through
the user-friendly EasyCare Tx titration software.March 2010



S9 VPAP SBilevel pressure support therapy device in ResMed’s sleek, compact S9 Series. Designed for comfort and compliance with the
Easy-Breath waveform in S-mode* and pressures up to 25 cmH2O. The device also has an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine tube.*Americas onlyMarch 2011



S9 VPAP STBilevel pressure support therapy device with pressures up to 25 cmH2O designed for comfort, effective therapy with the assurance of back up rate up to 50 bpm. The device also has
an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine tube.March 2011



S9 VPAP AutoPremium auto-adjusting device with the unique VAuto mode and Easy-Breathe technology designed for patients requiring both higher pressures and pressure relief. VAuto mode
features enhanced AutoSet technology with central sleep apnea (CSA) detection. The device may be used with an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine tube.March 2011



S9 VPAP AdaptAdaptive Servo-Ventilator specifically designed to provide a rapid response to periodic breathing for the treatment of central and/or
mixed apneas, providing ventilatory support when it is needed packaged in ResMed’s sleek, compact S9 Series. The device also offers an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine
tube.March 2011



- 9 -




VARIABLEPOSITIVEAIRWAYPRESSUREPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONS9 AutoSet CS#Adaptive Servo-Ventilator specifically designed to provide a rapid response to Cheyne-Stokes breathing and periodic breathing associated with Heart Failure for the treatment of
central and/or mixed apneas, providing ventilatory support when it is needed in ResMed’s sleek, compact S9 Series. The device also has an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine
tube.March 2011S9 Auto 25#Premium auto-adjusting device with the unique VAuto mode and Easy-Breathe technology designed for patients requiring both higher pressures
and pressure relief. VAuto mode features enhanced AutoSet technology with central sleep apnea (CSA) detection. The device may be used with an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine
tube.March 2011



# Sold outside United States
only



AUTOMATICPOSITIVEAIRWAYPRESSUREPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONS8 Autoset II(ROW, ex Japan)Premium auto-adjusting device in ResMed’s S8 Series II range, with improved patient therapy comfort. The device has an optional integrated humidifier.September 2007S8 Autoset II (U.S.)Premium auto-adjusting device in ResMed’s S8 Series II range, with further improved patient therapy comfort. The device has an optional integrated humidifier.April 2008S9 AutoSetPremium APAP device in ResMed’s sleek, compact S9 Series. Features Enhanced AutoSet (with Central Sleep Apnea Detection), Enhanced Easy-Breathe motor, expiratory
pressure relief (EPR) and detailed data options. The device also has, an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine tube.February 2010S9 Escape AutoThe S9 Escape Auto is the Standard APAP device in ResMed’s S9 Series. It features an intelligent algorithm with Easy-Breathe
expiratory pressure relief (EPR) and delivers whisper-quiet therapy in a smooth waveform. The device also offers an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), Climate Control with the ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine
tube.September 2010



- 10 -




VENTILATIONPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONElisée 370*#Ventilator for use in Intensive Care Unit combining all conventional ventilation modes, diagnostic functions with external monitoring interface for ventilation loops.September 2004Elisée 250*#Ventilator for use in transport and emergency situations.April 2005Elisée 150*#(Lyon)New software launch V2.50 incorporating CPAP mode and additional flexibility in settings. For example presetting 2 programs in both invasive and non-invasive.November 2008VS III*#Pressure support and volume ventilator for invasive and non-invasive purposes so it can be used from the hospital to the home. Launched in France and Germany.December 2008Stellar 100 and 150#Pressure support and volume ventilator for invasive and non-invasive purposes so it can be used from the hospital to the home.March 2011



* Not cleared for marketing
in the United States

# Sold outside United States only



Masks, Accessories, Motors and Diagnostic Products



Masks, accessories, motors and diagnostic
products together accounted for approximately 44%, 42% and 42% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



Mask Systems and Diagnostic Products



Mask systems are one of the most important elements of SDB treatment systems. Masks are a primary determinant of patient comfort and as
such may drive or impede patient compliance with therapy. We have been a consistent innovator in masks, improving patient comfort while minimizing size and weight.



MASKPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONMirage Swift IIImproved design to reduce noise and airflow pattern.April 2007Mirage QuattroResMed’s fourth generation full face mask, delivering an individualized fit for over 95% of users.April 2007Mirage LibertyA full face mask that seals individually at the mouth and nose. With less skin contact and an open field of vision, this unobtrusive mask
feels light on the face.May 2007



- 11 -




MASKPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONHospital NV Full Face MaskNon-vented version of hospital Full Face Mask designed for hospital ventilationOctober 2007Micro MirageNasal mask equipped with Mircofit dial for personalized fitFebruary 2008Swift LTNasal mask offering pillow system for additional support and stabilityJune 2008Activa LTNasal mask including Active Cell Technology in a lightweight version to help mitigate leak and optimize patient comfortOctober 2008Swift LT for HerNasal mask offering pillows systems with female specific design featuresNovember 2008Swift FXFourth generation nasal pillows system offering a fully flexible design for comfort and performanceSeptember 2009Mirage SoftGelNasal mask offering a gel cushion, interchangeable with the Activa LT system to improve choice and comfortOctober 2009Quattro FXFull Face mask offering unobtrusive fitSeptember 2010Swift FX for HerFourth generation nasal pillows system offering a fully flexible design for comfort and performance with female specific design featuresSeptember 2010Mirage FXNasal mask offering auto adjusting forehead support and SoftEdge headgearOctober 2010Mirage FX for HerNasal mask offering auto adjusting forehead support and SoftEdge headgear with female specific design featuresApril 2011



We market sleep recorders for
the diagnosis and titration of SDB in sleep clinics and hospitals. These diagnostic systems record relevant respiratory and sleep data, which can be analyzed by a sleep specialist or physician who can then tailor an appropriate OSA treatment regimen
for the patient.



DIAGNOSTICPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONApneaLink + OximetryA portable diagnostic device with oximetry measurementJune 2007ApneaLink Plus (U.S.)A portable diagnostic device with oximetry measurement and respiratory effort measurementJune 2009



- 12 -




Accessories and Other Products



To assist those professionals diagnosing or managing the
treatment of patients there are data communications and control products such as the ResLink, ResControl, ResControl II, TxControl, ResScan and ResTraxx modules that facilitate the transfer of data and other information to and from the flow
generators. To enhance patient comfort, convenience and compliance, we market a variety of other products and accessories. These products include humidifiers, such as H5i and H4i, which connect directly with the CPAP, VPAP and AutoSet flow
generators to humidify and heat the air delivered to the patient, helping to prevent the drying of nasal passages that can cause discomfort. Other optional accessories include cold passover humidifiers, carry bags and breathing circuits.



DATA/
PATIENTMANAGEMENTPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONS9 Embletta AdapterThe S9 Embletta Adapter provides a connection between an S9 device and an Embletta Portable Diagnostic SystemNovember 2010ResScan v3.14An easy and flexible patient monitoring system providing therapy insights. This version oncluded support for S9 bilevel and cross-patient first 30 days compliance
reporting.April 2011ResTraxx v17.1ResMed’s web-based compliance monitoring system which introduced several new features to ResTraxx Online reports and enhanced support
for S9 VPAP devices.April 2011



Product Development
and Clinical Trials



We have a strong track
record in innovation in the sleep market. In 1989, we introduced our first CPAP device. Since then we have been committed to an ongoing program of product advancement and development. Currently, our product development efforts are focused on not
only improving our current product offerings, but also expanding into new product applications.



We continually seek to identify new applications of our technology for significant unmet medical needs. SDB is associated with a number of symptoms beyond excessive daytime sleepiness and irritability.
Recent studies have established a clinical association between SDB and hypertension, stroke, congestive heart failure and diabetes. We support clinical trials in many countries including the United States, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Italy,
Switzerland, China and Australia to develop new clinical applications for our technology.



We consult with physicians at major sleep centers throughout the world to identify technological trends in the treatment of SDB. New product ideas are also identified by our marketing staff, direct sales
force, network of distributors, customers and patients.



In fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 we invested $92.0 million, $75.2 million and $63.1 million, respectively, on research and development.



Sales and Marketing



We currently market our products in over 70 countries using
a network of distributors, independent manufacturers’ representatives and our direct sales force. We attempt to tailor our marketing approach to each national market, based on regional awareness of SDB as a health problem, physician referral



- 13 -




patterns, consumer preferences and local reimbursement policies. See Note 15 – Segment Information of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8) for financial information
about our geographic areas.



North America and
Latin America.Our products are typically purchased by a home healthcare dealer who then sells the products to the patient. The decision to purchase our products, as opposed to those of our competitors, is made or
influenced by one or more of the following individuals or organizations: the prescribing physician and his or her staff; the home healthcare dealer; the insurer and the patient. In North and Latin America, our sales and marketing activities are
conducted through a field sales organization made up of regional territory representatives, program development specialists and regional sales directors. Our field sales organization markets and sells products to home healthcare dealer branch
locations throughout the North and Latin America.



We also market our products directly to sleep clinics. Patients who are diagnosed with OSA and prescribed CPAP treatment are typically
referred by the diagnosing sleep clinic to a home healthcare dealer to fill the prescription. The home healthcare dealer, in consultation with the referring physician, will assist the patient in selecting the equipment, fit the patient with the
appropriate mask and set the flow generator pressure to the prescribed level.



Sales in North and Latin America accounted for 53%, 54% and 54% of our net revenues for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



Europe.We market our products
in most major European countries. We have wholly-owned subsidiaries in Austria, Finland, France, Germany, Norway, Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. We use independent distributors to sell our products in other areas of
Europe. Distributors are selected in each country based on their knowledge of respiratory medicine and a commitment to SDB therapy. In each country in which we sell our products direct, a local senior manager is responsible for direct national
sales. In many countries in Europe, we sell our products to home healthcare dealers who then sell the products to the patients. In Germany, we also operate a home healthcare company, in which we provide products and services directly to patients,
and receive reimbursement directly from third party payers.



Sales in Europe accounted for 37%, 37% and 38% of our total net revenues for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



Asia Pacific.We have
wholly-owned subsidiaries in Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, New Zealand, China and India. We use a combination of our direct sales force and independent distributors to sell our products in Asia Pacific. Sales in Asia Pacific accounted for 10%, 9% and
8% of our total net revenues for the fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



Other Marketing Efforts.We continue to pursue suitable opportunities with professional and healthcare associations to raise awareness of the importance of SDB in cardiology
patients, including coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, hypertension and stroke. Clinical research over the past decade has demonstrated a high prevalence of OSA in cardiology patients and has suggested that it may increase the risk
of developing cardiovascular disease and heart failure. In September 2008, the European Society of Cardiologists published guidelines for the treatment of acute and chronic heart failure. The guidelines noted that patients with symptomatic heart
failure frequently have sleep-related disorders (central or obstructive sleep apnea) and recommended treatment with Continuous Positive Airway Pressure, or CPAP, for patients diagnosed with obstructive sleep apnea. We are conducting several clinical
studies investigating the role of OSA in cardiology diseases and are engaged with professional bodies to increase awareness of OSA amongst cardiologists.



- 14 -




We also continue to work to raise awareness of SDB in diabetes. Current research is
increasingly showing an independent association between OSA and type 2 diabetes and there is preliminary evidence that OSA may worsen diabetes control. Accordingly, we initiated a study investigating the prevalence of OSA in the type 2 diabetic
population. Due to the high prevalence of the SDB and type 2 diabetes, we are now actively supporting the American Association of Diabetes Educators and are in the process of setting up further initiatives to develop the SDB market in the diabetic
population. ResMed is also reaching out to diabetes patients through our online partners. ResMed is educating people who suffer from diabetes about the overlap with obstructive sleep apnea and directing them viawww.Healthysleep.comto ResMed
partner sleep centers.



In June 2008, the
International Diabetes Federation (IDF) released a statement on SDB and type 2 diabetes. The IDF Taskforce on Epidemiology and Prevention strongly recommended that health professionals working in both type 2 diabetes and SDB adopt clinical practices
to ensure that a patient presenting with one condition is considered for the other. Furthermore, the IDF recommended that people with type 2 diabetes should be screened for OSA particularly when they present classical symptoms such as witnessed
apneas, heavy snoring or daytime sleepiness and poor workplace performance. In March 2011 the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists published updated medical guidelines for developing a comprehensive care plan for patients with diabetes,
which recommended that screening be done in adults with type 2 diabetes, especially men older than 50 years.



In April 2010, the National Institutes of Health released a clinical study reporting that obstructive sleep apnea is associated with an
increased risk of stroke in middle-aged and older adults, especially men. In a recently released study in Circulation, it was reported that obstructive sleep apnea is associated with an increased risk of incident heart failure in a general community
of middle-aged and older men. Specifically, men ages 40 to 70 with apnea-hypopnea index (“AHI”)³30 were 68% more likely to develop coronary heart disease than those with AHI<5.



We believe that the increasing awareness among physicians
supports the efforts and investment we are making in new markets, including diabetes and cardiology.



Manufacturing



Our principal manufacturing facility is located in Sydney, Australia and comprises a 155,000 square foot manufacturing facility. Our
manufacturing operations consist primarily of assembly and testing of our flow generators, masks and accessories. Of the numerous raw materials, parts and components purchased for assembly of our therapeutic and diagnostic sleep disorder products,
most are off-the-shelf items available from multiple vendors. We generally manufacture to our internal sales forecasts and fill orders as received. Over the last few years, the manufacturing processes have been transformed along lean manufacturing
guidelines to flow lines staffed by dedicated teams. Each team is responsible for the manufacture and quality of their product group and decisions are based on performance and quality measures, including customer feedback.



We have a 174,000 square foot assembly and distribution
facility in South Carolina, the plant specializes in regional customization of our flow generators.



We have a 69,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Singapore to complement the Sydney manufacturing site. The plant assembles masks, flow generators and electric motors.



We have a 43,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Paris,
France. This facility is accredited to ISO 13485 and is primarily responsible for the assembly of mechanical ventilators and associated accessories.





- 15 -




We also manufacture high-quality electric motors for our flow generator devices at a 72,000
square foot manufacturing facility in Chatsworth, California.



Our quality management system is based upon the requirements of ISO 9001, ISO 13485, FDA Quality System Regulations for Medical Devices and the Medical Device Directive (93/42/EEC). Our Sydney, South
Carolina and Singapore facilities are each accredited to ISO 9001 and ISO 13485. These three sites have third party audits conducted by the ISO certification bodies at regular intervals.



Third-Party Reimbursement



The cost of medical care in many of the countries in which
we operate is funded in substantial part by government and private insurance programs. In Germany, we receive payments directly from these payers. Outside Germany, although we do not generally receive payments for our products directly from these
payers, our success in major markets is dependent upon the ability of patients to obtain adequate reimbursement for our products.



In the United States, our products are purchased primarily by home healthcare dealers, hospitals or sleep clinics, which then invoice
third-party payers directly for reimbursement. Domestic third-party payers include Medicare, Medicaid and corporate health insurance plans. These payers may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device is not used in accordance with
cost-effective treatment methods, or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. The long-term trend towards managed healthcare, or legislative proposals to reform healthcare, could control or significantly influence the purchase of healthcare
services and products and could result in lower prices for our products. In some foreign markets, such as France, Germany and Japan, government reimbursement is currently available for purchase or rental of our products, however, subject to
constraints such as price controls or unit sales limitations. In Australia and in some other foreign markets, there is currently limited or no reimbursement for devices that treat OSA.



Recent legislation, each of which has been signed into law, including the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the PPACA), Medicare Improvement for Patients and Providers Act of 2008, (MIPPA) Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA), and the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA), contain provisions that negatively impact reimbursement for products that we provide.



The MMA reduced payment amounts for five categories of HME beginning in 2005, froze payment amounts for certain covered home medical
equipment (HME) items through 2007, established a competitive acquisition program for HME and implemented quality standards and accreditation requirements for HME suppliers. The DRA capped the Medicare rental period for certain capped rental items,
including CPAP devices, at 13 months of continuous use, after which time title of the equipment would transfer to the beneficiary. MIPPA retroactively delayed the implementation of competitive bidding for eighteen months and decreased the 2009 fee
schedule payment amounts by 9.5 percent for product categories included in competitive bidding. Because the annual update factor for 2010 was 0 percent, the 2009 fee schedule payment rates remained effective for 2010. For 2011, the fee schedule
amounts were reduced by 0.1 percent.



The PPACA
includes, among other things, a deductible excise tax equal to 2.3 percent of the price for which medical devices are sold in the United States on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices, with limited exceptions, beginning in 2013;
new face to face encounter requirements for durable medical equipment and home health services; and a requirement that by 2016, the competitive bidding process must be nationalized or prices in non-competitive bidding areas must be adjusted to match
competitive bidding prices.



- 16 -




We cannot predict the impact that any U.S. legislation enacted in the future will have on
our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. While our product line in the United States does not include oxygen and oxygen related equipment, reductions in reimbursement levels for oxygen could
indirectly impact us.





Service and Warranty



We generally offer one-year and two-year limited warranties
on our flow generator products. Warranties on mask systems are for 90 days. Our distributors either repair our products with parts supplied by us or arrange shipment of products to our facilities for repair or replacement.



We receive returns of our products from the field for various
reasons. We believe that the level of returns experienced to date is consistent with levels typically experienced by manufacturers of similar devices. We provide for warranties and returns based on historical data.



Competition



The markets for our products are highly competitive. We
believe that the principal competitive factors in all of our markets are product features, reliability and price. Customer support, reputation and efficient distribution are also important factors.



We compete on a market-by-market basis with various
companies, some of which have greater financial, research, manufacturing and marketing resources than us. In the United States, our principal market, the primary competitors for our products are: Philips BV, who acquired Respironics Inc., a previous
competitor; DeVilbiss, a division of Sunrise Medical Inc.; and Fisher & Paykel Healthcare Corporation Limited. Our principal international competitors are also Philips BV, DeVilbiss and Fisher & Paykel Healthcare Corporation
Limited, as well as regional manufacturers. The disparity between our resources and those of our competitors may increase as a result of the trend towards consolidation in the healthcare industry. In addition, our products compete with surgical
procedures and dental appliances designed to treat OSA and other SDB related respiratory conditions. The development of new or innovative procedures or devices by others could result in our products becoming obsolete or noncompetitive, which would
harm our revenues and financial condition.



- 17 -




Any product developed by us that gains regulatory clearance will have to compete for market
acceptance and market share. An important factor in such competition may be the timing of market introduction of competitive products. Accordingly, the speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing and regulatory clearance
processes and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market are important competitive factors. In addition, our ability to compete will continue to be dependent on successfully protecting our patents and other intellectual property.



Patents and Proprietary Rights and Related
Litigation



Through our subsidiaries ResMed
Limited, MAP Medizin-Technologie GmbH, ResMed Motor Technologies Inc., and ResMed Paris SAS, we own or have licensed rights to approximately 550 issued United States patents (including approximately 250 design patents) and approximately 750 issued
foreign patents. In addition, there are approximately 450 pending United States patent applications (including approximately 100 design patent applications), approximately 850 pending foreign patent applications, approximately 1,150 registered
foreign designs and approximately 20 pending foreign designs. Some of these patents, patent applications and designs relate to significant aspects and features of our products.



Of our patents, 36 United States patents and 69 foreign
patents are due to expire in the next five years, with 6 foreign patents due to expire in 2012, 6 in 2013, 16 in 2014, 33 in 2015 and 8 in 2016; and 3 United States patents in 2013, 6 United States patents in 2014, 19 United States patents in 2015,
and 8 United States patents in 2016. We believe that the expiration of these patents will not have a material adverse impact on our competitive position.



We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks and non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary
technology and rights.



Litigation may be
necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect our rights, or to defend third-party claims of infringement by us of the proprietary rights of others. The defense and prosecution of patent claims, including pending claims, as well as
participation in other inter-party proceedings, can be expensive and time consuming, even in those instances in which the outcome is favorable to us. Patent laws regarding the enforceability of patents vary from country to country. Therefore, there
can be no assurance that patent issues will be uniformly resolved, or that local laws will provide us with consistent rights and benefits.



Government Regulations



Our products are subject to extensive regulation particularly as to safety, efficacy and adherence to FDA Quality System Regulation, and
related manufacturing standards. Medical device products are subject to rigorous FDA and other governmental agency regulations in the United States and similar regulations of foreign agencies abroad. The FDA regulates the introduction, manufacture,
advertising, labeling, packaging, marketing, distribution and record keeping for such products, in order to ensure that medical products distributed in the United States are safe and effective for their intended use. In addition, the FDA is
authorized to establish special controls to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of most devices. Non-compliance with applicable requirements can result in import detentions, fines, civil penalties, injunctions, suspensions
or losses of regulatory approvals, recall or seizure of products, operating restrictions, refusal of the government to approve product export applications or allow us to enter into supply contracts, and criminal prosecution.



The FDA requires that a manufacturer introducing a new
medical device or a new indication for use of an existing medical device obtain either a Section 510(k) premarket notification clearance or a premarket approval, or PMA, before introducing it into the U.S. market. Our products currently



- 18 -




marketed in the United States are marketed in reliance on 510(k) pre-marketing clearances as either Class I or Class II devices. The process of obtaining a Section 510(k) clearance generally
requires the submission of performance data and often clinical data, which in some cases can be extensive, to demonstrate that the device is “substantially equivalent” to a device that was on the market before 1976 or to a device that has
been found by the FDA to be “substantially equivalent” to such a pre-1976 device. As a result, FDA clearance requirements may extend the development process for a considerable length of time. In addition, in some cases, the FDA may require
additional review by an advisory panel, which can further lengthen the process. The PMA process, which is reserved for new devices that are not substantially equivalent to any predicate device and for high-risk devices or those that are used to
support or sustain human life, may take several years and requires the submission of extensive performance and clinical information.



As a medical device manufacturer, all of our domestic and Australian manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection on a routine basis
by the FDA. We believe that our design, manufacturing and quality control procedures are in compliance with the FDA’s regulatory requirements.



Sales of medical devices outside the United States are subject to regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country.
Approval for sale of our medical devices in Europe is through the CE mark process. Where appropriate, our products are CE marked to the European Union’s Medical Device Directive. Under the CE marketing scheme, our products are classified as
either Class I or Class II. Our devices are listed in Australia with the Therapeutic Goods Administration, or TGA, and in Canada with Health Canada.



Employees



As of June 30, 2011, we had approximately 3,450 employees or full time consultants, of which approximately 1,400 persons were
employed in warehousing and manufacturing, 400 in research and development and 1,650 in sales, marketing and administration. Of our employees and consultants, approximately, 1,350 were located in Australia, 800 in North and Latin America, 1,000 in
Europe and 300 in Asia.



We believe that the
success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel.



