ITEM 1. BUSINESS



General



We are a leading developer, manufacturer and distributor of medical equipment for treating, diagnosing, and managing sleep-disordered
breathing and other respiratory disorders. Sleep-disordered breathing, or SDB, includes obstructive sleep apnea, or OSA, and other respiratory disorders that occur during sleep. When we were formed in 1989, our primary purpose was to commercialize a
treatment for OSA developed by Professor Colin Sullivan. This treatment, nasal Continuous Positive Airway Pressure, or CPAP, was the first successful noninvasive treatment for OSA. CPAP systems deliver pressurized air, typically through a nasal
mask, to prevent collapse of the upper airway during sleep.



Since the development of CPAP, we have developed a number of innovative products for SDB and other respiratory disorders including airflow
generators, diagnostic products, mask systems, headgear and other accessories. Our growth has been fuelled by geographic expansion, increased awareness of respiratory conditions as a significant health concern among physicians and patients, and our
research and product development efforts.



We
employ approximately 3,200 people and sell our products in over 70 countries through a combination of wholly owned subsidiaries and independent distributors.



- 2 -




Our web site address is www.resmed.com. We make our periodic reports, together with any
amendments, available on our web site, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish the reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information contained on the website is not part of or
incorporated into the annual report.



Corporate
History



ResMed Inc., a Delaware corporation,
was formed in March 1994 as the ultimate holding company for our Americas, Asia-Pacific and European operating subsidiaries. On June 1, 1995, we completed an initial public offering of common stock and on June 2, 1995 our common stock
commenced trading on the NASDAQ National Market. On September 30, 1999 we transferred our principal public listing to the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, trading under the ticker symbol RMD. On November 25, 1999, we established a
secondary listing of our common stock via Chess Depositary Instruments, or CDI’s, on the Australian Stock Exchange (now known as the Australian Securities Exchange), or ASX, also under the symbol RMD. Ten CDI’s on the ASX represent one
share of our common stock on the NYSE. On July 1, 2002, we converted our ASX listing status from a foreign exempt listing to a full listing.



Our Australian subsidiary, ResMed Holdings Limited, was originally organized in 1989 by Dr. Peter Farrell to acquire from Baxter
Center for Medical Research Pty Limited, or Baxter, the rights to certain technology relating to CPAP treatment as well as Baxter’s existing CPAP device business. Baxter had sold CPAP devices in Australia since 1988, having acquired the rights
to the technology in 1987.



Since formation we
have acquired a number of operating businesses including:



Date of AcquisitionDieter W. Priess MedtechnikFebruary 7, 1996Premium Medical SARLJune 12, 1996Certain business assets of Innovmedics Pte LtdNovember 1, 1997Certain business assets of EINAR Egnell ABJanuary 31, 2000MAP Medizin Technologie GmbHFebruary 16, 2001Labhardt AGNovember 15, 2001Servo Magnetics Inc.May 14, 2002Certain business assets of John Stark and AssociatesJuly 24, 2002Certain business assets of Respro Medical Company LimitedJuly 2, 2003Certain business assets of Resprecare BVDecember 1, 2004Hoefner Medizintechnik GmbHFebruary 14, 2005Saime SAMay 19, 2005Pulmomed Medizinisch-Technische Geräte GmbHJuly 1, 2005PolarMed Holding ASDecember 1, 2005Certain business assets of Western Medical MarketingOctober 4, 2006Certain business assets of Respicure MedsysApril 30, 2009Laboratories Narval SAOctober 1,



On October 1,
2009 we acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of Laboratoires Narval SA. Based in France, Laboratoires Narval manufactures and distributes a mandibular repositioning device (“MRD”) that offers a solution to patients for snoring and
obstructive sleep apnea (“OSA”), especially for those with mild OSA. With this acquisition, we add another therapy to supplement our existing positive airway pressure-based solutions, providing a broader offering for this patient group.



- 3 -




Segment Information



We believe that, given the single market focus of our
operations solely in the sleep-disordered breathing sector of the respiratory medicine industry, and the inter-dependence of its products, we operate as a single operating segment. See Note 16 – Segment Information of the Notes to
Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8) for financial information regarding segment reporting. Financial information about our revenues from and assets located in foreign countries is also included in the notes to our consolidated financial
statements.



The Market



Sleep is a complex neurological process that includes two
distinct states: rapid eye movement, or REM, sleep and non-rapid eye movement, or non-REM, sleep. REM sleep, which is about 20-25% of total sleep experienced by adults, is characterized by a high level of brain activity, bursts of rapid eye
movement, increased heart and respiration rates, and paralysis of many muscles. Non-REM sleep is subdivided into four stages that generally parallel sleep depth; stage 1 is the lightest and stage 4 is the deepest.



The upper airway has no rigid support and is held open by
active contraction of upper airway muscles. Normally, during REM sleep and deeper levels of non-REM sleep, upper airway muscles relax and the airway narrows. Individuals with narrow upper airways or poor muscle tone are prone to temporary collapses
of the upper airway during sleep, called apneas, and to near closures of the upper airway called hypopneas. These breathing irregularities result in a lowering of blood oxygen concentration, causing the central nervous system to react to the lack of
oxygen or increased carbon dioxide and signaling the body to respond. Typically, the individual subconsciously arouses from sleep, causing the throat muscles to contract, opening the airway. After a few gasping breaths, blood oxygen levels increase
and the individual can resume a deeper sleep until the cycle repeats itself. Sufferers of OSA typically experience ten or more such cycles per hour. While these awakenings greatly impair the quality of sleep, the individual is not normally aware of
these disruptions. In addition, OSA has recently been recognized as a cause of hypertension and a significant co-morbidity for heart disease, stroke and diabetes.



Scientists estimate that one in five adults have some form of
obstructive sleep apnea. In the United States alone, this represents approximately 40 million people. Despite the high prevalence of OSA, there is a general lack of awareness of OSA among both the medical community and the general public. It is
estimated that less than 10% of those with OSA have been diagnosed or treated. Many healthcare professionals are often unable to diagnose OSA because they are unaware that such non-specific symptoms as excessive daytime sleepiness, snoring,
hypertension and irritability are characteristic of OSA.



While OSA has been diagnosed in a broad cross-section of the population, it is predominant among middle-aged men and those who are obese,
smoke, consume alcohol in excess or use muscle-relaxing and pain-killing drugs. A strong association has been discovered between OSA and a number of cardiovascular diseases. Studies have shown that SDB is present in approximately 80% of patients
with drug-resistant hypertension, approximately 72% of patients with type 2 diabetes and approximately 80% of patients with congestive heart failure. In relation to diabetes, recent studies indicate that SDB is independently associated with glucose
intolerance and insulin resistance.



Sleep-Disordered Breathing and Obstructive Sleep Apnea



Sleep-disordered breathing encompasses all physiological
processes that cause detrimental breathing patterns during sleep. Manifestations include OSA, central sleep apnea, or CSA, and hypoventilation



- 4 -




syndromes that occur during sleep. Hypoventilation syndromes are generally associated with obesity, chronic obstructive lung disease and neuromuscular disease. OSA is the most common form of SDB.



Sleep fragmentation and the loss of the deeper
levels of sleep caused by OSA can lead to excessive daytime sleepiness, reduced cognitive function, including memory loss and lack of concentration, depression and irritability. OSA sufferers also experience an increase in heart rate and an
elevation of blood pressure during the cycle of apneas. Several studies indicate that the oxygen desaturation, increased heart rate and elevated blood pressure caused by OSA may be associated with increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and
mortality due to angina, stroke and heart attack. Patients with OSA have been shown to have impaired daytime performance in a variety of cognitive functions including problem solving, response speed and visual motor coordination, and studies have
linked OSA to increased occurrences of traffic and workplace accidents.



Generally, an individual seeking treatment for the symptoms of OSA is referred by a general practitioner to a specialist for further
evaluation. The diagnosis of OSA typically requires monitoring the patient during sleep at either a sleep clinic or the patient’s home. During overnight testing, respiratory parameters and sleep patterns may be monitored, along with other vital
signs such as heart rate and blood oxygen levels. Simpler tests, using devices such as our Apnealink, or our automatic positive airway pressure devices, monitor airflow during sleep, and use computer programs to analyze airflow patterns. These tests
allow sleep clinicians to detect any sleep disturbances such as apneas, hypopneas or subconscious awakenings. We estimate that there are currently around 3,000 sleep clinics in the United States, a substantial portion of which are affiliated with
hospitals. The number of sleep clinics has expanded significantly from approximately 100 such facilities in 1985.



Existing Therapies



Before 1981, the primary treatment for OSA was a tracheotomy, a surgical procedure to cut a hole in the patient’s windpipe to create
a channel for airflow. Most recently, alternative treatments have involved either uvulopalatopharyngoplasty, or UPPP, in which surgery is performed on the upper airway to remove excess tissue and to streamline the shape of the airway, implanting a
device to add support to the soft palate, or mandibular advancement, in which the lower jaw is moved forward to widen the patient’s airway. UPPP alone has a poor success rate; however, when performed in conjunction with multi-stage upper airway
surgical procedures, a greater success rate has been claimed. These combined procedures, performed by highly specialized surgeons, are expensive and involve prolonged and often painful recovery periods.



CPAP, by contrast, is a non-invasive means of treating OSA.
CPAP was first used as a treatment for OSA in 1980 by Dr. Colin Sullivan, the past Chairman of our Medical Advisory Board. CPAP systems were commercialized for treatment of OSA in the United States in the mid 1980’s. Today, use of CPAP is
generally acknowledged as the most effective and least invasive therapy for managing OSA.



During CPAP treatment, a patient sleeps with a nasal interface connected to a small portable airflow generator that delivers room air at a
positive pressure. The patient breathes in air from the flow generator and breathes out through an exhaust port in the interface. Continuous air pressure applied in this manner acts as a pneumatic splint to keep the upper airway open and
unobstructed. Interfaces include nasal masks and nasal pillows. Sometimes, when a patient leaks air through their mouth, a full-face mask may need to be used, rather than a nasal interface.



CPAP is not a cure and therefore, must be used on a nightly
basis as long as treatment is required. Patient compliance has been a major factor in the efficacy of CPAP treatment. Early generations of CPAP units provided limited patient comfort and convenience. Patients experienced soreness from the



- 5 -




repeated use of nasal masks and had difficulty falling asleep with the CPAP device operating at the prescribed pressure. In more recent years, product innovations to improve patient comfort and
compliance have been developed. These include more comfortable patient interface systems; delay timers that gradually raise air pressure allowing the patient to fall asleep more easily; bilevel air flow generators, including Variable Positive Airway
Pressure, or VPAP systems, which provide different air pressures for inhalation and exhalation; heated humidification systems to make the airflow more comfortable; and autotitration devices that reduce the average pressure delivered during the
night.



Business Strategy



We believe that the SDB market will continue to grow in the
future due to a number of factors including increasing awareness of OSA, improved understanding of the role of SDB treatment in the management of cardiac, neurologic, metabolic and related disorders, and an increase in home-based diagnosis. Our
strategy for expanding our business operations and capitalizing on the growth of the SDB market consists of the following key elements:



Continue Product Development and Innovation.



Expand Geographic Presence.We market our products in over 70 countries to sleep clinics, home healthcare
dealers and third party payers. We intend to increase our sales and marketing efforts in our principal markets, as well as expand the depth of our presence in other geographic regions.



Increase Public and Clinical
Awareness.We intend to continue to expand our existing promotional activities to increase awareness of SDB and our treatment alternatives. These promotional activities target the population with predisposition to SDB as
well as specialists, such as cardiologists, neurologists and pulmonologists. In addition, we also target special interest groups, including the National Stroke Association, the American Heart Association and the National Sleep Foundation. In concert
with another industry participant we are sponsoring educational programs targeted at the primary care physician community, which should further enlighten both doctors and patients about the relationship between sleep-disordered breathing/obstructive
sleep apnea and co-morbidities such as cardiac disease, diabetes, hypertension and obesity. The programs should also support our efforts to inform the community of the dangers of sleep apnea with regard to occupational health and safety, especially
in the transport industry.



- 6 -




During fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, we donated $3.0 million, $3.5 million and $2.0
million, respectively, to the ResMed Foundation in the United States, and the ResMed Foundation in Australia, to further enhance research and awareness of SDB. The contributions to the Foundations reflect ResMed’s commitment to medical research
into sleep-disordered breathing, particularly the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea.



Expand into New Clinical Applications.



Leverage the Experience of our Management
Team.Our senior management team has extensive experience in the medical device industry in general, and in the field of SDB in particular. We intend to continue to leverage the experience and expertise of these
individuals to maintain our innovative approach to the development of products and increase awareness of the serious medical problems caused by SDB.



Products



Our portfolio of products for the treatment of OSA and other forms of SDB includes airflow generators, diagnostic products, mask systems,
headgear and other accessories.



Air Flow
Generators



We produce CPAP, VPAP and AutoSet
systems for the titration and treatment of SDB. The flow generator systems deliver positive airway pressure through a patient interface, either a small nasal mask, nasal pillows system, or full-face mask.



Our VPAP units deliver ultra-quiet, comfortable bilevel
therapy. There are two preset pressures: a higher pressure as the patient breathes in, and a lower pressure as the patient breathes out. Breathing out against a lower pressure makes treatment more comfortable, particularly for patients who need high
pressure levels or for those with impaired breathing ability.



AutoSet systems are based on a proprietary technology to monitor breathing and can also be used in the diagnosis, treatment and management
of OSA. CPAP and VPAP flow generators together accounted for approximately 58%, 58% and 50% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



With the acquisition of ResMed Paris SAS, previously Saime
SA, in May 2005, we increased our presence in the European homecare ventilation market. The VS and Elisée range of products are



- 7 -




sophisticated, yet easy to use for physicians, clinicians and patients. We believe these devices compliment our VPAP III, VPAP Adapt SV and Autoset CS2 for patients who need ventilatory
assistance.



The tables below provide a selection
of products, as known by our trademarks, which have been released during the last five years.



CONTINUOUSPOSITIVEAIRWAYPRESSUREPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONC-Series TangoAn entry level CPAP device with optional humidification.March 2007ResMed S8 Series IIA small CPAP device with enhanced feature set to the original S8 Series, with improved patient therapy comfort. The device has an optional integrated humidifier.April 2008S8 Elite II (U.S.)A small CPAP device with enhanced feature set to the original S8 Elite, with further improved patient therapy comfort. The device has an optional integrated
humidifier.April 2008S8 Escape II (U.S.)A small CPAP device with enhanced feature set to the original S8 Escape, with further improved patient therapy comfort. The device has an optional integrated
humidifier.June 2008S8 Escape (Lightweight) II (ROW, ex Japan)A small CPAP device with enhanced feature set to the original S8 Escape (Lightweight), with further improved patient therapy comfort. The device has an optional integrated
humidifier.September 2008S9 ElitePremium level CPAP device in ResMed’s sleek, compact S9 Series. Features Enhanced Easy-Breathe motor, EPR and detailed data options.
The device also has an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine tube.February 2010



- 8 -






VARIABLEPOSITIVEAIRWAYPRESSUREPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTION



VPAP Adapt SVThe newest and most highly evolved bilevel device which uses adaptive servo-ventilation technology to treat patients with central sleep apnea, mixed apnea and periodic breathing.March 2006



VPAP MalibuAuto-adjusting bilevel device utilizing the smooth pressure waveform of the VPAP Adapt SV to achieve ultimate comfort for non-compliant CPAP users.April 2007



VPAP AutoAuto-bilevel device on the compact S8 platform utilizing the easy-breathe waveform and Autoset algorithms.January 2008



VPAP Adapt SV – EnhancedRevised VPAP Adapt SV increasing pressure range from 4-20 cmH2O to 4-25 cmH2O and AHI resporting.February 2008



VPAP STSmall compact Bi-level ST device in an S8 box with VAuto for U.S.June 2008



VPAP Auto 25Small compact Bi-level ST device in an S8 box with VAuto for U.S.June 2008



VPAP III STA with QuickNavAn upgraded Bi-level device with alarm history, instant efficacy data and a large screen.July 2008



VPAP S / VPAP IVBi-level device that provides S and CPAP modes with the pressure up to 25 cmH2O in a compact and convenient S8 design.September 2008



VPAP IV
ST#Small compact Bi-level ST device in an S8 box with VAuto for Europe.September 2008



S8 Auto 25Bi-level device that provides the Easy-Breathe wave on the AutoSet algorithm and the pressure up to 25cm H2O in a compact and convenient S8 design.October 2008



VPAP Tx Lab SystemVPAP Tx therapy device features all ResMed’s sleep therapy modes. Tx Link connection module relays signals from the device to PSG
equipment. The system is controlled through the user-friendly EasyCare Tx titration software.March 2010



# Sold outside United States only



- 9 -




AUTOMATICPOSITIVEAIRWAYPRESSUREPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONS8 Autoset II (ROW, ex Japan)Premium auto-adjusting device in ResMed’s S8 Series II range, with improved patient therapy comfort. The device has an optional integrated humidifier.September 2007S8 Autoset II (U.S.)Premium auto-adjusting device in ResMed’s S8 Series II range, with further improved patient therapy comfort. The device has an optional integrated humidifier.April 2008S9 AutoSetPremium APAP device in ResMed’s sleek, compact S9 Series. Features Enhanced AutoSet (with Central Sleep Apnea Detection),
Enhanced Easy-Breathe motor, EPR and detailed data options. The device also has, an optional integrated humidifier (H5i), ClimateLine heated tube and the small, lightweight SlimLine tube.February 2010



VENTILATIONPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONElisée
370*#Ventilator for use in Intensive Care Unit combining all conventional ventilation modes, diagnostic functions with external monitoring interface for ventilation loops.September 2004Elisée
250*#Ventilator for use in transport and emergency situations.April 2005Elisée
150*#(Lyon)New software launch V2.50 incorporating CPAP mode and additional flexibility in settings. For example presetting 2 programs in both invasive and non-invasive.November 2008VS III*#Pressure support and volume ventilator for invasive and non-invasive purposes so it can be used from the hospital to the home. Launched in
France and Germany.December 2008



* Not cleared for marketing in the United States

# Sold outside United States only



- 10 -




Masks, Accessories, Motors and Diagnostic Products



Masks, accessories, motors and diagnostic products together
accounted for approximately 42%, 42% and 50% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



Mask Systems and Diagnostic Products



Mask systems are one of the most important elements of SDB treatment systems. Masks are a primary determinant of patient comfort and as
such may drive or impede patient compliance with therapy. We have been a consistent innovator in masks, improving patient comfort while minimizing size and weight.



MASKPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONUltra Mirage IIAdvanced version of the Ultra Mirage Nasal System with improved comfort and ease of fit through enhanced forehead pads and support.July 2005Meridian Nasal MaskA value line nasal mask that is simple yet comfortable.February 2006Mirage Swift IIImproved design to reduce noise and airflow pattern.April 2007Mirage QuattroResMed’s fourth generation full face mask, delivering an individualized fit for over 95% of users.April 2007Mirage LibertyA full face mask that seals individually at the mouth and nose. With less skin contact and an open field of vision, this unobtrusive mask feels light on the face.May 2007Hospital NV Full Face MaskNon-vented version of hospital Full Face Mask designed for hospital ventilationOctober 2007Micro MirageNasal mask equipped with Mircofit dial for personalized fitFebruary 2008Swift LTNasal mask offering pillow system for additional support and stabilityJune 2008Activa LTNasal mask including Active Cell Technology in a lightweight version to help mitigate leak and optimize patient comfortOctober 2008Swift LT for HerNasal mask offering pillows systems with female specific design featuresNovember 2008Swift FXFourth generation nasal pillows system offering a fully flexible design for comfort and performanceSeptember 2009Mirage SoftGelNasal mask offering a gel cushion, interchangeable with the Activa LT system to improve choice and comfortOctober 2009



- 11 -




We market sleep recorders for the diagnosis and titration of SDB in sleep clinics and
hospitals. These diagnostic systems record relevant respiratory and sleep data, which can be analyzed by a sleep specialist or physician who can then tailor an appropriate OSA treatment regimen for the patient.



DIAGNOSTICPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONApneaLink + OximetryA portable Sleep Apnea screening device with oximetry measurementJune 2007ApneaLink Plus (U.S.)A portable Sleep Apnea screening device with oximetry measurement and respiratory effort measurementJune 2009



Accessories and Other Products



To assist those professionals diagnosing or managing the
treatment of patients there are data communications and control products such as the ResLink, ResControl, ResControl II, TxControl, ResScan and ResTraxx modules that facilitate the transfer of data and other information to and from the flow
generators. To enhance patient comfort, convenience and compliance, we market a variety of other products and accessories. These products include humidifiers, such as the HumidAire, H2i and H3i, which connect directly with the CPAP, VPAP and AutoSet
flow generators to humidify and heat the air delivered to the patient. Their use helps prevent the drying of nasal passages that can cause discomfort. Other optional accessories include cold passover humidifiers, carry bags and breathing circuits.



DATA/ PATIENTMANAGEMENTPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONResScan v3.6Support for VPAP Auto 25, VPAP ST, VPAP S devices; plus ability to export patient files to csv format; option to switch between hPa and cmH2O units of measurement; patient list
display improvements.July 2008ResScan v3.7Support for S8 Auto 25, S8 Escape II (ROW), S8 AutoSet II w/EPR (ROW), S8 Escape II Auto devices; support for Vista Home Premium OS; support for Japanese OS; enhancements to
Quick Start feature.September 2008ResTraxx v13Support for using the GSM network for wireless communication between ResMed Data Centre(“RDC”) and S8 AutoSet II, S8 Elite II,
VPAP- ST, VPAP Auto, VPAP Auto 25 & VPAP S flow generators. S8 ResTraxx Centres for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“GSM”) module released.October 2008



- 12 -




DATA/ PATIENTMANAGEMENTPRODUCTSDESCRIPTIONDATEOFCOMMERCIALINTRODUCTIONResTraxx v14Support for VPAP S devices; enhancements to compliance reports to show CMS guidelines compliance; ability to generate compliance report directly by running a script on the
database for a given organization as a csv file.May 2009ResTraxx v15Addition of S9 Elite and AutoSet support to ResMed’s web-based compliance monitoring system. Features exception reporting – the smart way to manage multiple patients
– and extensive GSM coverage.April 2010ResTraxx v16ResMed’s web-based compliance monitoring system becomes more convenient with the addition of single sign-on for physicians. With a
single log-in, physician’s can now review all their assigned patients.May 2010



Product Development and Clinical Trials



We have a strong track record in innovation in the sleep
market. In 1989, we introduced our first CPAP device. Since then we have been committed to an ongoing program of product advancement and development. Currently, our product development efforts are focused on not only improving our current product
offerings, but also expanding into new product applications.



In 1999, we introduced the AutoSet T flow generator, an autotitrating device that adapts to the patient’s breathing patterns to
effectively prevent apneas. In 2001, we introduced our next generation autotitrating device, the AutoSet Spirit. The AutoSet Spirit is an autotitrating modular device with optional integrated humidifier. In 2003, we introduced the Activa nasal mask
using our patented Active Cushion Technology. In 2004, we launched our Mirage Swift mask, a light and unobtrusive nasal pillows mask system. Also, in 2004 we launched an improved AutoSet CS 2 (outside the United States only) to treat congestive
heart failure patients with significant central sleep apnea. In 2006, we launched the Adapt SV within the United States. This product is for the treatment of respiratory insufficiency due to central sleep apnea, mixed apnea and periodic breathing
and uses a technology which we call adaptive servo-ventilation.



We continually seek to identify new applications of our technology for significant unmet medical needs. SDB is associated with a number of
symptoms beyond excessive daytime sleepiness and irritability. Recent studies have established a clinical association between SDB and hypertension, stroke, congestive heart failure and diabetes. We support clinical trials in the United States,
Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Italy, Switzerland and Australia to develop new clinical applications for our technology.



We consult with physicians at major sleep centers throughout the world to identify technological trends in the treatment of SDB. New
product ideas are also identified by our marketing staff, direct sales force, network of distributors, manufacturers’ representatives, customers and patients. Typically, our internal development staff then develops these ideas, where
appropriate, into new products.



In fiscal years
2010, 2009 and 2008 we invested $75.2 million, $63.1 million and $60.5 million, respectively, on research and development.



- 13 -




Sales and Marketing



We currently market our products in over 70 countries using
a network of distributors, independent manufacturers’ representatives and our direct sales force. We attempt to tailor our marketing approach to each national market, based on regional awareness of SDB as a health problem, physician referral
patterns, consumer preferences and local reimbursement policies. See Note 16 – Segment Information of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8) for financial information about our geographic areas.



North America and Latin
America.Our products are typically purchased by a home healthcare dealer who then sells the products to the patient. The decision to purchase our products, as opposed to those of our competitors, is made or influenced by
one or more of the following individuals or organizations: the prescribing physician and his or her staff; the home healthcare dealer; the insurer and the patient. In the United States, our sales and marketing activities are conducted through a
field sales organization made up of regional territory representatives, program development specialists and regional sales directors. Our U.S. field sales organization markets and sells products to home healthcare dealer branch locations throughout
the United States.



We also market our products
directly to sleep clinics. Patients who are diagnosed with OSA and prescribed CPAP treatment are typically referred by the diagnosing sleep clinic to a home healthcare dealer to fill the prescription. The home healthcare dealer, in consultation with
the referring physician, will assist the patient in selecting the equipment, fit the patient with the appropriate mask and set the flow generator pressure to the prescribed level.



Sales in North and Latin America accounted for 54%, 54% and
49% of our net revenues for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



Europe.We market our products in most major European countries. We have wholly-owned subsidiaries in
Austria, Finland, France, Germany, Spain, Sweden, Norway, Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. We use independent distributors to sell our products in other areas of Europe. Distributors are selected in each country based on their
knowledge of respiratory medicine and a commitment to SDB therapy. In each country in which we sell our products direct, a local senior manager is responsible for direct national sales. In many countries in Europe, we sell our products to home
healthcare dealers who then sell the products to the patients. In Germany, we also operate a home healthcare company, in which we provide products and services directly to patients, and receive reimbursement directly from third party payers.



Sales in Europe accounted for 37%, 38% and 43% of
our total net revenues for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



Asia Pacific.We have wholly–owned subsidiaries in Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, New Zealand, China and
India. We use a combination of our direct sales force and independent distributors to sell our products in Asia Pacific. Sales in Asia Pacific and the rest of the world accounted for 9%, 8% and 8% of our total net revenues for the fiscal years 2010,
2009 and 2008, respectively.



Other Marketing
Efforts.We continue to pursue other suitable opportunities with professional and healthcare associations to raise awareness of the co-morbidity of SDB in cardiovascular disease patients, including coronary artery disease,
congestive heart failure, hypertension and stroke. We also continue to work to raise awareness of SDB in diabetes. Current research is increasingly showing an independent association between OSA and type 2 diabetes. Accordingly, we initiated a study
investigating the prevalence of OSA in the type 2 diabetic population. Due to the high prevalence of the SDB and type 2 diabetes, we are now actively supporting the American Association of Diabetes Educators and are in the process of setting up
further initiatives to develop the SDB market in the



- 14 -




diabetic population. ResMed is also reaching out to diabetes patients. Through our partnership with the American Diabetes Association, a sleep laboratory is now present at everyDiabetes
Expomeeting where patients have the opportunity to learn about diabetes self-management.



In June 2008, the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) released a statement on SDB and type 2 diabetes. The IDF Taskforce on
Epidemiology and Prevention strongly recommended that health professionals working in both type 2 diabetes and SDB adopt clinical practices to ensure that a patient presenting with one condition is considered for the other. Furthermore, the IDF
recommended that people with type 2 diabetes should be screened for OSA particularly when they present classical symptoms such as witnessed apneas, heavy snoring or daytime sleepiness and poor workplace performance.



In September 2008, the European Society of Cardiologists
published guidelines for the treatment of acute and chronic heart failure. The guidelines noted that patients with symptomatic heart failure frequently have sleep-related disorders (central or obstructive sleep apnea) and recommended treatment with
Continuous Positive Airway Pressure, or CPAP, for patients diagnosed with obstructive sleep apnea. We believe that the increasing awareness among the co-morbidity specialists supports the efforts and investment we are making in new markets,
including diabetes and cardiology.



Manufacturing



Our principal manufacturing facility is located in Sydney, Australia and comprises a 155,000 square foot manufacturing facility. Our
manufacturing operations consist primarily of assembly and testing of our flow generators, masks and accessories. Of the numerous raw materials, parts and components purchased for assembly of our therapeutic and diagnostic sleep disorder products,
most are off-the-shelf items available from multiple vendors. We generally manufacture to our internal sales forecasts and fill orders as received. Over the last few years, the manufacturing processes have been transformed along lean manufacturing
guidelines to flow lines staffed by dedicated teams. Each team is responsible for the manufacture and quality of their product group and decisions are based on performance and quality measures, including customer feedback.



We have a 32,000 square foot manufacturing facility in
Singapore to complement the Sydney manufacturing site. The plant commenced with the assembly of masks but now has a flow generator assembly line and an electric motor assembly line.



We have a 43,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Paris,
France. This facility is accredited to ISO 13485 and is primarily responsible for the assembly of mechanical ventilators and associated accessories.



We also manufacture high-quality electric motors for our flow generator devices at the ResMed Motor Technologies Inc. facility which
comprises a 72,000 square foot facility at Chatsworth, California.



Our quality management system is based upon the requirements of ISO 9001, ISO 13485, FDA Quality System Regulations for Medical Devices
and the Medical Device Directive (93/42/EEC). Our Sydney, Australia and San Diego, California and Singapore facilities are each accredited to ISO 9001 and ISO 13485. These three sites have third party audits conducted by the ISO certification bodies
at regular intervals.



Legislation Affecting
Reimbursement, Taxes



The cost of medical
care in many of the countries in which we operate is funded in substantial part by government and private insurance programs. In Germany, we receive payments directly from these



- 15 -




payers. Outside Germany, although we do not generally receive payments for our products directly from these payers, our success in major markets is dependent upon the ability of patients to
obtain adequate reimbursement for our products.



In the United States, our products are purchased primarily by home healthcare dealers, hospitals or sleep clinics, which then invoice
third-party payers directly for reimbursement. Domestic third-party payers include Medicare, Medicaid and corporate health insurance plans. These payers may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device is not used in accordance with
cost-effective treatment methods, or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. The long-term trend towards managed healthcare, or legislative proposals to reform healthcare, could control or significantly influence the purchase of healthcare
services and products and could result in lower prices for our products. In some foreign markets, such as Spain, France and Germany, government reimbursement is currently available for purchase or rental of our products, however, subject to
constraints such as price controls or unit sales limitations. In Australia and in some other foreign markets, there is currently limited or no reimbursement for devices that treat OSA.



Recent United States legislation contains provisions that
negatively impact reimbursement to our customers for their sale or rental of products that we provide. These laws, each of which has been signed into law, include the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and
Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the PPACA), Medicare Improvement for Patients and Providers Act of 2008, (MIPPA) Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA), and the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of
2003 (MMA).



The MMA reduced payment amounts for
five categories of covered home medical equipment items beginning in 2005, froze payment amounts for certain items through 2007, established a competitive acquisition program and implemented quality standards and accreditation requirements for HME
suppliers.



The DRA capped the Medicare rental
period for certain capped rental items, including CPAP devices, at 13 months of continuous use, after which time title of the equipment would transfer to the beneficiary.



MIPPA retroactively delayed the implementation of competitive bidding for eighteen months and decreased the 2009 fee schedule
payment amounts by 9.5 percent for product categories included in competitive bidding. Because the annual update factor for 2010 was 0 percent, the 2009 fee schedule payment rates remain effective for 2010.



The PPACA, among other things, imposes a deductible excise
tax equal to 2.3 percent of the price for which medical devices are sold in the United States on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices, with limited exceptions, beginning in 2013; new face to face encounter requirements for durable
medical equipment and home health services; and a requirement that by 2016, the competitive bidding process must be nationalized or prices in non-competitive bidding areas must be adjusted to match competitive bidding prices.



We cannot predict the impact that any federal legislation
enacted in the future will have on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. While our product line in the United States does not include oxygen and oxygen related equipment, reductions in
reimbursement levels for oxygen could indirectly impact us.



Even though we do not submit claims or bill governmental programs and other third-party payers directly for reimbursement for our products
sold in the United States, we are still subject to laws and regulations relating to governmental programs, and any violation of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal penalties, including fines. In particular, the federal
Anti-Kickback Law prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing



- 16 -




remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, recommending or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a
Federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The government has interpreted this law broadly to apply to the marketing and sales activities of manufacturers and distributors like us. Many states have adopted laws similar to
the federal Anti-Kickback Law. We are also subject to other federal and state fraud laws applicable to payment from any third-party payer. These laws prohibit persons from knowingly and willfully filing false claims or executing a scheme to defraud
any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payers. These laws may apply to manufacturers and distributors who provide information on coverage, coding and reimbursement of their products to persons who bill third-party payers. We
continuously strive to comply with these laws and believe that our arrangements do not violate these laws. Liability may still arise from the intentions or actions of the parties with whom we do business or from a different governmental agency
interpretation of the laws.



Service and
Warranty



We generally offer one-year and
two-year limited warranties on our flow generator products. Warranties on mask systems are for 90 days. In most markets, we rely on our distributors to repair our products with parts supplied by us. In the United States, home healthcare dealers
generally arrange shipment of products to our San Diego facility for repair.



We receive returns of our products from the field for various reasons. We believe that the level of returns experienced to date is
consistent with levels typically experienced by manufacturers of similar devices. We provide for warranties and returns based on historical data.



Competition



The markets for our products are highly competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors in all of our markets are product
features, reliability and price. Customer support, reputation and efficient distribution are also important factors.



We compete on a market-by-market basis with various companies, some of which have greater financial, research, manufacturing and marketing
resources than us. In the United States, our principal market, Philips BV, who acquired Respironics Inc., a previous competitor; DeVilbiss, a division of Sunrise Medical Inc.; Nellcor Puritan Bennett, a division of Covidien Ltd.; and
Fisher & Paykel Healthcare Corporation Limited are the primary competitors for our products. Our principal international competitors are also Philips BV, DeVilbiss, and Nellcor Puritan Bennett, as well as regional manufacturers. The
disparity between our resources and those of our competitors may increase as a result of the trend towards consolidation in the healthcare industry. In addition, our products compete with surgical procedures and dental appliances designed to treat
OSA and other SDB related respiratory conditions. The development of new or innovative procedures or devices by others could result in our products becoming obsolete or noncompetitive, which would harm our revenues and financial condition.



Any product developed by us that gains regulatory
clearance will have to compete for market acceptance and market share. An important factor in such competition may be the timing of market introduction of competitive products. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can develop products,
complete clinical testing and regulatory clearance processes and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market are important competitive factors. In addition, our ability to compete will continue to be dependent on the extent to which we
are successful in protecting our patents and other intellectual property.



- 17 -




Patents and Proprietary Rights and Related Litigation



Through our subsidiaries ResMed Limited, MAP
Medizin-Technologie GmbH, ResMed Motor Technologies Inc. and ResMed Paris SAS, we own or have licensed rights to approximately 450 issued United States patents (including approximately 200 design patents) and approximately 550 issued foreign
patents. In addition, there are approximately 400 pending United States patent applications (including approximately 80 design patent applications), approximately 800 pending foreign patent applications, approximately 1,000 registered foreign
designs and approximately 30 pending foreign designs. Some of these patents, patent applications and designs relate to significant aspects and features of our products.



Of our patents, 31 United States patents and 59 foreign patents are due to expire in the next five years, with 18 foreign
patents due to expire in 2011, 11 in 2012, 3 in 2013, 5 in 2014, and 32 in 2015; and with 4 United States patents due to expire in 2011, 2 United States patents in 2013, 6 United States patents in 2014, and 19 United States patents in 2015. We
believe that the expiration of these patents will not have a material adverse impact on our competitive position. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks and non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary
technology and rights.



Litigation may be
necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect our rights, or to defend third-party claims of infringement by us of the proprietary rights of others. For example, we are currently appealing the decision of a court in Germany that entered
judgment in favor of certain plaintiffs that had claimed they should be listed as co-inventors on two of our German patent applications. The defense and prosecution of patent claims, including these pending claims, as well as participation in other
inter-party proceedings, can be expensive and time consuming, even in those instances in which the outcome is favorable to us. Patent laws regarding the enforceability of patents vary from country to country. Therefore, there can be no assurance
that patent issues will be uniformly resolved, or that local laws will provide us with consistent rights and benefits.



Government Regulations



Our products are subject to extensive regulation particularly as to safety, efficacy and adherence to FDA Quality System Regulation, and
related manufacturing standards. Medical device products are subject to rigorous FDA and other governmental agency regulations in the United States and similar regulations of foreign agencies abroad. The FDA regulates the introduction, manufacture,
advertising, labeling, packaging, marketing, distribution and record keeping for such products, in order to ensure that medical products distributed in the United States are safe and effective for their intended use. In addition, the FDA is
authorized to establish special controls to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of most devices. Non-compliance with applicable requirements can result in import detentions, fines, civil penalties, injunctions, suspensions
or losses of regulatory approvals, recall or seizure of products, operating restrictions, refusal of the government to approve product export applications or allow us to enter into supply contracts, and criminal prosecution.



The FDA requires that a manufacturer introducing a new
medical device or a new indication for use of an existing medical device obtain either a Section 510(k) premarket notification clearance or a premarket approval, or PMA, before introducing it into the U.S. market. Our products currently
marketed in the United States are marketed in reliance on 510(k) pre-marketing clearances as either Class I or Class II devices. The process of obtaining a Section 510(k) clearance generally requires the submission of performance data and often
clinical data, which in some cases can be extensive, to demonstrate that the device is “substantially equivalent” to a device that was on the market before 1976 or to a device that has been found by the FDA to be “substantially
equivalent” to such a pre-1976 device. As a result, FDA clearance requirements may extend the development process for a



- 18 -




considerable length of time. In addition, in some cases, the FDA may require additional review by an advisory panel, which can further lengthen the process. The PMA process, which is reserved for
new devices that are not substantially equivalent to any predicate device and for high-risk devices or those that are used to support or sustain human life, may take several years and requires the submission of extensive performance and clinical
information.



As a medical device manufacturer,
all of our domestic and Australian manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection on a routine basis by the FDA. We believe that our design, manufacturing and quality control procedures are in compliance with the FDA’s regulatory
requirements.



Sales of medical devices outside
the United States are subject to regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. Approval for sale of our medical devices in Europe is through the CE mark process. Where appropriate, our products are CE marked to the European
Union’s Medical Device Directive. Under the CE marketing scheme, our products are classified as either Class I or Class II. Our devices are listed in Australia with the Therapeutic Goods Administration, or TGA, and in Canada with Health Canada.



Employees



As of June 30, 2010, we had approximately 3,200
employees or full time consultants, of which approximately 1,300 persons were employed in warehousing and manufacturing, 400 in research and development and 1,500 in sales, marketing and administration. Of our employees and consultants,
approximately, 1,300 were located in Australia, 700 in North and South America, 1,000 in Europe and 200 in Asia.



We believe that the success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. None of our
employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good.



During 2009-10, the Bella Vista Campus continued its commitment to providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees, contractors
and visitors. This commitment is underpinned by an OHS policy with its focus to systematically eliminate hazards and statement of objectives as guidance. The Occupational Health and Safety Management System further integrated with the Quality
Management System, developing in maturity and ensuring compliance with local legislative requirements. The introduction of Positive Performance Indicators in 2009 continues to drive OHS continuous improvement and for the third consecutive year the
Bella Vista Campus has achieved a significant reduction in the rate of injury.



