ITEM 1 - BUSINESS

We are a leading
manufacturer of water heaters and boilers, serving a diverse mix of residential and commercial end markets principally in the United States with a strong and growing international presence. During the fourth quarter of 2011 we reorganized our
management reporting structure to reflect our current business activities and reconsidered our reporting segments. Historical information has been revised to reflect our new structure. Our company is comprised of two reporting segments: North
America and Rest of World. Both segments manufacture and market comprehensive lines of residential gas, gas tankless, oil and electric water heaters and commercial water heating equipment. Both segments primarily serve their respective regions of
the world. The North America segment also manufactures and markets specialty commercial water heating equipment, condensing and non-condensing boilers and water systems tanks. The Rest of World segment also manufactures and markets water treatment
products, primarily for Asia.

On August 22, 2011, we sold our Electrical Products business (EPC) to Regal Beloit
Corporation (RBC) for approximately $760 million in cash and approximately 2.83 million shares of RBC common stock valued at $140.6 million as of that date. Due to the sale, EPC has been reflected as a discontinued operation in the accompanying
financial statements for all periods presented. For further information about EPC, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The following table summarizes our sales from continuing operations. This summary and all other information presented in this section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which appear in Item 8 in this document.



Years Ended December 31 (dollars in millions)20112010200920082007North America$1,289.5$1,155.4$1,135.9$1,245.1$1,263.5Rest of World455.6368.9256.5223.0175.2Inter-segment Sales(34.6)(35.0)(17.4)(16.8)(15.6)Total Sales$1,710.5$1,489.3$1,375.0$1,451.3$1,423.1

NORTH AMERICA

In our North America segment, sales increased 11.6 percent or $134.1 million in 2011 compared with the prior year. On August 26, 2011, we acquired Lochinvar Corporation, of Lebanon, Tennessee
(Lochinvar) which added $75.9 million to sales. The impact of the Lochinvar acquisition and pricing actions related to higher raw material costs represent the majority of the increase in sales from the prior year.

We serve residential and commercial end markets in North America with a broad range of products including:

Gas, gas tankless, oil and electric water heaters. Our residential and commercial water heaters come in sizes ranging from 2.5
gallon (point-of-use) models to 594 gallon appliances with varying efficiency ranges. We offer electric, natural gas, oil and liquid propane models as well as solar tanks and gas tankless units for today’s energy efficient homes. North American
residential water heater sales in 2011 were approximately $875 million or 67.9 percent of North America revenues. Typical applications include residences, restaurants, hotels and motels, laundries, car washes and small businesses.

Boilers.Our residential and commercial boilers range in size from 45,000 British Thermal Units (BTUs) to 3.5 million BTUs.
Our commercial boilers are used primarily in space heating applications including buildings, hospitals, schools, hotels and other large commercial buildings.

Other.Our North America segment also manufactures copper-tube boilers and expansion tanks, commercial solar systems, swimming pool and spa heaters, and related products and parts.

A significant portion of the segment’s business is derived from the replacement of existing products, and we believe that the sale
of products to the North America residential new housing construction market since 2008 represents less than ten percent of the segment’s total residential water heater sales.

We are the largest manufacturer and marketer of water heaters in North America, and we have a leading share in both the residential and
commercial markets. As the leader in the residential water heating market, we offer an extensive line of high-efficiency gas and electric water heaters and boilers. In the commercial market, we believe our comprehensive product line, including
boilers, as well as our high-efficiency products, give us a competitive advantage in this higher margin portion of the water heating industry.







Our wholesale distribution channel includes more than 1,100 independent wholesale plumbing
distributors with more than 4,400 selling locations serving residential and commercial end markets. We also sell our residential water heaters through the retail channel. In this channel, our customers include five of the seven largest national
hardware and home center chains, including long-standing exclusive branding relationships with both Lowe’s Companies, Inc. and Sears, Roebuck and Co. Our boiler distribution channel is comprised of manufacturer representative firms.

We acquired Lochinvar for approximately $421 million plus an earnout of up to $35 million if certain objectives are achieved by November
2012. Lochinvar is one of the leading manufacturers of residential and commercial boilers in the United States. Lochinvar’s sales for the twelve months ended November 30, 2011 (Lochinvar’s former fiscal year end), were approximately
$200 million and have grown at an eight percent compound annual growth rate over the last five years. Lochinvar is a leader in the manufacture of high-efficiency, hydronic boilers used in commercial and residential applications, and in the
manufacture of commercial and industrial water heaters.

On July 1, 2010, we acquired the rights from Takagi Industrial
Co., Ltd. of Fuji-City, Shizuoka, Japan (Takagi), to market tankless water heaters in North America and entered into a long-term agreement with Takagi to supply tankless water heaters. As part of the venture, we took over the management of
Takagi’s North American sales and distribution organization. Through this venture, we offer a full line of gas tankless water heaters under our own brands in association with the Takagi brand.

Our energy efficient product offerings continue to be a growing driver of our business. Our Cyclone product family continues to be the
preferred choice for commercial customers looking for high efficiency water heating with a short payback period through energy savings. We now offer the iCOMM remote monitoring service that allows customers to view their Cyclone water heaters’
operation via the internet allowing them to track the energy usage and savings. In 2010, we introduced residential solar and heat pump water heaters in the U.S. as well as other higher efficiency water heating solutions to round out our energy
efficient product offerings.

We sell our water heating products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our
targeted market segments based on product design, quality of products and services, performance and price. Our principal water heating and boiler competitors in the U.S. include Rheem, Bradford-White, Aerco, Weil-McLain, and HTP. Additionally, we
compete with numerous other private water heater and boiler manufacturing companies.

REST OF WORLD

Sales in our Rest of World segment increased 23.5 percent, or $86.7 million compared with the prior year. A 29.0 percent increase in sales
of A. O. Smith branded products in China to $371.7 million was the primary source of the increase in sales.

We entered the
Chinese water heater market through a joint venture in 1995, buying out our partner three years later. Since that time, we have been aggressively expanding our presence while building A. O. Smith brand recognition in the Chinese residential and
commercial markets. We believe we are one of the leading suppliers of water heaters to the residential market in China, with a broad product offering including electric, gas tankless, heat pump and solar units.

In 2008, we established a sales office in India and began importing products specifically designed for India from our Nanjing, China
facility. We began manufacturing water heaters in India in the second quarter of 2010. Our sales in India more than doubled to $18.1 million in 2011 compared with the prior year.

In November 2009, we purchased 80 percent of the water treatment business of Tianlong Holding Co., Ltd. of Hong Kong, (Tianlong) and we
are operating the business as A. O. Smith (Shanghai) Water Treatment Products Co. Ltd. (SWT). We manufacture, and through our current water heater distribution channels, supply water treatment products such as reverse osmosis units to the China
residential and commercial markets, as well as export markets throughout the world. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we purchased the remaining 20 percent interest in Tianlong and now own 100 percent of the company.

Our primary competitor in China is Haier Appliances, a Chinese company, but we also compete with Ariston, Siemens and Midea in the
electric water heater market and Rinnai and Noritz in the gas tankless water heater market. Additionally, we compete with numerous other Chinese private and state-owned water heater and water treatment companies in China. In India, we compete with
Bajaj and MTS-Racold and numerous other companies.

In addition we sell water heaters to the European and Middle Eastern
markets which are less than three percent of total sales.







RAW MATERIAL

Raw materials for our manufacturing operations, primarily consisting of steel, are generally available from several sources in adequate quantities. A portion of our customers are contractually obligated
to accept price changes based on fluctuations in steel prices. Significant volatility in steel costs has occurred over the last several years.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

To improve competitiveness by generating new products and processes, we conduct research and development at our Corporate Technology
Center in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, our Global Engineering Center in Nanjing, China, and at our operating locations. Total expenditures for research and development in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $42.7 million, $37.1 million and $31.0 million,
respectively.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We own and use in our businesses various trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and licenses. We do not believe that our business as a whole is materially dependent upon any such trademark, trade
name, patent, trade secret or license. However, our trade name is important with respect to our products, particularly in China, India and the U.S.

EMPLOYEES

Our operations employed approximately 10,600 employees as of
December 31, 2011, primarily non-union.

BACKLOG

Due to the short-cycle nature of our businesses, none of our operations sustain significant backlogs.

ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS

Our operations are governed by a variety of federal,
foreign, state and local laws intended to protect the environment. Compliance with the environmental laws has not had and is not expected to have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of our company. See
Item 3.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We maintain a website with the address www.aosmith.com. The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other
than an investor’s own internet access charges, we make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports as soon as
reasonably practical after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The company is committed to sound corporate governance and has documented its corporate governance practices by adopting the A. O. Smith Corporate Governance Guidelines. The Corporate Governance
Guidelines, Criteria for Selection of Directors, Financial Code of Ethics, the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles, as well as the charters for the Audit, Personnel and Compensation, Nominating and Governance and the Investment Policy
Committees and other corporate governance materials may be viewed on the company’s website. Any waiver of or amendments to the Financial Code of Conduct or the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles also would be posted on this website; to date there
have been none. Copies of these documents will be sent to stockholders free of charge upon written request of the corporate secretary at the address shown on the cover page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

