ITEM 1 - BUSINESS

We are a leading
manufacturer of water heating equipment, serving a diverse mix of residential and commercial end markets principally in the United States with a growing international presence. Our company is comprised of one reporting segment: Water Products. Our
Water Products business manufactures and markets a comprehensive line of residential gas, gas tankless and electric water heaters, standard and specialty commercial water heating equipment, high-efficiency copper-tube boilers, water treatment
products and water systems tanks.

On December 12, 2010, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Electrical
Products business to Regal Beloit Corporation for $700 million in cash and approximately 2.83 million shares of Regal Beloit Corporation common stock. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2011, subject to regulatory
approvals and customary closing conditions. Due to the pending sale, our Electrical Products segment has been reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying financial statements for all periods presented. For further information about the
Electrical Products segment, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, entitled “Discontinued Operations” which appears on page 36.

The following table summarizes our sales from continuing operations. This summary and all other information presented in this section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which appear in Item 8 in this document.



Years Ended December 31 (dollars in millions)20102009200820072006Water Products$1,489.3$1,375.0$1,451.3$1,423.1$1,260.8

WATER PRODUCTS

In our Water Products business, sales increased 8 percent or $114.3 million in 2010 compared with the prior year. A 30
percent increase in sales of water heaters in China and a full year of sales from our 2009 water treatment acquisition represent the majority of the increase.

We serve residential and commercial end markets in North America with a broad range of products, including:

Residential gas, gas tankless and electric water heaters. Our residential water heaters come in sizes ranging from 2.5 gallon (point-of-use) models to 119 gallon appliances with varying efficiency
ranges. We offer electric, natural gas and liquid propane models as well as solar tanks and gas tankless units for today’s energy efficient homes. North American residential water heater sales in 2010 were approximately $850 million or 57
percent of company revenues.

Commercial (standard and specialty) water heaters.Our gas, oil, electric and tankless
water heaters come in capacities ranging from 6 gallons to 594 gallons and are used by customers who require a consistent, economical source of hot water. Typical applications include restaurants, hotels and motels, laundries, car washes and small
businesses.

Our Water Products business also manufactures copper-tube boilers and expansion tanks and related products and
parts.

A significant portion of our Water Products business is derived from the replacement of existing product, and we
believe that the sale of product to the North American residential new housing construction market represents less than 10 percent of the segment’s total residential water heater sales.

We are the largest manufacturer and marketer of water heaters in North America, and we have a leading share in both the residential and
standard commercial segments of the market. As the leader in the residential water heating market segment, we offer an extensive line of high-efficiency gas and electric models. In the commercial market segment, we believe our comprehensive product
line, as well as our high-efficiency products, give us a competitive advantage in this higher-margin segment of the water heating industry.

Our Water Products wholesale distribution channel includes more than 1,100 independent wholesale plumbing distributors with more than 4,400 selling locations serving residential and commercial markets. We
also sell our residential water heaters through the retail channel. In this channel, our customers include five of the seven largest national hardware and home center chains, including long-standing exclusive branding relationships with both
Lowe’s Companies, Inc. and Sears, Roebuck and Co.







We entered the Chinese water heater market through a joint venture in 1995, buying out our
partner three years later. Since that time, we have been aggressively expanding our presence while building A. O. Smith brand recognition in the Chinese residential and commercial markets. In 2010, the Chinese Water Products operation generated
sales of $287.9 million, an increase of 30 percent, compared with 2009. We believe we are one of the leading suppliers of water heaters to the residential market in China.

In 2008, we established a sales office in India and began importing products specifically designed for India from our Nanjing, China facility. We began manufacturing water heaters in India in the second
quarter of 2010.

In November 2009, we purchased 80 percent of the water treatment business of Tianlong Holding Co., Ltd. of
Hong Kong, and we are operating the business as the newly formed A. O. Smith (Shanghai) Water Treatment Products Co. Ltd. Through this company and our current water heater distribution channels, we manufacture and supply water treatment products
such as reverse osmosis units to the China residential and commercial markets, as well as export markets throughout the world. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we purchased the remaining 20 percent interest in Tianlong Holding Co., Ltd. and we now own
100 percent of the company.

On July 1, 2010, we acquired the rights from Takagi Industrial Co., Ltd. of Fuji-City,
Shizuoka, Japan, to market tankless water heaters in North America and entered into a long-term agreement with Takagi Industrial to supply tankless water heaters. As part of the venture, we are taking over the management of Takagi’s North
American sales and distribution organization. Through this venture, we offer a full line of tankless gas water heaters under our own brands in association with the Takagi brand.

Our energy efficient product offering continues to be a growing driver of our business. Our Cyclone product family now represents 21% of
our tank-type commercial product unit sales in the U.S., and it offers significant energy savings and a short payback to our customers. In 2010, we introduced residential solar and heat pump water heaters in the U.S. as well as other higher
efficiency water heating solutions to round out our energy efficient product offering. Globally, we offer water heating products using renewable solar and heat pump technologies.

We sell our water heating products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our targeted market segments based on product
design, quality of products and services, performance and price. Our principal water heating competitors in the United States include Rheem Manufacturing Company, Bradford-White Corporation and Lochinvar Corporation. Our primary competitor in China
is Haier Appliances, a Chinese company, but we also compete with Ariston, Siemens and Midea in the electric water heater market and Rinnai and Noritz in the gas instantaneous water heater market. Additionally, we compete with numerous other Chinese
private and state-owned water heater and boiler manufacturing companies in China.

RAW MATERIAL

Raw materials for our manufacturing operations, which consist primarily of steel, are generally available from several sources in
adequate quantities. A portion of our customers are contractually obligated to accept price changes based on fluctuations in steel prices. Significant volatility in steel costs has occurred over the last several years.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

In order to improve competitiveness by generating new products and processes, we conduct research and development at our Corporate
Technology Center in Milwaukee, Wisconsin and at our operating locations. Total expenditures for research and development in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $37.1, $31.0 and $28.8 million, respectively.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We own and use in our businesses various trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and licenses. We do not believe that our
business as a whole is materially dependent upon any such trademark, trade name, patent, trade secret or license. However, our trade name is important with respect to our products, particularly in China.







EMPLOYEES

Our continuing operations employed approximately 10,400 employees as of December 31, 2010.

BACKLOG

Due to the short-cycle nature
of our businesses, none of our operations sustain significant backlogs.

ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS

Our operations are governed by a variety of federal, state and local laws intended to protect the environment. Compliance with the
environmental laws has not had and is not expected to have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of our company. See Item 3.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We maintain a website with the address
www.aosmith.com. The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other than an investor’s own internet access charges, we make available free of charge
through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practical after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished such
material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The company is committed to sound corporate governance and has
documented its corporate governance practices by adopting the A. O. Smith Corporate Governance Guidelines. The Corporate Governance Guidelines, Criteria for Selection of Directors, Financial Code of Ethics, the A. O. Smith Guiding
Principles, as well as the charters for the Audit, Personnel and Compensation, Nominating and Governance and the Investment Policy Committees and other corporate governance materials may be viewed on the company’s website. Any waiver of or
amendments to the Financial Code of Conduct or the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles also would be posted on this website; to date there have been none. Copies of these documents will be sent to stockholders free of charge upon written request of the
corporate secretary at the address shown on the cover page of this Form 10-K.

