ITEM 1-BUSINESS

Our company is comprised of two reporting segments: North America and Rest of World. Our Rest of World segment is primarily comprised of China, Europe and
India. Both segments manufacture and market comprehensive lines of residential gas, gas tankless and electric water heaters. Both segments primarily serve their respective regions of the world. Our North America segment also manufactures and markets
specialty commercial water heating equipment, condensing and non-condensing boilers and water systems tanks. Our Rest of World segment also manufactures and markets water treatment products, primarily for Asia.

On August 22, 2011, we sold our Electrical Products business (EPC) to Regal Beloit Corporation (RBC) for approximately $760 million in cash and
approximately 2.83 million shares of RBC common stock valued at $140.6 million as of that date. Due to the sale, EPC has been reflected as a discontinued operation in the accompanying financial statements for all periods presented. For further
information about EPC, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The following table summarizes our sales from continuing operations. This
summary and all other information presented in this section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which appear in Item 8 in this document.



Years Ended December 31 (dollars in millions)20142013201220112010North America$1,621.7$1,520.0$1,430.8$1,289.5$1,155.4Rest of World768.3668.0542.5455.6368.9Inter-segment(34.0)(34.2)(34.0)(34.6)(35.0)Total Sales$2,356.0$2,153.8$1,939.3$1,710.5$1,489.3

NORTH AMERICA

Sales in our North America segment increased 6.7 percent or $101.7 million in 2014 compared with the prior year. The sales increase in 2014 benefitted from
higher volumes of water heaters and boilers in the U.S., which were partially offset by lower water heater sales in Canada, primarily due to a decline in the value of the Canadian dollar of approximately seven percent versus the U.S. dollar. Our
Lochinvar brand, which we acquired in August 2011, incrementally added approximately $143 million of sales in 2012 compared to 2011. Approximately 40 percent of Lochinvar-branded sales consist of residential and commercial water heaters while the
remaining 60 percent of Lochinvar-branded sales consist primarily of boilers and related parts.

We serve residential and commercial end markets in North
America with a broad range of products including:

Water heaters. Our residential and commercial water heaters come in sizes ranging from 2.5
gallon (point-of-use) models to 12,500 gallon products with varying efficiency ranges. We offer electric, natural gas, gas tankless and liquid propane models as well as solar tank units. Our North American residential water heater sales in 2014 were
approximately $1 billion or 62 percent of North America sales. Typical applications for our water heaters include residences, restaurants, hotels and motels, laundries, car washes and small businesses.

Boilers.Our residential and commercial boilers range in size from 40,000 British Thermal Units (BTUs) to 5.0 million BTUs. Our commercial boilers
are used primarily in space heating applications for hospitals, schools, hotels and other large commercial buildings.

Other.Our North America
segment also manufactures expansion tanks, commercial solar water heating systems, swimming pool and spa heaters, and related products and parts.

A
significant portion of the sales in our North America segment is derived from the replacement of existing products.

We are the largest manufacturer and
marketer of water heaters in North America, and we have a leading share in both the residential and commercial markets. In the commercial market, we believe our comprehensive product line including boilers and our high-efficiency products give us a
competitive advantage in this portion of the water heating industry. Our wholesale distribution channel includes more than 1,200 independent wholesale plumbing distributors with more than 4,400 selling







locations serving residential and commercial end markets. We also sell our residential water heaters through the retail channel. In this channel, our customers include five of the seven largest
national hardware and home center chains, including long-standing exclusive relationships with both Lowe’s and Sears. Our boiler distribution channel is primarily comprised of manufacturer representative firms.

We acquired Lochinvar in 2011 for approximately $435 million including an earn-out provision that resulted in a payment of $13.5 million in December 2012. Our
Lochinvar brand is one of the leading brands of residential and commercial boilers in the United States (U.S.).

Our energy efficient product offerings
continue to be a sales driver of our business. Our Cyclone product family and our condensing boilers continue to be an option for commercial customers looking for high efficiency water and space heating with a short payback period through energy
savings. We offer residential heat pump, condensing tank-type and tankless water heaters in North America, as well as other higher efficiency water heating solutions to round out our energy efficient product offerings.

We sell our water heating products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our targeted market segments based on product design, quality of
products and services, performance and price. Our principal water heating and boiler competitors in North America include Rheem, Bradford White, Rinnai and Aerco. Numerous other manufacturing companies also compete.

REST OF WORLD

Sales in our Rest of World segment
increased 15.0 percent, or $100.3 million, in 2014 compared with the prior year. An 18.4 percent increase in sales in China to $694.0 million was the primary source of the increase.

We have operated in China for almost 20 years. In that time, we have been aggressively expanding our presence while building A. O. Smith brand recognition in
the Chinese residential and commercial markets. The Chinese water heater market is predominantly comprised of electric wall-hung, solar and gas tankless water heaters. We believe we are one of the leading suppliers of water heaters to the
residential market in China, with a broad product offering including electric, gas, gas tankless, heat pump and solar units as well as combi boilers. We also manufacture and market water treatment products primarily for the residential market.

We sell water heaters in more than 7,000 retail outlets in China, of which over 1,600 exclusively sell our products. In addition, our water treatment products
are sold in 4,500 retail outlets in China. Online sales continue to grow in China and in 2014 exceeded $50 million.

In 2008, we established a sales
office in India and began importing products specifically designed for India from our China operations. We began manufacturing water heaters in India in 2010. Our sales in India were $15.1 million in 2014, lower than in 2013 resulting from the
weakness in the housing market and the termination of a co-branding relationship with our largest distributor.

Our primary competitor in China is Haier
Appliances, a Chinese company, but we also compete with Midea in the electric water heater market and Rinnai and Noritz in the gas tankless and solar water heater markets. Additionally, we compete with numerous other Chinese private and state-owned
water heater and water treatment companies in China. In India, we compete with Bajaj, MTS-Racold, Venus, Haier, Havells and numerous other companies.

In
addition, we sell water heaters to the European and Middle Eastern markets and water treatment products in Turkey, all of which comprised approximately seven percent of total Rest of World sales in 2014.

RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials for our manufacturing
operations, primarily consisting of steel, are generally available in adequate quantities. A portion of our customers are contractually obligated to accept price changes based on fluctuations in steel prices. There has been volatility in steel costs
over the last several years.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

To improve competitiveness by generating new products and processes, we conduct research and development at our Corporate Technology Center in Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, at our Global Engineering Center in Nanjing, China, and at our operating locations. Total expenditures for research and development in 2014, 2013 and 2012 were $67.9 million, $57.8 million and $51.7 million, respectively.







PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We own and use in our businesses various trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and licenses. We do not believe that our business as a whole is
materially dependent upon any such trademark, trade name, patent, trade secret or license. However, our trade name is important with respect to our products, particularly in China, India and the U.S.

EMPLOYEES

Our operations employed approximately 12,400
employees as of December 31, 2014, primarily non-union.

BACKLOG

Due to the short-cycle nature of our businesses, none of our operations sustain significant backlogs.

ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS

Our operations are governed by a
variety of federal, foreign, state and local laws intended to protect the environment. Compliance with environmental laws has not had and is not expected to have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of
our company. See Item 3.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We maintain a website with the address www.aosmith.com. The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference
into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other than an investor’s own internet access charges, we make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practical after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

We are committed to sound corporate governance and have documented our corporate governance practices by adopting the A. O. Smith Corporate Governance
Guidelines. The Corporate Governance Guidelines, Criteria for Selection of Directors, Financial Code of Ethics, the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles, as well as the charters for the Audit, Personnel and Compensation, Nominating and
Governance and the Investment Policy Committees of the Board of Directors and other corporate governance materials, may be viewed on the company’s website. Any waiver of or amendments to the Financial Code of Conduct or the A. O. Smith Guiding
Principles also would be posted on this website; to date there have been none. Copies of these documents will be sent to stockholders free of charge upon written request of the corporate secretary at the address shown on the cover page of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.







