ITEM 1 – BUSINESS

We are a leading manufacturer
of water heaters and boilers, serving a diverse mix of residential and commercial end markets principally in the United States (U.S.) with a strong and growing international presence. During the fourth quarter of 2011 we reorganized our management
reporting structure to reflect our current business activities and reconsidered our reporting segments. Historical information has been revised to reflect our new structure. Our company is comprised of two reporting segments: North America and Rest
of World. Our Rest of World segment is primarily comprised of China, India and Europe. Both segments manufacture and market comprehensive lines of residential gas, gas tankless and electric water heaters and commercial water heating equipment. Both
segments primarily serve their respective regions of the world. The North America segment also manufactures and markets specialty commercial water heating equipment, condensing and non-condensing boilers and water systems tanks. The Rest of World
segment also manufactures and markets water treatment products, primarily for Asia.

On August 22, 2011, we sold our Electrical Products
business (EPC) to Regal Beloit Corporation (RBC) for approximately $760 million in cash and approximately 2.83 million shares of RBC common stock valued at $140.6 million as of that date. Due to the sale, EPC has been reflected as a
discontinued operation in the accompanying financial statements for all periods presented. For further information about EPC, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The following table summarizes our sales from continuing operations. This summary and all other information presented in this section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which appear in Item 8 in this document.



Years Ended December 31 (dollars in millions)20122011201020092008North America$1,430.8$1,289.5$1,155.4$1,135.9$1,245.1Rest of World542.5455.6368.9256.5223.0Inter-segment(34.0)(34.6)(35.0)(17.4)(16.8)Total Sales$1,939.3$1,710.5$1,489.3$1,375.0$1,451.3

NORTH AMERICA

In our North America segment, sales increased 11.0 percent or $141.3 million in 2012 compared with the prior year. Our Lochinvar brand which we acquired in August 2011, incrementally added $142.9 million
to sales. The impact of the Lochinvar acquisition and higher volumes of U.S. residential and commercial water heaters, which were partially offset by lower volumes of gas tankless and Canadian water heaters, are the primary reasons for an increase
in sales compared with the prior year.

We serve residential and commercial end markets in North America with a broad range of products
including:

Gas, gas tankless, and electric water heaters. Our residential and commercial water heaters come in sizes ranging from 2.5
gallon (point-of-use) models to 12,500 gallon appliances with varying efficiency ranges. We offer electric, natural gas and liquid propane models as well as solar tanks and gas tankless units for today’s energy efficient homes. Our North
American residential water heater sales in 2012 were approximately $900 million or 63 percent of North America revenues. Typical applications for our water heaters include residences, restaurants, hotels and motels, laundries, car washes and small
businesses.

Boilers.Our residential and commercial boilers range in size from 40,000 British Thermal Units (BTUs) to 5.0 million
BTUs. Our commercial boilers are used primarily in space heating applications including hospitals, schools, hotels and other large commercial buildings.

Other.Our North America segment also manufactures copper-tube boilers and expansion tanks, commercial solar systems, swimming pool and spa heaters, and related products and parts.

A significant portion of the segment’s business is derived from the replacement of existing products, and we believe that since 2008 the sale of
products to the North America residential new housing construction market has represented less than ten percent of the segment’s total residential water heater sales.

We are the largest manufacturer and marketer of water heaters in North America, and we have a leading share in both the residential and commercial markets. As the leader in the residential water heating
market, we offer an extensive line of high-efficiency gas and electric water heaters as well as boilers. In the commercial market, we believe our comprehensive product






line including boilers and our high-efficiency products give us a competitive advantage in this portion of the water heating industry. Our wholesale distribution channel includes more than 1,200
independent wholesale plumbing distributors with more than 4,400 selling locations serving residential and commercial end markets. We also sell our residential water heaters through the retail channel. In this channel, our customers include five of
the seven largest national hardware and home center chains, including long-standing exclusive branding relationships with both Lowe’s Companies, Inc. and Sears, Roebuck and Co. Our boiler distribution channel is primarily comprised of
manufacturer representative firms.

We acquired Lochinvar for approximately $435 million which included an earn-out provision that resulted in
a payment of $13.5 million in December 2012. Our Lochinvar brand is one of the leading brands of residential and commercial boilers in the U.S. Our Lochinvar branded sales for the 12 months ended December 31, 2012 were approximately $226
million. Sales of Lochinvar branded products have grown at a nine percent compound annual growth rate over the last five years.

In 2010, we
acquired the rights from Takagi Industrial Co., Ltd. of Fuji-City, Shizuoka, Japan (Takagi), to market gas tankless water heaters in North America and entered into a long-term agreement with Takagi to supply gas tankless water heaters. As part of
the venture, we took over the management of Takagi’s North American sales and distribution organization. Through this venture, we offer a full line of gas tankless water heaters under our own brands in association with the Takagi brand.

Our energy efficient product offerings continue to be a sales driver of our business. Our Cyclone product family continues to be an option
for commercial customers looking for high efficiency water heating with a short payback period through energy savings. We offer the iCOMM remote monitoring service that allows customers to view their Cyclone water heaters’ operation via the
internet allowing them to track the energy usage and savings. In 2010, we introduced residential solar and heat pump water heaters in the U.S. as well as other higher efficiency water heating solutions to round out our energy efficient product
offerings.

We sell our water heating products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our targeted market segments based on
product design, quality of products and services, performance and price. Our principal water heating and boiler competitors in the U.S. include Rheem, Bradford White, Aerco, Weil-McLain, and HTP and numerous other boiler manufacturing companies.

REST OF WORLD

Sales
in our Rest of World segment increased 19.1 percent, or $86.9 million, in 2012 compared with the prior year. A 20.5 percent increase in sales of A. O. Smith branded products in China to $448.3 million was the primary source of the increase in sales.

We entered the Chinese water heater market through a joint venture in 1995, buying out our partner three years later. Since that time, we
have been aggressively expanding our presence while building A. O. Smith brand recognition in the Chinese residential and commercial markets. We believe we are one of the leading suppliers of water heaters to the residential market in China, with a
broad product offering including electric, gas, gas tankless, heat pump and solar units.

In 2008, we established a sales office in India and
began importing products specifically designed for India from our Nanjing, China facility. We began manufacturing water heaters in India in the second quarter of 2010. Our sales in India increased 10.5 percent to $20.0 million in 2012.

In 2009, we purchased 80 percent of the water treatment business of Tianlong Holding Co., Ltd. of Hong Kong, (Tianlong) and we are operating the business
as A. O. Smith (Shanghai) Water Treatment Products Co. Ltd. (SWT). We manufacture, and through our current water heater distribution channels, supply water treatment products such as reverse osmosis units to the China residential and commercial
markets, as well as export markets throughout the world. In 2010, we purchased the remaining 20 percent interest in Tianlong.

Our primary
competitor in China is Haier Appliances, a Chinese company, but we also compete with Ariston, Siemens and Midea in the electric water heater market and Rinnai and Noritz in the gas tankless water heater market. Additionally, we compete with numerous
other Chinese private and state-owned water heater and water treatment companies in China. In India, we compete with Bajaj, MTS-Racold and Venus and numerous other companies.

In addition, we sell water heaters to the European and Middle Eastern markets which comprise less than three percent of total company sales.






RAW MATERIAL

Raw materials for our manufacturing operations, primarily consisting of steel, are generally available from several sources in adequate quantities. A portion of our customers are contractually obligated
to accept price changes based on fluctuations in steel prices. There has been significant volatility in steel costs over the last several years.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

To improve competitiveness by generating new products and
processes, we conduct research and development at our Corporate Technology Center in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, our Global Engineering Center in Nanjing, China, and at our operating locations. Total expenditures for research and development in 2012, 2011
and 2010 were $51.7 million, $42.7 million and $37.1 million, respectively.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We own and use in our businesses various trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and licenses. We do not believe that our business as a whole is
materially dependent upon any such trademark, trade name, patent, trade secret or license. However, our trade name is important with respect to our products, particularly in China, India and the U.S.

EMPLOYEES

Our operations employed
approximately 10,900 employees as of December 31, 2012, primarily non-union.

BACKLOG

Due to the short-cycle nature of our businesses, none of our operations sustain significant backlogs.

ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS

Our operations are
governed by a variety of federal, foreign, state and local laws intended to protect the environment. Compliance with the environmental laws has not had and is not expected to have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings, or
competitive position of our company. See Item 3.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We maintain a website with the address www.aosmith.com. The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other
than an investor’s own internet access charges, we make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports as soon as
reasonably practical after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

The company is committed to sound corporate governance and has documented its corporate governance practices by adopting the A. O. Smith Corporate Governance Guidelines. The Corporate Governance
Guidelines, Criteria for Selection of Directors, Financial Code of Ethics, the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles, as well as the charters for the Audit, Personnel and Compensation, Nominating and Governance and the Investment Policy
Committees and other corporate governance materials, may be viewed on the company’s website. Any waiver of or amendments to the Financial Code of Conduct or the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles also would be posted on this website; to date there
have been none. Copies of these documents will be sent to stockholders free of charge upon written request of the corporate secretary at the address shown on the cover page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.






