ITEM 1 - BUSINESS

We are a leading manufacturer of
water heating equipment and electric motors, serving a diverse mix of residential, commercial and industrial end markets principally in the United States with a growing international presence. Our company is comprised of two reporting segments:
Water Products and Electrical Products. Our Water Products business manufactures and markets a comprehensive line of residential gas and electric water heaters, standard and specialty commercial water heating equipment, high-efficiency copper-tube
boilers, water treatment products and water systems tanks. Our Electrical Products business manufactures and markets a comprehensive line of hermetic motors, fractional horsepower alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC) motors. In 2009, we
had net sales of approximately $2.0 billion, with 69 percent attributable to our Water Products business and 31 percent attributable to our Electrical Products business.

The following table summarizes our sales by reporting segment. This segment summary and all other information presented in this section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which appear in Item 8 in this document.



Years Ended December 31 (dollars in millions)20092008200720062005Water Products$1,375.0$1,451.3$1,423.1$1,260.8$833.3Electrical Products620.4858.1894.0905.9861.0Inter-segment sales(3.9)(4.5)(5.0)(5.4)(5.1)Total Sales$1,991.5$2,304.9$2,312.1$2,161.3$1,689.2

WATER PRODUCTS

In our Water Products business, sales decreased 5 percent or $76.3 million in 2009 compared with the prior year. A 19 percent increase in sales of water heaters in China helped offset significantly lower
residential and commercial volumes in North America.

We serve residential, commercial and industrial end markets with a broad range of
products, including:

Residential gas and electric water heaters. Our residential water heaters come in sizes ranging from two-gallon
(point-of-use) models to 120-gallon appliances with varying efficiency ranges. We offer electric, natural gas and liquid propane models as well as solar booster tanks and gas tankless units for today’s energy efficient homes. North American
residential water heater sales in 2009 were approximately $857 million or 62 percent of segment revenues.

Commercial (standard and
specialty) water heaters.Our gas, oil and electric water heaters come in capacities ranging from 6 gallons to 600 gallons and are used by customers who require a consistent, economical source of hot water. Typical applications include
restaurants, hotels and motels, laundries, car washes and small businesses.

A significant portion of our Water Products business is derived
from the replacement of existing product, and it is believed that the sale of product to the North American residential new housing construction market represents approximately 10 percent of the segment’s total residential water heater sales.
Our Water Products business also manufactures copper-tube boilers and expansion tanks and related products and parts.

We are the largest
manufacturer and marketer of water heaters in North America, and we have a leading share in both the residential and commercial segments of the market. In the commercial market segment, we believe our comprehensive product line, as well as our
high-efficiency products, give us a competitive advantage in this higher-margin segment of the water heating industry. As the leader in the residential water heating market segment, we offer an extensive line of high-efficiency gas and electric
models.

Our Water Products wholesale distribution channel includes more than 1,100 independent wholesale plumbing distributors with more than
4,400 selling locations serving residential, commercial and industrial markets. We also sell our residential water heaters through the retail channel. In this channel, our customers include five of the seven largest national hardware and home center
chains, including long-standing exclusive branding relationships with both Lowe’s Companies, Inc. and Sears, Roebuck and Co.







We entered the Chinese water heater market through a joint venture in 1995, buying out our partner three
years later. Since that time, we have been aggressively expanding our presence while building A. O. Smith brand recognition in the Chinese residential and commercial markets. In 2009, the Chinese Water Products operation generated sales of $221.1
million, an increase of 19 percent, compared with 2008. We believe we are one of the top two suppliers of water heaters to the residential market in China.

In 2008, we established a sales office in India and began importing products specifically designed for India from our Nanjing, China facility. In 2009, we finalized the acquisition of land near Bangalore
and started construction of a water heater manufacturing facility. We expect to begin manufacturing water heaters in India in the second quarter of 2010.

In November 2009, we purchased the water treatment business of Tianlong Holding Co., Ltd. of Hong Kong. We hold 80 percent of the newly formed A. O. Smith (Shanghai) Water Treatment Products Co. Ltd.
Through this company and eventually our current water heater distribution channels, we will supply reverse osmosis water purification products to the China residential and commercial markets, as well as export markets throughout the world.

Our energy efficient product offering continues to be a growing driver of our business. Our Cyclone product family now represents 20% of our
standard commercial product unit sales and it offers significant energy savings and a short payback to our customers. Globally, we have launched new water heating products using renewable solar and heat pump technologies. In 2010, we plan to
introduce residential solar and heat pump water heaters in the US as well as higher efficiency water heating solutions to round out our energy efficient product offering.

We sell our water heating products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our targeted market segments based on product design, quality of products and services, performance and price. Our
principal domestic water heating competitors include Rheem Manufacturing Company, Bradford-White Corporation and Lochinvar Corporation. Our primary competitor in China is Haier Appliances, a Chinese company, but we also compete with Ariston, Siemens
and Midea in the electric water heater market and Rinnai and Noritz in the gas instantaneous water heater market. Additionally, we compete with numerous other Chinese private and state-owned water heater and boiler manufacturing companies.

ELECTRICAL PRODUCTS

In our Electrical Products business, revenue declined nearly 30 percent due to the global recession. Sales in the segment were $620 million compared with $858 million in 2008. Our Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) products were most
severely impacted by the recession due to lower equipment sales in our end markets, the trend to fix instead of replace equipment and channel inventory reductions of finished goods and components as our customers sought to preserve cash.

We are one of the four largest manufacturers of electric motors in North America. We offer a comprehensive line of hermetic motors, fractional horsepower
AC and DC motors, and integral horsepower motors, ranging in size from sub-fractional C – frame ventilation motors up to 1,320 horsepower hermetic and 400 horsepower integral motors. We believe our extensive product offerings give us an
advantage in our targeted markets, allowing us to serve a wide range of our customers’ electric motor needs.

Our motors are used in a
wide range of targeted residential and commercial applications, including: hermetic motors that are sold worldwide to manufacturers of air conditioning and commercial refrigeration compressors; fractional horsepower fan motors used in furnaces, air
conditioners and blowers; fractional horsepower motors for pumps for home water systems, swimming pools, hot tubs and spas; fractional horsepower motors used in other consumer products (such as garage door openers); and integral horsepower AC and DC
motors for industrial and commercial applications. Sales to the global OEMs of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and refrigeration equipment, including compressors, accounted for approximately 50 percent of segment sales. Approximately 75
percent of our 2009 segment sales were to OEMs in a diverse mix of industries, with the remainder of sales sold through aftermarket or distribution channels. We believe that at least 25 percent of our total segment sales were attributable to
products used outside of the United States. A significant portion of our Electrical Products business is derived from the replacement of existing product, and it is believed that the sale of product to the residential new housing construction market
in North America represents approximately 25 percent of the segment’s total sales.

To remain a leader in this highly competitive
industry, we are committed to being a low-cost supplier of electric motors. We have undertaken initiatives to accelerate cost-reduction in our motor operations to enhance our competitive position. Since 2001 these initiatives included the closure of
eleven U.S. facilities as well as our operations in Budapest, Hungary; Bray, Ireland; and Taizhou, China, transferring the majority of related production to our lower cost operations in Mexico and China.







In 2008, we closed our operations in Scottsville, KY, and Mebane, NC, consolidating our hermetic motor
assembly operations in Acuna, Mexico and Suzhou and Yueyang, China. In 2009, we constructed a new building in Yueyang for our large centrifugal and screw compressor motor production. This new building more than doubled our available manufacturing
space and consolidated all of our production in Yueyang under one roof. We also became more vertically integrated as part of this expansion, including the addition of rotor casting equipment and lamination punch presses. The investment for this
expansion totaled approximately $9 million.

In 2009, we also completed the installation of an ERP system in our operations. The system
represented a total investment of approximately $12 million, and is already yielding the expected benefits in increased productivity, throughput and customer responsiveness. We also completed our lean products initiative, eliminating thousands of
components from our product offering through product standardization.

Energy efficiency continues to be a significant driver for our
business, especially our new product development activities. We launched two new variable speed motor platforms in 2009 in our pool pump and residential HVAC businesses. We plan to launch several more variable speed high efficiency motor equivalents
for most of our core product offerings. We have significantly upgraded our technical capabilities to accomplish this product development.

We
sell our electric motor products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our targeted market segments based on product design, reliability, quality of products and services, advanced technologies, performance and price. Our principal
competitors in the electric motor industry are Emerson Electric Co., Regal Beloit Corporation and Baldor Electric Company.

RAW MATERIAL

Raw materials for our manufacturing operations, which consist primarily of steel, copper and aluminum, are generally available from
several sources in adequate quantities. We typically hedge a portion of our annual copper and aluminum purchases to protect against price volatility. In addition, a portion of our customers are contractually obligated to accept price changes based
on fluctuations in certain of our raw material prices. Significant volatility in steel, copper and aluminum costs has occurred over the last several years.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

In order to improve competitiveness by generating new products
and processes, we conduct research and development at our Corporate Technology Center in Milwaukee, Wisconsin and at our operating units. Total expenditures for research and development in 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $52.6, $48.5 and $47.8 million,
respectively.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We own and use in our businesses various trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and licenses. While a number of these are important to us, we do not believe that our business as a whole is
materially dependent upon any such trademark, trade name, patent, trade secret or license.

EMPLOYEES

Our company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 16,000 employees as of December 31, 2009.

BACKLOG

Due to the short-cycle nature of
our businesses, none of our operations sustain significant backlogs.

ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS

Our operations are governed by a variety of federal, state and local laws intended to protect the environment. While environmental considerations are a part
of all significant capital expenditures, compliance with the environmental laws has not had and is not expected to have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of our company. See Item 3.







AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We maintain a website with the address www.aosmith.com. The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other
than an investor’s own internet access charges, we make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports as soon as
reasonably practical after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The company is committed to sound corporate governance and has documented its corporate governance practices by adopting the A. O. Smith Corporate Governance Guidelines. The Corporate Governance Guidelines, Criteria for Selection of
Directors, Financial Code of Ethics, the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles, as well as the charters for the Audit, Personnel and Compensation, Nominating and Governance and the Investment Policy Committees and other corporate governance
materials may be viewed on the company’s website. Any waiver of or amendments to the Financial Code of Conduct or the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles also would be posted on this website; to date there have been none. Copies of these documents
will be sent to stockholders free of charge upon written request of the corporate secretary at the address shown on the cover page of this Form 10-K.

