Item 1 — Business





DEFINITION OF ABBREVIATIONS AND INDUSTRY TERMS





Xcel Energy Inc.’s Subsidiaries and Affiliates (current and former)

EloigneEloigne Company

NCENew Century Energies, Inc.

NMCNuclear Management Company, LLC

NSP-MinnesotaNorthern States Power Company, a Minnesota corporation

NSP SystemThe electric production and transmission system of NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin operated on an integrated basis and managed by NSP-Minnesota

NSP-WisconsinNorthern States Power Company, a Wisconsin corporation

Operating companiesNSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS

PSCoPublic Service Company of Colorado

PSRIP.S.R. Investments, Inc.

SPSSouthwestern Public Service Co.

Utility subsidiariesNSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS

WGIWestGas InterState, Inc.

WYCOWYCO Development LLC

Xcel EnergyXcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries

XETDXcel Energy Transmission Development Company, LLC

XESTXcel Energy Southwest Transmission Company, LLC

XEWTXcel Energy West Transmission Company, LLC



Federal and State Regulatory Agencies

ASLBAtomic Safety and Licensing Board

CFTCCommodity Futures Trading Commission

CPUCColorado Public Utilities Commission

D.C. CircuitUnited States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit

DOCMinnesota Department of Commerce

DOEUnited States Department of Energy

DOIUnited States Department of the Interior

DOTUnited States Department of Transportation

EPAUnited States Environmental Protection Agency

FERCFederal Energy Regulatory Commission

IRSInternal Revenue Service

MPCAMinnesota Pollution Control Agency

MPSCMichigan Public Service Commission

MPUCMinnesota Public Utilities Commission

NDPSCNorth Dakota Public Service Commission

NERCNorth American Electric Reliability Corporation

NMPRCNew Mexico Public Regulation Commission

NRCNuclear Regulatory Commission

PNMPublic Service Company of New Mexico

PSCWPublic Service Commission of Wisconsin

PUCTPublic Utility Commission of Texas

SDPUCSouth Dakota Public Utilities Commission

SECSecurities and Exchange Commission















Electric, Purchased Gas and Resource Adjustment Clauses

CIPConservation improvement program

DCRFDistribution cost recovery factor

DSMDemand side management

DSMCADemand side management cost adjustment

ECARetail electric commodity adjustment

EEEnergy efficiency

EECRFEnergy efficiency cost recovery factor

EIREnvironmental improvement rider (recovers the costs associated with investments inenvironmental improvements to fossil fuel generation plants)

EPUExtended power uprate

ERPElectric resource plan

FCAFuel clause adjustment

FPPCACFuel and purchased power cost adjustment clause

GCAGas cost adjustment

GUICGas utility infrastructure cost rider

PCCAPurchased capacity cost adjustment

PCRFPower cost recovery factor (recovers the costs of certain purchased power costs)

PGAPurchased gas adjustment

PSIAPipeline system integrity adjustment

QSPQuality of service plan

RDFRenewable development fund

RERRenewable energy rider

RESRenewable energy standard (recovers the costs of new renewable generation)

RESARenewable energy standard adjustment

SCASteam cost adjustment

SEPState energy policy

TCATransmission cost adjustment

TCRTransmission cost recovery adjustment

TCRFTransmission cost recovery factor (recovers transmission infrastructure improvement costsand changes in wholesale transmission charges)



Other Terms and Abbreviations

AFUDCAllowance for funds used during construction

ATMAt-the-market

ALJAdministrative law judge

APBOAccumulated postretirement benefit obligation

AROAsset retirement obligation

ASUFASB Accounting Standards Update

BARTBest available retrofit technology

C&ICommercial and Industrial

CAAClean Air Act

CACJAClean Air Clean Jobs Act

CAIRClean Air Interstate Rule

CapX2020Alliance of electric cooperatives, municipals and investor-owned utilities in the upperMidwest involved in a joint transmission line planning and construction effort

CCNCertificate of convenience and necessity

CIGColorado Interstate Gas Company, LLC

CO2Carbon dioxide















CPCNCertificate of public convenience and necessity

CPPClean Power Plan

CSAPRCross-State Air Pollution Rule

CWIPConstruction work in progress

EEIEdison Electric Institute

EGUElectric generating unit

EPSEarnings per share

ERCOTElectric Reliability Council of Texas

ETREffective tax rate

FASBFinancial Accounting Standards Board

FIPFederal implementation plan

FTRFinancial transmission right

GAAPGenerally accepted accounting principles

GHGGreenhouse gas

HTYHistoric test year

IMIntegrated market

ISFSIIndependent Spent Fuel Storage Installation

ITCInvestment Tax Credit

LCMLife cycle management

LLWLow-level radioactive waste

LNGLiquefied natural gas

MGPManufactured gas plant

MISOMidcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc.

Moody’sMoody’s Investor Services

MYPMulti-year plan

NAAQSNational Ambient Air Quality Standard

Native loadCustomer demand of retail and wholesale customers that a utility has an obligation to serveunder statute or long-term contract

NOLNet operating loss

NOxNitrogen oxide

NOVNotice of violation

NTCNotifications to construct

NYISONew York Independent System Operator

O&MOperating and maintenance

OCCOffice of Consumer Counsel

OCIOther comprehensive income

PCBPolychlorinated biphenyl

PFSPrivate Fuel Storage, LLC

PIPrairie Island nuclear generating plant

PJMPJM Interconnection, LLC

PMParticulate matter

PPAPurchased power agreement

PRPPotentially responsible party

PTCProduction tax credit

PVPhotovoltaic

QFQualifying facilities

R&EResearch and experimentation

RECRenewable energy credit

RFPRequest for proposal

ROEReturn on equity











RPSRenewable portfolio standardsRTORegional Transmission OrganizationSharylandSharyland Distribution and Transmission Services, LLCSIPState implementation planSO2Sulfur dioxideSPPSouthwest Power Pool, Inc.S&PStandard & Poor’s Ratings ServicesTOTransmission ownerTransCoTransmission-only subsidiaryTSRTotal shareholder returnWexproWexpro Development CompanyMeasurementsBcfBillion cubic feetGWhGigawatt hoursKVKilovoltsKWhKilowatt hoursMcfThousand cubic feetMMBtuMillion British thermal unitsMWMegawattsMWhMegawatt hours













COMPANY OVERVIEW



Xcel Energy Inc. is a holding company with subsidiaries engaged primarily in the utility business.  In 2015, Xcel Energy Inc.’s continuing operations included the activity of four wholly owned utility subsidiaries that serve electric and natural gas customers in eight states.  These utility subsidiaries are NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS, and serve customers in portions of Colorado, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Texas and Wisconsin.  Along with WYCO, a joint venture formed with CIG to develop and lease natural gas pipelines, storage, and compression facilities, and WGI, an interstate natural gas pipeline company, these companies comprise the regulated utility operations.



Xcel Energy Inc. was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota in 1909.  Xcel Energy’s executive offices are located at 414 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minn. 55401.  Its website address is www.xcelenergy.com.  Xcel Energy makes available, free of charge through its website, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  The public may read and copy any materials that Xcel Energy files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.



Xcel Energy’s corporate strategy focuses on four core objectives:  improving utility performance; driving operational excellence; improving customer experience; and investing for the future.  These core objectives are designed to provide an attractive total return to our investors, including long-term annual ongoing EPS growth of four to six percent and annual dividend increases of five to seven percent.



NSP-Minnesota



NSP-Minnesota is a utility primarily engaged in the generation, purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota.  The wholesale customers served by NSP-Minnesota comprised approximately eight percent of its total KWh sold in 2015.  NSP-Minnesota also purchases, transports, distributes and sells natural gas to retail customers and transports customer-owned natural gas in Minnesota and North Dakota.  NSP-Minnesota provides electric utility service to approximately 1.4 million customers and natural gas utility service to approximately 0.5 million customers.  Approximately 88 percent of NSP-Minnesota’s retail electric operating revenues were derived from operations in Minnesota during 2015.  Although NSP-Minnesota’s large C&I electric retail customers are comprised of many diversified industries, a significant portion of NSP-Minnesota’s large C&I electric sales include the following industries:  petroleum, coal and food products.  For small C&I customers, significant electric retail sales include the following industries:  real estate and educational services.  Generally, NSP-Minnesota’s earnings contribute approximately 35 percent to 45 percent of Xcel Energy’s consolidated net income.



The electric production and transmission costs of the entire NSP System are shared by NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin.  A FERC-approved Interchange Agreement between the two companies provides for the sharing of all generation and transmission costs of the NSP System.



NSP-Minnesota owns the following direct subsidiary: United Power and Land Company, which holds real estate.



NSP-Wisconsin



NSP-Wisconsin is a utility primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in portions of northwestern Wisconsin and in the western portion of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan.  NSP-Wisconsin purchases, transports, distributes and sells natural gas to retail customers and transports customer-owned natural gas in this service territory.  NSP-Wisconsin provides electric utility service to approximately 256,000 customers and natural gas utility service to approximately 112,000 customers.  Approximately 98 percent of NSP-Wisconsin’s retail electric operating revenues were derived from operations in Wisconsin during 2015.  Although NSP-Wisconsin’s large C&I electric retail customers are comprised of many diversified industries, a significant portion of NSP-Wisconsin’s large C&I electric sales include the following industries:  food products, paper, allied products and sand mining for oil and gas extraction.  For small C&I customers, significant electric retail sales include the following industries:  grocery and dining establishments, educational services and health services.  Generally, NSP-Wisconsin’s earnings contribute approximately five percent to 10 percent of Xcel Energy’s consolidated net income.













The management of the electric production and transmission system of NSP-Wisconsin is integrated with NSP-Minnesota.



NSP-Wisconsin owns the following direct subsidiaries: Chippewa and Flambeau Improvement Co., which operates hydro reservoirs; Clearwater Investments Inc., which owns interests in affordable housing; and NSP Lands, Inc., which holds real estate.



PSCo



PSCo is a utility engaged primarily in the generation, purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Colorado.  The wholesale customers served by PSCo comprised approximately 11 percent of its total KWh sold in 2015.  PSCo also purchases, transports, distributes and sells natural gas to retail customers and transports customer-owned natural gas.  PSCo provides electric utility service to approximately 1.4 million customers and natural gas utility service to approximately 1.4 million customers.  All of PSCo’s retail electric operating revenues were derived from operations in Colorado during 2015.  Although PSCo’s large C&I electric retail customers are comprised of many diversified industries, a significant portion of PSCo’s large C&I electric sales include the following industries:  fabricated metal products, communications and business services.  For small C&I customers, significant electric retail sales include the following industries:  real estate and dining establishments.  Generally, PSCo’s earnings contribute approximately 40 percent to 50 percent of Xcel Energy’s consolidated net income.



PSCo owns the following direct subsidiaries: 1480 Welton, Inc. and United Water Company, both of which own certain real estate interests; and Green and Clear Lakes Company, which owns water rights and certain real estate interests.  PSCo also holds a controlling interest in several other relatively small ditch and water companies.



SPS



SPS is a utility engaged primarily in the generation, purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in portions of Texas and New Mexico.  The wholesale customers served by SPS comprised approximately 31 percent of its total KWh sold in 2015.  SPS provides electric utility service to approximately 389,000 retail customers in Texas and New Mexico.  Approximately 71 percent of SPS’ retail electric operating revenues were derived from operations in Texas during 2015.  Although SPS’ large C&I electric retail customers are comprised of many diversified industries, a significant portion of SPS’ large C&I electric sales include the following industries:  oil and gas extraction, as well as petroleum and coal products.  For small C&I customers, significant electric retail sales include the following industries:  oil and gas extraction, grocery and dining establishments.  Generally, SPS’ earnings contribute approximately 10 percent to 15 percent of Xcel Energy’s consolidated net income.



Other Subsidiaries



WGI is a small interstate natural gas pipeline company engaged in transporting natural gas from the PSCo system near Chalk Bluffs, Colo., to Cheyenne, Wyo.



WYCO was formed as a joint venture with CIG to develop and lease natural gas pipeline, storage, and compression facilities.  Xcel Energy has a 50 percent ownership interest in WYCO.  The gas pipeline and storage facilities are leased under a FERC-approved agreement to CIG.



Xcel Energy Services Inc. is the service company for Xcel Energy Inc.



XETD and XEST are transmission-only subsidiaries that will, respectively, participate in MISO and SPP competitive bidding processes for transmission projects.  XEWT is a transmission-only subsidiary formed to competitively bid on transmission projects in the western United States.

Xcel Energy Inc.’s nonregulated subsidiary is Eloigne, which invests in rental housing projects that qualify for low-income housing tax credits.



Xcel Energy conducts its utility business in the following reportable segments:  regulated electric utility, regulated natural gas utility and all other.  See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion relating to comparative segment revenues, income from operations and related financial information.













ELECTRIC UTILITY OPERATIONS





NSP-Minnesota

Public Utility Regulation



Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of Jurisdiction—Retail rates, services and other aspects of NSP-Minnesota’s operations are regulated by the MPUC, the NDPSC and the SDPUC within their respective states.  The MPUC also has regulatory authority over security issuances, property transfers, mergers, dispositions of assets and transactions between NSP-Minnesota and its affiliates.  In addition, the MPUC reviews and approves NSP-Minnesota’s ERPs for meeting customers’ future energy needs.  The MPUC also certifies the need and siting for generating plants greater than 50 MW and transmission lines greater than 100 KV that will be located within the state.  No large power plant or transmission line may be constructed in Minnesota except on a site or route designated by the MPUC.  The NDPSC and SDPUC have regulatory authority over generation and transmission facilities, along with the siting and routing of new generation and transmission facilities in North Dakota and South Dakota, respectively.



NSP-Minnesota is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to its wholesale electric operations, hydroelectric licensing, accounting practices, wholesale sales for resale, transmission of electricity in interstate commerce, compliance with NERC electric reliability standards, asset transfers and mergers, and natural gas transactions in interstate commerce.  As approved by the FERC, NSP-Minnesota operates within the MISO RTO and MISO wholesale market.  NSP-Minnesota is authorized to make wholesale electric sales at market-based prices.  NSP-Minnesota is a transmission owning member of the MISO RTO.



Fuel, Purchased Energy and Conservation Cost-Recovery Mechanisms—NSP-Minnesota has several retail adjustment clauses that recover fuel, purchased energy and other resource costs:



•CIP— The CIP recovers the costs of conservation and demand-side management programs that help customers save energy.

•EIR— The EIR recovers the costs of environmental improvement projects.

•RDF— The RDF allocates money collected from retail customers to support the research and development of emerging renewable energy projects and technologies.

•RES— The RES recovers the cost of new renewable generation in Minnesota.

•RER— The RER recovers the cost of new renewable generation in North Dakota.

•SEP— The SEP recovers costs related to various energy policies approved by the Minnesota legislature.

•TCR— The TCR recovers costs associated with new investments in electric transmission and distribution costs that facilitate grid modernization.

•Infrastructure— The Infrastructure rider recovers costs associated with specific investments in generation and incremental property taxes in South Dakota.



NSP-Minnesota’s retail electric rates in Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota include a FCA for monthly billing adjustments for changes in prudently incurred costs of fuel, fuel related items and purchased energy.  NSP-Minnesota is permitted to recover these costs through FCA mechanisms approved by the regulators in each jurisdiction.  In general, capacity costs are not recovered through the FCA.  In addition, costs associated with MISO are generally recovered through either the FCA or base rates.



Minnesota state law requires NSP-Minnesota to invest two percent of its state electric revenues and half a percent of its state gas revenues in CIP.  NSP-Minnesota was in compliance with this standard in 2015 and expects to be in compliance in 2016.  These costs are recovered through an annual cost-recovery mechanism for electric conservation and energy management program expenditures.  Minnesota state law also requires NSP-Minnesota to submit a CIP plan at least every three years.



CIP Triennial Plan—In 2012, the DOC approved NSP-Minnesota’s 2013 through 2015 CIP Triennial Plan, which increases the energy savings goals and budgets over the previous plan. The plan sets an annual energy savings goal for electric of saving the equivalent of 1.5 percent the volume of electric energy sales (calculated on a historical three-year average, excluding opt-out customers) and an annual natural gas goal of saving 1.0 percent the volume of gas energy sales.  During 2015, NSP-Minnesota submitted an extension to the triennial plan for 2016 which was approved by the DOC.  NSP-Minnesota anticipates submitting a 2017 through 2019 plan during the first half of 2016.











Capacity and Demand



Uninterrupted system peak demand for the NSP System’s electric utility for each of the last three years and the forecast for 2016, assuming normal weather conditions, is as follows:

System Peak Demand (in MW)2013201420152016 ForecastNSP System9,5248,8488,6219,327



The peak demand for the NSP System typically occurs in the summer. The 2015 system peak demand for the NSP System occurred on Aug. 14, 2015.  The 2015 system peak demand was lower due to cooler summer weather.  The 2016 forecast assumes normal peak day weather.



Energy Sources and Related Transmission Initiatives



NSP-Minnesota expects to use existing power plants, power purchases, CIP options, new generation facilities and expansion of existing power plants to meet its system capacity requirements.



Purchased Power—NSP-Minnesota has contracts to purchase power from other utilities and independent power producers.  Generally, long-term dispatchable purchased power contracts typically require a periodic payment to secure the capacity and a charge for the delivered associated energy.  Long-term energy-only purchased power contracts contain a charge for the purchased energy.  NSP-Minnesota also makes short-term purchases to meet system load and energy requirements, to replace generation from company-owned units under maintenance or during outages, to meet operating reserve obligations, or to obtain energy at a lower cost.



Purchased Transmission Services—NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have contracts with MISO and other regional transmission service providers to deliver power and energy to their customers.



Courtenay Wind Farm— In September 2015, NSP-Minnesota began construction of the Courtenay wind farm, a 200 MW NSP-Minnesota owned project in North Dakota.  In July and August 2015, the MPUC and NDPSC, respectively, approved the Courtenay wind farm with recovery up to $300 million of capital costs.  The project costs were included in the Minnesota RES rider and the North Dakota RER.



NSP System Resource Plans— In January 2015, NSP-Minnesota filed its 2016-2030 Integrated Resource Plan (the Plan) with the MPUC.



In October 2015, NSP-Minnesota proposed revisions to the Plan.  The revised proposal addressed stakeholder recommendations as well as the final Clean Power Plan (CPP) issued by the EPA.  The revised Plan is based on four primary elements: (1) accelerate the transition from coal energy to renewables, (2) preserve regional system reliability, (3) pursue energy efficiency gains and grid modernization, and (4) ensure customer benefits.  The provisions included in the Plan would allow for a 60 percent reduction in carbon emissions from 2005 levels by 2030 and is expected to result in 63 percent of NSP System energy being carbon-free by 2030.  Specific terms of the proposal include:



•The addition of 800 MW of wind and 400 MW of utility scale solar to the pre-2020 time-frame;

•The addition of 1000 MW of wind and 1000 MW of utility scale solar between 2020-2030;

•The retirement of Sherco Unit 2 in 2023 and Sherco Unit 1 in 2026;

•The addition of a 230 MW natural gas combustion turbine in North Dakota by 2025;

•Replacement of Sherco coal generation with a 786 MW natural gas combined cycle unit at the Sherco site no later than 2026; and

•Operation of the Monticello and PI nuclear plants through their current license periods in the early 2030’s.











NSP-Minnesota believes this will provide substantial opportunities for the ownership of renewable generation and replacement thermal generation.  In January 2016, NSP-Minnesota filed supplemental economic and technical information in support of its revised Plan, demonstrating anticipated compliance with the CPP while maintaining reasonable costs for customers.  Additionally, NSP-Minnesota responded to MPUC inquiries regarding forecasted cost increases at PI (through end of licensed life) and committed to provide additional information if the MPUC wishes to further explore alternatives to operating PI through its current licenses. While the procedural schedule has not yet been finalized, the current expectation is that the MPUC will make a decision in the second half of 2016.



North Dakota Energy Resource Considerations— In February 2014, the NDPSC approved a settlement agreement between NSP-Minnesota and NDPSC Advocacy Staff in resolution of the 2013 North Dakota electric rate case.  Among other things, the settlement agreement included a commitment to develop a generation cost allocation mechanism for serving North Dakota customers in a way that reflects North Dakota energy policy.  In September 2015, NSP-Minnesota and NDPSC Advocacy Staff satisfied this commitment through joint filing of a Negotiated Agreement with key terms including:



•Acceleration of NSP-Minnesota’s commitment to locate thermal generation in North Dakota from 2036 to by the end of 2025;

•Exclusion of select wind and small solar PPAs from the NSP-Minnesota’s North Dakota Fuel Cost Rider;

•Continued recovery in North Dakota of six existing biomass PPAs, subject, in part, to refund if NSP-Minnesota fails to achieve its generation commitment by the end of 2025;

•Extension of the current rate moratorium through 2017;

•NDPSC Staff support for continued use of 12-Coincident Peak system allocator through 2025; and,

•Development of a framework to address future generation resources to be filed with the NDPSC by Jan. 1, 2017.



The NDPSC conducted a work session in February 2016, to discuss their view of the Negotiated Agreement with their Advisory Staff.  Next steps would include further NDPSC hearing(s) to continue discussion or take action on the Negotiated Agreement.  No specific procedural schedule has been established for this matter.



NSP-Minnesota’s Petition for an Advance Determination of Prudence— In February 2016, the NDPSC discussed NSP-Minnesota’s Petition for an Advance Determination of Prudence (ADP) for 345 MW of capacity and associated energy to be added to the NSP System through a 20-year PPA with Mankato Energy Center, LLC, an affiliate of Calpine Corporation.  While a certain commissioner indicated support for the opportunity to add larger, low-priced, dispatchable generation, other commissioners were concerned the resource would not be necessary by the 2019 expected in-service date and not supportive of the ADP.  Commissioners are expected to vote on the matter on March 9, 2016.  The North Dakota portion of the PPA is approximately $1.2 million per year.



CapX2020— The estimated cost of the five major CapX2020 transmission projects listed below is $2 billion.  NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin are responsible for approximately $1.1 billion of the total investment.  As of Dec. 31, 2015, Xcel Energy has invested $1.0 billion of its $1.1 billion share of the five CapX2020 transmission projects.  The projects are as follows:



•Hampton, Minn. to Rochester, Minn. to La Crosse, Wis. 161/345 Kilovolt (KV) transmission line— The Wisconsin portion of the project includes a new substation and approximately 50 miles of new 345 KV transmission line, at an estimated cost of $211 million.  The final 161 KV segment of the project went into service in January 2016, while the final 345 KV segment of the project is expected to go into service in the fall of 2016;

•Brookings County, S.D. to Hampton, Minn. 345 KV transmission line— The project was placed in service in March 2015;

•Bemidji, Minn. to Grand Rapids, Minn. 230 KV transmission line— The project was placed in service in September 2012;

•Monticello, Minn. to Fargo, N.D. 345 KV transmission line— In April 2015, the final portion of the project was placed in service; and

•Big Stone South to Brookings County, S.D. 345 KV transmission line— Construction on the line began in September 2015, with completion anticipated in 2017.











Minnesota Solar—Minnesota legislation requires 1.5 percent of a public utility’s total electric retail sales to retail customers be generated using solar energy by 2020.  Of the 1.5 percent, 10 percent must come from systems sized 20 kilowatts or less.  NSP-Minnesota anticipates it will meet its compliance requirements through large and small scale solar additions.



NSP-Minnesota also offers customer solar programs: a solar production incentive program for rooftop solar, called Solar*Rewards®, and a community solar garden program that provides bill credits to participating subscribers, called Solar*Rewards® Community®.  Additionally, the DOC offers the “Made in Minnesota” program, providing incentives for the installation of small solar systems that were manufactured in-state, which generates renewable energy credits for utilities including NSP-Minnesota.



In August 2015, the MPUC issued an order regarding the Solar*Rewards Community program, limiting the size of solar installations eligible to participate in the program to five MW or less through Sept. 25, 2015.  Subsequently, projects must be one MW or less.  In October 2015, the MPUC denied requests for reconsideration of the project size limitation.  Sunrise Energy Ventures, a Solar*Rewards Community developer, has appealed this decision to the Minnesota Court of Appeals.



Minnesota Legislation— In June 2015, the Minnesota governor signed the Jobs and Energy bill into law.  Several approved mechanisms may provide additional options and opportunities in future rate cases, including the duration of future MYPs and more certainty regarding recovery of costs and the impact to customers.  This bill provides:



•Increased flexibility for utilities to submit a MYP of up to five years;

•The potential for full capital recovery for all proposed years;

•O&M cost recovery based on an index;

•Distribution costs that facilitate grid modernization are eligible for rider recovery;

•Natural gas extension costs for unserved areas can be socialized and are eligible for rider recovery;

•Recovery of plant closure costs, should the MPUC order early plant closure, such as in a resource plan; and

•Allows implementation of interim rates for the first and second years of the MYP.



Annual Automatic Adjustment (AAA) of Charges— In June 2013, the DOC proposed that the MPUC adopt a fuel clause incentive that would normalize FCA recovery using monthly patterns derived from averages of the prior three-year period, setting and fixing this level during a rate case with no adjustment between rate cases. NSP-Minnesota and other utilities opposed this proposal.  The DOC proposal is pending MPUC action.



Additionally, the DOC has indicated it will review prudence of replacement power costs associated with the Sherco Unit 3 outage event within the 2013 AAA docket.  The 2013 and 2012 AAA dockets remain pending.



In September 2015, the 2014 AAA was filed with the MPUC and also remains pending.



Nuclear Power Operations and Waste Disposal



NSP-Minnesota owns two nuclear generating plants: the Monticello plant and the PI plant.  Nuclear power plant operations produce gaseous, liquid and solid radioactive wastes which are controlled by federal regulation.  High-level radioactive wastes primarily include used nuclear fuel.  LLW consists primarily of demineralizer resins, paper, protective clothing, rags, tools and equipment that have become contaminated through use in a plant.



NRC Regulation— The NRC regulates the nuclear operations of NSP-Minnesota.  Decisions by the NRC can significantly impact the operations of the nuclear generating plants.



The NRC imposed new requirements after events at the nuclear generating plant in Fukushima, Japan in 2011.  In 2012, the NRC issued orders which included requirements for mitigation strategies for beyond-design-basis external events, requirements with regard to reliable spent fuel instrumentation and requirements with regard to reliable hardened containment vents, which are applicable to boiling water reactor containments at the Monticello plant.  The NRC also requested additional information including requirements to perform walkdowns of seismic and flood protection, to evaluate seismic and flood hazards and to assess the emergency preparedness staffing and communications capabilities at each plant.  Except with respect to the revised order described below, all units are on track to meet the required compliance dates and be fully compliant by December 2016.



In 2013, the NRC issued a revised order with regard to reliable hardened containment vents.  Compliance with the revised order will be completed during refueling outages in 2017-2019.











NSP-Minnesota expects that complying with these external event requirements will cost approximately $90 to $100 million at the Monticello and PI plants over the period 2012 through 2018.  The majority of these costs have been and are expected to be capital in nature.  The costs associated with compliance have been and are expected to continue to be recoverable from customers through regulatory mechanisms and consequently NSP-Minnesota does not expect a material impact on its results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.



The NRC continues to review its requirements for mitigating the risks of external events on nuclear plants.  NSP-Minnesota expects the costs associated with compliance will be recoverable from customers.



Nuclear Regulatory Performance—The NRC has a Reactor Oversight Process that classifies U.S. nuclear reactors into various categories (referred to as Columns, from 1 to 5).  Issues are evaluated as either green, white, yellow, or red based on their safety significance, with green representing the least safety concern and red representing the most concern.



At Dec. 31, 2015, Monticello and PI Unit 1 were in Column 1 (licensee response) with all green performance indicators and no greater than green findings or violations.  Plants in Column 1 are subject to only a pre-defined set of basic NRC inspections.



Based on a December 2015 shutdown, PI Unit 2 will be moved from Column 1 to Column 2 (regulatory response) due to an anticipated white performance indicator related to the level of unplanned rapid shutdowns of the nuclear reactor, of which only a certain level is allowed per year to remain at the green performance level.  Plants in Column 2 are subject to special NRC inspections to review and validate that performance issues or inspection findings have been properly addressed.  PI Unit 2 returned to service in late February 2016 after addressing the issues leading to shutdown and will be eligible to return to Column 1 once the performance indicator returns to green, subject to an NRC inspection to close the issue.  Depending on the unit’s operation in 2016, PI Unit 2 could return to green performance and Column 1 later in 2016.



Monticello Spent Fuel Storage - Dry Shielded Canisters—In the fall of 2013, NSP-Minnesota's Monticello nuclear generating plant conducted a spent fuel loading campaign which resulted in five storage canisters being loaded and placed in the ISFSI and a sixth one being loaded but remaining in the plant pending resolution of weld inspection issues.  Successful pressure and leak testing has demonstrated the safety and integrity of all six canisters involved.  In December 2013, the NRC initiated an investigation to determine whether two contractor technicians at Monticello deliberately failed to follow procedure in performing Non-Destructive Examinations (NDE) on the six spent fuel storage canisters (Dry Shielded Canisters #11-16) in accordance with procedural requirements and to determine whether the contractors falsified records when recording the NDE results. The investigation determined that the two NDE contractors deliberately violated NRC requirements. NSP-Minnesota has taken several actions to assure that compliance with the NRC's regulations and Monticello's storage license can be demonstrated.  In October 2015, NSP-Minnesota and the NRC participated in an alternative dispute resolution (ADR) session on this matter.



In December 2015, the NRC issued a confirmatory order formally approving a settlement reached through the ADR  process in which NSP-Minnesota agreed to a timeline for attaining compliance on all six canisters as well as additional training and communications.  As a result, the NRC will not issue a notice of violation or impose a civil penalty to NSP-Minnesota for this matter, and will consider the terms of its order as an escalated enforcement action for a period of one year from its issued date.  NSP-Minnesota has filed an exemption request with the NRC for the completion of the final canister #16, which is anticipated to be acted upon in 2016.  Costs attributable to the six canisters achieving full regulatory compliance within five years, as agreed to in the settlement, are currently being evaluated. No public safety issues have been raised, or are believed to exist, related to handling of spent nuclear fuel at Monticello in regard to this matter.



LLW Disposal—LLW from NSP-Minnesota’s Monticello and PI nuclear plants is currently disposed at the Clive facility located in Utah and Waste Control Specialists facility located in Texas.  If off-site LLW disposal facilities become unavailable, NSP-Minnesota has storage capacity available on-site at PI and Monticello that would allow both plants to continue to operate until the end of their current licensed lives.



High-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal—The federal government has the responsibility to permanently dispose of domestic spent nuclear fuel and other high-level radioactive wastes.  The Nuclear Waste Policy Act requires the DOE to implement a program for nuclear high-level waste management.  This includes the siting, licensing, construction and operation of a repository for spent nuclear fuel from civilian nuclear power reactors and other high-level radioactive wastes at a permanent federal storage or disposal facility.











Nuclear Geologic Repository - Yucca Mountain Project

In 2002, the U.S. Congress designated Yucca Mountain, Nevada as the first deep geologic repository.  In 2008, the DOE submitted an application to construct a deep geologic repository at this site to the NRC.  In 2010, the DOE announced its intention to stop the Yucca Mountain project and requested the NRC approve the withdrawal of the application.  In 2010, the ASLB issued a ruling that the DOE could not withdraw the Yucca Mountain application.



The DOE’s decision and the resulting stoppage of the NRC’s review has prompted multiple legal challenges, including the DOE’s authority to stop the project and withdraw the application, the DOE’s authority to continue to collect the nuclear waste fund fee and the NRC’s authority to stop their review of the DOE’s application.



In August 2013, the D.C. Court of Appeals ordered the NRC to complete their review of the DOE’s application to construct the Yucca Mountain repository.  In November 2013, the NRC complied by issuing an order to the NRC Staff to complete and publish a safety evaluation report on the proposed Yucca Mountain nuclear spent fuel and waste repository.  The NRC Staff completed and published its Safety Evaluation Report in January 2015.  The NRC also requested that the DOE prepare a supplemental environmental impact statement (EIS) so the NRC Staff can complete its review. A supplement to the DOE’s EIS was published in August 2015.



In November 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals ordered the DOE to suspend the collection of the nuclear waste fund fee from nuclear utilities and to recommend to Congress that the nuclear waste fund fee be set to zero.  In January 2014, the DOE sent its court mandated proposal to adjust the current fee to zero, which Congress approved in May 2014.



At the time that the DOE decided to stop the Yucca Mountain project and withdraw the application, the U.S. Secretary of Energy convened a Blue Ribbon Commission to recommend alternatives to Yucca Mountain for disposal of used nuclear fuel.  In January 2012, the Blue Ribbon Commission report was issued.  In January 2013, the DOE provided its report to Congress relative to their plans to implement the Blue Ribbon Commission’s recommendations including the required legislative changes and authorizations.  The report also announced the Obama Administration’s intent to make a pilot consolidated interim storage facility available in 2021, a larger consolidated interim storage facility available in 2025 and a deep geologic repository available in 2048.



Nuclear Spent Fuel Storage

NSP-Minnesota has interim on-site storage for spent nuclear fuel at its Monticello and PI nuclear generating plants.  As of Dec. 31, 2015, there were 40 casks loaded and stored at the PI plant and 15 canisters loaded and stored at the Monticello plant.  An additional 24 casks for PI and 15 canisters for Monticello have been authorized by the State of Minnesota.  This currently authorized storage capacity is sufficient to allow NSP-Minnesota to operate until the end of the operating licenses in 2030 for Monticello, 2033 for PI Unit 1, and 2034 for PI Unit 2.  Authorizations for additional spent fuel storage capacity may be required at each site to support either continued operation or decommissioning if the federal government does not begin operation of a consolidated interim storage installation.



Nuclear Waste Disposal Litigation —In 1998, NSP-Minnesota filed a complaint in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims against the United States requesting breach of contract damages for the DOE’s failure to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel by Jan. 31, 1998, as required by the contracts between the United States and NSP-Minnesota.  NSP-Minnesota sought contract damages in this lawsuit through 2004.  In September 2007, the Court awarded NSP-Minnesota $116.5 million in damages through 2004.  In August 2007, NSP-Minnesota filed a second complaint; this lawsuit claimed damages for 2005 through 2008.



In July 2011, the United States and NSP-Minnesota executed a settlement agreement resolving both lawsuits, providing an initial $100 million payment from the United States to NSP-Minnesota, and providing a method by which NSP-Minnesota can recover its spent fuel storage costs through 2013.  In January 2014, the United States and NSP-Minnesota agreed to an extension to the settlement agreement which will allow recovery of spent fuel storage costs through 2016.  The extension does not address costs for spent fuel storage after 2016; such costs could be the subject of future litigation.  In November 2015, NSP-Minnesota received a settlement payment of $13.1 million. NSP-Minnesota has received a total of $227.8 million of settlement proceeds as of Dec. 31, 2015.  Amounts received from the installments are being returned to customers through ratemaking proceedings as determined by the MPUC and other state regulators.











NRC Waste Confidence Decision (WCD) — In September 2014, the NRC published a Generic Environmental Impact Statement (GEIS) and revised WCD rule, now called the Continued Storage Rule (CSR) on the temporary on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel.  The CSR assesses how long temporary on-site storage can remain safe and when facilities for the disposal of nuclear waste will become available.  Issuance of the CSR now allows the NRC to proceed with final license decisions regarding the new and renewed plant and Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installation (ISFSI) operating licenses without the need to litigate contentions related to the continued storage of spent nuclear fuel on-site.  This may facilitate potential future spent fuel licensing needs for NSP-Minnesota.



The CSR is currently being challenged before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (D.C. Circuit) on the grounds that the environmental impact statement is inadequate to satisfy the National Environmental Policy Act.  A decision by the D.C. Circuit is anticipated later in 2016.



PI ISFSI License Renewal —The current license to operate an ISFSI at PI expired in October 2013.  The NRC granted a renewed license for the ISFSI at PI in December 2015.  The new expiration date of the renewed license is Oct. 31, 2053.



See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding nuclear related items.



Energy Source Statistics

Year Ended Dec. 31201520142013NSP SystemMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationCoal15,96135%18,07939%15,84436%Nuclear12,4252713,4342912,16128Natural Gas6,689153,40275,55013Wind(a)6,235146,243145,48113Hydroelectric3,32673,56083,2237Other(b)1,08321,41731,3233Total45,719100%46,135100%43,582100%Owned generation33,81874%33,64173%29,24967%Purchased generation11,9012612,4942714,33333Total45,719100%46,135100%43,582100%

(a)This category includes wind energy de-bundled from RECs and also includes Windsource®RECs.  The NSP System uses RECs to meet or exceed state resource requirements and may sell surplus RECs.

(b)Includes energy from other sources, including solar, biomass, oil and refuse. Distributed generation from the Solar*Rewards program is not included, and was approximately eight, seven, and eight million net KWh for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively.



Fuel Supply and Costs



The following table shows the delivered cost per MMBtu of each significant category of fuel consumed for owned electric generation, the percentage of total fuel requirements represented by each category of fuel and the total weighted average cost of all fuels.Coal(a)NuclearNatural GasWeightedAverage Owned Fuel CostNSP System Generating PlantsCostPercentCostPercentCostPercent2015$2.1547%$0.8340%$3.8913%$1.8520142.23520.89426.2761.9420132.20490.95405.08112.03

(a)Includes refuse-derived fuel and wood.



The cost of natural gas in 2015 decreased due to lower wholesale commodity prices.



See Items 1A and 7 for further discussion of fuel supply and costs.











Fuel Sources



Coal— The NSP System normally maintains approximately 41 days of coal inventory.  Coal supply inventories at Dec. 31, 2015 and 2014 were approximately 67 and 27 days usage, respectively.  At Dec. 31, 2015, milder weather, purchase commitments and resolution of railcar congestion resulted in coal inventories being above optimal levels.  NSP-Minnesota’s generation stations use low-sulfur western coal purchased primarily under contracts with suppliers operating in Wyoming and Montana.  During 2015 and 2014, coal requirements for the NSP System’s major coal-fired generating plants were approximately 8.3 million tons and 9.3 million tons, respectively.  Coal requirements for 2015 were lower due to the retirement of Black Dog Units 3 and 4 and relatively low natural gas prices.  The estimated coal requirements for 2016 are approximately 7.9 million tons.



NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have contracted for coal supplies to provide 90 percent of their estimated coal requirements in 2016, and a declining percentage of the requirements in subsequent years. The NSP System’s general coal purchasing objective is to contract for approximately 90 percent of requirements for the first year, 60 percent of requirements in year two, and 30 percent of requirements in year three.  Remaining requirements will be filled through the procurement process or over-the-counter transactions.



NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have a number of coal transportation contracts that provide for delivery of 100 percent of their coal requirements in 2016 and 2017.  Coal delivery may be subject to interruptions or reductions due to operation of the mines, transportation problems, weather and availability of equipment.



Nuclear— NSP-Minnesota secures contracts for uranium concentrates, uranium conversion, uranium enrichment and fuel fabrication to operate its’ nuclear plants.  The contract strategy involves a portfolio of spot purchases and medium and long-term contracts for uranium concentrates, conversion services and enrichment services with multiple producers and with a focus on diversification to minimize potential impacts caused by supply interruptions due to geographical and world political issues.



•Current nuclear fuel supply contracts cover 100 percent of uranium concentrates requirements through 2018 and approximately 59 percent of the requirements for 2019 through 2030;

•Current contracts for conversion services cover 100 percent of the requirements through 2021 and approximately 54 percent of the requirements for 2022 through 2030; and

•Current enrichment service contracts cover 100 percent of the requirements through 2026 and approximately 34 percent of the requirements for 2027 through 2030.



Fabrication services for Monticello and PI are 100 percent committed through 2030 and 2019, respectively.



NSP-Minnesota expects sufficient uranium concentrates, conversion services and enrichment services to be available for the total fuel requirements of its nuclear generating plants.  Some exposure to market price volatility will remain due to index-based pricing structures contained in certain supply contracts.



Natural gas— The NSP System uses both firm and interruptible natural gas supply and standby oil in combustion turbines and certain boilers.  Natural gas supplies, transportation and storage services for power plants are procured under contracts to provide an adequate supply of fuel.  However, as natural gas primarily serves intermediate and peak demand, remaining forecasted requirements are able to be procured through a liquid spot market.  Generally, natural gas supply contracts have variable pricing that is tied to various natural gas indices.  Most transportation contract pricing is based on FERC approved transportation tariff rates. Certain natural gas supply and transportation agreements include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of natural gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery.  At Dec. 31, 2015 and 2014, the NSP System did not have any commitments related to gas supply contracts; however commitments related to gas transportation and storage contracts were approximately $310 million and $349 million, respectively.  Commitments related to gas transportation and storage contracts expire in various years from 2016 to 2028.



The NSP System also has limited on-site fuel oil storage facilities and primarily relies on the spot market for incremental supplies.



Renewable Energy Sources



The NSP System’s renewable energy portfolio includes wind, hydroelectric, biomass and solar power from both owned generating facilities and PPAs.  As of Dec. 31, 2015, the NSP System was in compliance with mandated RPS, which require generation from renewable resources of 18 percent and 12.9 percent of NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin electric retail sales, respectively.



•Renewable energy comprised23.3percent and 24.2 percent of the NSP System’s total energy for 2015 and 2014, respectively;









•Wind energy comprised13.6percent and 13.7 percent of the total energy for 2015 and 2014, respectively;

•Hydroelectric energy comprised7.3percent and 7.8 percent of the total energy for 2015 and 2014, respectively; and

•Biomass and solar power comprised approximately2.4percent and 2.7 percent of the total energy for 2015 and 2014, respectively.



The NSP System also offers customer-focused renewable energy initiatives.  Windsource allows customers in Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan to purchase a portion or all of their electricity from renewable sources.  In 2015, the number of customers utilizing Windsource increased to approximately 50,000 from 43,000 in 2014.



Additionally, to encourage the growth of solar energy on the system, customers are offered incentives to install solar panels on their homes and businesses under the Solar*Rewards program.  Over 1,458 PV systems with approximately 18.3 MW of aggregate capacity and over 915 PV systems with approximately 11.1 MW of aggregate capacity have been installed in Minnesota under this program as of Dec. 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.



Wind—The NSP System acquires the majority of its wind energy from PPAs with wind farm owners.  Currently, the NSP System has more than 120 of these agreements in place, with facilities ranging in size from under one MW to more than 200 MW. The NSP System owns and operates four wind farms which have the capacity to generate 652 MWs.



•Collectively, the NSP System had approximately 2,210 and 1,860 MWs of wind energy on its system at the end of 2015 and 2014, respectively.  In addition to receiving purchased wind energy under these agreements, the NSP System also typically receives wind RECs, which are used to meet state renewable resource requirements.



•The average cost per MWh of wind energy under the existing contracts was approximately $42 and $41 for 2015 and 2014, respectively.  The cost per MWh of wind energy varies by contract and may be influenced by a number of factors including regulation, state-specific renewable resource requirements, and the year of contract execution.  Generally, contracts executed in 2015 continued to benefit from improvements in technology, excess capacity among manufacturers, and motivation to commence new construction prior to the anticipated expiration of the Federal PTCs. In December 2015, the Federal PTCs were extended through 2019 with a phase down beginning in 2017.



Hydroelectric—The NSP System acquires its hydroelectric energy from both owned generation and PPAs.  The NSP System owns 20 hydroelectric plants throughout Wisconsin and Minnesota which provide 277.5 MW of capacity.  For 2015, PPAs provided approximately 34 MW of hydroelectric capacity.  Additionally, the NSP System purchases approximately 725 MW of generation from Manitoba Hydro which is sourced primarily from its fleet of hydroelectric facilities.



Wholesale and Commodity Marketing Operations



NSP-Minnesota conducts various wholesale marketing operations, including the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy, ancillary services and energy-related products.  NSP-Minnesota uses physical and financial instruments to minimize commodity price and credit risk and hedge sales and purchases.  NSP-Minnesota does not serve any wholesale requirements customers at cost-based regulated rates.  See Item 7 for further discussion.





NSP-Wisconsin

Public Utility Regulation



Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of Jurisdiction—Retail rates, services and other aspects of NSP-Wisconsin’s operations are regulated by the PSCW and the MPSC, within their respective states.  In addition, each of the state commissions certifies the need for new generating plants and electric transmission lines before the facilities may be sited and built.  NSP-Wisconsin is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to its wholesale electric operations, hydroelectric generation licensing, accounting practices, wholesale sales for resale, the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce, compliance with the NERC electric reliability standards, asset transactions and mergers, and natural gas transactions in interstate commerce.  NSP-Wisconsin and NSP-Minnesota have been granted continued joint authorization from the FERC to make wholesale electric sales at market-based prices.  NSP-Wisconsin is a transmission owning member of the MISO RTO.



The PSCW has a biennial base rate filing requirement.  By June of each odd numbered year, NSP-Wisconsin must submit a rate filing for the test year beginning the following January.  In recent years, NSP-Wisconsin has been submitting rate filings each year.











Fuel and Purchased Energy Cost Recovery Mechanisms—NSP-Wisconsin does not have an automatic electric fuel adjustment clause for Wisconsin retail customers.  Instead, under Wisconsin rules, utilities submit a forward-looking annual fuel cost plan to the PSCW for approval.  Once the PSCW approves the fuel cost plan, utilities defer the amount of any fuel cost under-collection or over-collection in excess of a two percent annual tolerance band, for future rate recovery or refund.  Approval of a fuel cost plan and any rate adjustment for refund or recovery of deferred costs is determined by the PSCW after an opportunity for a hearing. Rate recovery of deferred fuel cost is subject to an earnings test based on the utility’s most recently authorized ROE.  Fuel cost under-collections that exceed the two percent annual tolerance band for a calendar year may not be recovered if the utility earnings for that year exceed the authorized ROE.



NSP-Wisconsin’s retail electric rate schedules for Michigan customers include power supply cost recovery factors, which are based on 12-month projections.  After each 12-month period, a reconciliation is submitted whereby over-collections are refunded and any under-collections are collected from the customers over the subsequent 12-month period.



Wisconsin Energy Efficiency Program—In Wisconsin, the primary energy efficiency program is funded by the state’s utilities, but operated by independent contractors subject to oversight by the PSCW and the utilities.  NSP-Wisconsin recovers these costs in rates charged to Wisconsin retail customers.



Capacity and Demand



NSP-Wisconsin operates an integrated system with NSP-Minnesota.  See NSP-Minnesota Capacity and Demand.



Energy Sources and Related Transmission Initiatives



NSP-Wisconsin operates an integrated system with NSP-Minnesota.  See NSP-Minnesota Energy Sources and Related Transmission Initiatives.



NSP-Wisconsin / American Transmission Company, LLC (ATC) - La Crosse, Wis. to Madison, Wis. Transmission Line— In October 2013, NSP-Wisconsin and ATC jointly filed an application with the PSCW for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) for a new 345 KV transmission line that would extend from La Crosse, Wis. to Madison, Wis.  NSP-Wisconsin’s half of the line will be shared with three co-owners, Dairyland Power Cooperative, WPPI Energy and Southern Minnesota Municipal Power Agency-Wisconsin.



In April 2015, the PSCW issued its order approving a CPCN and route for the project. In June 2015, the PSCW denied two requests for rehearing. Two groups have appealed the CPCN Order to county circuit court.  Court action is pending and the CPCN remains in full effect unless one of the parties seeks and receives a stay from the court and posts a bond to cover damages the utilities may incur due to delay.  The 180-mile project is expected to cost approximately $580 million. NSP-Wisconsin’s portion of the investment is estimated to be approximately $207 million.  Construction on the line began in January 2016, with completion anticipated by late 2018.



2015 Electric Fuel Cost Recovery— NSP-Wisconsin’s electric fuel costs for the year ended Dec. 31, 2015 were lower than authorized in rates and outside the two percent annual tolerance band established in the Wisconsin fuel cost recovery rules, primarily due to lower load as a result of mild weather, lower natural gas prices and lower purchased power prices in the MISO market.  Accordingly, NSP-Wisconsin recorded a deferral of approximately $9.2 million through Dec. 31, 2015.  In the first quarter of 2016, NSP-Wisconsin will file a reconciliation of 2015 fuel costs with the PSCW.  The amount of any potential refund is subject to review and approval by the PSCW, which is not expected until mid-2016.



Fuel Supply and Costs



NSP-Wisconsin operates an integrated system with NSP-Minnesota.  See NSP-Minnesota Fuel Supply and Costs.



Wholesale and Commodity Marketing Operations



NSP-Wisconsin operates an integrated system with NSP-Minnesota.  NSP-Wisconsin does not serve any wholesale requirements customers at cost-based regulated rates.  See NSP-Minnesota Wholesale and Commodity Marketing Operations.













PSCo

Public Utility Regulation



Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of Jurisdiction—PSCo is regulated by the CPUC with respect to its facilities, rates, accounts, services and issuance of securities.  PSCo is regulated by the FERC with respect to its wholesale electric operations, accounting practices, hydroelectric licensing, wholesale sales for resale, the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce, compliance with the NERC electric reliability standards, asset transactions and mergers and natural gas transactions in interstate commerce.  PSCo is authorized to make wholesale electric sales at market-based prices to customers outside its balancing authority area.



Fuel, Purchased Energy and Conservation Cost-Recovery Mechanisms— PSCo has several retail adjustment clauses that recover fuel, purchased energy and other resource costs:



•ECA— The ECA recovers fuel and purchased energy costs.  Short-term sales margins are shared with retail customers through the ECA.  The ECA is revised quarterly.

•PCCA— The PCCA recovers purchased capacity payments.

•SCA— The SCA recovers the difference between PSCo’s actual cost of fuel and the amount of these costs recovered under its base steam service rates.  The SCA rate is revised on a quarterly basis beginning in January 2015.

•DSMCA— The DSMCA recovers DSM, interruptible service option credit costs and performance initiatives for achieving various energy savings goals.

•RESA— The RESA recovers the incremental costs of compliance with the RES with a maximum of two percent of the customer’s total bill.

•Wind Energy Service— Wind Energy Service is a premium service for customers who voluntarily choose to pay an additional charge for renewable resources.

•TCA— The TCA recovers costs associated with transmission investment outside of rate cases.

•CACJA— The CACJA recovers costs associated with implementing its compliance plan under the CACJA.



PSCo recovers fuel and purchased energy costs from its wholesale electric customers through a fuel cost adjustment clause approved by the FERC.  PSCo’s wholesale customers have agreed to pay the full cost of certain renewable energy purchase and generation costs through a fuel clause and in exchange receive RECs associated with those resources.  The wholesale customers pay their jurisdictional allocation of production costs through a fully forecasted formula rate with true-up.



QSP Requirements—The CPUC established an electric QSP that provides for bill credits to customers if PSCo does not achieve certain performance targets relating to electric reliability and customer service.  PSCo monitors and records, as necessary, an estimated customer refund obligation under the QSP.  The CPUC extended the terms of the current QSP through 2018.



Capacity and Demand



Uninterrupted system peak demand for PSCo’s electric utility for each of the last three years and the forecast for 2016, assuming normal weather conditions, is as follows:

System Peak Demand (in MW)2013201420152016 ForecastPSCo6,6786,1526,2846,493



The peak demand for PSCo’s system typically occurs in the summer.  The 2015 system peak demand for PSCo occurred on Aug. 5, 2015.  The 2014 system peak demand was lower due to reduced wholesale loads and cooler summer weather.  The forecast of 2016 system peak assumes normal weather conditions.



Energy Sources and Related Transmission Initiatives



PSCo expects to meet its system capacity requirements through existing electric generating stations, power purchases, new generation facilities, DSM options and phased expansion of existing generation at select power plants.













Purchased Power—PSCo has contracts to purchase power from other utilities and independent power producers.  Long-term purchased power contracts typically require a periodic payment to secure the capacity and a charge for the associated energy actually purchased.  PSCo also makes short-term purchases to meet system load and energy requirements, to replace generation from company-owned units under maintenance or during outages, to meet operating reserve obligations, or to obtain energy at a lower cost.



Purchased Transmission Services—In addition to using its own transmission system, PSCo has contracts with regional transmission service providers to deliver energy to PSCo’s customers.



Colorado ERP and All-Source Solicitation—The CPUC provided final approval to PSCo’s plan in December 2013, which includes the following:



•The addition of 450 MW of wind generation PPAs became operational in 2015.  These additional PPAs bring the installed wind capacity on PSCo’s system in Colorado to 2,560 MW;

•The addition of 170 MW of utility-scale solar generation PPAs, of which 50 MW became operational in 2015 and the remaining 120 MW of utility-scale solar generation is expected to be operational by mid-2016.  PSCo has approximately 80 MW of utility-scale solar and approximately 258 MW of customer-sited solar generation;

•The addition of 317 MW of natural gas fired generation PPAs come from existing power plants;

•The accelerated retirements of the coal-fired Arapahoe Unit 3 (45 MW) and Unit 4 (109 MW), which occurred in 2013; and

•The continued operation of Cherokee generating station’s Unit 4 as a natural gas facility after 2017.



In addition, PSCo continues to execute on the remaining aspects of CACJA compliance including the recent completion of the new natural gas fired combined cycle unit at Cherokee and the ongoing addition of emissions controls at the Pawnee and Hayden stations.  PSCo also retired the Cherokee Unit 3 in August 2015 and expects to retire Valmont Unit 5 coal-fired power plant by the end of 2017.



Brush, Colo. to Castle Pines, Colo. 345 KV Transmission Line— In April 2015, the CPUC granted a CPCN to construct a new 345 KV transmission line originating from Pawnee generating station, near Brush, Colo. and terminating at the Daniels Park substation, near Castle Pines, Colo. to be placed in service by 2022.  The estimated project cost is $178 million.  The CPUC’s decision requires that project construction begin no earlier than May 2020.



Boulder, Colo. Municipalization—In November 2011, a ballot measure was passed which authorized the formation and operation of a municipal utility and the issuance of enterprise revenue bonds, subject to certain restrictions, including the level of initial rates and debt service coverage.  In May 2014, the City of Boulder (Boulder) City Council passed an ordinance to establish an electric utility.



In 2013, the CPUC ruled that Boulder may not be the retail service provider to any PSCo customers located outside Boulder city limits unless Boulder can establish that PSCo is unwilling or unable to serve those customers.  The CPUC also ruled that it has jurisdiction over the transfer of any facilities to Boulder that currently serve any customers located outside Boulder city limits and will determine separation matters.  The CPUC has declared that Boulder must receive CPUC transfer approval prior to any eminent domain actions.  Boulder appealed this ruling to the Boulder District Court and in January 2015, the Boulder District Court affirmed the CPUC decision.  The Boulder District Court also dismissed a condemnation action which Boulder had filed.  The CPUC must complete the separation plan proceeding, outlined below, before Boulder may refile a condemnation proceeding.



In July 2015, Boulder filed an application with the CPUC requesting approval of its proposed separation plan.  In August 2015, PSCo filed a motion to dismiss Boulder’s separation proposal, arguing Boulder’s request was not permissible under Colorado law.  In December 2015, the CPUC granted the motion to dismiss the application in part, holding that Boulder had no right to condemn PSCo facilities used exclusively to serve customers located outside Boulder city limits.  Other portions of Boulder’s application were not dismissed, but are stayed until Boulder supplements its application at which time the CPUC will determine whether the application is complete and a proceeding can continue.  The CPUC ordered a discovery process to allow Boulder to obtain technical information regarding the electric system and propose a new separation plan.  Boulder is expected to refile its plan later this year.  PSCo is also challenging Boulder’s 2014 formation of its utility in a case that is now before the Colorado Court of Appeals.













Colorado “Our Energy Future” Plan—In January 2016, PSCo introduced the “Our Energy Future” Plan in Colorado.  This proposal ties together innovative technology, economic development and customer initiatives to give customers more control over their energy use, prepare for the future energy demands of the state and keep rates competitive.  The key components of the plan, which includes several filings with the CPUC, are as follows:



•Two Innovative Clean Technology pilot programs in partnership with leading companies to address electric battery efficiency and reliability including demonstrations to test microgrids and battery technologies for integration of distributed resources;

•Alignment of PSCo’s pricing in a more fair and equitable manner for Colorado customers;

•Introduction of Solar*Connect®, a new, cost-based program that will offer customers a choice to sign up for 100 percent solar power and add an incremental 50 MW of solar generation;

•Investing in natural gas reserves to take advantage of historically low natural gas prices by locking in current costs to provide long-term stable rates for customers;

•Exploring opportunities for up to 1,000 MW of additional renewable resources to be presented later this year for consideration by the CPUC; and

•Presenting an intelligent grid proposal later this year focusing on interactive meter technology that will improve customer choice and control of their energy use.



RES Compliance Plan— Colorado law mandates that at least 20 percent of PSCo’s energy sales are supplied by renewable energy through 2019, with the percentage increasing to 30 percent by 2020 and includes a distributed generation standard.  PSCo is in compliance with the RES as of Dec. 31, 2015.



Energy Source StatisticsYear Ended Dec. 31201520142013PSCoMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationCoal18,60154%18,27453%19,64756%Natural Gas7,948238,601257,56522Wind(a)6,699196,472196,75019Hydroelectric662261726552Other(b)705229412501Total34,615100%34,258100%34,867100%Owned generation22,98166%23,02367%22,87366%Purchased generation11,6343411,2353311,99434Total34,615100%34,258100%34,867100%

(a)This category includes wind energy de-bundled from RECs and also includes Windsource RECs.  PSCo uses RECs to meet or exceed state resource requirements and may sell surplus RECs.

(b)Distributed generation from the Solar*Rewards program is not included, and was approximately 245, 197, and 172 million net KWh for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively.



Fuel Supply and Costs



The following table shows the delivered cost per MMBtu of each significant category of fuel consumed for owned electric generation, the percentage of total fuel requirements represented by each category of fuel and the total weighted average cost of all fuels.

CoalNatural GasWeighted Average Owned Fuel CostPSCo Generating PlantsCostPercentCostPercent2015$1.7575%$3.8925%$2.2920141.82755.32252.6820131.84804.86202.45



See Items 1A and 7 for further discussion of fuel supply and costs.













Fuel Sources



Coal—PSCo normally maintains approximately 41 days of coal inventory.  Coal supply inventories at Dec. 31, 2015 and 2014 were approximately 49 and 36 days usage, respectively.  At Dec. 31, 2015, milder weather, purchase commitments and resolution of railcar congestion resulted in coal inventories being slightly above optimal levels.  PSCo’s generation stations use low-sulfur western coal purchased primarily under contracts with suppliers operating in Colorado and Wyoming.  During 2015 and 2014, PSCo’s coal requirements for existing plants were approximately 10.5 million tons and 10.3 million tons, respectively.  The estimated coal requirements for 2016 are approximately 10.1 million tons.



PSCo has contracted for coal supply to provide 96 percent of its estimated coal requirements in 2016, and a declining percentage of requirements in subsequent years.  PSCo’s general coal purchasing objective is to contract for approximately 90 percent of requirements for the first year, 60 percent of requirements in year two, and 30 percent of requirements in year three.  Remaining requirements will be filled through the procurement process or over-the-counter transactions.



PSCo has coal transportation contracts that provide for delivery of 100 percent and 86 percent of its coal requirements in 2016 and 2017, respectively.  Coal delivery may be subject to interruptions or reductions due to operation of the mines, transportation problems, weather and availability of equipment.



Natural gas—PSCo uses both firm and interruptible natural gas supply and standby oil in combustion turbines and certain boilers.  Natural gas supplies for PSCo’s power plants are procured under contracts to provide an adequate supply of fuel.  However, as natural gas primarily serves intermediate and peak demand, any remaining forecasted requirements are able to be procured through a liquid spot market.  The majority of natural gas supply under contract is covered by a long-term agreement with Anadarko Energy Services Company, the balance of natural gas supply contracts have variable pricing features tied to changes in various natural gas indices.  PSCo hedges a portion of that risk through financial instruments.  See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.



Most transportation contract pricing is based on FERC approved transportation tariff rates. Certain natural gas supply and transportation agreements include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of natural gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery.



•At Dec. 31, 2015, PSCo’s commitments related to gas supply contracts, which expire in various years from 2016 through 2023, were approximately $750 million and commitments related to gas transportation and storage contracts, which expire in various years from 2016 through 2060, were approximately $684 million.

•At Dec. 31, 2014, PSCo’s commitments related to gas supply contracts were approximately $902 million and commitments related to gas transportation and storage contracts were approximately $685 million.



PSCo has limited on-site fuel oil storage facilities and primarily relies on the spot market for incremental supplies.



PSCo Natural Gas Reserves Investments—In January 2016, PSCo filed a request with the CPUC for approval of a long-term natural gas procurement and price hedging framework.  Under the proposal, a wholly-owned subsidiary of PSCo, PSCo Gas Reserves Company (PGRCo), will be formed to partner with Wexpro, a subsidiary of Questar Corporation, to acquire, develop and operate natural gas producing properties on a 50/50 joint basis, with production recovered under cost of service pricing through PSCo’s GCA.  The CPUC has 240 days to review the proposed framework.  If approved, PGRCo may invest up to approximately $500 million in gas properties over 10 years, which is not reflected in the current base capital expenditures forecast.



The requested cost of service pricing formulas provide PGRCo and Wexpro different risks and incentives.  For PGRCo, the investment would include all costs of property acquisition and development.  The ROE would be based on PSCo’s allowed ROE, adjusted up or down a maximum of 100 basis points, based on the price of gas produced relative to market prices.



Following approval of the framework, PSCo plans to partner with Wexpro to seek to identify and acquire specific natural gas producing properties that would be beneficial to PSCo’s gas customers, and seek CPUC approval of these specific investments.













Renewable Energy Sources



PSCo’s renewable energy portfolio includes wind, hydroelectric, biomass and solar power from both owned generating facilities and PPAs.  As of Dec. 31, 2015, PSCo was in compliance with mandated RPS, which require generation from renewable resources of 20 percent of electric retail sales.



•Renewable energy comprised21.9percent and 21.4 percent of PSCo’s total energy for 2015 and 2014, respectively;

•Wind energy comprised19.4percent and 18.9 percent of the total energy for 2015 and 2014, respectively; and

•Hydroelectric, biomass and solar power comprised approximately2.6percent and 2.5 percent of the total energy for 2015 and 2014.



PSCo also offers customer-focused renewable energy initiatives. Windsource allows customers to purchase a portion or all of their electricity from renewable sources.  In 2015, the number of customers utilizing Windsource increased to approximately 45,000 from 41,000 in 2014.



Additionally, to encourage the growth of solar energy on the system, customers are offered incentives to install solar panels on their homes and businesses under the Solar*Rewards program.  Over 29,500 PV systems with approximately 258 MW of aggregate capacity and over 24,000 PV systems with approximately 221 MW of aggregate capacity have been installed in Colorado under this program as of Dec. 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  Additionally, 24 community solar gardens with 16.6 MW of capacity and 14 gardens with 9.6 MW of capacity have been completed in Colorado as of Dec. 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.



Wind— PSCo acquires the majority of its wind energy from PPAs with wind farm owners, primarily located in Colorado.  Currently, PSCo has 19 of these agreements in place, with facilities ranging in size from two MW to over 300 MW.



•PSCo had approximately 2,560 MW and 2,340 MW of wind energy on its system at the end of 2015 and 2014, respectively. In addition to receiving purchased wind energy under these agreements, PSCo also typically receives wind RECs which are used to meet state renewable resource requirements.



•The average cost per MWh of wind energy under these contracts was approximately $42 and $45 in 2015 and 2014, respectively. The cost per MWh of wind energy varies by contract and may be influenced by a number of factors including regulation, state-specific renewable resource requirements, and the year of contract execution.  Generally, contracts executed in 2015 continued to benefit from improvements in wind technology, excess capacity among manufacturers, and motivation to commence new construction prior to the anticipated expiration of the Federal PTCs. In December 2015, the Federal PTCs were extended through 2019 with a phase down beginning in 2017.



Wholesale and Commodity Marketing Operations



PSCo conducts various wholesale marketing operations, including the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy, ancillary services and energy related products.  PSCo uses physical and financial instruments to minimize commodity price and credit risk and hedge sales and purchases.  See Item 7 for further discussion.





SPS

Public Utility Regulation



Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of Jurisdiction—The PUCT and NMPRC regulate SPS’ retail electric operations and have jurisdiction over its retail rates and services and the construction of transmission or generation in their respective states.  The municipalities in which SPS operates in Texas have original jurisdiction over SPS’ rates in those communities.  Each municipality can deny SPS’ rate increases.  SPS can then appeal municipal rate decisions to the PUCT, which hears all municipal rate denials in one hearing.  The NMPRC also has jurisdiction over the issuance of securities.  SPS is regulated by the FERC with respect to its wholesale electric operations, accounting practices, wholesale sales for resale, the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce, compliance with NERC electric reliability standards, asset transactions and mergers, and natural gas transactions in interstate commerce.  As approved by the FERC, SPS operates within the SPP RTO and SPP IM wholesale market.  SPS is authorized to make wholesale electric sales at market-based prices.











Fuel, Purchased Energy and Conservation Cost-Recovery Mechanisms—SPS has several retail adjustment clauses that recover fuel, purchased energy and other resource costs:



•DCRF— The DCRF rider recovers certain distribution costs in Texas that are not included in base rates.

•EECRF— The EECRF rider recovers costs associated with providing energy efficiency programs in Texas.

•EE rider— The EE rider recovers costs associated with providing energy efficiency programs in New Mexico.

•FPPCAC— The FPPCAC adjusts monthly to recover the difference between the actual fuel and purchased power costs and the amount included in base rates of SPS’ New Mexico retail jurisdiction.

•PCRF— The PCRF rider allows recovery of certain purchased power costs in Texas that are not included in base rates.

•RPS— The RPS rider recovers deferred costs associated with renewable energy programs in New Mexico.

•TCRF— The TCRF rider recovers certain transmission infrastructure improvement costs and changes in wholesale transmission charges in Texas that are not included in base rates.



Fuel and purchased energy costs are recovered in Texas through a fixed fuel and purchased energy recovery factor, which is part of SPS’ retail electric tariff.  SO2and NOx allowance revenues and costs are also recovered through the fixed fuel and purchased energy recovery factor.  The regulations allow retail fuel factors to change up to three times per year.



The fixed fuel and purchased energy recovery factor provides for the over- or under-recovery of fuel and purchased energy expenses.  Regulations also require refunding or surcharging over- or under- recovery amounts, including interest, when they exceed four percent of the utility’s annual fuel and purchased energy costs on a rolling 12-month basis, if this condition is expected to continue.



PUCT regulations require periodic examination of SPS’ fuel and purchased energy costs, the efficient use of fuel and purchased energy, fuel acquisition and management policies and purchased energy commitments.  SPS is required to file an application for the PUCT to retrospectively review fuel and purchased energy costs at least every three years.  SPS will be required to file its next fuel reconciliation application by December 2016.



Each New Mexico utility operating with a FPPCAC as part of its tariff must file an application for continued use at intervals of no more than four years from the date the FPPCAC is approved or continued by the NMPRC.  In October 2015, the NMPRC granted SPS authority to continue using its FPPCAC to collect its fuel and purchase power costs.  SPS will be required to file a request for continuation of its FPPCAC by October 2019.



SPS recovers fuel and purchased energy costs from its wholesale customers through a monthly wholesale fuel and purchased economic energy cost adjustment clause accepted for filing by the FERC.



Capacity and Demand



Uninterrupted system peak demand for SPS for each of the last three years and the forecast for 2016, assuming normal weather conditions, is as follows:

System Peak Demand (in MW)2013201420152016 ForecastSPS5,0564,8714,6784,886



The peak demand for the SPS system typically occurs in the summer.  The 2015 system peak demand for SPS occurred on July 28, 2015.  The 2015 peak demand was lower due to wetter and cooler summer weather and a reduction in a partial requirements wholesale contractual agreement. The 2016 forecast assumes normal peak day weather.



Energy Sources and Related Transmission Initiatives



SPS expects to use existing electric generating stations, power purchases, DSM and new generation options to meet its system capacity requirements.



Purchased Power—SPS has contracts to purchase power from other utilities and independent power producers.  Long-term purchased power contracts typically require a periodic payment to secure the capacity and a charge for the associated energy actually purchased.  SPS also makes short-term purchases to meet system load and energy requirements, to replace generation from company-owned units under maintenance or during outages, to meet operating reserve obligations or to obtain energy at a lower cost.











Purchased Transmission Services—SPS has contractual arrangements with SPP and regional transmission service providers, including PSCo, to deliver power and energy to its native load customers.



High Priority Incremental Load Study Report—In April 2014, the SPP Board of Directors approved the High Priority Incremental Load Study Report, a reliability assessment that evaluated the anticipated transmission needs of certain parts of the SPP resulting from expected load growth in the area.  As a result of this study, SPS has received NTCs and conditional NTCs for 44 new transmission projects to be placed into service by 2020, some of which are already in service.  SPS is developing plans for the remaining projects and submitting CCNs to the PUCT and the NMPRC.  The estimated cost for these projects is $203 million.  These projects are intended to provide regional reliability benefits as well as the ability to serve the increase in load in southeastern New Mexico.



Potash Junction Substation to Roadrunner Substation 345 KV Transmission Line—In December 2014, the NMPRC issued a CCN for a new 345 KV transmission line from the Potash Junction substation to the Roadrunner substation, both near Carlsbad, N.M.  The transmission line is 40 miles long and cost $59.6 million.  The line was placed into service in October 2015.



TUCO Substation to Yoakum County Substation to Hobbs Plant Substation 345 KV Transmission Line—In June 2015, SPS filed a CCN with the PUCT for the Yoakum County to Texas/New Mexico State line portion of this 345 KV line project and the PUCT is expected to approve this CCN in the first quarter of 2016.  This line will connect the TUCO substation near Lubbock, Texas with the Yoakum County substation, continuing on to the Hobbs Plant substation near Hobbs, New Mexico.  CCNs for the TUCO to Yoakum County line segment and for the Texas/New Mexico state line to Hobbs Plant segment are planned to be filed in mid-2016.  The estimated project cost is $242 million.  This line is scheduled to be in service in 2020.



Hobbs Plant Substation to China Draw Substation 345 KV Transmission Line —The Hobbs Plant to China Draw transmission line will connect the Hobbs Plant substation to the China Draw substation near Malaga, N.M. with terminations at a proposed Kiowa substation near Carlsbad, N.M. and at the North Loving substation, near Loving, N.M.  SPS plans to file a CCN for this line in New Mexico during spring 2016.  The estimated project cost is $139 million.  The line is anticipated to be in service in 2018.



SPS Resource Plans —SPS was required to develop and implement a renewable portfolio plan by 2015, in which 15 percent of its energy to serve its New Mexico retail customers is produced by renewable resources.  The requirement was met through PPAs, including wind, solar and distributive generation.  In 2020, the renewable resource production requirement increases to 20 percent.  In addition, SPS indicated that it was evaluating water supply issues at its Tolk facility and if additional investment is required to operate the plant through its existing life.



Texas Legislation— In June 2015, the Texas Governor signed HB 1535 into law. As a result, SPS may reduce regulatory lag through

earlier inclusion of certain capital additions in rate base, as well as expediting the implementation of new rates. Key provisions of the

bill are as follows:



•Utilities may include actual and estimated post-test year capital additions up through 30-days before the filing date;

•A new natural gas generating unit may be included in rate base as long as it is in service before the proposed effective rate date;

•Rates will go into effect 155 days after filing (previously it was 185 days). If the case is not final by this date, then a utility can go back and surcharge; and

•Establishes time limits for the PUCT to rule on a new generation plant request for a certificate of convenience and necessity.











Energy Source Statistics

Year Ended Dec. 31201520142013SPSMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationCoal12,44144%12,77048%14,18449%Natural Gas10,5143610,0683711,23538Wind(a)5,252193,762143,50712Other(b)150118011671Total28,357100%26,780100%29,093100%Owned generation16,48058%16,95663%18,81465%Purchased generation11,877429,8243710,27935Total28,357100%26,780100%29,093100%

(a)This category includes wind energy de-bundled from RECs and also includes Windsource RECs.  SPS uses RECs to meet or exceed state resource requirements and may sell surplus RECs.

(b)Distributed generation from the Solar*Rewards program is not included, was approximately 13, 10, and 11 million net KWh for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively.



Fuel Supply and Costs



The following table shows the delivered cost per MMBtu of each significant category of fuel consumed for owned electric generation, the percentage of total fuel requirements represented by each category of fuel and the total weighted average cost of all fuels.

CoalNatural GasWeightedAverage Owned Fuel CostSPS Generating PlantsCostPercentCostPercent2015$2.1273%$3.1127%$2.3920142.07714.76292.8520132.14713.97292.68



See Items 1A and 7 for further discussion of fuel supply and costs.



Fuel Sources



Coal—SPS purchases all of the coal requirements for its two coal facilities, Harrington and Tolk electric generating stations, from TUCO.  TUCO arranges for the purchase, receiving, transporting, unloading, handling, crushing, weighing and delivery of coal to meet SPS’ requirements.  TUCO is responsible for negotiating and administering contracts with coal suppliers, transporters and handlers.  The coal supply contract with TUCO expires in December 2016 and 2017 for Harrington and Tolk, respectively.  SPS normally maintains approximately 43 days of coal inventory.  As of Dec. 31, 2015 and 2014, coal inventories at SPS were approximately 76 and 17 days supply, respectively.  At Dec. 31, 2015, milder weather, purchase commitments and resolution of railcar congestion resulted in coal inventories being above optimal levels.  TUCO has coal agreements to supply 87 percent of SPS’ estimated coal requirements in 2016, and a declining percentage of the requirements in subsequent years.  SPS’ general coal purchasing objective is to contract for approximately 90 percent of requirements for the first year, 60 percent of requirements in year two, and 30 percent of requirements in year three.



Natural gas—SPS uses both firm and interruptible natural gas supply and standby oil in combustion turbines and certain boilers.  Natural gas for SPS’ power plants is procured under contracts to provide an adequate supply of fuel; which typically is purchased with terms of one year or less.  The transportation and storage contracts expire in various years from 2016 to 2033.  All of the natural gas supply contracts have variable pricing that is tied to various natural gas indices.











Most transportation contract pricing is based on FERC and Railroad Commission of Texas approved transportation tariff rates.  Certain natural gas supply and transportation agreements include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of natural gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery.  SPS’ commitments related to gas supply contracts were approximately $10 million and $3 million and commitments related to gas transportation and storage contracts were approximately $192 million and $222 million at Dec. 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.



SPS has limited on-site fuel oil storage facilities and primarily relies on the spot market for incremental supplies.



Renewable Energy Sources



SPS’ renewable energy portfolio includes wind and solar power from both owned generating facilities and PPAs. As of Dec. 31, 2015, SPS is in compliance with mandated RPS, which require generation from renewable resources of approximately four percent and 15 percent of Texas and New Mexico electric retail sales, respectively.



•Renewable energy comprised19.0percent and 14.7 percent of SPS’ total energy for 2015 and 2014, respectively;

•Wind energy comprised18.5percent and 14.0 percent of the total energy for 2015 and 2014, respectively; and

•Solar power comprised approximately0.5percent and 0.4 percent of the total energy for 2015 and 2014, respectively.



SPS also offers customer-focused renewable energy initiatives.  Windsource allows customers in New Mexico to purchase a portion or all of their electricity from renewable sources.  The number of customers utilizing Windsource decreased to approximately 880 in 2015 from 900 in 2014.



Additionally, to encourage the growth of solar energy on the system in New Mexico, customers are offered incentives to install solar panels on their homes and businesses under the Solar*Rewards program.  Over 144 PV systems with approximately 8.0 MW of aggregate capacity and over 129 PV systems with approximately 7.7 MW of aggregate capacity have been installed in New Mexico under this program as of Dec. 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.



Wind— SPS acquires its wind energy from independent power producers (IPP) contracts and qualified facilities (QF) tariffs with wind farm owners, primarily located in the Texas Panhandle area of Texas and New Mexico.  SPS currently has 37 of these agreements in place, with facilities ranging in size from under two MW to 250 MW for a total capacity greater than 1,800 MW.



•SPS had approximately 1,775 MW and 1,500 MW of wind energy on its system at the end of 2015 and 2014, respectively. In addition to receiving purchased wind energy under these agreements, SPS also typically receives wind RECs, which are used to meet state renewable resource requirements.



•The average cost per MWh of wind energy under the IPP contracts and QF tariffs was approximately $24 and $26 for 2015 and 2014, respectively.  The cost per MWh of wind energy varies by contract and may be influenced by a number of factors including regulation, state-specific renewable resource requirements and the year of contract execution.  Generally, contracts executed in 2015 continued to benefit from improvements in technology, excess capacity among manufacturers, and motivation to commence new construction prior to the anticipated expiration of the Federal PTCs. In December 2015, the Federal PTCs were extended through 2019 with a phase down beginning in 2017.



Wholesale and Commodity Marketing Operations



SPS conducts various wholesale marketing operations, including the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy, ancillary services and energy related products.  SPS uses physical and financial instruments to minimize commodity price and credit risk and hedge sales and purchases.  See Item 7 for further discussion.





Summary of Recent Federal Regulatory Developments



The FERC has jurisdiction over rates for electric transmission service in interstate commerce and electricity sold at wholesale, hydro facility licensing, natural gas transportation, asset transactions and mergers, accounting practices and certain other activities of Xcel Energy Inc.’s utility subsidiaries and transmission-only subsidiaries, including enforcement of NERC mandatory electric reliability standards.  State and local agencies have jurisdiction over many of Xcel Energy Inc.’s utility subsidiaries’ activities, including regulation of retail rates and environmental matters.  In addition to the matters discussed below, see Note 12 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of other regulatory matters.











FERC Order, New ROE Policy— In June 2014, the FERC adopted a new two-step ROE methodology for electric utilities.  In March, 2015, FERC upheld the new ROE methodology and denied rehearing.  The issue of how to apply the new FERC ROE methodology is being contested in various complaint proceedings.  As part of a global settlement approved by the FERC in October 2015, three ROE complaints against SPS were resolved.  FERC is not expected to issue orders in any litigated ROE complaint proceedings until at least mid-2016.  See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of the MISO ROE Complaints.



SPS Asset Transfer to XEST— In October 2015, SPS submitted filings to the PUCT, NMPRC and Kansas Corporation Commission (KCC) seeking approval to transfer ownership of SPS’ 345kV transmission assets in Kansas and Oklahoma to XEST at net book value, estimated at approximately $103 million as of Dec. 31, 2015.  After the proposed asset transfer, the transmission facilities would remain subject to SPP functional control, with revenue requirements recovered through the SPP Tariff.  SPS and XEST also proposed to enter into a transmission operation and maintenance agreement (O&M Agreement) under which SPS would operate and maintain the transferred facilities and be reimbursed for providing those services to XEST at cost.



The KCC is expected to issue a decision within 10 months of the October filing.  The hearings in the NMPRC and PUCT proceedings are scheduled for August 2016 and October 2016, respectively, with each decision expected several months later.  Requests for FERC approval of the asset transfer and O&M Agreement were submitted in January 2016, and requested FERC action by June 30, 2016.  Based on the procedural schedules for the required regulatory approvals, SPS expects the proposed asset transfer to take place no earlier than late 2016 or early 2017.



NERC Critical Infrastructure Protection Requirements— The FERC has approved Version 5 of NERC’s critical infrastructure protection standards, which added additional requirements to strengthen grid security controls.  Requirements must be applied by Xcel Energy to high and medium impact assets by April 1, 2016 and to low impact assets by April 1, 2017.  Xcel Energy is currently in the process of implementing initiatives to meet the compliance deadlines.  The additional cost for compliance is anticipated to be recoverable through rates.



NERC Physical Security Requirements— In November 2014, the FERC approved NERC’s proposed critical infrastructure protection standard related to physical security for bulk electric system facilities.  The new standard became enforceable in October 2015 with staggered milestone deliverable dates through 2016.  Xcel Energy has performed an initial risk assessment and is in the process of developing physical security plans in accordance with the requirements of the standard.  The additional cost for compliance is anticipated to be recoverable through rates.



SPP and MISO Complaints Regarding RTO Joint Operating Agreement (JOA)—SPP and MISO have been engaged in a longstanding dispute regarding the interpretation of their JOA, which is intended to coordinate RTO operations along the MISO/SPP system boundary.  SPP and MISO disagree over MISO’s authority to transmit power between the traditional MISO region in the Midwest and the Entergy system.  Several cases were filed with the FERC by MISO and SPP between 2011 and 2014.  In June 2014, the FERC set the issues for settlement judge and hearing procedures.



In January 2016, FERC approved a settlement between SPP, MISO and other parties that resolves various disputed matters and provide a defined settlement compensation plan by MISO to SPP.  MISO will pay SPP $16 million for the two-year retroactive period and $16 million annually prospectively, subject to a true-up.  Separate settlement discussions regarding the MISO tariff change to recover SPP charges are ongoing.  NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin expect to be able to recover any resulting MISO charges in retail rates.  In January 2016, SPP filed a proposal regarding distribution of the revenues to SPP members, including SPS.  FERC approval is pending.  The revenue allocated to SPS is not expected to be material.













Electric Operating Statistics



Electric Sales StatisticsYear Ended Dec. 31201520142013Electric sales (Millions of KWh)Residential24,49824,85725,306Large C&I27,71927,65727,206Small C&I35,80636,02235,873Public authorities and other1,0711,1041,098Total retail89,09489,64089,483Sales for resale15,28314,93115,065Total energy sold104,377104,571104,548Number of customers at end of periodResidential3,023,4942,994,0752,965,717Large C&I1,2291,1281,132Small C&I429,617426,289422,553Public authorities and other68,59568,30667,998Total retail3,522,9353,489,7983,457,400Wholesale474465Total customers3,522,9823,489,8423,457,465Electric revenues (Thousands of Dollars)Residential$2,891,371$2,956,576$2,906,208Large C&I1,689,6951,789,7421,694,720Small C&I3,303,8383,382,7503,248,586Public authorities and other136,730143,442138,126Total retail8,021,6348,272,5107,987,640Wholesale660,590795,425691,204Other electric revenues593,762397,955355,201Total electric revenues$9,275,986$9,465,890$9,034,045KWh sales per retail customer25,29025,68625,882Revenue per retail customer$2,277$2,370$2,310Residential revenue per KWh11.80¢11.89¢11.48¢Large C&I revenue per KWh6.106.476.23Small C&I revenue per KWh9.239.399.06Total retail revenue per KWh9.009.238.93Wholesale revenue per KWh4.325.334.59











Energy Source StatisticsYear Ended Dec. 31201520142013Xcel EnergyMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationCoal47,00343%49,12346%49,67546%Natural Gas25,1512322,0712124,35023Wind(a)18,1861716,4781515,73814Nuclear12,8951213,5031212,17711Hydroelectric4,00144,20343,9004Other(b)1,45611,79521,7042Total108,692100%107,173100%107,544100%Owned generation73,27967%73,62069%70,93666%Purchased generation35,4133333,5533136,60834Total108,692100%107,173100%107,544100%

(a)This category includes wind energy de-bundled from RECs and also includes Windsource RECs.  Xcel Energy uses RECs to meet or exceed state resource requirements and may sell surplus RECs.

(b)Includes energy from other sources, including solar, biomass, oil and refuse.  Distributed generation from the Solar*Rewards program is not included, and was approximately 266, 222, and 198 million net KWh for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.





NATURAL GAS UTILITY OPERATIONS



Overview



The most significant developments in the natural gas operations of the utility subsidiaries are uncertainty regarding political and regulatory developments that impact hydraulic fracturing, safety requirements for natural gas pipelines and the continued trend of declining use per residential and small C&I customer, as a result of improved building construction technologies, higher appliance efficiencies and conservation.  From 2000 to 2015, average annual sales to the typical residential customer declined 17 percent, while sales to the typical small C&I customer declined 9 percent, each on a weather-normalized basis.  Although wholesale price increases do not directly affect earnings because of natural gas cost-recovery mechanisms, high prices can encourage further efficiency efforts by customers.



The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration



Pipeline Safety Act—The Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act, signed into law in January 2012 (Pipeline Safety Act) requires additional verification of pipeline infrastructure records by pipeline owners and operators to confirm the maximum allowable operating pressure of lines located in high consequence areas or more-densely populated areas.  The DOT Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) will require operators to re-confirm the maximum allowable operating pressure if records are inadequate.  This process could cause temporary or permanent limitations on throughput for affected pipelines.



In addition, the Pipeline Safety Act requires PHMSA to issue reports and develop new regulations including: requiring use of automatic or remote-controlled shut-off valves; requiring testing of certain previously untested transmission lines; and expanding integrity management requirements.  The Pipeline Safety Act also raises the maximum penalty for violating pipeline safety rules to $2 million per day for related violations.  While Xcel Energy cannot predict the ultimate impact Pipeline Safety Act will have on its costs, operations or financial results, it is taking actions that are intended to comply with the Pipeline Safety Act and any related PHMSA regulations as they become effective.  PSCo and NSP-Minnesota can generally recover costs to comply with the transmission and distribution integrity management programs through the PSIA and GUIC riders, respectively.













NSP-Minnesota

Public Utility Regulation



Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of Jurisdiction—Retail rates, services and other aspects of NSP-Minnesota’s retail natural gas operations are regulated by the MPUC and the NDPSC within their respective states.  The MPUC has regulatory authority over security issuances, certain property transfers, mergers with other utilities and transactions between NSP-Minnesota and its affiliates.  In addition, the MPUC reviews and approves NSP-Minnesota’s natural gas supply plans for meeting customers’ future energy needs.  NSP-Minnesota is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to certain natural gas transactions in interstate commerce.  NSP-Minnesota is subject to the DOT, the Minnesota Office of Pipeline Safety, the NDPSC and the SDPUC for pipeline safety compliance, including pipeline facilities used in electric utility operations for fuel deliveries.



Purchased Gas and Conservation Cost-Recovery Mechanisms—NSP-Minnesota’s retail natural gas rates for Minnesota and North Dakota include a PGA clause that provides for prospective monthly rate adjustments to reflect the forecasted cost of purchased natural gas, transportation service and storage service.  The annual difference between the natural gas cost revenues collected through PGA rates and the actual natural gas costs is collected or refunded over the subsequent 12-month period.



NSP-Minnesota also recovers costs associated with transmission and distribution pipeline integrity management programs through its GUIC rider.  Costs recoverable under the GUIC rider include funding for pipeline assessments as well as deferred costs from NSP-Minnesota’s existing sewer separation and pipeline integrity management programs.  The MPUC and NDPSC have the authority to disallow recovery of certain costs if they find the utility was not prudent in its procurement activities.



Minnesota state law requires utilities to invest 0.5 percent of their state natural gas revenues in CIP.  These costs are recovered through customer base rates and an annual cost-recovery mechanism for the CIP expenditures.



Capability and Demand



Natural gas supply requirements are categorized as firm or interruptible (customers with an alternate energy supply).  The maximum daily send-out (firm and interruptible) for NSP-Minnesota was 774,044 MMBtu, which occurred on Jan. 12, 2015 and 752,931 MMBtu, which occurred on Jan. 2, 2014.



NSP-Minnesota purchases natural gas from independent suppliers, generally based on market indices that reflect current prices.  The natural gas is delivered under transportation agreements with interstate pipelines.  These agreements provide for firm deliverable pipeline capacity of 620,180 MMBtu per day.  In addition, NSP-Minnesota contracts with providers of underground natural gas storage services.  These agreements provide storage for approximately 26 percent of winter natural gas requirements and 30 percent of peak day firm requirements of NSP-Minnesota.



NSP-Minnesota also owns and operates one LNG plant with a storage capacity of 2.0 Bcf equivalent and three propane-air plants with a storage capacity of 1.3 Bcf equivalent to help meet its peak requirements.  These peak-shaving facilities have production capacity equivalent to 219,200 MMBtu of natural gas per day, or approximately 27 percent of peak day firm requirements.  LNG and propane-air plants provide a cost-effective alternative to annual fixed pipeline transportation charges to meet the peaks caused by firm space heating demand on extremely cold winter days.



NSP-Minnesota is required to file for a change in natural gas supply contract levels to meet peak demand, to redistribute demand costs among classes, or to exchange one form of demand for another.  In October 2015, the MPUC approved NSP-Minnesota’s contract demand levels for the 2014 through 2015 heating season.  Demand levels filed with the MPUC in 2015 for the 2015 through 2016 heating season were approved in February 2016.



Natural Gas Supply and Costs



NSP-Minnesota actively seeks natural gas supply, transportation and storage alternatives to yield a diversified portfolio that provides increased flexibility, decreased interruption and financial risk and economical rates.  In addition, NSP-Minnesota conducts natural gas price hedging activity that has been approved by the MPUC.













The following table summarizes the average delivered cost per MMBtu of natural gas purchased for resale by NSP-Minnesota’s regulated retail natural gas distribution business:

2015$4.0720146.1720134.53



The cost of natural gas in 2015 decreased due to lower wholesale commodity prices.



NSP-Minnesota has firm natural gas transportation contracts with several pipelines, which expire in various years from 2016 through 2033.



NSP-Minnesota has certain natural gas supply, transportation and storage agreements that include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of natural gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery.  At Dec. 31, 2015, NSP-Minnesota was committed to approximately $207 million in such obligations under these contracts.



NSP-Minnesota purchases firm natural gas supply utilizing long-term and short-term agreements from approximately 32 domestic and Canadian suppliers.  This diversity of suppliers and contract lengths allows NSP-Minnesota to maintain competition from suppliers and minimize supply costs.



See Items 1A and 7 for further discussion of natural gas supply and costs.





NSP-Wisconsin

Public Utility Regulation



Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of Jurisdiction—NSP-Wisconsin is regulated by the PSCW and the MPSC.  The PSCW has a biennial base-rate filing requirement.  By June of each odd-numbered year, NSP-Wisconsin must submit a rate filing for the test year period beginning the following January.  NSP-Wisconsin is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to certain natural gas transactions in interstate commerce.  NSP-Wisconsin is subject to the DOT, the PSCW and the MPSC for pipeline safety compliance.



Natural Gas Cost-Recovery Mechanisms—NSP-Wisconsin has a retail PGA cost-recovery mechanism for Wisconsin operations to recover the actual cost of natural gas and transportation and storage services.  The PSCW has the authority to disallow certain costs if it finds NSP-Wisconsin was not prudent in its procurement activities.



NSP-Wisconsin’s natural gas rate schedules for Michigan customers include a natural gas cost-recovery factor, which is based on 12-month projections.



Capability and Demand



Natural gas supply requirements are categorized as firm or interruptible (customers with an alternate energy supply).  The maximum daily send-out (firm and interruptible) for NSP-Wisconsin was 158,719 MMBtu, which occurred on Jan. 7, 2015, and 163,520 MMBtu, which occurred on Jan. 6, 2014.



NSP-Wisconsin purchases natural gas from independent suppliers, generally based on market indices that reflect current prices.  The natural gas is delivered under transportation agreements with interstate pipelines.  These agreements provide for firm deliverable pipeline capacity of approximately 139,127 MMBtu per day.  In addition, NSP-Wisconsin contracts with providers of underground natural gas storage services.  These agreements provide storage for approximately 31 percent of winter natural gas requirements and 34 percent of peak day firm requirements of NSP-Wisconsin.











NSP-Wisconsin also owns and operates one LNG plant with a storage capacity of 270,000 Mcf equivalent and one propane-air plant with a storage capacity of 2,700 Mcf equivalent to help meet its peak requirements.  These peak-shaving facilities have production capacity equivalent to 18,408 MMBtu of natural gas per day, or approximately 12 percent of peak day firm requirements.  LNG and propane-air plants provide a cost-effective alternative to annual fixed pipeline transportation charges to meet the peaks caused by firm space heating demand on extremely cold winter days.



NSP-Wisconsin is required to file a natural gas supply plan with the PSCW annually to change natural gas supply contract levels to meet peak demand.  NSP-Wisconsin’s winter 2015-2016 supply plan was approved by the PSCW in September 2015.



Natural Gas Supply and Costs



NSP-Wisconsin actively seeks natural gas supply, transportation and storage alternatives to yield a diversified portfolio that provides increased flexibility, decreased interruption and financial risk and economical rates.  In addition, NSP-Wisconsin conducts natural gas price hedging activity that has been approved by the PSCW.



The following table summarizes the average delivered cost per MMBtu of natural gas purchased for resale by NSP-Wisconsin’s regulated retail natural gas distribution business:

2015$4.1120146.5220134.51



The cost of natural gas supply, transportation service and storage service is recovered through various cost-recovery adjustment mechanisms.  NSP-Wisconsin has firm natural gas transportation contracts with several pipelines, which expire in various years from 2016 through 2029.



NSP-Wisconsin has certain natural gas supply, transportation and storage agreements that include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of natural gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery.  At Dec. 31, 2015, NSP-Wisconsin was committed to approximately $55 million in such obligations under these contracts.



NSP-Wisconsin purchased firm natural gas supply utilizing long-term and short-term agreements from approximately 11 domestic and Canadian suppliers.  This diversity of suppliers and contract lengths allows NSP-Wisconsin to maintain competition from suppliers and minimize supply costs.



See Items 1A and 7 for further discussion of natural gas supply and costs.





PSCo

Public Utility Regulation



Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of Jurisdiction—PSCo is regulated by the CPUC with respect to its facilities, rates, accounts, services and issuance of securities.  PSCo holds a FERC certificate that allows it to transport natural gas in interstate commerce without PSCo becoming subject to full FERC jurisdiction under the Federal Natural Gas Act.  PSCo is subject to the DOT and the CPUC with regards to pipeline safety compliance.



Purchased Natural Gas and Conservation Cost-Recovery Mechanisms—PSCo has retail adjustment clauses that recover purchased natural gas and other resource costs:



•GCA— The GCA recovers the actual costs of purchased natural gas and transportation to meet the requirements of its customers and is revised quarterly to allow for changes in natural gas rates.

•DSMCA— The DSMCA recovers costs of DSM and performance initiatives to achieve various energy savings goals.

•PSIA— The PSIA recovers costs associated with transmission and distribution pipeline integrity management programs and two projects to replace large transmission pipelines.  The rider was extended through 2018.



QSP Requirements— The CPUC established a natural gas QSP that provides for bill credits to customers if PSCo does not achieve certain performance targets relating to natural gas leak repair time and customer service.  The CPUC has extended the terms of the QSP through 2018.











Capability and Demand



Natural gas supply requirements are categorized as firm or interruptible (customers with an alternate energy supply).  The maximum daily send-out (firm and interruptible) for PSCo was 1,633,493 MMBtu, which occurred on March 4, 2015 and 2,116,747 MMBtu, which occurred on Dec. 30, 2014.



PSCo purchases natural gas from independent suppliers, generally based on market indices that reflect current prices.  The natural gas is delivered under transportation agreements with interstate pipelines.  These agreements provide for firm deliverable pipeline capacity of approximately 1,818,277 MMBtu per day, which includes 854,852 MMBtu of natural gas held under third-party underground storage agreements.  In addition, PSCo operates three company-owned underground storage facilities, which provide approximately 43,500 MMBtu of natural gas supplies on a peak day.  The balance of the quantities required to meet firm peak day sales obligations are primarily purchased at PSCo’s city gate meter stations.



PSCo is required by CPUC regulations to file a natural gas purchase plan each year projecting and describing the quantities of natural gas supplies, upstream services and the costs of those supplies and services for the 12-month period of the following year.  PSCo is also required to file a natural gas purchase report by October of each year reporting actual quantities and costs incurred for natural gas supplies and upstream services for the previous 12-month period.



Natural Gas Supply and Costs



PSCo actively seeks natural gas supply, transportation and storage alternatives to yield a diversified portfolio that provides increased flexibility, decreased interruption and financial risk and economical rates.  In addition, PSCo conducts natural gas price hedging activities that have been approved by the CPUC.



The following table summarizes the average delivered cost per MMBtu of natural gas purchased for resale by PSCo’s regulated retail natural gas distribution business:

2015$3.9220144.9120134.20



PSCo has natural gas supply, transportation and storage agreements that include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of natural gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery.  At Dec. 31, 2015, PSCo was committed to approximately $1.1 billion in such obligations under these contracts, which expire in various years from 2016 through 2029.



PSCo purchases natural gas by optimizing a balance of long-term and short-term natural gas purchases, firm transportation and natural gas storage contracts.  During 2015, PSCo purchased natural gas from approximately 32 suppliers.



See Items 1A and 7 for further discussion of natural gas supply and costs.





SPS

Natural Gas Facilities Used for Electric Generation



SPS does not provide retail natural gas service, but purchases and transports natural gas for certain of its generation facilities and operates natural gas pipeline facilities connecting the generation facilities to interstate natural gas pipelines.  SPS is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to certain natural gas transactions in interstate commerce; and to the jurisdiction of the DOT and the PUCT for pipeline safety compliance.



See Items 1A and 7 for further discussion of natural gas supply and costs.













Natural Gas Operating Statistics

Year Ended Dec. 31201520142013Natural gas deliveries (Thousands of MMBtu)Residential135,394152,269150,280C&I86,09395,87992,849Total retail221,487248,148243,129Transportation and other125,263124,000125,057Total deliveries346,750372,148368,186Number of customers at end of periodResidential1,814,3211,795,1901,776,849C&I156,306155,515154,646Total retail1,970,6271,950,7051,931,495Transportation and other6,9816,5946,320Total customers1,977,6081,957,2991,937,815Natural gas revenues (Thousands of Dollars)Residential$1,042,884$1,320,207$1,126,859C&I547,165727,071586,548Total retail1,590,0492,047,2781,713,407Transportation and other82,03295,46091,272Total natural gas revenues$1,672,081$2,142,738$1,804,679MMBtu sales per retail customer112.39127.21125.88Revenue per retail customer$807$1,050$887Residential revenue per MMBtu7.708.677.50C&I revenue per MMBtu6.367.586.32Transportation and other revenue per MMBtu0.650.770.73





GENERAL



Seasonality



The demand for electric power and natural gas is affected by seasonal differences in the weather.  In general, peak sales of electricity occur in the summer months, and peak sales of natural gas occur in the winter months.  As a result, the overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  Additionally, Xcel Energy’s operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are milder in the winter and cooler in the summer.  See Item 7 for further discussion.



Competition



Xcel Energy is a vertically integrated utility in all of its jurisdictions, subject to traditional cost-of-service regulation by state public utilities commissions.  However, Xcel Energy is subject to different public policies that promote competition and the development of energy markets.  Xcel Energy’s industrial and large commercial customers have the ability to own or operate facilities to generate their own electricity.  In addition, customers may have the option of substituting other fuels, such as natural gas, steam or chilled water for heating, cooling and manufacturing purposes, or the option of relocating their facilities to a lower cost region. Customers also have the opportunity to supply their own power with solar generation (depending on jurisdiction, rooftop solar or solar gardens) and in most jurisdictions can currently avoid paying for most of the fixed production, transmission and distribution costs incurred to serve them.  Several states have policies designed to promote the development of solar and other distributed energy resources through significant incentive policies; with these incentives and federal tax subsidies, distributed generating resources are potential competitors to Xcel Energy’s electric service business.











The FERC has continued to promote competitive wholesale markets through open access transmission and other means.  As a result, Xcel Energy Inc.’s utility subsidiaries and their wholesale customers can purchase the output from generation resources of competing wholesale suppliers and use the transmission systems of the utility subsidiaries on a comparable basis to serve their native load.  State public utilities commissions have created resource planning programs that promote competition in the acquisition of electricity generation resources used to provide service to retail customers.  In addition, FERC Order 1000 seeks to establish competition for construction and operation of certain new electric transmission facilities.  Xcel Energy Inc.’s utility subsidiaries also have franchise agreements with certain cities subject to periodic renewal.  If a city elected not to renew the franchise agreement, it could seek alternative means for its citizens to access electric power or gas, such as municipalization.  While each of Xcel Energy Inc.’s utility subsidiaries faces these challenges, Xcel Energy believes their rates and services are competitive with currently available alternatives.





ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



Xcel Energy’s facilities are regulated by federal and state environmental agencies.  These agencies have jurisdiction over air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid wastes and hazardous substances.  Various company activities require registrations, permits, licenses, inspections and approvals from these agencies.  Xcel Energy has received all necessary authorizations for the construction and continued operation of its generation, transmission and distribution systems.  Xcel Energy’s facilities have been designed and constructed to operate in compliance with applicable environmental standards.  However, it is not possible to determine when or to what extent additional facilities or modifications of existing or planned facilities will be required as a result of changes to environmental regulations, interpretations or enforcement policies or what effect future laws or regulations may have upon Xcel Energy’s operations.  See Item 7 and Notes 12 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.



There are significant present and future environmental regulations to encourage the use of clean energy technologies and regulate emissions of GHGs to address climate change.  Xcel Energy has undertaken a number of initiatives to meet current requirements and prepare for potential future regulations, reduce GHG emissions and respond to state renewable and energy efficiency goals.  If these future environmental regulations do not provide credit for the investments we have already made to reduce GHG emissions, or if they require additional initiatives or emission reductions, then their requirements would potentially impose additional substantial costs.  We believe, based on prior state commission practice, we would recover the cost of these initiatives through rates.



Xcel Energy is committed to addressing climate change and potential climate change regulation through efforts to reduce its GHG emissions in a balanced, cost-effective manner.  Xcel Energy adopted a methodology for calculating CO2emissions based on the reporting protocols of The Climate Registry, a nonprofit organization that provides and compiles GHG emissions data from reporting entities.  Starting in 2011, Xcel Energy began reporting GHG emissions to the EPA under the EPA’s mandatory GHG Reporting Program.



Based on The Climate Registry’s current reporting protocol, Xcel Energy estimated that its current electric generating portfolio emitted approximately 56.6 million and 57.6 million tons of CO2in 2015 and 2014, respectively.  Xcel Energy also estimated emissions associated with electricity purchased for resale to Xcel Energy customers from generation facilities owned by third parties.  Xcel Energy estimates these non-owned facilities emitted approximately 10.2 million and 11.4 million tons of CO2in 2015 and 2014, respectively.  Estimated total CO2emissions associated with service to Xcel Energy electric customers decreased by 2.2 million tons in 2015 compared to 2014.  The decrease in emissions was associated with a decrease of 5.0 million net MWh of generation since 2011.  The average annual decrease in CO2emissions since 2011 is approximately 2.9 million tons of CO2per year.





CAPITAL SPENDING AND FINANCING



See Item 7 for a discussion of expected capital expenditures and funding sources.





EMPLOYEES



As ofDec. 31, 2015, Xcel Energy had11,601full-time employees and 86 part-time employees, of which5,514were covered under collective-bargaining agreements.  See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.















EXECUTIVE OFFICERS



Ben Fowke, 57, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and Director, Xcel Energy Inc., August 2011 to present.  Chief Executive Officer, NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo, and SPS January 2015 to present.  Previously, President and Chief Operating Officer, Xcel Energy Inc., August 2009 to August 2011.



Christopher B. Clark, 49, President and Director, NSP-Minnesota, January 2015 to present.  Previously, Regional Vice President, Rates and Regulatory Affairs, NSP-Minnesota, October 2012 to December 2014; Managing Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs, NSP-Minnesota, January 2012 to October 2012; Managing Attorney, Xcel Energy Inc., November 2007 to January 2012.



David L. Eves, 57, President and Director, PSCo, January 2015 to present.  Previously, President, Director and Chief Executive Officer, PSCo, December 2009 to December 2014.



David T. Hudson, 55, President and Director, SPS, January 2015 to present.  Previously, President, Director and Chief Executive Officer, SPS, January 2014 to December 2014; Director, Community Service & Economic Development, SPS, April 2011 to January 2014; Director, Strategic Planning, SPS, May 2008 to April 2011.



Kent T. Larson, 56, Executive Vice President and Group President Operations, Xcel Energy Inc., January 2015 to present.  Previously, Senior Vice President, Group President Operations, Xcel Energy Services Inc., August 2014 to December 2014;  Senior Vice President Operations, Xcel Energy Services Inc., September 2011 to August 2014; Chief Energy Supply Officer, Xcel Energy Services Inc., March 2010 to September 2011.



Teresa S. Madden, 60, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Xcel Energy Inc., January 2015 to present.  Previously, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Xcel Energy Inc., September 2011 to December 2014; Vice President and Controller, Xcel Energy Inc., January 2004 to September 2011.  Xcel Energy has previously announced that Teresa Madden will retire in 2016.



Marvin E. McDaniel, Jr., 56, Executive Vice President, Group President, Utilities, and Chief Administrative Officer, Xcel Energy Inc., January 2015 to present. Previously, Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, Xcel Energy Inc., August 2012 to December 2014; Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, Xcel Energy Services Inc., September 2011 to August 2012; Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, Xcel Energy Services Inc., August 2009 to September 2011 and Vice President, Talent and Technology Business Areas, Xcel Energy Services Inc., August 2009 to September 2011.



Timothy O’Connor, 56, Senior Vice President, Chief Nuclear Officer, Xcel Energy Services Inc., February 2013 to present. Previously, Acting Chief Nuclear Officer, NSP-Minnesota, September 2012 to February 2013; Vice President, Engineering and Nuclear Regulatory Compliance and Licensing July 2012 to September 2012; Monticello Site Vice President, May 2007 to July 2012.



Judy M. Poferl, 56, Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary and Executive Services, Xcel Energy Inc., January 2015 to present. Previously, Vice President, Corporate Secretary, Xcel Energy Inc., May 2013 to December 2014; President, Director and Chief Executive Officer, NSP-Minnesota, August 2009 to May 2013.



Jeffrey S. Savage, 44, Senior Vice President, Controller, Xcel Energy Inc., January 2015 to present.  Previously, Vice President, Controller, Xcel Energy Inc., September 2011 to December 2014; Senior Director, Financial Reporting, Corporate and Technical Accounting, Xcel Energy Services Inc., December 2009 to September 2011.



Mark E. Stoering, 55, President and Director, NSP-Wisconsin, January 2015 to present.  Previously, President, Director and Chief Executive Officer, NSP-Wisconsin, January 2012 to December 2014; Vice President, Portfolio Strategy and Business Development, Xcel Energy Services Inc., August 2000 to December 2011.



Scott M. Wilensky, 59, Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Xcel Energy Inc., January 2015 to present.  Previously, Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Xcel Energy Inc., September 2011 to December 2014; Vice President, Regulatory and Resource Planning, Xcel Energy Services Inc., September 2009 to September 2011.



No family relationships exist between any of the executive officers or directors.













