Item 1 — Business





DEFINITION OF ABBREVIATIONS AND INDUSTRY TERMS





Xcel Energy Inc.’s Subsidiaries and Affiliates (current and former)

Capital ServicesCapital Services, LLC

EloigneEloigne Company

NCENew Century Energies, Inc.

NSP-MinnesotaNorthern States Power Company, a Minnesota corporation

NSP SystemThe electric production and transmission system of NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin operated on an integrated basis and managed by NSP-Minnesota

NSP-WisconsinNorthern States Power Company, a Wisconsin corporation

Operating companiesNSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS

PSCoPublic Service Company of Colorado

SPSSouthwestern Public Service Co.

Utility subsidiariesNSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS

WGIWestGas InterState, Inc.

WYCOWYCO Development, LLC

Xcel EnergyXcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries

XETDXcel Energy Transmission Development Company, LLC

XESTXcel Energy Southwest Transmission Company, LLC

XEWTXcel Energy West Transmission Company, LLC



Federal and State Regulatory Agencies

ASLBAtomic Safety and Licensing Board

CFTCCommodity Futures Trading Commission

CPUCColorado Public Utilities Commission

D.C. CircuitUnited States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit

DOCMinnesota Department of Commerce

DOEUnited States Department of Energy

DOTUnited States Department of Transportation

EPAUnited States Environmental Protection Agency

FERCFederal Energy Regulatory Commission

IRSInternal Revenue Service

MPCAMinnesota Pollution Control Agency

MPSCMichigan Public Service Commission

MPUCMinnesota Public Utilities Commission

NDPSCNorth Dakota Public Service Commission

NERCNorth American Electric Reliability Corporation

NMPRCNew Mexico Public Regulation Commission

NRCNuclear Regulatory Commission

PHMSAPipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration

PNMPublic Service Company of New Mexico

PSCWPublic Service Commission of Wisconsin

PUCTPublic Utility Commission of Texas

SDPUCSouth Dakota Public Utilities Commission

SECSecurities and Exchange Commission















Electric, Purchased Gas and Resource Adjustment Clauses

CIPConservation improvement program

DCRFDistribution cost recovery factor

DSMDemand side management

DSMCADemand side management cost adjustment

ECARetail electric commodity adjustment

EEEnergy efficiency

EECRFEnergy efficiency cost recovery factor

EIREnvironmental improvement rider (recovers the costs associated with investments inenvironmental improvements to fossil fuel generation plants)

EPUExtended power uprate

ERPElectric resource plan

FCAFuel clause adjustment

FPPCACFuel and purchased power cost adjustment clause

GCAGas cost adjustment

GUICGas utility infrastructure cost rider

PCCAPurchased capacity cost adjustment

PCRFPower cost recovery factor (recovers the costs of certain purchased power costs)

PGAPurchased gas adjustment

QSPQuality of service plan

RDFRenewable development fund

RERRenewable energy rider

RESRenewable energy standard (recovers the costs of new renewable generation)

RESARenewable energy standard adjustment

SCASteam cost adjustment

TCATransmission cost adjustment

TCRTransmission cost recovery adjustment

TCRFTransmission cost recovery factor (recovers transmission infrastructure improvement costsand changes in wholesale transmission charges)



Other Terms and Abbreviations

AFUDCAllowance for funds used during construction

ATMAt-the-market

ALJAdministrative law judge

APBOAccumulated postretirement benefit obligation

AROAsset retirement obligation

ASUFASB Accounting Standards Update

BARTBest available retrofit technology

C&ICommercial and Industrial

CAAClean Air Act

CACJAClean Air Clean Jobs Act

CAIRClean Air Interstate Rule

CapX2020Alliance of electric cooperatives, municipals and investor-owned utilities in the upperMidwest involved in a joint transmission line planning and construction effort

CCNCertificate of convenience and necessity

CIGColorado Interstate Gas Company, LLC

CO2Carbon dioxide













CONCertificate of need

CPCNCertificate of public convenience and necessity

CPPClean Power Plan

CSAPRCross-State Air Pollution Rule

CWIPConstruction work in progress

EEIEdison Electric Institute

EGUElectric generating unit

EPSEarnings per share

ERCOTElectric Reliability Council of Texas

ETREffective tax rate

FASBFinancial Accounting Standards Board

FIPFederal implementation plan

FTRFinancial transmission right

GAAPGenerally accepted accounting principles

GHGGreenhouse gas

Golden SpreadGolden Spread Electric Cooperative, Inc.

HTYHistoric test year

IMIntegrated market

IPPIndependent power producers

ISFSIIndependent Spent Fuel Storage Installation

ITCInvestment Tax Credit

LCMLife cycle management

LLWLow-level radioactive waste

LNGLiquefied natural gas

MGPManufactured gas plant

MISOMidcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc.

Moody’sMoody’s Investor Services

MYPMulti-year plan

NAAQSNational Ambient Air Quality Standard

Native loadCustomer demand of retail and wholesale customers that a utility has an obligation to serveunder statute or long-term contract

NAVNet asset value

NOLNet operating loss

NOxNitrogen oxide

NOVNotice of violation

NTCNotifications to construct

NYISONew York Independent System Operator

O&MOperating and maintenance

OCCOffice of Consumer Counsel

OCIOther comprehensive income

PCBPolychlorinated biphenyl

PFSPrivate Fuel Storage, LLC

PIPrairie Island nuclear generating plant

PJMPJM Interconnection, LLC

PMParticulate matter

PPAPurchased power agreement

PRPPotentially responsible party

PTCProduction tax credit

PVPhotovoltaic

QFQualifying facilities

R&EResearch and experimentation

RECRenewable energy credit









RFPRequest for proposalROEReturn on equityRPSRenewable portfolio standardsRTORegional Transmission OrganizationSIPState implementation planSO2Sulfur dioxideSPPSouthwest Power Pool, Inc.S&PStandard & Poor’s Ratings ServicesTOTransmission ownerTransCoTransmission-only subsidiaryTSRTotal shareholder returnMeasurementsBcfBillion cubic feetGWhGigawatt hoursKVKilovoltsKWhKilowatt hoursMcfThousand cubic feetMMBtuMillion British thermal unitsMWMegawattsMWhMegawatt hours













COMPANY OVERVIEW



Xcel Energy Inc. is a holding company with subsidiaries engaged primarily in the utility business.  In 2016, Xcel Energy Inc.’s continuing operations included the activity of four wholly owned utility subsidiaries that serve electric and natural gas customers in eight states.  These utility subsidiaries are NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS, and serve customers in portions of Colorado, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Texas and Wisconsin.  Along with WYCO, a joint venture formed with CIG to develop and lease natural gas pipelines, storage, and compression facilities, and WGI, an interstate natural gas pipeline company, these companies comprise the regulated utility operations.



Xcel Energy Inc. was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota in 1909.  Xcel Energy’s executive offices are located at 414 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minn. 55401.  Its website address is www.xcelenergy.com.  Xcel Energy makes available, free of charge through its website, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  The public may read and copy any materials that Xcel Energy files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.



NSP-Minnesota



NSP-Minnesota is a utility primarily engaged in the generation, purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota.  The wholesale customers served by NSP-Minnesota comprised approximately 13 percent of its total KWh sold in 2016.  NSP-Minnesota also purchases, transports, distributes and sells natural gas to retail customers and transports customer-owned natural gas in Minnesota and North Dakota.  NSP-Minnesota provides electric utility service to approximately 1.5 million customers and natural gas utility service to approximately 0.5 million customers.  Approximately 88 percent of NSP-Minnesota’s retail electric operating revenues were derived from operations in Minnesota during 2016 and 2015.  Although NSP-Minnesota’s large C&I electric retail customers are comprised of many diversified industries, a significant portion of NSP-Minnesota’s large C&I electric sales include the following industries:  petroleum, coal and food products.  For small C&I customers, significant electric retail sales include the following industries:  real estate and educational services.  Generally, NSP-Minnesota’s earnings contribute approximately 35 percent to 45 percent of Xcel Energy’s consolidated net income.



The electric production and transmission costs of the entire NSP System are shared by NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin.  A FERC-approved Interchange Agreement between the two companies provides for the sharing of all generation and transmission costs of the NSP System.



NSP-Minnesota owns the following direct subsidiary: United Power and Land Company, which holds real estate.



NSP-Wisconsin



NSP-Wisconsin is a utility primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in portions of northwestern Wisconsin and in the western portion of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan.  NSP-Wisconsin purchases, transports, distributes and sells natural gas to retail customers and transports customer-owned natural gas in this service territory.  NSP-Wisconsin provides electric utility service to approximately 257,000 customers and natural gas utility service to approximately 113,000 customers.  Approximately 98 percent of NSP-Wisconsin’s retail electric operating revenues were derived from operations in Wisconsin during 2016 and 2015.  Although NSP-Wisconsin’s large C&I electric retail customers are comprised of many diversified industries, a significant portion of NSP-Wisconsin’s large C&I electric sales include the following industries:  food products, paper, allied products and petroleumpipelines.For small C&I customers, significant electric retail sales include the following industries:  grocery and dining establishments, educational services and health services.  Generally, NSP-Wisconsin’s earnings contribute approximately five percent to 10 percent of Xcel Energy’s consolidated net income.



The management of the electric production and transmission system of NSP-Wisconsin is integrated with NSP-Minnesota.



NSP-Wisconsin owns the following direct subsidiaries: Chippewa and Flambeau Improvement Co., which operates hydro reservoirs; Clearwater Investments Inc., which owns interests in affordable housing; and NSP Lands, Inc., which holds real estate.











PSCo



PSCo is a utility engaged primarily in the generation, purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Colorado.  The wholesale customers served by PSCo comprised approximately 14 percent of its total KWh sold in 2016.  PSCo also purchases, transports, distributes and sells natural gas to retail customers and transports customer-owned natural gas.  PSCo provides electric utility service to approximately 1.4 million customers and natural gas utility service to approximately 1.4 million customers.  All of PSCo’s retail electric operating revenues were derived from operations in Colorado during 2016.  Although PSCo’s large C&I electric retail customers are comprised of many diversified industries, a significant portion of PSCo’s large C&I electric sales include the following industries:  fabricated metal products, communications and health services.  For small C&I customers, significant electric retail sales include the following industries:  real estate and dining establishments.  Generally, PSCo’s earnings contribute approximately 35 percent to 45 percent of Xcel Energy’s consolidated net income.



PSCo owns the following direct subsidiaries: 1480 Welton, Inc. and United Water Company, both of which own certain real estate interests; and Green and Clear Lakes Company, which owns water rights and certain real estate interests.  PSCo also holds a controlling interest in several other relatively small ditch and water companies.



SPS



SPS is a utility engaged primarily in the generation, purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in portions of Texas and New Mexico.  The wholesale customers served by SPS comprised approximately 31 percent of its total KWh sold in 2016.  SPS provides electric utility service to approximately 389,000 retail customers in Texas and New Mexico.  Approximately 71 percent of SPS’ retail electric operating revenues were derived from operations in Texas during 2016 and 2015.  Although SPS’ large C&I electric retail customers are comprised of many diversified industries, a significant portion of SPS’ large C&I electric sales include the following industries:  oil and gas extraction, as well as petroleum and natural gas products.  For small C&I customers, significant electric retail sales include the following industries:  oil and gas extraction, grocery and dining establishments.  Generally, SPS’ earnings contribute approximately 10 percent to 15 percent of Xcel Energy’s consolidated net income.



Other Subsidiaries



WGI is a small interstate natural gas pipeline company engaged in transporting natural gas from the PSCo system near Chalk Bluffs, Colo., to Cheyenne, Wyo.



WYCO was formed as a joint venture with CIG to develop and lease natural gas pipeline, storage, and compression facilities.  Xcel Energy has a 50 percent ownership interest in WYCO.  The gas pipeline and storage facilities are leased under a FERC-approved agreement to CIG.



Xcel Energy Services Inc. is the service company for Xcel Energy Inc.



XETD and XEST are transmission-only subsidiaries that will, respectively, participate in MISO and SPP competitive bidding processes for transmission projects.  XEWT is a transmission-only subsidiary formed to competitively bid on transmission projects in the western United States.

Xcel Energy Inc.’s nonregulated subsidiaries are Eloigne and Capital Services.  Eloigne invests in rental housing projects that qualify for low-income housing tax credits, and Capital Services procures equipment for construction of renewable generation facilities at other subsidiaries.

Xcel Energy conducts its utility business in the following reportable segments:  regulated electric utility, regulated natural gas utility and all other.  See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion relating to comparative segment revenues, income from operations and related financial information.













ELECTRIC UTILITY OPERATIONS





NSP-Minnesota

Public Utility Regulation



Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of Jurisdiction—Retail rates, services and other aspects of NSP-Minnesota’s operations are regulated by the MPUC, the NDPSC and the SDPUC within their respective states.  The MPUC also has regulatory authority over security issuances, property transfers, mergers, dispositions of assets and transactions between NSP-Minnesota and its affiliates.  In addition, the MPUC reviews and approves NSP-Minnesota’s ERPs for meeting customers’ future energy needs.  The MPUC also certifies the need and siting for generating plants greater than 50 MW and transmission lines greater than 100 KV that will be located within the state.  No large power plant or transmission line may be constructed in Minnesota except on a site or route designated by the MPUC.  The NDPSC and SDPUC have regulatory authority over generation and transmission facilities, along with the siting and routing of new generation and transmission facilities in North Dakota and South Dakota, respectively.



NSP-Minnesota is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to its wholesale electric operations, hydroelectric licensing, accounting practices, wholesale sales for resale, transmission of electricity in interstate commerce, compliance with NERC electric reliability standards, asset transfers and mergers, and natural gas transactions in interstate commerce.  NSP-Minnesota operates within the MISO RTO and MISO wholesale market and is authorized to make wholesale electric sales at market-based prices.  NSP-Minnesota is a transmission owning member of the MISO RTO.



Fuel, Purchased Energy and Conservation Cost-Recovery Mechanisms—NSP-Minnesota has several retail adjustment clauses that recover fuel, purchased energy and other resource costs:



•CIP— Recovers the costs of conservation and demand-side management programs that help customers save energy.

•EIR— Recovers the costs of environmental improvement projects.

•RDF— Allocates money collected from retail customers to support the research and development of emerging renewable energy projects and technologies.

•RES— Recovers the cost of renewable generation in Minnesota.

•RER— Recovers the cost of renewable generation in North Dakota.

•SEP— Recovers costs related to various energy policies approved by the Minnesota legislature.

•TCR— Recovers costs associated with investments in electric transmission and distribution grid modernization costs.

•Infrastructure rider— Recovers costs for investments in generation and incremental property taxes in South Dakota.



NSP-Minnesota’s retail electric rates in Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota include a FCA for monthly billing adjustments to recover changes in prudently incurred costs of fuel related items and purchased energy.  In general, capacity costs are recovered through base rates and are not recovered through the FCA.  In addition, costs associated with MISO are generally recovered through either the FCA or base rates.



Minnesota state law requires NSP-Minnesota to invest two percent of its state electric revenues and half a percent of its state gas revenues in CIP.  These costs are recovered through an annual cost-recovery mechanism for electric conservation and energy management program expenditures.  Minnesota state law also requires NSP-Minnesota to submit a CIP plan at least every three years.



CIP Triennial Plan—In 2016, the DOC approved NSP-Minnesota’s 2017 through 2019 CIP Triennial Plan, which maintained the energy savings goals and allowed for slight budget increases over the previous plan. The plan sets an annual energy savings goal for electric of saving the equivalent of 1.5 percent of the volume of electric energy sales and an annual natural gas goal of saving 1.0 percent of the volume of gas energy sales.



Capacity and Demand



Uninterrupted system peak demand for the NSP System’s electric utility for each of the last three years and the forecast for 2017, assuming normal weather conditions, is as follows:

System Peak Demand (in MW)2014201520162017 ForecastNSP System8,8488,6219,0029,179











The peak demand for the NSP System typically occurs in the summer. The 2016 system peak demand for the NSP System occurred on July 20, 2016.  The 2016 system peak demand increased from the previous year due to customer growth and warmer summer weather.  The 2017 forecast assumes normal peak day weather, which would be warmer than 2016.



Energy Sources and Related Transmission Initiatives



NSP-Minnesota expects to use existing power plants, power purchases, CIP options, new generation facilities and expansion of existing power plants to meet its system capacity requirements.



Purchased Power—NSP-Minnesota has contracts to purchase power from other utilities and independent power producers.  Generally, long-term dispatchable purchased power contracts require a periodic capacity payment and a charge for the delivered associated energy.  Some long-term purchased power contracts only contain a charge for the purchased energy.  NSP-Minnesota also makes short-term purchases to meet system load and energy requirements, to replace generation from company-owned units under maintenance or during outages, to meet operating reserve obligations, or to obtain energy at a lower cost.



Purchased Transmission Services—NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have contracts with MISO and other regional transmission service providers to deliver power and energy to their customers.



Courtenay Wind Farm—In November 2016, NSP-Minnesota placed into service the Courtenay wind farm, a 200 MW NSP-Minnesota owned project in North Dakota.  In July and August 2015, the MPUC and NDPSC, respectively, approved the Courtenay wind farm with recovery up to $300 million of capital costs.  Total project costs were approximately $286 million, which were included in the Minnesota RES rider and the North Dakota RER.



NSP System Resource Plans— In January 2017, the MPUC approved NSP-Minnesota’s Integrated Resource Plan that includes:



•Retirement of Sherco Unit 2 in 2023 and Sherco Unit 1 in 2026.  The resulting need for 750 MW of capacity in 2026 will be addressed in a future CON proceeding;

•Acquisition of at least 1,000 MW of wind by 2019 and possibly as much as 1,500 MW dependent on price, bidder qualifications, rate impact, transmission availability and location.  The mix of purchased power and owned facilities was not specified;

•Acquisition of 650 MW of solar by 2021 either through the community solar gardens program or other cost-effective resources.  The mix of purchased power and owned facilities was not specified;

•Acquisition of at least 400 MW of additional demand response by 2023, and a study of the technical and economic achievability of 1,000 MW of additional demand response in total by 2025; and

•Achievement of at least 444 GWh of energy efficiency in all planning years.



In 2016, Minnesota legislators introduced a bill which would allow NSP-Minnesota to build a natural gas combined-cycle power plant at NSP-Minnesota’s Sherco site.  The bill passed the House and Senate in February 2017 but will require approval from the Governor to become effective.  A final resolution is expected later in 2017 and cost recovery would be subject to MPUC approval.



Request for Proposal (RFP)—In September 2016, NSP-Minnesota issued a RFP for 1,500 MW of wind generation.  The RFP requests both PPAs and build-own-transfer proposals.



In October 2016, NSP-Minnesota submitted a petition for approval to the MPUC of a 750 MW self-build wind farm portfolio.  RFP bids were received in October 2016 and have been evaluated in conjunction with the self-build proposal.



In January 2017, NSP-Minnesota completed the bid evaluation process.  NSP-Minnesota evaluated the bid proposals based on a completeness review, a levelized cost of electricity economic evaluation and a non-price qualitative review.  NSP-Minnesota believes its self-build wind projects were competitive and should complement the RFP portfolio.



An overview of the anticipated RFP schedule is as follows:



•Project proposal selection and negotiation during the first quarter of 2017;

•NSP-Minnesota’s recommendation for proposed wind additions to the MPUC later in the first quarter of 2017; and

•MPUC approval is expected by July 2017.











Jurisdictional Cost Recovery Allocation— In December 2016, NSP-Minnesota filed a resource treatment framework with the NDPSC and MPUC. The filing proposed a framework to allow North Dakota and Minnesota to gradually become more independent of one another with respect to future generation resource selection while also identifying a path for cost sharing of current resources.   NSP-Minnesota’s filing identified two options: a legal separation, creating a separate North Dakota operating company; or a pseudo separation, which maintains the current corporate structure but directly assigns the costs and benefits of each resource to the jurisdiction that supports it.The annual costs for a legal separation and pseudo separation are estimated to be approximately $3 million and $1 million, respectively.  A one-time cost of approximately $10 million would also be incurred to establish a North Dakota operating company under legal separation. Costs are not expected to be incurred until 2020 and are anticipated to be recoverable through rates.  The filing proposed a procedural schedule that considers an order in mid-2018.



CapX2020— The estimated cost of the five major CapX2020 transmission projects listed below is $2 billion.  NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin are responsible for approximately $1.06 billion of the total investment and the majority of this investment has occurred. The projects are as follows:



•Hampton, Minn. to Rochester, Minn. to La Crosse, Wis. 161/345 KV transmission lines— The final 161 KV and 345 KV segments of the project went into service in January 2016 and September 2016, respectively;

•Brookings County, S.D. to Hampton, Minn. 345 KV transmission line— The project was placed in service in March 2015;

•Bemidji, Minn. to Grand Rapids, Minn. 230 KV transmission line— The project was placed in service in September 2012;

•Monticello, Minn. to Fargo, N.D. 345 KV transmission line— The final portion of the project was placed in service in April 2015; and

•Big Stone South to Brookings County, S.D. 345 KV transmission line— Construction of the line began in September 2015, with completion anticipated in September 2017.



Nuclear Power Operations and Waste Disposal



NSP-Minnesota owns two nuclear generating plants: the Monticello plant and the PI plant.  Nuclear power plant operations produce gaseous, liquid and solid radioactive wastes which are controlled by federal regulation.  High-level radioactive wastes primarily include used nuclear fuel.  LLW consists primarily of demineralizer resins, paper, protective clothing, rags, tools and equipment that have become contaminated through use in a plant.



NRC Regulation— The NRC regulates the nuclear operations of NSP-Minnesota.  Decisions by the NRC can significantly impact the operations of the nuclear generating plants.  The costs of complying with NRC orders and requirements can affect both operating expenses and capital investments of the plants.  NSP-Minnesota has obtained recovery of these compliance costs in customer rates, and expects the costs associated with compliance will continue to be recoverable from customers.  Estimates of the future nuclear capital expenditures related to costs of NRC compliance are included in Xcel Energy’s capital forecast for electric generation.  See Item 7 for further discussion of capital requirements.



Nuclear Regulatory Performance—The NRC has a Reactor Oversight Process that classifies U.S. nuclear reactors into various categories (referred to as Columns, from 1 to 5).  Issues are evaluated as either green, white, yellow, or red based on their safety significance, with green representing the least safety concern and red representing the most concern.



At Dec. 31, 2016, PI Units 1 and 2 were in Column 1 (licensee response) with all green performance indicators and no greater than green findings or violations.  Plants in Column 1 are subject to only a pre-defined set of basic NRC inspections.



In the fourth quarter of 2016, Monticello moved from Column 1 to Column 2 (regulatory response) due to a white performance indicator related to an oil leak in a backup cooling system in 2016.  Plants in Column 2 are subject to special NRC inspections to review and validate that performance issues or inspection findings have been properly addressed.  Monticello has addressed the issues leading to the finding and will be eligible to return to Column 1 once the NRC completes an inspection to close the issue. NSP-Minnesota currently expects the inspection to occur, and Monticello to return to Column 1 in mid-2017.











Monticello Spent Fuel Storage - Dry Shielded Canisters—In 2013, NSP-Minnesota’s Monticello nuclear generating plant conducted a spent fuel loading campaign which resulted in five storage canisters being loaded and placed in the ISFSI and a sixth one being loaded but remaining in the plant pending resolution of weld inspection issues.  Successful pressure and leak testing demonstrated the safety and integrity of all six canisters involved.  The NRC conducted an investigation and determined that two contractor technicians at Monticello deliberately violated NRC requirements and failed to follow procedure in performing Non-Destructive Examinations (NDE) on the six spent fuel storage canisters (Dry Shielded Canisters #11-16) in accordance with procedural requirements and falsified records when recording the NDE results.  NSP-Minnesota took several actions to assure that compliance with the NRC’s regulations and Monticello’s storage license can be demonstrated.



In December 2016, the NRC issued a confirmatory order formally approving a settlement in which NSP-Minnesota agreed to a timeline for attaining compliance on all six canisters as well as additional training and communications.  As a result, the NRC will not issue a notice of violation or impose a civil penalty to NSP-Minnesota and will consider the terms of its order as an escalated enforcement action for a period of one year.  During 2016, the NRC approved an exemption request for the completion of the final canister #16.  That canister is now considered in compliance, and was placed in the ISFSI during 2016.



Costs attributable to Monticello canisters #11-15 achieving full regulatory compliance within five years, as agreed to in the settlement, are currently being evaluated.  No public safety issues have been raised, or are believed to exist, related to handling of spent nuclear fuel at Monticello in regard to this matter.



LLW Disposal—LLW from NSP-Minnesota’s Monticello and PI nuclear plants is currently disposed at the Clive facility located in Utah and Waste Control Specialists facility located in Texas.  If off-site LLW disposal facilities become unavailable, NSP-Minnesota has storage capacity available on-site at PI and Monticello that would allow both plants to continue to operate until the end of their current licensed lives.



High-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal—The federal government has the responsibility to permanently dispose of domestic spent nuclear fuel and other high-level radioactive wastes.  The Nuclear Waste Policy Act requires the DOE to implement a program for nuclear high-level waste management.  This includes the siting, licensing, construction and operation of a repository for spent nuclear fuel from civilian nuclear power reactors and other high-level radioactive wastes at a permanent federal storage or disposal facility.  The federal government has been evaluating a nuclear geologic repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada for many years.  At this time, there are no definitive plans for a permanent federal storage site at Yucca Mountain or any other site.



Nuclear Spent Fuel Storage

NSP-Minnesota has interim on-site storage for spent nuclear fuel at its Monticello and PI nuclear generating plants.  As of Dec. 31, 2016, there were 40 casks loaded and stored at the PI plant and 16 canisters loaded and stored at the Monticello plant.  An additional 24 casks for PI and 14 canisters for Monticello have been authorized by the State of Minnesota.  This currently authorized storage capacity is sufficient to allow NSP-Minnesota to operate until the end of the operating licenses in 2030 for Monticello, 2033 for PI Unit 1, and 2034 for PI Unit 2.  Authorizations for additional spent fuel storage capacity may be required at each site to support either continued operation or decommissioning if the federal government does not begin operation of a consolidated interim storage installation.



NRC Waste Confidence Decision (WCD) — In 2014, the NRC published a Generic Environmental Impact Statement and revised WCD rule, now called the Continued Storage Rule (CSR) on the temporary on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel.  The CSR assesses how long temporary on-site storage can remain safe and when facilities for the disposal of nuclear waste will become available.  Issuance of the CSR now allows the NRC to proceed with final license decisions regarding the new and renewed plant and ISFSI operating licenses without the need to litigate contentions related to the continued storage of spent nuclear fuel on-site.  This may facilitate potential future spent fuel licensing needs for NSP-Minnesota.  The CSR was challenged before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit on the grounds that the environmental impact statement is inadequate to satisfy the National Environmental Policy Act.  In June 2016, the D.C. Circuit’s decision upheld the CSR.



See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding nuclear related items.











Energy Source Statistics

Year Ended Dec. 31201620152014NSP SystemMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationNuclear14,19130%12,42527%13,43429%Coal13,6812815,9613518,07939Wind(a)7,897166,235146,24314Natural Gas7,810166,689153,4027Hydroelectric3,20373,32673,5608Other(b)1,48031,08321,4173Total48,262100%45,719100%46,135100%Owned generation36,38175%33,81874%33,64173%Purchased generation11,8812511,9012612,49427Total48,262100%45,719100%46,135100%

(a)This category includes wind energy de-bundled from RECs and also includes Windsource®RECs.  The NSP System uses RECs to meet or exceed state resource requirements and may sell surplus RECs.

(b)Includes energy from other sources, including solar, biomass, oil and refuse. Distributed generation from the Solar*Rewards®program is not included, and was approximately 21, eight and seven million net KWh for 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively.



Fuel Supply and Costs



The following table shows the delivered cost per MMBtu of each significant category of fuel consumed for owned electric generation, the percentage of total fuel requirements represented by each category of fuel and the total weighted average cost of all fuels.Coal(a)NuclearNatural GasWeightedAverage Owned Fuel CostNSP System Generating PlantsCostPercentCostPercentCostPercent2016$2.0342%$0.8044%$3.3014%$1.6720152.15470.83403.89131.8520142.23520.89426.2761.94

(a)Includes refuse-derived fuel and wood.



The cost of natural gas in 2016 decreased due to lower wholesale commodity prices.



See Items 1A and 7 for further discussion of fuel supply and costs.



Fuel Sources



Nuclear— NSP-Minnesota secures contracts for uranium concentrates, uranium conversion, uranium enrichment and fuel fabrication to operate its’ nuclear plants.  The contract strategy involves a portfolio of spot purchases and medium and long-term contracts for uranium concentrates, conversion services and enrichment services with multiple producers and with a focus on diversification to minimize potential impacts caused by supply interruptions due to geographical and world political issues.



•Current nuclear fuel supply contracts cover 100 percent of uranium concentrates requirements through 2019 and approximately 53 percent of the requirements for 2020 through 2030;

•Current contracts for conversion services cover 100 percent of the requirements through 2021 and approximately 49 percent of the requirements for 2022 through 2030; and

•Current enrichment service contracts cover 100 percent of the requirements through 2025 and approximately 28 percent of the requirements for 2026 through 2030.



Fabrication services for Monticello and PI are 100 percent committed through 2030 and 2019, respectively.











NSP-Minnesota expects sufficient uranium concentrates, conversion services and enrichment services to be available for the total fuel requirements of its nuclear generating plants.  Some exposure to market price volatility will remain due to index-based pricing structures contained in certain supply contracts.



Coal— The NSP System normally maintains approximately 41 days of coal inventory.  Coal supply inventories at Dec. 31, 2016 and 2015 were approximately 55 and 67 days of usage, respectively.  At Dec. 31, 2016, milder weather, purchase commitments and relatively low natural gas prices resulted in coal inventories being above optimal levels.  NSP-Minnesota’s generation stations use low-sulfur western coal purchased primarily under contracts with suppliers operating in Wyoming and Montana.  During 2016 and 2015, coal requirements for the NSP System’s major coal-fired generating plants were approximately 7.5 million tons and 8.3 million tons, respectively.  Coal requirements for 2016 decreased primarily due to relatively low natural gas prices during the year. The estimated coal requirements for 2017 are approximately 8.9 million tons. The increase is primarily due to higher expected natural gas prices in 2017.



NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have contracted for coal supplies to provide 74 percent of their estimated coal requirements in 2017 and a declining percentage of the requirements in subsequent years. The NSP System’s general coal purchasing objective is to contract for approximately 80 percent of requirements for the first year, 50 percent of requirements in year two and 25 percent of requirements in year three.  Remaining requirements will be filled through the procurement process or over-the-counter transactions.



NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have a number of coal transportation contracts that provide for delivery of 100 percent of their coal requirements in 2017 and 2018.  Coal delivery may be subject to interruptions or reductions due to operation of the mines, transportation problems, weather and availability of equipment.



Natural gas— The NSP System uses both firm and interruptible natural gas supply and standby oil in combustion turbines and certain boilers.  Natural gas supplies, transportation and storage services for power plants are procured under contracts to provide an adequate supply of fuel.  However, as natural gas primarily serves intermediate and peak demand, remaining forecasted requirements are able to be procured through a liquid spot market.  Generally, natural gas supply contracts have variable pricing that is tied to various natural gas indices.  Most transportation contract pricing is based on FERC approved transportation tariff rates.  Certain natural gas supply and transportation agreements include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of natural gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery.  At Dec. 31, 2016 and 2015, the NSP System did not have any commitments related to gas supply contracts; however commitments related to gas transportation and storage contracts were approximately $382 million and $276 million, respectively.  Commitments related to gas transportation and storage contracts expire in various years from 2017 to 2028.



The NSP System also has limited on-site fuel oil storage facilities and primarily relies on the spot market for incremental supplies.



Renewable Energy Sources



The NSP System’s renewable energy portfolio includes wind, hydroelectric, biomass and solar power from both owned generating facilities and PPAs.  As of Dec. 31, 2016, the NSP System was in compliance with mandated RPS, which require generation from renewable resources of 18.0 percent and 12.9 percent of NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin electric retail sales, respectively.



•Renewable energy comprised26.1 percentand 23.3 percent of the NSP System’s total energy for 2016 and 2015, respectively;

•Wind energy comprised16.4 percentand 13.6 percent of the total energy for 2016 and 2015, respectively;

•Hydroelectric energy comprised6.6 percentand 7.3 percent of the total energy for 2016 and 2015, respectively; and

•Biomass and solar power comprised approximately3.1 percentand 2.4 percent of the total energy for 2016 and 2015, respectively.



The NSP System also offers customer-focused renewable energy initiatives.  Windsource allows customers in Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan to purchase a portion or all of their electricity from renewable sources.  In 2016, the number of customers utilizing Windsource increased to approximately 54,000 from 50,000 in 2015.











Additionally, to encourage the growth of solar energy on the system, customers are offered incentives to install solar panels on their homes and businesses under the Solar*Rewards program.  Over 2,063 PV systems with approximately 25.2 MW of aggregate capacity have been installed in Minnesota as of Dec. 31, 2016 and over 1,458 PV systems with approximately 18.3 MW of aggregate capacity have been installed as of Dec. 31, 2015. The community solar gardens program is another option made available to encourage use of solar energy in Minnesota.  This program allows for offsite development of solar and bill credits to customers based on an approved tariffed rate.  Although very few MW came on line in 2016, an increase in the MW supplied through this program is expected in 2017.



Wind—The NSP System acquires the majority of its wind energy from PPAs with wind farm owners, primarily located in Southwestern Minnesota.  Currently, the NSP System has more than 125 of these agreements in place, with facilities ranging in size from under one MW to more than 200 MW. The NSP System owns and operates five wind farms which have the capacity to generate 852 MW.



•The NSP System had approximately 2,602 and 2,210 MW of wind energy on its system at the end of 2016 and 2015, respectively.  In addition to receiving purchased wind energy under these agreements, the NSP System also typically receives wind RECs, which are used to meet state renewable resource requirements.



•The average cost per MWh of wind energy under existing contracts was approximately $43 and $42 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.  The cost per MWh of wind energy varies by contract and may be influenced by a number of factors including regulation, state-specific renewable resource requirements and the year of contract execution.  Generally, contracts executed in 2016 continued to benefit from improvements in technology, excess capacity among manufacturers and motivation to commence new construction prior to the anticipated expiration of the federal PTCs.  In December 2015, the federal PTCs were extended through 2019 with a phase down beginning in 2017.



Hydroelectric—The NSP System acquires its hydroelectric energy from both owned generation and PPAs.  The NSP System owns 20 hydroelectric plants throughout Wisconsin and Minnesota which provide 277.5 MW of capacity.  For 2016, PPAs provided approximately 34 MW of hydroelectric capacity.  Additionally, the NSP System purchases approximately 725 MW of generation from Manitoba Hydro, which is sourced primarily from its fleet of hydroelectric facilities.



Wholesale and Commodity Marketing Operations



NSP-Minnesota conducts various wholesale marketing operations, including the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy, ancillary services and energy-related products.  NSP-Minnesota uses physical and financial instruments to minimize commodity price and credit risk and hedge sales and purchases.  NSP-Minnesota also engages in trading activity unrelated to hedging and sharing of any margins is determined through state regulatory proceedings as well as the operation of the FERC approved joint operating agreement.  NSP-Minnesota does not serve any wholesale requirements customers at cost-based regulated rates.  See Item 7 for further discussion.





NSP-Wisconsin

Public Utility Regulation



Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of Jurisdiction—Retail rates, services and other aspects of NSP-Wisconsin’s operations are regulated by the PSCW and the MPSC, within their respective states.  In addition, each of the state commissions certifies the need for new generating plants and electric transmission lines before the facilities may be sited and built.  NSP-Wisconsin is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to its wholesale electric operations, hydroelectric generation licensing, accounting practices, wholesale sales for resale, the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce, compliance with NERC electric reliability standards, asset transactions and mergers and natural gas transactions in interstate commerce.  NSP-Wisconsin and NSP-Minnesota have been granted continued joint authorization from the FERC to make wholesale electric sales at market-based prices.  NSP-Wisconsin is a transmission owning member of the MISO RTO.



The PSCW has a biennial base rate filing requirement.  By June of each odd numbered year, NSP-Wisconsin must submit a rate filing for the test year beginning the following January.  In recent years, NSP-Wisconsin has been submitting rate filings each year.











Fuel and Purchased Energy Cost Recovery Mechanisms—NSP-Wisconsin does not have an automatic electric fuel adjustment clause for Wisconsin retail customers.  Instead, under Wisconsin rules, utilities submit a forward-looking annual fuel cost plan to the PSCW for approval.  Once the PSCW approves the fuel cost plan, utilities defer the amount of any fuel cost under-collection or over-collection in excess of a two percent annual tolerance band, for future rate recovery or refund.  Approval of a fuel cost plan and any rate adjustment for refund or recovery of deferred costs is determined by the PSCW after an opportunity for a hearing.  Rate recovery of deferred fuel cost is subject to an earnings test based on the utility’s most recently authorized ROE.  Fuel cost under-collections that exceed the two percent annual tolerance band for a calendar year may not be recovered if the utility earnings for that year exceed the authorized ROE.



NSP-Wisconsin’s retail electric rate schedules for Michigan customers include power supply cost recovery factors, which are based on 12-month projections.  After each 12-month period, a reconciliation is submitted whereby over-collections are refunded and any under-collections are collected from the customers over the subsequent 12-month period.



Wisconsin Energy Efficiency Program—In Wisconsin, the primary energy efficiency program is funded by the state’s utilities, but operated by independent contractors subject to oversight by the PSCW and the utilities.  NSP-Wisconsin recovers these costs in rates charged to Wisconsin retail customers.



Capacity and Demand



NSP-Wisconsin operates an integrated system with NSP-Minnesota.  See NSP-Minnesota Capacity and Demand.



Energy Sources and Related Transmission Initiatives



NSP-Wisconsin operates an integrated system with NSP-Minnesota.  See NSP-Minnesota Energy Sources and Related Transmission Initiatives.



NSP-Wisconsin / American Transmission Company, LLC (ATC) - La Crosse to Madison, Wis. Transmission Line— In 2013, NSP-Wisconsin and ATC jointly filed an application with the PSCW for a CPCN for a new 345 KV transmission line that would extend from La Crosse, Wis. to Madison, Wis.  NSP-Wisconsin’s half of the line will be shared with three co-owners, Dairyland Power Cooperative, WPPI Energy and Southern Minnesota Municipal Power Agency-Wisconsin.



In 2015, the PSCW issued its order approving a CPCN and route for the project. Subsequently, the PSCW denied two requests for rehearing. Two groups have appealed the CPCN Order to county circuit court.  Court action is pending in one remaining appeal and the CPCN remains in full effect unless one of the parties seeks and receives a stay from the court and posts a bond to cover damages the utilities may incur due to delay.  The 180-mile project is expected to cost approximately $541 million.  NSP-Wisconsin’s portion of the investment, which includes AFUDC, is estimated to be approximately $200 million.  Updated forecast costs are primarily due to better material pricing than originally anticipated.  Construction on the line began in January 2016, with completion anticipated by late 2018.



2016 Electric Fuel Cost Recovery— NSP-Wisconsin’s electric fuel costs for the year ended Dec. 31, 2016 were lower than authorized in rates and outside the two percent annual tolerance band established in the Wisconsin fuel cost recovery rules, primarily due to lower sales volume and lower purchased power costs coupled with moderate weather.  Under the fuel cost recovery rules, NSP-Wisconsin may retain the amount of over-recovery up to two percent of authorized annual fuel costs, or approximately $3.4 million.  However, NSP-Wisconsin must defer the amount of over-recovery in excess of the two percent annual tolerance band for future refund to customers.  Accordingly, NSP-Wisconsin recorded a deferral of approximately $9.8 million through Dec. 31, 2016.  In March 2017 NSP-Wisconsin will file a reconciliation of 2016 fuel costs with the PSCW.  The amount of any potential refund is subject to review and approval by the PSCW, which is not expected until mid-2017.



Fuel Supply and Costs



NSP-Wisconsin operates an integrated system with NSP-Minnesota.  See NSP-Minnesota Fuel Supply and Costs.



Wholesale and Commodity Marketing Operations



NSP-Wisconsin operates an integrated system with NSP-Minnesota.  NSP-Wisconsin does not serve any wholesale requirements customers at cost-based regulated rates.  See NSP-Minnesota Wholesale and Commodity Marketing Operations.













PSCo

Public Utility Regulation



Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of Jurisdiction—PSCo is regulated by the CPUC with respect to its facilities, rates, accounts, services and issuance of securities.  PSCo is regulated by the FERC with respect to its wholesale electric operations, accounting practices, hydroelectric licensing, wholesale sales for resale, the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce, compliance with the NERC electric reliability standards, asset transactions and mergers and natural gas transactions in interstate commerce.  PSCo is authorized to make wholesale electric sales at market-based prices to customers outside its balancing authority area.



Fuel, Purchased Energy and Conservation Cost-Recovery Mechanisms— PSCo has several retail adjustment clauses that recover fuel, purchased energy and other resource costs:



•ECA— Recovers fuel and purchased energy costs.  Short-term sales margins are shared with retail customers through the ECA.  The ECA is revised quarterly.

•PCCA— Recovers purchased capacity payments.

•SCA— Recovers the difference between PSCo’s actual cost of fuel and the amount of these costs recovered under its base steam service rates.  The SCA rate is revised on a quarterly basis.

•DSMCA— Recovers DSM, interruptible service option credit costs and performance initiatives for achieving various energy savings goals.

•RESA— Recovers the incremental costs of compliance with the RES with a maximum of two percent of the customer’s total bill.

•Wind Energy Service— Premium service for customers who choose to pay an additional charge for renewable resources.

•TCA— Recovers costs associated with transmission investment outside of rate cases.

•CACJA— Recovers costs associated with implementing its compliance plan under the CACJA.



PSCo recovers fuel and purchased energy costs from its wholesale electric customers through a fuel cost adjustment clause approved by the FERC.  PSCo’s wholesale customers have agreed to pay the full cost of certain renewable energy purchase and generation costs through a fuel clause and in exchange receive RECs associated with those resources.  The wholesale customers pay their jurisdictional allocation of production costs through a fully forecasted formula rate with true-up.



QSP Requirements—The CPUC established an electric QSP that provides for bill credits to customers if PSCo does not achieve certain performance targets relating to electric reliability and customer service.  PSCo monitors and records, as necessary, an estimated customer refund obligation under the QSP.  The CPUC extended the terms of the current QSP through 2018.



Capacity and Demand



Uninterrupted system peak demand for PSCo’s electric utility for each of the last three years and the forecast for 2017, assuming normal weather conditions, is as follows:

System Peak Demand (in MW)2014201520162017 ForecastPSCo6,1526,2846,5856,439



The peak demand for PSCo’s system typically occurs in the summer.  The 2016 system peak demand for PSCo occurred on Aug. 3, 2016.  The 2016 system peak demand was higher due to Comanche Unit 3 not running at full capacity, which increased PSCo’s system load for the backup power provided by PSCo to the joint owners. The forecast of system peak assumes normal weather conditions.



Energy Sources and Related Transmission Initiatives



PSCo expects to meet its system capacity requirements through existing electric generating stations, power purchases, new generation facilities, DSM options and phased expansion of existing generation at select power plants.











Purchased Power—PSCo has contracts to purchase power from other utilities and independent power producers.  Long-term purchased power contracts typically require a periodic capacity charge and an energy charge for energy actually purchased.  PSCo also makes short-term purchases to meet system load and energy requirements, to replace generation from company-owned units under maintenance or during outages, to meet operating reserve obligations, or to obtain energy at a lower cost.



Purchased Transmission Services—In addition to using its own transmission system, PSCo has contracts with regional transmission service providers to deliver energy to PSCo’s customers.



Rush Creek Wind Ownership Proposal— In 2016, PSCo filed an application for a CPCN to build, own and operate a 600 MW wind generation facility at Rush Creek for a cost of approximately $1 billion, including transmission investment.



In 2016, the CPUC approved a settlement between PSCo and various parties and granted a CPCN, which allows PSCo to commence the project on a timely basis and capture the full PTC benefit for customers.



Key terms of the settlement are listed below:



•The Rush Creek project satisfies the reasonable cost standard and is in the public interest;

•The project should be placed in service by Oct. 31, 2018;

•The useful life of the project should be set at 25 years;

•A hard cost-cap on the $1.096 billion investment (which includes the capital investment and AFUDC);

•A capital cost sharing mechanism for every $10 million below the cost-cap, with 82.5 percent retained by customers and 17.5 percent retained by PSCo on a net present value basis over the life of the project;

•Amounts retained by PSCo under the capital cost sharing mechanism as well as overall facility revenue requirements may each be reduced for lower than projected long term generating output (i.e., higher degradation);

•The Pawnee-Daniels transmission line (estimated project cost of $178 million) should be accelerated and operations are expected to begin by October 2019; and

•PSCo committed to develop a rate for third-party access to available capacity in the Rush Creek transmission line to be filed at the FERC.



Colorado 2016 ERP— In May 2016, PSCo filed its 2016 ERP which identified approximately 600 MW of additional resource needs by the summer of 2023; the level of resource need is driven by load growth, retiring generation facilities, expiring purchased power contracts and the impacts of customer-facing programs.  In its initial filing, PSCo proposed a competitive acquisition process in which all generation resources, except coal-fired generation, could compete.  PSCo has expressed an interest in owning incremental generation through self-build proposals, purchase of existing assets some of which are currently subject to PPAs or through build-own-transfer projects.  In February 2017, the CPUC held hearings regarding PSCo’s proposal and an initial decision is anticipated by March 2017.  The actual range of need to be filled in the competitive acquisition process will be determined once a final decision is received from the CPUC and prior to the beginning of the competitive acquisition phase of the ERP process.



Brush to Castle Pines 345 KV Transmission Line— In 2015, the CPUC granted a CPCN to construct a new 345 KV transmission line originating from Pawnee generating station, near Brush, CO to the Daniels Park substation, near Castle Pines, CO to be placed in service by May 2022.  The estimated project cost is $178.3 million.  The CPUC granted the parties’ requests for consolidation with the Rush Creek project and approved for construction to begin in the first half of 2017.



PSCo Global Settlement Agreement— In August 2016, PSCo and various intervenors entered into a global settlement agreement regarding three pending filings with the CPUC, including the Phase II electric rate case (which is related to the rate design portion of the 2015 Electric rate case), the Renewable*Connect proposal and the 2017 Renewable Energy Plan.  Key terms of the agreement include that participating customers in the proposed Renewable*Connect program would pay ordinary tariff electric rates in addition to a voluntary tariff solar charge, and receive bill credits related to avoided cost savings for a new 50 MW solar resource.  It was also agreed that PSCo’s 2017 Renewable Energy Plan would include 2017 to 2019 acquisition of a total of 225 MW of renewable energy from sources including rooftop solar, solar gardens and recycled energy.

In December 2016, the CPUC approved the global settlement agreement.  In January 2017, PSCo began implementing the terms of the settlement.









Joint Dispatch Agreement (JDA)— In February 2016, the FERC approved a JDA between PSCo, Black Hills/Colorado Electric Utility Company, LP and Platte River Power Authority.  Through the JDA, energy is dispatched to economically serve the combined electric customer loads of the three systems.  In circumstances where PSCo is the lowest cost producer, it will sell its excess generation to other JDA counterparties.  The agreement results in a reduction in total energy costs for the parties, of which approximately $1.4 million would be allocated to PSCo’s customers.  As part of the agreement, PSCo will earn a management fee to administer the JDA.  In January 2017, the CPUC approved the JDA.



Advanced Grid Intelligence and Security—In August 2016, PSCo filed a request with the CPUC to approve a CPCN for implementation of its advanced grid initiative.  The project incorporates installing advanced meters, implementing a combination of hardware and software applications to allow the distribution system to operate at a lower voltage (integrated volt-var optimization) and installing necessary communications infrastructure to implement this hardware.  These major projects are expected to improve customer experience, enhance grid reliability and enable the implementation of new and innovative programs and rate structures.  The estimated capital investment for the project is approximately $500 million.  PSCo anticipates a CPUC decision by mid-2017.  If approval is received, the project is expected to be completed by 2021.



Decoupling Filing— In July 2016, PSCo filed a request with the CPUC to approve a partial decoupling mechanism for a five-year period, effective Jan. 1, 2017.  The proposed decoupling adjustment would allow PSCo to adjust annual revenues based on changes in weather normalized average use per customer for the residential and small C&I classes.  The proposed decoupling mechanism is symmetric and may result in potential refunds to customers if there were an increase in average use per customer.  PSCo did not request that revenue be adjusted as a result of weather related sales fluctuations.



In January 2017, the CPUC Staff (Staff) and various intervenors, including the OCC, filed direct testimony.



•The Staff recommended a portion of PSCo’s request be approved and suggested the CPUC should lower PSCo’s ROE by 30 basis points to account for lower risk associated with annual revenues, if the full proposal were approved;

•The OCC opposed PSCo’s decoupling request; and

•Other intervening parties generally supported PSCo’s proposal, but recommended various modifications, such as the use of actual sales data instead of weather-normalized sales.



A CPUC decision is expected in April 2017.



Boulder, Colo. Municipalization—In 2011, a ballot measure was passed which authorized the formation and operation of a municipal utility and the issuance of enterprise revenue bonds.  In 2014, the City of Boulder (Boulder) City Council passed an ordinance to establish an electric utility.  PSCo challenged the formation of this utility as premature because costs and system separation plans were not final, but the case was dismissed.  PSCo appealed this decision and in September 2016, the Colorado Court of Appeals preserved PSCo’s ability to challenge the utility while vacating the lower court’s decision.



In 2013, the CPUC ruled that Boulder may not be the retail service provider to any PSCo customers located outside Boulder city limits unless Boulder can establish that PSCo is unwilling or unable to serve those customers.  The CPUC also ruled that it has jurisdiction over the transfer of any facilities to Boulder that currently serve any customers located outside Boulder city limits and will determine separation matters.  The CPUC has declared that Boulder must receive CPUC transfer approval prior to any eminent domain actions.  Boulder appealed this ruling to the Boulder District Court.  In January 2015, the Boulder District Court affirmed the CPUC decision.  The Boulder District Court also dismissed a condemnation action that Boulder had filed.  The CPUC must complete the separation plan proceeding before Boulder may refile a condemnation proceeding.



In July 2015, Boulder filed an application with the CPUC requesting approval of its proposed separation plan.  In August 2015, PSCo filed a motion to dismiss Boulder’s separation proposal, arguing Boulder’s request was not permissible under Colorado law.  In December 2015, the CPUC granted the motion to dismiss the application in part, holding that Boulder had no right to acquire PSCo facilities used exclusively to serve customers located outside Boulder city limits.  Other portions of Boulder’s application were not dismissed, but were stayed until Boulder supplemented its application.  Boulder filed its amended application in September 2016.











In February 2017, PSCo and other intervenors filed answer testimony which addressed several legal issues posed by the CPUC.  Overall, PSCo believes that Boulder’s plan is not consistent with and cannot be effectively administered under Colorado law and that from a reliability perspective it is an inappropriate way to separate the two distribution systems and poses significant risks to PSCo and its remaining customers.  The remaining key dates in the procedural schedule are as follows:



•Rebuttal testimony — March 30, 2017;

•Hearings — April 26 through May 5, 2017;

•Statements of position — May 17, 2017; and

•Final decision — June 15, 2017.



Depreciation and Amortization Proceeding— In April 2016, PSCo filed for approval of depreciation rates and amortization schedules for its electric and common plant.  In January 2017, the CPUC approved a comprehensive settlement agreement.  The new depreciation and amortization rates are expected to be implemented in conjunction with PSCo’s next rate case or through a separate proceeding in 2018, with an expected annual increase of approximately $33 million.



RES Compliance Plan— Colorado law mandates that at least 20 percent of PSCo’s energy sales are supplied by renewable energy through 2019, with the percentage increasing to 30 percent by 2020 and includes a distributed generation standard.  PSCo was in compliance with the RES as of Dec. 31, 2016.



Energy Source StatisticsYear Ended Dec. 31201620152014PSCoMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationCoal15,89547%18,60154%18,27453%Natural Gas8,632257,948238,60125Wind(a)8,106246,699196,47219Hydroelectric1,179366226172Other(b)393170522941Total34,205100%34,615100%34,258100%Owned generation22,75367%22,98166%23,02367%Purchased generation11,4523311,6343411,23533Total34,205100%34,615100%34,258100%

(a)This category includes wind energy de-bundled from RECs and also includes Windsource RECs.  PSCo uses RECs to meet or exceed state resource requirements and may sell surplus RECs.

(b)Distributed generation from the Solar*Rewards program is not included, and was approximately 396, 245 and 197 million net KWh for 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively.



Fuel Supply and Costs



The following table shows the delivered cost per MMBtu of each significant category of fuel consumed for owned electric generation, the percentage of total fuel requirements represented by each category of fuel and the total weighted average cost of all fuels.

CoalNatural GasWeighted Average Owned Fuel CostPSCo Generating PlantsCostPercentCostPercent2016$1.7572%$3.7928%$2.3320151.75753.89252.2920141.82755.32252.68



See Items 1A and 7 for further discussion of fuel supply and costs.











Fuel Sources



Coal—PSCo normally maintains approximately 41 days of coal inventory.  Coal supply inventories at Dec. 31, 2016 and 2015 were approximately 36 and 49 days of usage, respectively.  At Dec. 31, 2016, stockpile reductions in preparation for unit retirements at the Cherokee and Valmont stations in 2017 resulted in coal inventories being slightly below optimal levels.  PSCo’s generation stations use low-sulfur western coal purchased primarily under contracts with suppliers operating in Colorado and Wyoming.  During 2016 and 2015, PSCo’s coal requirements for existing plants were approximately 9.9 million tons and 10.5 million tons, respectively.  The estimated coal requirements for 2017 are approximately 10.0 million tons. The increase is primarily due to higher expected natural gas prices in 2017.



PSCo has contracted for coal supply to provide 84 percent of its estimated coal requirements in 2017, and a declining percentage of requirements in subsequent years.  PSCo’s general coal purchasing objective is to contract for approximately 80 percent of requirements for the first year, 50 percent of requirements in year two, and 25 percent of requirements in year three.  Remaining requirements will be filled through the procurement process or over-the-counter transactions.



PSCo has coal transportation contracts that provide for delivery of 100 percent its coal requirements in 2017 and 2018.  Coal delivery may be subject to interruptions or reductions due to operation of the mines, transportation problems, weather and availability of equipment.



Natural gas—PSCo uses both firm and interruptible natural gas supply and standby oil in combustion turbines and certain boilers.  Natural gas supplies for PSCo’s power plants are procured under contracts to provide an adequate supply of fuel.  However, as natural gas primarily serves intermediate and peak demand, any remaining forecasted requirements are able to be procured through a liquid spot market.  The majority of natural gas supply under contract is covered by a long-term agreement with Anadarko Energy Services Company, the balance of natural gas supply contracts have variable pricing features tied to changes in various natural gas indices.  PSCo hedges a portion of that risk through financial instruments.  See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.



Most transportation contract pricing is based on FERC approved transportation tariff rates. Certain natural gas supply and transportation agreements include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of natural gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery.



•At Dec. 31, 2016, PSCo’s commitments related to gas supply contracts, which expire in various years from 2017 through 2023, were approximately $654 million and commitments related to gas transportation and storage contracts, which expire in various years from 2017 through 2060, were approximately $573 million.

•At Dec. 31, 2015, PSCo’s commitments related to gas supply contracts were approximately $750 million and commitments related to gas transportation and storage contracts were approximately $684 million.



PSCo has limited on-site fuel oil storage facilities and primarily relies on the spot market for incremental supplies.



Renewable Energy Sources



PSCo’s renewable energy portfolio includes wind, hydroelectric, biomass and solar power from both owned generating facilities and PPAs.  As of Dec. 31, 2016, PSCo was in compliance with mandated RPS, which requires generation from renewable resources of 20.0 percent of electric retail sales.



•Renewable energy comprised28.3percent and 22.0 percent of PSCo’s total energy for 2016 and 2015, respectively;

•Wind energy comprised23.7percent and 19.4 percent of the total energy for 2016 and 2015, respectively; and

•Hydroelectric, biomass and solar power comprised approximately4.6percent and 2.6 percent of the total energy for 2016 and 2015.



PSCo also offers customer-focused renewable energy initiatives. Windsource allows customers to purchase a portion or all of their electricity from renewable sources.  In 2016, the number of customers utilizing Windsource increased to approximately 46,000 from 45,000 in 2015.











Additionally, to encourage the growth of solar energy on the system, customers are offered incentives to install solar panels on their homes and businesses under the Solar*Rewards program.  Over 32,500 PV systems with approximately 276 MW of aggregate capacity and over 29,500 PV systems with approximately 258 MW of aggregate capacity have been installed in Colorado under this program as of Dec. 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  Additionally, 25 community solar gardens with 18.1 MW of capacity and 24 gardens with 16.6 MW of capacity have been completed in Colorado as of Dec. 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.



Wind— PSCo acquires the majority of its wind energy from PPAs with wind farm owners, primarily located in Colorado.  Currently, PSCo has 19 of these agreements in place, with facilities ranging in size from two MW to over 300 MW.



•PSCo had approximately 2,560 MW of wind energy on its system at the end of 2016 and 2015. In addition to receiving purchased wind energy under these agreements, PSCo also typically receives wind RECs which are used to meet state renewable resource requirements.

•The average cost per MWh of wind energy under these contracts was approximately $42 in 2016 and 2015. The cost per MWh of wind energy varies by contract and may be influenced by a number of factors including regulation, state-specific renewable resource requirements, and the year of contract execution.  Generally, contracts executed in 2016 continued to benefit from improvements in wind technology, excess capacity among manufacturers, and motivation to commence new construction prior to the anticipated expiration of the federal PTCs.  In December 2015, the federal PTCs were extended through 2019 with a phase down beginning in 2017.



Wholesale and Commodity Marketing Operations



PSCo conducts various wholesale marketing operations, including the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy, ancillary services and energy related products.  PSCo uses physical and financial instruments to minimize commodity price and credit risk and hedge sales and purchases.  PSCo also engages in trading activity unrelated to hedging and sharing of any margins is determined through state regulatory proceedings as well as the operation of the FERC approved joint operating agreement. See Item 7 for further discussion.





SPS

Public Utility Regulation



Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of Jurisdiction—The PUCT and NMPRC regulate SPS’ retail electric operations and have jurisdiction over its retail rates and services and the construction of transmission or generation in their respective states.  The municipalities in which SPS operates in Texas have original jurisdiction over SPS’ rates in those communities.  Each municipality can deny SPS’ rate increases.  SPS can then appeal municipal rate decisions to the PUCT, which hears all municipal rate denials in one hearing.  The NMPRC also has jurisdiction over the issuance of securities.  SPS is regulated by the FERC with respect to its wholesale electric operations, accounting practices, wholesale sales for resale, the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce, compliance with NERC electric reliability standards, asset transactions and mergers, and natural gas transactions in interstate commerce.  As approved by the FERC, SPS operates within the SPP RTO and SPP IM wholesale market.  SPS is authorized to make wholesale electric sales at market-based prices.



Fuel, Purchased Energy and Conservation Cost-Recovery Mechanisms—SPS has several retail adjustment clauses that recover fuel, purchased energy and other resource costs:



•DCRF— Recovers certain distribution costs in Texas that are not included in base rates.

•EECRF— Recovers costs associated with providing energy efficiency programs in Texas.

•EE rider— Recovers costs associated with providing energy efficiency programs in New Mexico.

•FPPCAC— Adjusts monthly to recover the actual fuel and purchased power costs.

•PCRF— Allows recovery of certain purchased power costs in Texas that are not included in base rates.

•RPS— Recovers deferred costs associated with renewable energy programs in New Mexico.

•TCRF— Recovers certain transmission infrastructure improvement costs and changes in wholesale transmission charges in Texas that are not included in base rates.



Fuel and purchased energy costs are recovered in Texas through a fixed fuel and purchased energy recovery factor, which is part of SPS’ retail electric tariff.  SO2and NOx allowance revenues and costs are also recovered through the fixed fuel and purchased energy recovery factor.  The regulations allow retail fuel factors to change up to three times per year.











The fixed fuel and purchased energy recovery factor provides for the over- or under-recovery of fuel and purchased energy expenses.  Regulations also require refunding or surcharging over- or under- recovery amounts, including interest, when they exceed four percent of the utility’s annual fuel and purchased energy costs on a rolling 12-month basis, if this condition is expected to continue.



PUCT regulations require periodic examination of SPS’ fuel and purchased energy costs, the efficient use of fuel and purchased energy, fuel acquisition and management policies and purchased energy commitments.  SPS is required to file an application for the PUCT to retrospectively review fuel and purchased energy costs at least every three years.  In June 2016, SPS filed its fuel reconciliation application which reconciles fuel and purchased power costs for 2013 through 2015.  In February 2017, an unopposed stipulation was reached which resolves all issues in this case.  The stipulation is pending PUCT approval, which is expected in the first half of 2017.



Each New Mexico utility operating with a FPPCAC must periodically file an application for continued use.  In October 2015, the NMPRC granted SPS authority to continue using its FPPCAC to collect its fuel and purchase power costs.  SPS will be required to file a request for continuation of its FPPCAC by October 2019.



SPS recovers fuel and purchased energy costs from its wholesale customers through a monthly wholesale fuel and purchased economic energy cost adjustment clause accepted for filing by the FERC.



Capacity and Demand



Uninterrupted system peak demand for SPS for each of the last three years and the forecast for 2017, assuming normal weather conditions, is as follows:

System Peak Demand (in MW)2014201520162017 ForecastSPS4,8714,6784,8364,484



The peak demand for the SPS system typically occurs in the summer.  The 2016 system peak demand for SPS occurred on July 13, 2016.  The 2016 peak demand increased due to warmer than normal July summer weather. The 2017 forecast assumes normal peak day weather. In addition, the partial requirement contract with Golden Spread ends May 2017, causing a lower 2017 forecast peak demand for SPS.



Energy Sources and Related Transmission Initiatives



SPS expects to use existing electric generating stations, power purchases, DSM and new generation options to meet its system capacity requirements.



Purchased Power—SPS has contracts to purchase power from other utilities and independent power producers.  Long-term purchased power contracts typically require a periodic capacity charge and an energy charge for energy actually purchased.  SPS also makes short-term purchases to meet system load and energy requirements, to replace generation from company-owned units under maintenance or during outages, to meet operating reserve obligations or to obtain energy at a lower cost.



Purchased Transmission Services—SPS has contractual arrangements with SPP and regional transmission service providers to deliver power and energy to its native load customers.



High Priority Incremental Load Study Report—In 2014, the SPP Board of Directors approved the High Priority Incremental Load Study Report, a reliability assessment that evaluated the anticipated transmission needs of certain parts of the SPP region resulting from expected load growth.  As a result of this study, SPS has received NTCs and conditional NTCs for 44 new transmission projects at an estimated cost of approximately $557 million to be placed into service by 2020.  As of Dec. 31, 2016, 16 of these projects have been completed at an original estimated cost of $88 million.  SPS is developing plans for the remaining 28 projects and submitting CCNs to the PUCT and the NMPRC.  The original estimated cost for these remaining projects is $469 million.  These projects are intended to provide regional reliability benefits as well as the ability to serve the increase in load in southeastern New Mexico.











TUCO Substation to Yoakum County Substation to Hobbs Plant Substation 345 KV Transmission Line—In March 2016, the PUCT approved SPS’ CCN for the 33-mile Yoakum County to Texas/New Mexico State line portion of this 345 KV line project.  A CCN for the 111-mile TUCO to Yoakum County substation segment was filed in June 2016.  Assuming approval of this CCN, this segment is scheduled to be in service in 2019.  A 36-mile CCN for the Texas/New Mexico state line to Hobbs Plant segment is planned to be filed later in the first quarter of 2017.  The estimated project cost for all three segments is approximately $242 million.



Hobbs Plant Substation to China Draw Substation 345 KV Transmission Line —In November 2016, the NMPRC approved SPS’ CCN for the Hobbs Plant to China Draw transmission line.  The estimated project cost is approximately $163 million.  The line is anticipated to be in service in 2018.



SPS Resource Plans —SPS was required to develop and implement a renewable portfolio plan by 2015, in which 15 percent of its energy to serve its New Mexico retail customers is produced by renewable resources.  The requirement was met through PPAs, including wind, solar and distributed generation.  In 2020, the renewable resource production requirement increases to 20 percent.  In addition, SPS indicated that it was evaluating water supply issues at its Tolk facility and if additional investment is required to operate the plant through its existing life.  The Ogallala aquifer in this region of the country has depleted more rapidly than expected and SPS is currently seeking a permit for a horizontal well configuration pilot program that could help to delay the need for a more substantial investment solution.  As a result of this issue and environmental issues currently facing the plant, SPS is seeking a decrease to the remaining useful life of the facility in its current New Mexico rate case proceeding (see Note 12).



Wholesale Customer Participation in ERCOT —In March 2016, the PUCT Staff requested comments on Lubbock Power & Light’s (LP&L’s) proposal to transition a portion of its load (approximately 430 MW on a peak basis) to the ERCOT in June 2019.  LP&L’s proposal would result in an approximate seven percent reduction of load in SPS, or a loss of approximately $18 million in wholesale transmission revenue.  The remaining portion of LP&L’s load (approximately 170 MW) would continue to be served by SPS.  Should LP&L join ERCOT, costs to SPS’ remaining customers would increase as SPS’ transmission costs would be spread across a smaller base of customers.



The PUCT has indicated there will be a two-step process regarding LP&L’s possible transfer to ERCOT.  The first step will be a proceeding to determine whether the proposed transfer is in the public interest and to consider certain protections for non-LP&L customers who would be affected by LP&L’s transfer.  If the PUCT determines the transfer is in the public interest, the second step will be for LP&L to file a CCN application for transmission facilities to connect with ERCOT.  The PUCT asked SPP and ERCOT to perform reliability and economic studies to better understand the implications of LP&L’s proposal.  SPS intends to participate in the PUCT’s processes to protect its customers’ interests.



In May 2016, SPS submitted a filing to the FERC seeking approval to impose an Interconnection Switching Fee (exit fee) associated with LP&L’s proposal.  In September 2016, FERC dismissed SPS’ petition without prejudice to refile, finding the petition premature since LP&L has not made a final decision to move to ERCOT and the terms of the transition have not been determined.











Energy Source Statistics

Year Ended Dec. 31201620152014SPSMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationCoal10,99039%12,44144%12,77048%Natural Gas10,9093810,5143610,06837Wind(a)6,120225,252193,76214Other(b)347115011801Total28,366100%28,357100%26,780100%Owned generation15,01553%16,48058%16,95663%Purchased generation13,3514711,877429,82437Total28,366100%28,357100%26,780100%

(a)This category includes wind energy de-bundled from RECs and also includes Windsource RECs.  SPS uses RECs to meet or exceed state resource requirements and may sell surplus RECs.

(b)Distributed generation from the Solar*Rewards program is not included, was approximately 14, 13 and 10 million net KWh for 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively.



Fuel Supply and Costs



The following table shows the delivered cost per MMBtu of each significant category of fuel consumed for owned electric generation, the percentage of total fuel requirements represented by each category of fuel and the total weighted average cost of all fuels.

CoalNatural GasWeightedAverage Owned Fuel CostSPS Generating PlantsCostPercentCostPercent2016$2.1270%$2.8130%$2.3220152.12733.11272.3920142.07714.76292.85



See Items 1A and 7 for further discussion of fuel supply and costs.



Fuel Sources



Coal—SPS purchases all of the coal requirements for its two coal facilities, Harrington and Tolk electric generating stations, from TUCO.  TUCO arranges for the purchase, receiving, transporting, unloading, handling, crushing, weighing and delivery of coal to meet SPS’ requirements.  TUCO is responsible for negotiating and administering contracts with coal suppliers, transporters and handlers.  The coal supply contract with TUCO expires in December 2017 for both Harrington and Tolk.  SPS normally maintains approximately 43 days of coal inventory.  As of Dec. 31, 2016 and 2015, coal inventories at SPS were approximately 64 and 76 days supply, respectively.  At Dec. 31, 2016, milder weather, purchase commitments and relatively low natural gas prices resulted in coal inventories being above optimal levels.  SPS’ generation stations primarily use low-sulfur western coal from mines operating in Wyoming. TUCO has coal agreements to supply 65 percent of SPS’ estimated coal requirements in 2017.  SPS’ general coal purchasing objective is to contract for approximately 80 percent of requirements for the first year.



Natural gas—SPS uses both firm and interruptible natural gas supply and standby oil in combustion turbines and certain boilers.  Natural gas for SPS’ power plants is procured under contracts to provide an adequate supply of fuel; which typically is purchased with terms of one year or less.  The transportation and storage contracts expire in various years from 2017 to 2033.  All of the natural gas supply contracts have variable pricing that is tied to various natural gas indices.



Most transportation contract pricing is based on FERC and Railroad Commission of Texas approved transportation tariff rates.  Certain natural gas supply and transportation agreements include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of natural gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery.  SPS’ commitments related to gas supply contracts were approximately $17 million and $10 million and commitments related to gas transportation and storage contracts were approximately $161 million and $192 million at Dec. 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.











SPS has limited on-site fuel oil storage facilities and primarily relies on the spot market for incremental supplies.



Renewable Energy Sources



SPS’ renewable energy portfolio includes wind and solar power from both owned generating facilities and PPAs. As of Dec. 31, 2016, SPS is in compliance with mandated RPS, which require generation from renewable resources of 3.7 percent of Texas electric retail sales and 15.0 percent of New Mexico electric retail sales.



•Renewable energy comprised22.8percent and 19.0 percent of SPS’ total energy for 2016 and 2015, respectively;

•Wind energy comprised21.6percent and 18.5 percent of the total energy for 2016 and 2015, respectively; and

•Solar power comprised approximately1.2percent and 0.5 percent of the total energy for 2016 and 2015, respectively.



SPS also offers customer-focused renewable energy initiatives.  Windsource allows customers in New Mexico to purchase a portion or all of their electricity from renewable sources.  The number of customers utilizing Windsource increased to approximately 900 in 2016 from 880 in 2015.



Additionally, to encourage the growth of solar energy on the system in New Mexico, customers are offered incentives to install solar panels on their homes and businesses under the Solar*Rewards program.  Over 147 PV systems with approximately 8.1 MW of aggregate capacity and over 144 PV systems with approximately 8.0 MW of aggregate capacity have been installed in New Mexico under this program as of Dec. 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.



Wind— SPS acquires its wind energy from IPP contracts and QF tariffs with wind farm owners, primarily located in the Texas Panhandle area of Texas and New Mexico.  SPS currently has 24 of these agreements in place, with facilities ranging in size from under two MW to 250 MW for a total capacity greater than 1,500 MW.



•SPS had approximately 1,500 MW and 1,755 MW of wind energy on its system at the end of 2016 and 2015, respectively. This decrease is primarily due to the timing of supplier contracts expiring. In addition to receiving purchased wind energy under these agreements, SPS also typically receives wind RECs, which are used to meet state renewable resource requirements.

•The average cost per MWh of wind energy under the IPP contracts and QF tariffs was approximately $25 and $24 for 2016 and 2015, respectively.  The cost per MWh of wind energy varies by contract and may be influenced by a number of factors including regulation, state-specific renewable resource requirements and the year of contract execution.  Generally, contracts executed in 2016 continued to benefit from improvements in technology, excess capacity among manufacturers, and motivation to commence new construction prior to the anticipated expiration of the federal PTCs.  In December 2016, the federal PTCs were extended through 2019 with a phase down beginning in 2017.



Wholesale and Commodity Marketing Operations



SPS conducts various wholesale marketing operations, including the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy, ancillary services and energy related products.  SPS uses physical and financial instruments to minimize commodity price and credit risk and hedge sales and purchases.  See Item 7 for further discussion.





Summary of Recent Federal Regulatory Developments



The FERC has jurisdiction over rates for electric transmission service in interstate commerce and electricity sold at wholesale, hydro facility licensing, natural gas transportation, asset transactions and mergers, accounting practices and certain other activities of Xcel Energy Inc.’s utility subsidiaries and transmission-only subsidiaries, including enforcement of NERC mandatory electric reliability standards.  State and local agencies have jurisdiction over many of Xcel Energy Inc.’s utility subsidiaries’ activities, including regulation of retail rates and environmental matters.  In addition to the matters discussed below, see Note 12 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of other regulatory matters.



Status of FERC Commissioners— The FERC is comprised of five commissioners appointed by the President and subject to confirmation by the Senate. There are today only two sitting commissioners.  It is uncertain when the President will appoint new commissioners to the open seats or when those appointments may be confirmed.  Without three sitting commissioners, the FERC will not have a quorum to act on contested matters.  The lack of a quorum could affect the timing of FERC decisions on proposed rules or pending, newly submitted and future filings involving, among other things, contested electric rate matters and CPCNs for construction of interstate natural gas pipeline facilities to serve the utility subsidiaries.











FERC Order, ROE Policy— The FERC has adopted a two-step ROE methodology for electric utilities.  The issue of how to apply the FERC ROE methodology is being contested in various complaint proceedings.  There are two ROE complaints against the MISO TOs, which include NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin.  In September 2016, the FERC issued an order in the first MISO ROE complaint, which upheld the initial decision made by the ALJ in December 2015, establishing an ROE of 10.32 percent for the period Nov. 12, 2013 to Feb. 11, 2015, and prospectively.  The second complaint is pending FERC action after issuance of an initial decision by the ALJ in June 2016, recommending an ROE of 9.7 percent for the period Feb. 12, 2015 to May 11, 2016.  The FERC is expected to issue an order in the second litigated MISO ROE complaint proceeding during 2017.  See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of the MISO ROE Complaints.



NERC Critical Infrastructure Protection Requirements— The FERC has approved Version 5 of NERC’s critical infrastructure protection standards, which added additional requirements to strengthen grid security controls.  Xcel Energy applied the requirements to high and medium impact assets by the July 1, 2016 deadline.  Requirements must be applied to low impact assets through a staggered implementation beginning April 1, 2017 through September 2018.  Xcel Energy is currently in the process of implementing initiatives to meet the compliance deadline.  The additional cost for compliance is anticipated to be recoverable through rates.



NERC Physical Security Requirements— In 2014, the FERC approved NERC’s proposed critical infrastructure protection standard related to physical security for bulk electric system facilities.  The new standard became enforceable in October 2015 with staggered milestone deliverable dates through 2016.  Xcel Energy has developed physical security plans in accordance with the requirements of the standard.  The additional cost for compliance is anticipated to be recoverable through rates.



Formula Rate Treatment of Accumulated Deferred Income Taxes (ADIT)— In 2015, NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, SPS and PSCo filed changes to their transmission formula rates and PSCo filed changes to its production formula rate to comply with IRS guidance regarding how ADIT must be reflected in formula rates using future test years and a true-up.  The filings were intended to ensure that NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS are in compliance with IRS rules and may continue to use accelerated tax depreciation.  Each filing requested a Jan. 1, 2016 effective date.



In 2015, the FERC partially accepted and partially rejected the proposed NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin transmission formula rate changes.  In September 2016, the FERC clarified their order, but required NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin to submit a new tariff change filing to implement the treatment of ADIT in the formula rate true-up.  In November 2016, NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin filed the changes proposing a Jan. 1, 2017 effective date, but requesting authority to calculate the 2016 true-up pursuant to the new ADIT tariff provisions.  In December 2016, the FERC issued an order which approved the tariff revisions, effective Jan. 1, 2017, but rejected the portion of their application related to the 2016 true-up.



In April 2016, the FERC accepted the SPS and PSCo ADIT formula rate changes, effective Jan. 1, 2016, subject to a compliance filing.  In August 2016, the FERC approved PSCo and SPS’ compliance filings.



Xcel Energy believes its wholesale formula rates are in compliance with the IRS ADIT rules.



Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act (PURPA) Enforcement Complaint against CPUC—In December 2016, Sustainable Power Group, LLC (sPower) petitioned the FERC to initiate an enforcement action in federal court against the CPUC under PURPA.  The petition asserts that a December 2016 CPUC ruling, which indicated that a QF must be a successful bidder in a PSCo resource acquisition bidding process, violated PURPA and FERC rules.  In January 2017, PSCo filed a motion to intervene and protest, arguing that the FERC should decline the petition.  The CPUC filed a similar pleading.  sPower has proposed to construct 800 MW of solar generation and 700 MW of wind generation in Colorado and seeks to require PSCo to contract for these resources under PURPA.  If sPower were to prevail, PSCo’s ability to select generation resources through competitive bidding would be negatively affected.  FERC action is pending.













Electric Operating Statistics



Electric Sales StatisticsYear Ended Dec. 31201620152014Electric sales (Millions of KWh)Residential24,72624,49824,857Large C&I27,66427,71927,657Small C&I35,83035,80636,022Public authorities and other1,1031,0711,104Total retail89,32389,09489,640Sales for resale18,69415,28314,931Total energy sold108,017104,377104,571Number of customers at end of periodResidential3,053,7323,023,4942,994,075Large C&I1,2281,2291,128Small C&I432,012429,617426,289Public authorities and other68,93568,59568,306Total retail3,555,9073,522,9353,489,798Wholesale524744Total customers3,555,9593,522,9823,489,842Electric revenues (Thousands of Dollars)Residential$2,965,681$2,891,371$2,956,576Large C&I1,706,5461,689,6951,789,742Small C&I3,327,5623,303,8383,382,750Public authorities and other140,464136,730143,442Total retail8,140,2538,021,6348,272,510Wholesale693,101660,590795,425Other electric revenues666,427593,762397,955Total electric revenues$9,499,781$9,275,986$9,465,890KWh sales per retail customer25,12025,29025,686Revenue per retail customer$2,289$2,277$2,370Residential revenue per KWh11.99¢11.80¢11.89¢Large C&I revenue per KWh6.176.106.47Small C&I revenue per KWh9.299.239.39Total retail revenue per KWh9.119.009.23Wholesale revenue per KWh3.714.325.33









Energy Source StatisticsYear Ended Dec. 31201620152014Xcel EnergyMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationMillions ofKWhPercent ofGenerationCoal40,56636%47,00343%49,12346%Natural Gas27,3512525,1512322,07121Wind(a)22,1232018,1861716,47815Nuclear14,1911312,8951213,50312Hydroelectric4,43544,00144,2034Other(b)2,16721,45611,7952Total110,833100%108,692100%107,173100%Owned generation74,14967%73,27967%73,62069%Purchased generation36,6843335,4133333,55331Total110,833100%108,692100%107,173100%

(a)This category includes wind energy de-bundled from RECs and also includes Windsource RECs.  Xcel Energy uses RECs to meet or exceed state resource requirements and may sell surplus RECs.

(b)Includes energy from other sources, including solar, biomass, oil and refuse.  Distributed generation from the Solar*Rewards program is not included, and was approximately 430, 266 and 222 million net KWh for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.





NATURAL GAS UTILITY OPERATIONS



Overview



The most significant developments in the natural gas operations of the utility subsidiaries are uncertainty regarding political and regulatory developments that impact hydraulic fracturing, safety requirements for natural gas pipelines and the continued trend of declining use per residential and small C&I customer, as a result of improved building construction technologies, higher appliance efficiencies and conservation.  From 2000 to 2016, average annual sales to the typical residential customer declined 18 percent, while sales to the typical small C&I customer declined 12 percent, each on a weather-normalized basis.  Although wholesale price increases do not directly affect earnings because of natural gas cost-recovery mechanisms, high prices can encourage further efficiency efforts by customers.



The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration



Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act (PIPES) Act—The PIPES Act, signed into law in June 2016, requires the DOT PHMSA to issue regulations on the construction and operation of the nation’s underground gas storage fields.  The act also grants PHMSA emergency order authority for pipeline operators, which would require operators to make immediate changes to assets or operations.  The act also directs PHMSA to continue work on a variety of mandates from the 2012 Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act (Pipeline Safety Act), many of which have not been completed.



PHMSA issued interim final rules for underground storage operators in December 2016.  PSCo operates three underground storage fields in Colorado and PSCo is developing a plan to meet the storage rules.  PSCo does not expect these changes to have a material impact on costs or operating reliability.



Pipeline Safety Act—The Pipeline Safety Act requires additional verification of pipeline infrastructure records by pipeline owners and operators to confirm the maximum allowable operating pressure of lines located in high consequence areas or more-densely populated areas.  The DOT PHMSA will require operators to re-confirm the maximum allowable operating pressure if records are inadequate.  This process could cause temporary or permanent limitations on throughput for affected pipelines.











In addition, the Pipeline Safety Act requires PHMSA to issue reports and develop new regulations including: requiring use of automatic or remote-controlled shut-off valves; requiring testing of certain previously untested transmission lines; and expanding integrity management requirements.  The Pipeline Safety Act also raises the maximum penalty for violating pipeline safety rules to $2 million per day for related violations. Xcel Energy is taking actions that are intended to comply with the Pipeline Safety Act and any related PHMSA regulations as they become effective.  Xcel Energy cannot predict the ultimate impact the Pipeline Safety Act will have on its costs, operations or financial results. PSCo and NSP-Minnesota can generally recover costs to comply with the transmission and distribution integrity management programs through the PSIA and GUIC riders, respectively.





NSP-Minnesota

Public Utility Regulation



Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of Jurisdiction—Retail rates, services and other aspects of NSP-Minnesota’s retail natural gas operations are regulated by the MPUC and the NDPSC within their respective states.  The MPUC has regulatory authority over security issuances, certain property transfers, mergers with other utilities and transactions between NSP-Minnesota and its affiliates.  In addition, the MPUC reviews and approves NSP-Minnesota’s natural gas supply plans for meeting customers’ future energy needs.  NSP-Minnesota is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to certain natural gas transactions in interstate commerce.  NSP-Minnesota is subject to the DOT, the Minnesota Office of Pipeline Safety, the NDPSC and the SDPUC for pipeline safety compliance, including pipeline facilities used in electric utility operations for fuel deliveries.



Purchased Gas and Conservation Cost-Recovery Mechanisms—NSP-Minnesota’s retail natural gas rates for Minnesota and North Dakota include a PGA clause that provides for prospective monthly rate adjustments to reflect the forecasted cost of purchased natural gas, transportation service and storage service.  The annual difference between the natural gas cost revenues collected through PGA rates and the actual natural gas costs is collected or refunded over the subsequent 12-month period.



NSP-Minnesota also recovers costs associated with transmission and distribution pipeline integrity management programs through its GUIC rider.  Costs recoverable under the GUIC rider include funding for pipeline assessments as well as deferred costs from NSP-Minnesota’s existing sewer separation and pipeline integrity management programs.  The MPUC and NDPSC have the authority to disallow recovery of certain costs if they find the utility was not prudent in its procurement activities.



Minnesota state law requires utilities to invest 0.5 percent of their state natural gas revenues in CIP.  These costs are recovered through customer base rates and an annual cost-recovery mechanism for the CIP expenditures.



Capability and Demand



Natural gas supply requirements are categorized as firm or interruptible (customers with an alternate energy supply).  The maximum daily send-out (firm and interruptible) for NSP-Minnesota was 800,232 MMBtu, which occurred on Jan. 18, 2016 and 774,044 MMBtu, which occurred on Jan. 12, 2015.



NSP-Minnesota purchases natural gas from independent suppliers, generally based on market indices that reflect current prices.  The natural gas is delivered under transportation agreements with interstate pipelines.  These agreements provide for firm deliverable pipeline capacity of 624,123 MMBtu per day.  In addition, NSP-Minnesota contracts with providers of underground natural gas storage services.  These agreements provide storage for approximately 26 percent of winter natural gas requirements and 29 percent of peak day firm requirements of NSP-Minnesota.



NSP-Minnesota also owns and operates one LNG plant with a storage capacity of 2.0 Bcf equivalent and three propane-air plants with a storage capacity of 1.3 Bcf equivalent to help meet its peak requirements.  These peak-shaving facilities have production capacity equivalent to 246,000 MMBtu of natural gas per day, or approximately 30 percent of peak day firm requirements.  LNG and propane-air plants provide a cost-effective alternative to annual fixed pipeline transportation charges to meet the peaks caused by firm space heating demand on extremely cold winter days.



NSP-Minnesota is required to file for a change in natural gas supply contract levels to meet peak demand, to redistribute demand costs among classes, or to exchange one form of demand for another.  In February 2016, the MPUC approved NSP-Minnesota’s contract demand levels for the 2015 through 2016 heating season.  Demand levels for the 2016 through 2017 heating season were approved by the MPUC in February 2017.











Natural Gas Supply and Costs



NSP-Minnesota actively seeks natural gas supply, transportation and storage alternatives to yield a diversified portfolio that provides increased flexibility, decreased interruption and financial risk and economical rates.  In addition, NSP-Minnesota conducts natural gas price hedging activity that has been approved by the MPUC.



The following table summarizes the average delivered cost per MMBtu of natural gas purchased for resale by NSP-Minnesota’s regulated retail natural gas distribution business:

2016$3.4720154.0720146.17



The cost of natural gas in 2016 decreased due to lower wholesale commodity prices.



NSP-Minnesota has firm natural gas transportation contracts with several pipelines, which expire in various years from 2017 through 2033.



NSP-Minnesota has certain natural gas supply, transportation and storage agreements that include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of natural gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery.  At Dec. 31, 2016, NSP-Minnesota was committed to approximately $528 million in such obligations under these contracts.



NSP-Minnesota purchases firm natural gas supply utilizing long-term and short-term agreements from approximately 29 domestic and Canadian suppliers.  This diversity of suppliers and contract lengths allows NSP-Minnesota to maintain competition from suppliers and minimize supply costs.



See Items 1A and 7 for further discussion of natural gas supply and costs.





NSP-Wisconsin

Public Utility Regulation



Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of Jurisdiction—NSP-Wisconsin is regulated by the PSCW and the MPSC.  The PSCW has a biennial base-rate filing requirement.  By June of each odd-numbered year, NSP-Wisconsin must submit a rate filing for the test year period beginning the following January.  NSP-Wisconsin is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to certain natural gas transactions in interstate commerce.  NSP-Wisconsin is subject to the DOT, the PSCW and the MPSC for pipeline safety compliance.



Natural Gas Cost-Recovery Mechanisms—NSP-Wisconsin has a retail PGA cost-recovery mechanism for Wisconsin operations to recover the actual cost of natural gas and transportation and storage services.  The PSCW has the authority to disallow certain costs if it finds NSP-Wisconsin was not prudent in its procurement activities.



NSP-Wisconsin’s natural gas rate schedules for Michigan customers include a natural gas cost-recovery factor, which is based on 12-month projections.



Capability and Demand



Natural gas supply requirements are categorized as firm or interruptible (customers with an alternate energy supply).  The maximum daily send-out (firm and interruptible) for NSP-Wisconsin was 155,583 MMBtu, which occurred on Jan. 18, 2016, and 158,719 MMBtu, which occurred on Jan. 7, 2015.



NSP-Wisconsin purchases natural gas from independent suppliers, generally based on market indices that reflect current prices.  The natural gas is delivered under transportation agreements with interstate pipelines.  These agreements provide for firm deliverable pipeline capacity of approximately 140,143 MMBtu per day.  In addition, NSP-Wisconsin contracts with providers of underground natural gas storage services.  These agreements provide storage for approximately 32 percent of winter natural gas requirements and 34 percent of peak day firm requirements of NSP-Wisconsin.











NSP-Wisconsin also owns and operates one LNG plant with a storage capacity of 270,000 Mcf equivalent and one propane-air plant with a storage capacity of 2,700 Mcf equivalent to help meet its peak requirements.  These peak-shaving facilities have production capacity equivalent to 18,408 MMBtu of natural gas per day, or approximately 12 percent of peak day firm requirements.  LNG and propane-air plants provide a cost-effective alternative to annual fixed pipeline transportation charges to meet the peaks caused by firm space heating demand on extremely cold winter days.



NSP-Wisconsin is required to file a natural gas supply plan with the PSCW annually to change natural gas supply contract levels to meet peak demand.  NSP-Wisconsin’s winter 2016-2017 supply plan was approved by the PSCW in October 2016.



Natural Gas Supply and Costs



NSP-Wisconsin actively seeks natural gas supply, transportation and storage alternatives to yield a diversified portfolio that provides increased flexibility, decreased interruption and financial risk and economical rates.  In addition, NSP-Wisconsin conducts natural gas price hedging activity that has been approved by the PSCW.



The following table summarizes the average delivered cost per MMBtu of natural gas purchased for resale by NSP-Wisconsin’s regulated retail natural gas distribution business:

2016$3.6220154.1120146.52



The cost of natural gas in 2016 decreased due to lower wholesale commodity prices.



The cost of natural gas supply, transportation service and storage service is recovered through various cost-recovery adjustment mechanisms.  NSP-Wisconsin has firm natural gas transportation contracts with several pipelines, which expire in various years from 2017 through 2029.



NSP-Wisconsin has certain natural gas supply, transportation and storage agreements that include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of natural gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery.  At Dec. 31, 2016, NSP-Wisconsin was committed to approximately $103 million in such obligations under these contracts.



NSP-Wisconsin purchased firm natural gas supply utilizing long-term and short-term agreements from approximately nine domestic and Canadian suppliers.  This diversity of suppliers and contract lengths allows NSP-Wisconsin to maintain competition from suppliers and minimize supply costs.



See Items 1A and 7 for further discussion of natural gas supply and costs.





PSCo

Public Utility Regulation



Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of Jurisdiction—PSCo is regulated by the CPUC with respect to its facilities, rates, accounts, services and issuance of securities.  PSCo holds a FERC certificate that allows it to transport natural gas in interstate commerce without PSCo becoming subject to full FERC jurisdiction under the Federal Natural Gas Act.  PSCo is subject to the DOT and the CPUC with regards to pipeline safety compliance.



Purchased Natural Gas and Conservation Cost-Recovery Mechanisms—PSCo has retail adjustment clauses that recover purchased natural gas and other resource costs:



•GCA— Recovers the actual costs of purchased natural gas and transportation to meet the requirements of its customers and is revised quarterly to allow for changes in natural gas rates.

•DSMCA— Recovers costs of DSM and performance initiatives to achieve various energy savings goals.

•PSIA— Recovers costs associated with transmission and distribution pipeline integrity management programs and two projects to replace large transmission pipelines.  The rider has been extended through 2018.











QSP Requirements— The CPUC established a natural gas QSP that provides for bill credits to customers if PSCo does not achieve certain performance targets relating to natural gas leak repair time and customer service.  The CPUC has extended the terms of the QSP through 2018.



Capability and Demand



Natural gas supply requirements are categorized as firm or interruptible (customers with an alternate energy supply).  The maximum daily send-out (firm and interruptible) for PSCo was 1,932,070 MMBtu, which occurred on Dec. 17, 2016 and 1,633,493 MMBtu, which occurred on March 4, 2015.



PSCo purchases natural gas from independent suppliers, generally based on market indices that reflect current prices.  The natural gas is delivered under transportation agreements with interstate pipelines.  These agreements provide for firm deliverable pipeline capacity of approximately 1,818,151 MMBtu per day, which includes 854,852 MMBtu of natural gas held under third-party underground storage agreements.  In addition, PSCo operates three company-owned underground storage facilities, which provide approximately 43,500 MMBtu of natural gas supplies on a peak day.  The balance of the quantities required to meet firm peak day sales obligations are primarily purchased at PSCo’s city gate meter stations.



PSCo is required by CPUC regulations to file a natural gas purchase plan each year projecting and describing the quantities of natural gas supplies, upstream services and the costs of those supplies and services for the 12-month period of the following year.  PSCo is also required to file a natural gas purchase report by October of each year reporting actual quantities and costs incurred for natural gas supplies and upstream services for the previous 12-month period.



Natural Gas Supply and Costs



PSCo actively seeks natural gas supply, transportation and storage alternatives to yield a diversified portfolio that provides increased flexibility, decreased interruption and financial risk and economical rates.  In addition, PSCo conducts natural gas price hedging activities that have been approved by the CPUC.



The following table summarizes the average delivered cost per MMBtu of natural gas purchased for resale by PSCo’s regulated retail natural gas distribution business:

2016$3.2720153.9220144.91



The cost of natural gas in 2016 decreased due to lower wholesale commodity prices.



PSCo has natural gas supply, transportation and storage agreements that include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of natural gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery.  At Dec. 31, 2016, PSCo was committed to approximately $884 million in such obligations under these contracts, which expire in various years from 2017 through 2029.



PSCo purchases natural gas by optimizing a balance of long-term and short-term natural gas purchases, firm transportation and natural gas storage contracts.  During 2016, PSCo purchased natural gas from approximately 32 suppliers.



See Items 1A and 7 for further discussion of natural gas supply and costs.





SPS

Natural Gas Facilities Used for Electric Generation



SPS does not provide retail natural gas service, but purchases and transports natural gas for certain of its generation facilities and operates natural gas pipeline facilities connecting the generation facilities to interstate natural gas pipelines.  SPS is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to certain natural gas transactions in interstate commerce; and to the jurisdiction of the PHMSA and the PUCT for pipeline safety compliance.



See Items 1A and 7 for further discussion of natural gas supply and costs.













Natural Gas Operating Statistics

Year Ended Dec. 31201620152014Natural gas deliveries (Thousands of MMBtu)Residential132,853135,394152,269C&I84,08286,09395,879Total retail216,935221,487248,148Transportation and other133,498125,263124,000Total deliveries350,433346,750372,148Number of customers at end of periodResidential1,835,5071,814,3211,795,190C&I157,286156,306155,515Total retail1,992,7931,970,6271,950,705Transportation and other7,3166,9816,594Total customers2,000,1091,977,6081,957,299Natural gas revenues (Thousands of Dollars)Residential$929,889$1,042,884$1,320,207C&I468,977547,165727,071Total retail1,398,8661,590,0492,047,278Transportation and other132,54682,03295,460Total natural gas revenues$1,531,412$1,672,081$2,142,738MMBtu sales per retail customer108.86112.39127.21Revenue per retail customer$702$807$1,050Residential revenue per MMBtu7.007.708.67C&I revenue per MMBtu5.586.367.58Transportation and other revenue per MMBtu0.990.650.77





GENERAL



Seasonality



The demand for electric power and natural gas is affected by seasonal differences in the weather.  In general, peak sales of electricity occur in the summer months, and peak sales of natural gas occur in the winter months.  As a result, the overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  Additionally, Xcel Energy’s operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are milder in the winter and cooler in the summer.  See Item 7 for further discussion.



Competition



Xcel Energy is a vertically integrated utility in all of its jurisdictions, subject to traditional cost-of-service regulation by state public utilities commissions.  However, Xcel Energy is subject to different public policies that promote competition and the development of energy markets.  Xcel Energy’s industrial and large commercial customers have the ability to own or operate facilities to generate their own electricity.  In addition, customers may have the option of substituting other fuels, such as natural gas, steam or chilled water for heating, cooling and manufacturing purposes, or the option of relocating their facilities to a lower cost region. Customers also have the opportunity to supply their own power with solar generation (depending on jurisdiction, rooftop solar or solar gardens) and in most jurisdictions can currently avoid paying for most of the fixed production, transmission and distribution costs incurred to serve them.  Several states have policies designed to promote the development of solar and other distributed energy resources through significant incentive policies; with these incentives and federal tax subsidies, distributed generating resources are potential competitors to Xcel Energy’s electric service business.











The FERC has continued to promote competitive wholesale markets through open access transmission and other means.  As a result, Xcel Energy Inc.’s utility subsidiaries and their wholesale customers can purchase the output from generation resources of competing wholesale suppliers and use the transmission systems of the utility subsidiaries on a comparable basis to serve their native load.  State public utilities commissions have created resource planning programs that promote competition in the acquisition of electricity generation resources used to provide service to retail customers.  In addition, FERC Order 1000 seeks to establish competition for construction and operation of certain new electric transmission facilities.  Xcel Energy Inc.’s utility subsidiaries also have franchise agreements with certain cities subject to periodic renewal.  If a city elected not to renew the franchise agreement, it could seek alternative means for its citizens to access electric power or gas, such as municipalization.  While each of Xcel Energy Inc.’s utility subsidiaries faces these challenges, Xcel Energy believes their rates and services are competitive with currently available alternatives.





ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



Xcel Energy’s facilities are regulated by federal and state environmental agencies.  These agencies have jurisdiction over air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid wastes and hazardous substances.  Various company activities require registrations, permits, licenses, inspections and approvals from these agencies.  Xcel Energy has received all necessary authorizations for the construction and continued operation of its generation, transmission and distribution systems.  Xcel Energy’s facilities have been designed and constructed to operate in compliance with applicable environmental standards.  However, it is not possible to determine when or to what extent additional facilities or modifications of existing or planned facilities will be required as a result of changes to environmental regulations, interpretations or enforcement policies or what effect future laws or regulations may have upon Xcel Energy’s operations.  See Item 7 and Notes 12 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.



There are significant present and future environmental regulations to encourage the use of clean energy technologies and regulate emissions of GHGs to address climate change.  Xcel Energy has undertaken a number of initiatives to meet current requirements and prepare for potential future regulations, reduce GHG emissions and respond to state renewable and energy efficiency goals.  If these future environmental regulations do not provide credit for the investments we have already made to reduce GHG emissions, or if they require additional initiatives or emission reductions, then their requirements would potentially impose additional substantial costs.  Xcel Energy believes, based on prior state commission practice, it would recover the cost of these initiatives through rates.



Xcel Energy is committed to addressing climate change and potential climate change regulation through efforts to reduce its GHG emissions in a balanced, cost-effective manner.  Xcel Energy adopted a methodology for calculating CO2emissions based on the reporting protocols of The Climate Registry, a nonprofit organization that provides and compiles GHG emissions data from reporting entities.  Starting in 2011, Xcel Energy began reporting GHG emissions to the EPA under the EPA’s mandatory GHG Reporting Program.



Based on The Climate Registry’s current reporting protocol, Xcel Energy estimated that its current electric generating portfolio emitted approximately 53.0 million and 56.6 million tons of CO2in 2016 and 2015, respectively.  Xcel Energy also estimated emissions associated with electricity purchased for resale to Xcel Energy customers from generation facilities owned by third parties.  Xcel Energy estimates these non-owned facilities emitted approximately 9.0 million and 10.2 million tons of CO2in 2016 and 2015, respectively.  Estimated total CO2emissions associated with service to Xcel Energy electric customers decreased by 4.9 million tons in 2016 compared to 2015, and this decrease in emissions was associated with an increase of 2.1 million net MWh of generation in 2016 compared to 2015.  Since 2012, the average annual decrease in CO2emissions is approximately 2.8 million tons of CO2per year.





CAPITAL SPENDING AND FINANCING



See Item 7 for a discussion of expected capital expenditures and funding sources.





EMPLOYEES



As ofDec. 31, 2016, Xcel Energy had11,440full-time employees and 72 part-time employees, of which5,428were covered under collective-bargaining agreements.  See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.















EXECUTIVE OFFICERS



Ben Fowke, 58, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and Director, Xcel Energy Inc., August 2011 to present.  Chief Executive Officer, NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo, and SPS, January 2015 to present.  Previously, President and Chief Operating Officer, Xcel Energy Inc., August 2009 to August 2011.



Christopher B. Clark, 50, President and Director, NSP-Minnesota, January 2015 to present.  Previously, Regional Vice President, Rates and Regulatory Affairs, NSP-Minnesota, October 2012 to December 2014; Managing Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs, NSP-Minnesota, January 2012 to October 2012; Managing Attorney, Xcel Energy Inc., November 2007 to January 2012.



David L. Eves, 58, President and Director, PSCo, January 2015 to present.  Previously, President, Director and Chief Executive Officer, PSCo, December 2009 to December 2014.



Robert C. Frenzel, 46, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Xcel Energy Inc., May 2016 to present.  Previously, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Luminant, a subsidiary of Energy Future Holdings Corp., an electric utility and power generation company, February 2012 to April 2016; Senior Vice President for Corporate Development, Strategy and Mergers and Acquisitions, Energy Future Holdings Corp., February 2009 to February 2012.  In April 2014, Energy Future Holdings Corp., the majority of its subsidiaries, including Texas Competitive Energy Holdings (TCEH) the parent company of Luminant, filed a voluntary bankruptcy petition under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code.  TCEH emerged from Chapter 11 in October 2016.



David T. Hudson, 56, President and Director, SPS, January 2015 to present.  Previously, President, Director and Chief Executive Officer, SPS, January 2014 to December 2014; Director, Community Service & Economic Development, SPS, April 2011 to January 2014; Director, Strategic Planning, SPS, May 2008 to April 2011.



Kent T. Larson, 57, Executive Vice President and Group President Operations, Xcel Energy Inc., January 2015 to present.  Previously, Senior Vice President, Group President Operations, Xcel Energy Services Inc., August 2014 to December 2014;  Senior Vice President Operations, Xcel Energy Services Inc., September 2011 to August 2014; Chief Energy Supply Officer, Xcel Energy Services Inc., March 2010 to September 2011.



Marvin E. McDaniel, Jr., 57, Executive Vice President, Group President, Utilities, and Chief Administrative Officer, Xcel Energy Inc., January 2015 to present. Previously, Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, Xcel Energy Inc., August 2012 to December 2014; Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, Xcel Energy Services Inc., September 2011 to August 2012; Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, Xcel Energy Services Inc., August 2009 to September 2011 and Vice President, Talent and Technology Business Areas, Xcel Energy Services Inc., August 2009 to September 2011.



Timothy O’Connor, 57, Senior Vice President, Chief Nuclear Officer, Xcel Energy Services Inc., February 2013 to present. Previously, Acting Chief Nuclear Officer, NSP-Minnesota, September 2012 to February 2013; Vice President, Engineering and Nuclear Regulatory Compliance and Licensing July 2012 to September 2012; Monticello Site Vice President, May 2007 to July 2012.



Judy M. Poferl, 57, Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary and Executive Services, Xcel Energy Inc., January 2015 to present. Previously, Vice President, Corporate Secretary, Xcel Energy Inc., May 2013 to December 2014; President, Director and Chief Executive Officer, NSP-Minnesota, August 2009 to May 2013.



Jeffrey S. Savage, 45, Senior Vice President, Controller, Xcel Energy Inc., January 2015 to present.  Previously, Vice President, Controller, Xcel Energy Inc., September 2011 to December 2014; Senior Director, Financial Reporting, Corporate and Technical Accounting, Xcel Energy Services Inc., December 2009 to September 2011.



Mark E. Stoering, 56, President and Director, NSP-Wisconsin, January 2015 to present.  Previously, President, Director and Chief Executive Officer, NSP-Wisconsin, January 2012 to December 2014; Vice President, Portfolio Strategy and Business Development, Xcel Energy Services Inc., August 2000 to December 2011.



Scott M. Wilensky, 60, Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Xcel Energy Inc., January 2015 to present.  Previously, Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Xcel Energy Inc., September 2011 to December 2014; Vice President, Regulatory and Resource Planning, Xcel Energy Services Inc., September 2009 to September 2011.



No family relationships exist between any of the executive officers or directors.













