ITEM 1.BUSINESS

The words “Equinix”, “we”, “our”, “ours”, “us” and the “Company” refer to Equinix, Inc. All statements in this discussion that are not
historical areforward-lookingstatements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding Equinix’s “expectations”,
“beliefs”, “intentions”, “strategies”, “forecasts”, “predictions”, “plans” or the like. Such statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to a number of
factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in theforward-lookingstatements. Equinix cautions investors that there can be no assurance that actual
results or business conditions will not differ materially from those projected or suggested in suchforward-lookingstatements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, the risk factors
discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Equinix expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to anyforward-lookingstatements contained herein to
reflect any change in Equinix’s expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements are based.

Overview

Equinix, Inc. connects more than 4,800 companies directly to
their customers and partners inside the world’s most networked data centers. Today, businesses leverage the Equinix interconnection platform in 33 strategic markets across the Americas, Asia-Pacific, and Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA).

Platform Equinix®combines a global footprint of state-of-the-art International Business Exchange™ (IBX®) data centers, a variety of interconnection opportunities and unique ecosystems. Together these components accelerate business growth and opportunity for
Equinix’s customers by safekeeping their infrastructure and applications closer to users, enabling them to improve performance with cost-effective and scalable interconnections, work with vendors to deploy new technologies such as cloud
computing and to collaborate with the widest variety of partners and customers to achieve their ambitions.

Equinix’s
platform offers these unique value propositions to customers:



•Global Data Centers



•A broad footprint of 100+ IBX data centers in 15 countries on 5 continents.



•More than $7.0 billion of capital invested in capacity, new markets and acquisitions since 1998.



•Equinix delivered more than 99.9999% of uptime across its footprint in 2014.



•Connected



•More than 1,000 networks and approximately 147,000 cross connects in Equinix sites.



•Equinix provides less than 10 milliseconds latency to over 90% of the population of North America and Europe, as well as key population centers
throughout Latin America and Asia-Pacific.



•Partners, Customers and Prospects



•Equinix sites house a blue-chip customer base of 4,800+ global businesses.



•These customers represent a who’s who of network, digital media, financial services, cloud/IT and enterprise leaders.



•Opportunity



•Equinix data centers contain a dynamic marketplace for communications services, interconnecting businesses, networks, carriers and content providers to
potential suppliers, customers and partners.



•More than 4,800+ potential partners to deploy world-class solutions.







Equinix has established a critical mass of customers that continues to drive new and
existing customer growth and bookings. Our network- and cloud-neutral business model also contributes to our success in the market. We offer customers direct interconnection to an aggregation of bandwidth providers, rather than focusing on selling a
particular network. The providers in our sites include the world’s top carriers, Internet service providers (ISPs), broadband access networks (DSL / cable) and international carriers. Neutrality also means our customers can choose to buy from,
or partner with, leading companies across our five targeted verticals. These include:



•Network and Mobile Providers (AT&T, British Telecom, Comcast, Level 3 Communications, NTT, SingTel, Syniverse, Verizon Business)



•Cloud and IT Services (Amazon Web Services, Box, Carpathia, Level 3 Communications, NetApp, Microsoft, Salesforce.com, SoftLayer, Cisco, WebEx, Oracle,
Datapipe, CloudSigma, Workday)



•Content Providers (eBay, DIRECTV, Facebook, Hulu, LinkedIn, Priceline, Yahoo!, Zynga)



•Enterprise (Bechtel, Booz Allen Hamilton, CDM Smith, Deloitte, The GAP, Ingram Micro, Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP, McGraw-Hill, Rockwell-Collins, United
Stationers Inc.)



•Financial Companies (ACTIV Financial, Bloomberg, Chicago Board Options Exchange, DirectEdge, JP Morgan Chase, Quantlab Financial, NASDAQ OMX NLX, NYSE
Technologies, Thomson Reuters)

Equinix generates revenue by providing colocation and related
interconnection and managed IT infrastructure offerings on a global platform of 100+ IBX data centers.



•Colocation offerings include operations space, storage space, cabinets and power for customers’ colocation needs.



•Interconnection offerings include Equinix Cloud Exchange, which enables simultaneous, direct connections to multiple clouds from a single port, and
Performance Hub™, which takes enterprise IT inside any one of our global data centers, bringing our customers closer to their end users for improved network reliability, performance and security. Equinix also offers cross connects, as well as
switch ports on the Equinix Internet Exchange and Equinix Carrier Ethernet Exchange services. These offerings provide scalable and reliable connectivity that allows customers to exchange traffic directly with the service provider of their choice or
directly with each other, creating a performance optimized business ecosystem for the exchange of data between strategic partners.



•Managed IT infrastructure services allow customers to leverage Equinix’s significant telecommunications expertise, maximize the benefits of our
IBX data centers and optimize their infrastructure and resources.

The market for Equinix’s offerings
has historically been served by large telecommunications carriers that have bundled their telecommunications and managed services with their colocation offerings. In addition, some Equinix customers, such as Microsoft, build and operate their own
data centers for their large infrastructure deployments, called server farms. However, these customers rely upon Equinix IBX data centers for many of their critical interconnection relationships. The need for large, wholesale, outsourced data
centers is also being addressed by providers that build large data centers to meet customers’ needs for standalone data centers, a different customer segment than Equinix serves.

Due to the increasing cost and complexity of the power and cooling requirements of today’s data center equipment, Equinix has gained
many customers that have outgrown their existing data centers or have realized the benefits of a network-neutral model and the ability to create their own optimized business ecosystems for the exchange of data. Strategically, we will continue to
look at attractive opportunities to grow market share and selectively expand our footprint and offerings. We continue to leverage our global reach and depth to differentiate Equinix based upon our ability to support truly global customer
requirements in all our markets.







Several factors contribute to the growth in demand for data center offerings, including:



•The growth of “proximity communities” that rely on immediate physical colocation and interconnection with their strategic partners and
customers, such as financial exchange ecosystems for electronic trading and settlement and ecosystems for real-time bidding and fulfillment of Internet advertising.



•The adoption of cloud computing technology services, including the growth of enterprise applications delivered across communications networks, such as
Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), and disaster recovery services.



•The continuing growth of consumer Internet traffic from new bandwidth-intensive services, such as video, voice over IP (VoIP), social media, mobile
data, gaming, data-rich media, Ethernet and wireless services. The financial services market is experiencing tremendous growth due to electronic trading and the increased volume of peak messages (transactions per second), requiring optimized data
exchange through business ecosystems.



•Significant increases in power and cooling requirements for today’s data center equipment. New generations of servers continue to concentrate
processing capability, with associated power consumption and cooling load, into smaller footprints and many legacy-built data centers are unable to accommodate these new power and cooling demands. The high capital costs associated with building and
maintaining “in-sourced” data centers creates an opportunity for capital savings by leveraging an outsourced colocation model.

Industry Background

The Internet is a collection of numerous independent
networks interconnected to form a network of networks. Users on different networks are able to communicate with each other through interconnection between these networks. For example, when a person sends an email to someone who uses a different
provider for his or her connectivity (e.g. Comcast versus Verizon), the email must pass from one network to the other to get to its final destination. Equinix provides a physical point at which that interconnection can occur.

To accommodate the rapid growth of Internet traffic, an organized approach for network interconnection was needed. This was the start of
the network era, when networks gained mutual advantage by exchanging data traffic on interoperable platforms. The exchange of traffic between these networks became known as peering. Peering is when networks trade traffic at relatively equal amounts
and set up agreements to trade traffic often at no charge to the other party. At first, government and non-profit organizations established places where these networks could exchange traffic, or peer, with each other—these points were known as
network access points, or NAPs. Over time, many NAPs became a natural extension of carrier services and were run by such companies as MFS (now a part of Verizon Business), Sprint, Ameritech and Pacific Bell (the last two now parts of AT&T).

Ultimately, these NAPs were unable to scale with the growth of the Internet, and the lack of “neutrality” by the
carrier owners of these NAPs created a conflict of interest with the participants. This created a market need for network-neutral interconnection points that could accommodate the rapidly growing need to increase performance for enterprise and
consumer users of the Internet, especially with the rise of important content providers such as AOL, Microsoft, Yahoo! and others. In addition, the providers, as well as a growing number of enterprises, required a more secure and reliable solution
for direct connection to a variety of telecommunications networks, as the importance of their Internet operations continued to grow. These were the seeds of the connected era, when peering expanded exponentially, and between new players, and access
to information anytime and anywhere became the norm.

To accommodate Internet traffic growth, the largest networks left the
NAPs and began connecting and trading traffic by placing private circuits between each other. Peering, which once occurred at the NAP locations, was moved to these private circuits. Over the years, these circuits became expensive to expand and could
not be built quickly enough to accommodate traffic growth. This led to a need by the large carriers to find a more







efficient way to peer. Today, many customers satisfy their requirements for peering through data center providers like Equinix because it permits them to peer with the networks they require
within one location, using simple direct connections. Their ability to peer within a data center or across a data center campus, instead of across a metro area, has increased the scalability of their operations while decreasing network costs.

The interconnection model has further evolved over the years to include new offerings as the increasingly collaborative
landscape of the interconnected era imposes new demands on connectivity. As enterprises become increasingly interdependent and cloud-enabled, they need real-time data exchange and reliable, instant connections between the various corners of any
given digital ecosystem to compete. Starting with the peering and network communities, interconnection has been used for new network services including carrier Ethernet, multiprotocol label switching (MPLS), virtual private networks (VPNs) and
mobile services, in addition to traditional international private line and voice services. The industry continues to evolve with a set of new offerings where interconnection is often used to solve the network-to-network interconnection challenges.

In addition, the enterprise customer segment is also evolving. In the past, most enterprises opted to keep their data center
requirements in house. However, current trends are leading more and more enterprise CIOs to either outsource their data center requirements, and/or extend their corporate wide area networks (WANs) into carrier-neutral colocation facilities. The
combination of globalization, the proliferation of bandwidth intensive Internet-facing applications and rich media content, the need to provide access to cloud computing environments, business continuity and disaster recovery needs, plus tight
corporate IT budgets mean that enterprise CIOs must do more with less. Industry analysts forecast growth in the colocation market to be approximately 10% per year over the next four years.

Equinix Value Proposition

More than 4,800 companies, including a diversified mix of cloud and IT service providers, content providers, enterprises, financial
companies, and network and mobile service providers, currently operate within Equinix IBX data centers. These companies derive specific value from the following elements of the Equinix service offering:



•Interconnection leadership:The digital economy’s demands for fast, secure, instant business collaboration puts the interconnection
inside Equinix at a premium. The 4,800 companies inside Equinix represent a range of global businesses, from cloud, to networks, to finance. Inside Equinix, customers can interconnect across industries with the speed, reliability and scalability
needed to compete and grow.



•Unrivaled cloud access:Equinix is home to 500+ cloud service providers and a variety of secure routes to the efficiencies, performance
and cost-savings of the cloud. Equinix Cloud Exchange offers on-demand access to multiple cloud providers from multiple networks, enabling customers to design scalable cloud services tailored to their needs at a given moment.



•Comprehensive global solution:With 100+ IBX data centers in 33 markets in the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific, Equinix offers a
consistent global solution.



•Premium data centers:Equinix IBX data centers feature advanced design, security, power and cooling elements to provide customers with
industry-leading reliability, including average uptime of >99.9999% globally in 2014. While others in the market have business models that include additional offerings, Equinix is focused on colocation and interconnection as our core
competencies.



•Dynamic business ecosystems:Equinix’s network- and cloud-neutral model has enabled us to attract a critical mass of networks and
cloud and IT services providers and that, in turn, attracts other businesses seeking to interconnect within a single location. This ecosystem model, versus connecting to multiple partners in disparate locations, reduces costs and optimizes the
performance of data exchange. As Equinix grows and attracts an even more diversified base of customers, the value of Equinix’s IBX data center offering increases.







•Improved economics:Customers seeking to outsource their data center operations rather than build their own capital-intensive data
centers enjoy significant capital cost savings. Customers also benefit from improved economics on account of the broad access to networks that Equinix provides. Rather than purchasing costly local loops from multiple transit providers, customers can
connect directly to more than 1,000 networks inside Equinix’s IBX data centers.



•Leading insight:With more than 16 years of industry experience, Equinix has a specialized staff of industry experts and solutions
architects who helped build and shape the interconnection infrastructure of the Internet. This specialization and industry knowledge base offer customers a unique consultative value and a competitive advantage.

Our Strategy

Our
objective is to expand our global leadership position as the premier network- and cloud-neutral data center platform for cloud and IT services providers, content providers, financial companies, enterprises and network and mobile services providers.
Key components of our strategy include the following:

Improve customer performance through
interconnection.We have assembled a critical mass of premier network providers and content companies and have become one of the core hubs of the information-driven world. This critical mass is a key selling point for companies that
want to connect with a diverse set of networks to provide the best connectivity to their end customers and network companies that want to sell bandwidth to companies and interconnect with other networks in the most efficient manner available.
Currently, we house more than 1,000 unique networks, including all of the top tier networks, allowing our customers to directly interconnect with providers that best meet their unique global and regional price and performance needs. We have a
growing mass of key players in cloud and IT services, such as Accenture, Amazon Web Services, AT&T, Microsoft Azure and Salesforce.com, and in the enterprise and financial sectors, such as Bechtel, Bloomberg, Chicago Board of Trade, The GAP,
McGraw-Hill, and others. We expect these segments will continue to grow as they seek to leverage our critical mass of network providers and interconnect directly with each other to improve performance.

Streamline ease of doing business globally.Data center reliability, power availability and network choice are the
most important attributes considered by our customers when they are choosing a data center provider in a particular location. We have long been recognized as a leader in these areas and our performance continues to improve against these criteria.
Our power infrastructure delivered 99.9999% uptime globally in 2014.

In 2014, more than half of our revenue came from
customers with deployments across two or more of our global regions, and as globalization continues, seamless global solutions will become an increasingly important data center selection criteria. We continue to focus on strategic acquisitions to
expand our market coverage and on global product standardization, pricing and contracts harmonization initiatives to meet these global demands.

Deepen existing and grow new ecosystems.As networks, cloud and IT services providers, content providers, financial services providers and enterprises locate in our IBX data centers, it
benefits their suppliers and business partners to do so as well, to gain the full economic and performance benefits of direct interconnection for their business ecosystems. These partners, in turn, pull in their business partners, creating a
“network effect” of customer adoption. Our interconnection offerings enable scalable, reliable and cost-effective interconnectivity and optimized traffic exchange, thus lowering overall cost and increasing flexibility. The ability to
directly interconnect with a wide variety of companies is a key differentiator for us in the market and enables companies to create new opportunities within unique ecosystems by working together. We have efficient and innovative Internet, Ethernet
and Cloud Exchange platforms to accelerate commercial growth within the ecosystems in our IBX sites via this network effect.

Expand vertical go-to-market plan.We plan to continue to focus our go-to-market efforts on customer segments and
business applications that appreciate the Equinix value proposition of interconnection, reliability, global reach and ecosystem collaboration opportunities. Today we have identified these segments as cloud







services, content and digital media, financial services, enterprises, IT services, and network and mobile service providers. As digital business evolves, we will continue to identify and focus
our go-to-market efforts on industry segments that need our value proposition.

Accelerate global reach and
scale.We continue to evaluate expansion opportunities in select markets based on customer demand. In 2013, we acquired the Kleyer 90 carrier hotel in Frankfurt to consolidate our position in one of Europe’s key communications hubs. We
entered the Osaka, Japan market with a new data center that provides geographic redundancy within the Japanese market. We also added capacity across our global footprint with a second data center in Seattle, an eleventh in Northern Virginia, a fifth
in Zurich, a fourth in Tokyo and a major expansion in Singapore. In 2014, we completed the acquisition of ALOG Data Centers of Brazil S.A. and took the remaining ownership interest of the four data centers at ALOG, including two in São
Paulo and two in Rio de Janeiro.

Our strategy is to continue to grow in select existing markets and possibly expand to
additional markets where demand and financial return potential warrant. We expect to execute this expansion strategy in a cost-effective and disciplined manner through a combination of acquiring existing data centers through lease or purchase,
acquiring or investing in local data center operators and building new IBX data centers based on key criteria, such as demand and potential financial return, in each market.

Our Customers

Our customers include carriers, mobile and other bandwidth
providers, cloud and IT services providers, content providers, financial companies and global enterprises. We provide each customer access to a choice of business partners and solutions based on their colocation, interconnection and managed IT
service needs. As of December 31, 2014, we had more than 4,800 customers worldwide.

Typical customers in our five key
customer categories include the following:



Cloud and IT ServicesContent ProvidersEnterpriseFinancial CompaniesNetwork andMobile ServicesAmazon Web ServicesBlue
BoxCarpathiaWebExCisco IntercloudCloudFlareCloudSigmaCloud365DesktoneDatapipeDigital OceanGoGridIBM SoftLayerMicrosoft AzureNetAppSalesforce.comeBayHuluYahoo!ZyngaBrightRollCDM SmithDeloitteIngram MicroKatten MuchinRosenman LLPMcGraw-HillRockwell-CollinsUnited StationersACTIV FinancialChicago Board ofOptions
ExchangeDirectEdgeiZettleNASDAQ OMX GroupNYSE TechnologiesAT&TBritish TelecomComcastLevel 3CommunicationsNational Voice andDataNTT CommunicationsOrange BusinessServicesSyniverseTelefonicaVerizonXO Communications

Customers typically sign renewable contracts of one or more years in length. During the years ended
December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, our largest customer accounted for approximately 2% of our recurring revenues for the periods then ended. Our 50 largest customers accounted for approximately 36%, 35% and 34% of our recurring revenues for the
years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.







Our Offerings

Equinix provides a choice of data center offerings primarily comprised of colocation, interconnection solutions and managed IT infrastructure services.

Colocation and Related Offerings

Our IBX data centers provide our customers with secure, reliable and fault-tolerant environments that are necessary for optimum Internet commerce interconnection. Many of our IBX data centers include
multiple layers of physical security, scalable cabinet space availability, on-site trained staff (24x7x365) dedicated areas for customer care and equipment staging, redundant AC/DC power systems and other redundant and fault-tolerant
infrastructure systems. Some specifications of offerings provided may differ based on original facility design or market.

Within our IBX data centers, customers can place their equipment and interconnect with a choice of networks, cloud providers or other
business partners. We also provide customized solutions for customers looking to package our IBX offerings as part of their complex solutions. Our colocation offerings include:

Cabinets.Our customers have several choices for colocating their networking, server and storage equipment. They can
place the equipment in one of our shared or private cages or customize their space. In certain select markets, customers can purchase their own private “suite” which is walled off from the rest of the data center. As customers’
colocation requirements increase, they can expand within their original cage (or suite) or upgrade into a cage that meets their expanded requirements. Customers buy the hardware they place in our IBX data centers directly from their chosen vendors.
Cabinets (or suites) are priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing recurring monthly charge.

Power.Power is an element of increasing importance in customers’ colocation decisions. We offer both AC and DC
power circuits at various amperages and phases customized to a customer’s individual power requirements. We also offer metered power in certain markets. Power is priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing recurring monthly charge.

IBXflex.IBXflex allows customers to deploy mission-critical operations personnel and equipment on-site at our
IBX data centers. Because of the close proximity to their infrastructure within our IBX data centers, IBXflex customers can offer a faster response and quicker troubleshooting solution than those available in traditional colocation facilities. This
space can also be used as a secure disaster recovery point for customers’ business and operations personnel. This service is priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing recurring monthly charge.

Interconnection Solutions

Our interconnection solutions enable scalable, reliable and cost-effective interconnection and traffic exchange between Equinix customers.
These interconnection solutions are either on a one-to-one basis with direct cross connects or one-to-many through one of our Equinix Exchange solutions. In the peering community, we provide an important industry leadership role by acting as the
relationship broker between parties who would like to interconnect within our IBX data centers. Our staff holds or has held significant positions in many leading industry groups, such as the North American Network Operators’ Group, or NANOG,
and the Internet Engineering Task Force, or IETF. Members of our staff have published industry-recognized white papers and strategy documents in the areas of peering and interconnection, many of which are used by other institutions worldwide in
furthering the education and promotion of this important set of solutions. We expect to continue to develop additional solutions in the area of traffic exchange that will allow our customers to leverage the critical mass of networks, cloud services
providers, and many important financial services and e-commerce industry leaders now available in our IBX data centers. Our current exchange solutions are comprised of the following:

Physical Cross Connect/Direct Interconnections.Customers needing to directly and privately connect to another IBX data
center customer can do so through single or multi-mode fiber. These cross connections are the physical link between customers and can be implemented within 24 hours of request. Cross-connect offerings are priced with an initial installation fee and
an ongoing monthly recurring charge.







Equinix Internet Exchange.Customers may choose to connect to and peer through
the central switching fabric of our Equinix Internet Exchange rather than purchase a direct physical cross connection. With a connection to this switch, a customer can aggregate multiple interconnects over one physical connection with up to
multiple, linked 10 gigabit ports of capacity instead of purchasing individual physical cross connects. The offering is priced per IBX data center with an initial installation fee and an ongoing monthly recurring charge. Individual IBX data center
prices increase as the number of participants on the exchange service grows.

Equinix Metro Connect.Customers who are located in one IBX data center may need to interconnect with networks or other customers located in an adjacent or nearby IBX data center in the same metro area. Metro Connect allows customers to seamlessly interconnect between
IBX data centers at capacities up to an OC-192, or 10 gigabits per second level. Metro Connect offerings are priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing monthly recurring charge dependent on the capacity purchased by the customer.

Internet Connectivity Services.Customers who are installing equipment in our IBX data centers generally
require IP connectivity or bandwidth services. Although many large customers prefer to contract directly with carriers, we offer customers the ability to contract for these services through us from any of the major bandwidth providers in that data
center. This service, which is provided in our Asia-Pacific and EMEA regions, is targeted to customers who require a single bill and a single point of support for their entire contract through Equinix for their bandwidth needs. Internet
connectivity services are priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing monthly recurring charge based on the amount of bandwidth committed.

Ethernet Exchange Services.The Ethernet Exchange offering is similar to the Equinix Internet Exchange, and we offer it in 17 markets so that customers can connect via a central switching
fabric to interconnect between multiple Carrier Ethernet Providers rather than creating individual network-to-network interfaces (NNIs) between individual carriers. The offering builds on the benefits of the Internet community and extends the
ability to interconnect to the high growth Ethernet industry. The offering is priced per IBX data center with an initial fee and a monthly recurring charge.

Equinix Cloud Exchange.The Equinix Cloud Exchange is an advanced interconnection solution that enables seamless, on-demand, direct access to multiple clouds from multiple networks around
the world. Cloud Exchange provides virtualized, private direct connections that bypass the Internet to provide better security and performance with a range of bandwidth options. It enables businesses to connect to many participants (clouds,
networks, enterprise customers) over a single physical port, enabling dynamic bandwidth allocation among various parties. The Equinix Cloud Exchange Portal and APIs simplify the process of provisioning and managing connections to multiple cloud
services and networks. Equinix Cloud Exchange offerings are priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing monthly recurring charge dependent on the capacity purchased by the customer.

Equinix Performance Hub™.The Equinix Performance Hub enables companies to securely and directly
connect to leading public clouds, easily deploy a private cloud, and lay the foundation of a hybrid cloud. Performance Hub solutions are extensions of companies’ IT network that reside within Equinix data centers. An Equinix Performance Hub
places corporate IT resources near large user populations in IBX data centers connected to many networks and clouds. Performance Hub solutions can be implemented gradually, without closing or moving out of existing data centers. This distributed,
connectivity-driven approach to data center computing has been proven by Gartner, 451 Group, and many enterprise customers to provide dramatic benefits in application and network performance, as well as in business and IT agility. The Performance
Hub offering is priced per IBX data center with an initial installation fee and an ongoing recurring monthly charge.

Managed IT
Infrastructure Services

With the continued growth in Internet traffic, networks, cloud providers, service providers,
enterprises and content providers are challenged to deliver fast and reliable service, while lowering costs. With more than 1,000 network service providers, Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and fixed and mobile carriers and 500+ cloud







services providers located in our IBX data centers, we leverage the value of network and cloud choice with our set of multi-network/cloud management and other outsourced IT services, including:

Professional Services.Equinix Professional Services offer practical guidance and proven solutions to help
customers optimize and future-proof their data center architectures. Our IBX data centers are staffed with IT, Internet, telecommunications, networking, cloud, and business continuity and disaster recovery specialists who are on-site and/or
available 24x7x365. These professionals are trained to perform installations of customer equipment and cabling. Recently, we acquired Nimbo, a leading professional services company focused on helping enterprises develop and implement hybrid cloud IT
architectures. The acquisition advances Equinix’s commitment to build its professional services capabilities to support data center migrations, WAN optimization and the creation of scalable, high performing hybrid cloud solutions. Professional
services are custom-priced depending on customer requirements.

Global Solutions Architects.Our Global
Solutions Architects (GSAs) have decades of specialized data center expertise and hands-on experience in planning, designing, testing, and deploying IT infrastructure, networks and cloud architectures. GSAs work with our customers and partners to
define requirements and objectives and develop a comprehensive set of planning, test/validation, migration and deployment strategies to maximize the return on their data center IT, networking and cloud investments. GSA services are custom-priced
depending on customer requirements.

Solution Validation Centers®.Equinix Solution Validation Centers (SVCs)™ are state-of-the-art technology proving grounds
where companies can test and validate their data center, network and cloud designs to reduce risks in production-scale deployment and maximize their return on investment. Only Equinix enables its customers and partners to preview and validate the
performance of enterprise data center and IT infrastructure plans with this high level of granularity and accuracy. Equinix SVCs are currently located in eight strategic markets around the globe, with plans for further worldwide expansion this year.
SVC services are custom-priced depending on customer requirements.

Smart Hands Services.Our customers can
take advantage of our professional “Smart Hands” service, which gives customers access to our IBX data center staff for a variety of tasks, when their own staff is not on site. These tasks may include equipment rebooting and power cycling,
card swapping and performing emergency equipment replacement. Services are available on-demand or by customer contract and are priced on an hourly basis.

Sales and Marketing

Sales.We use a direct sales force
and channel marketing program to market our offerings to global enterprises, content providers, financial companies, and mobile and network service providers. We organize our sales force by customer type as well as by establishing a sales presence
in diverse geographic regions, which enables efficient servicing of the customer base from a network of regional offices. In addition to our worldwide headquarters located in Silicon Valley, we have established an Asia-Pacific regional headquarters
in Hong Kong, and a European regional headquarters in Amsterdam. Our Americas sales offices are located in Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, Reston, Virginia, Silicon Valley and Toronto and sales offices in Brazil operate out of data centers
in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Our EMEA sales offices are located in Amsterdam, Dubai, Dusseldorf, Enschede, Frankfurt, Geneva, London, Munich, Paris, Zurich and Zwolle. Our Asia-Pacific sales offices are located in Beijing, Hong Kong, Jakarta,
Seoul, Shanghai, Singapore, Sydney, Melbourne and Tokyo.

Our sales team works closely with each customer to foster the
natural network effect of our IBX model, resulting in access to a wider potential customer base via our existing customers. As a result of the IBX interconnection model, IBX data center participants often encourage their customers, suppliers and
business partners to also locate in our IBX data centers. These customers, suppliers and business partners, in turn, encourage their business partners to locate in our IBX data centers resulting in additional customer growth. This network effect
significantly reduces our new customer acquisition costs. In addition, large network providers, cloud providers or managed service providers may refer customers to Equinix as a part of their total customer solution. Equinix also







focuses vertical sales specialists selling to support specific industry requirements for network, mobile and content providers, financial services, cloud computing, systems integrators and
enterprise customer segments.

Marketing.To support our sales efforts and to actively promote our brand in the
Americas, Asia-Pacific and EMEA, we conduct comprehensive marketing programs. Our marketing strategies include active public relations and ongoing customer communications programs. Our marketing efforts are focused on major business and trade
publications, online media outlets, industry events and sponsored activities. Our staff holds leadership positions in key networking organizations, and we participate in a variety of Internet, Carrier Ethernet, computer and financial industry
conferences, placing our officers and employees in keynote speaking engagements at these conferences. We also regularly measure customer satisfaction levels and host key customer forums to ensure customer needs are understood and incorporated in
product and service planning efforts. From a brand perspective, we build recognition through our website, sponsoring or leading industry technical forums, participating in Internet industry standard-setting bodies and through advertising and online
campaigns. We continue to develop and host industry educational forums focused on peering technologies and practices for ISPs and content providers.

Our Competition

While a large number of enterprises own their own data
centers, many others outsource some or all of their requirements to multitenant Internet data center facilities, such as those operated by Equinix. We believe that the outsourcing trend is likely to not only continue but also to grow in the coming
years. It is estimated that Equinix is one of over 650 companies that provide Internet data center offerings around the world, ranging in size from firms with a single data center in a single market to firms in over 20 markets. Equinix competes with
these firms, which vary in terms of their data center offerings, including:

Colocation Providers

Colocation data centers are a type of Internet data center that can also be referred to as “retail” data center space.
Typically, colocation data center space is offered on the basis of individual racks/cabinets or cages ranging from 500 to 10,000 square feet in size. Typical customers of colocation providers include:



•Large enterprises with significant IT expertise and requirements



•Small and medium businesses looking to outsource data center requirements



•Internet application providers



•Major Internet content, entertainment and social networking providers



•Shared, dedicated and managed hosting providers



•Mobile and network service providers



•Content delivery networks

Full facility maintenance and systems, including fire suppression, security, power backup and HVAC, are routinely included in managed colocation offerings. A variety of additional services are typically
available, including remote hands technician services and network monitoring services.

In addition to Equinix, providers that
offer colocation both globally and locally include firms such as AT&T, CenturyLink, COLT, CyrusOne, Level 3 Communications, NTT and Verizon Business.

Carrier-Neutral Colocation Providers

In addition to data center
space and power, colocation providers also offer interconnection. Certain of these providers, known as network or carrier-neutral colocation providers, can offer customers the choice of hundreds of network service providers or ISPs to choose from.
Typically, customers use interconnection to buy Internet







connectivity, connect to VoIP telephone networks, perform financial exchange and settlement functions or perform business-to-business e-commerce. Carrier-neutral data centers are often located in
key network hubs around the world like New York, Ashburn, Virginia, London, Amsterdam, Singapore and Hong Kong. Two types of data center facilities offering carrier-neutral colocation are used for many network-to-network interconnections:



•A Meet Me Room (MMR) is typically a smaller space, generally 5,000 square feet or less, located in a major carrier hotel and often found in a wholesale
data center facility.



•A carrier-neutral data center is generally larger than an MMR and may be a stand-alone building separate from existing carrier hotels.

In addition to Equinix, other providers that we believe could be defined as offering carrier-neutral
colocation include CoreSite, Global Switch, Interxion, Telecity Group, Telehouse and Telx.

Wholesale Data Center Providers

Wholesale data center providers lease data center space that is typically offered in cells or pods (i.e., individual
white-space rooms) ranging in size from 10,000 to 20,000 square feet, or larger. Wholesale data center offerings are targeted to both enterprises and to colocation providers. These data centers primarily provide space and power without additional
services like technicians, remote hands services or network monitoring (although other tenants might offer such services).

Sample wholesale data center providers include Digital Realty Trust, DuPont Fabros Technology, e-Shelter and Global Switch.

Managed Hosters

Managed hosting services are provided by several firms that also provide data center colocation services. Typically, managed hosting
providers can manage server hardware that is owned by either the hosting provider or the customer. They can also provide a combination of comprehensive systems administration, database administration and sometimes application management services.
Frequently, this results in managed hosting providers “running” the customer’s servers, although such administration is frequently shared. The provider may manage such functions as operating systems, databases, security and patch
management, while the customer will maintain management of the applications riding on top of those systems.

The full list of
potential services that can be offered as part of managed hosting is substantial and includes services such as remote management, custom applications, helpdesk, messaging, databases, disaster recovery, managed storage, managed virtualization,
managed security, managed networks and systems monitoring. Managed hosting services are typically used for:



•Application hosting by organizations of any size, including large enterprises



•Hosted or managed messaging, including Microsoft Exchange and other complex messaging applications



•Complex or highly scalable web hosting or e-commerce websites



•Managed storage solutions (including large drive arrays or backup robots)



•Server disaster recovery and business continuity, including clustering and global server load balancing



•Database servers, applications and services

Examples of managed hosters include AT&T, CenturyLink, NaviSite, Rackspace, SunGard, Verizon Business and Verizon Terremark.







Unlike other providers whose core businesses are bandwidth or managed services, we focus on
neutral interconnection hubs for cloud and IT service providers, content providers, financial companies, enterprises and network service providers. As a result, we do not have the limited choices found commonly at other hosting/colocation companies.
We compete based on the quality of our IBX data centers, our ability to provide a one-stop global solution in our Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific locations, the performance and diversity of our network- and cloud-neutral strategy, and the economic
benefits of the aggregation of top network, cloud and business ecosystems under one roof. We expect to continue to benefit from several industry trends including the need for contracting with multiple networks due to the uncertainty in the
telecommunications market; customers’ increasing power requirements; enterprise customers’ increased use of virtualization and outsourcing; the continued growth of broadband and significant growth in Ethernet as a network alternative; and
the growth in mobile applications.

Our Business Segment Financial Information

We currently operate in three reportable segments comprised of our Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific geographic regions. Information
attributable to each of our reportable segments is set forth in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Employees

As of December 31, 2014, we had 3,866 employees. We had
2,122 employees based in the Americas, 1,023 employees based in EMEA and 721 employees based in Asia-Pacific. Of those employees, 1,756 were in engineering and operations, 802 were in sales and marketing and 1,308 were in management, finance and
administration.

Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”) Conversion

In September 2012, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a plan for Equinix to pursue conversion to a REIT. On
December 23, 2014, our Board of Directors formally approved our conversion to a REIT effective on January 1, 2015. We completed the implementation of the REIT conversion in 2014 and as a result, we will make a tax election for REIT status
for the taxable year commencing January 1, 2015. The REIT conversion will include the data center operations in the U.S., Europe and Japan; data center operations in other jurisdictions will be designated as taxable REIT subsidiaries
(“TRSs”).







In connection with our conversion to a REIT, we are seeking a private letter ruling
(“PLR”) from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). Our PLR request has multiple components, and we submitted the PLR request to the IRS in the fourth quarter of 2012.

On October 16, 2014, we announced the declaration by our Board of Directors of a special distribution (the “2014 Special Distribution”) of $416.0 million on our shares of common stock,
payable in either common stock or cash to, and at the election of, our stockholders of record as of October 27, 2014 (the “Record Date”). Common stockholders elected to receive payment of the 2014 Special Distribution in the form of
stock or cash, with the total cash payment to all stockholders limited to no more than 20% of the total distribution. In accordance with tax rules applicable to REIT conversions, in order for Equinix to be eligible to qualify for taxation as a REIT
for federal income tax purposes effective for the taxable year commencing January 1, 2015, we are required to distribute, on or before December 31, 2015, our previously undistributed accumulated earnings and profits attributable to all
taxable periods ending prior to January 1, 2015 (our “Pre-2015 Accumulated E&P”). The value of the 2014 Special Distribution, plus the value of the deemed distribution on account of the adjustment to the conversion rate relating
to our outstanding 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due June 15, 2016 (the “2016 Convertible Notes”) that was made as a result of the 2014 Special Distribution (the “2014 Conversion Rate Adjustment”), exceeded our
Pre-2015 Accumulated E&P.

We intend to declare one or more special distributions in 2015 (the “2015 Special
Distributions”), which would encompass some extraordinary items of taxable income that we expect to recognize in 2015, such as depreciation recapture in respect of accounting method changes commenced in our pre-REIT period and foreign earnings
and profits recognized as dividend income. We estimate the aggregate amount of our 2015 Special Distributions, together with the expected value of the deemed distributions associated with any adjustments to the conversion rate of the 2016
Convertible Notes resulting from the 2015 Special Distributions (the “2015 Conversion Rate Adjustments”), will equal approximately $580.0 to $680.0 million. The conversion of our existing data center operations into the REIT and the
addition of new entities into the REIT may also result in future special distributions.

We also expect to begin paying
quarterly dividends in 2015 in connection with our conversion to a REIT effective January 1, 2015. On February 19, 2015, we announced a quarterly cash dividend of $1.69 per share payable on March 25, 2015, to shareholders of record on
March 11, 2015.

In connection with the formal approval of our conversion to a REIT by our Board of Directors in late
December 2014, we reassessed the deferred tax assets and liabilities of our U.S. operations included in the REIT structure during the fourth quarter of 2014. The reevaluation resulted in de-recognizing the deferred tax assets and liabilities of our
REIT’s U.S. operations, excluding the deferred tax liabilities associated with the depreciation and amortization recapture expected in 2015. The de-recognition of the deferred tax assets and liabilities of our REIT’s U.S. operations
occurred because the expected recovery or settlement of the related







assets and liabilities will not result in deductible or taxable amounts in any post-REIT conversion periods. As a result of the de-recognition assessment, we recorded a significant income tax
provision expense in the fourth quarter of 2014 of $324.1 million. The deferred tax assets and liabilities associated with our foreign operations, regardless of whether such foreign operations are part of the REIT conversion, are not subject to the
de-recognition assessment. In addition, we don’t expect any “built-in” gains to be recognized within the next 10 years with respect to the REIT conversion.

We will continue to monitor our REIT compliance to maintain our status as a REIT. As necessary, we may convert certain of our data center operations in Canada and Asia Pacific into the REIT in the
following years.

Available Information

We were incorporated in Delaware in June 1998. We are required to file reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may read and copy our
materials on file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information regarding the SEC’s Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains
an Internet website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information.

You
may also obtain copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to such reports, free of charge by visiting the Investor Relations page on our website,
www.equinix.com. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practical after we file them with the SEC. Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



