ITEM 1.BUSINESS

The words “Equinix”, “we”, “our”, “ours”, “us” and the “Company” refer to Equinix, Inc.  All statements in this discussion that are not historical are forward‑looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding Equinix’s “expectations”, “beliefs”, “intentions”, “strategies”, “forecasts”, “predictions”, “plans” or the like. Such statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward‑looking statements. Equinix cautions investors that there can be no assurance that actual results or business conditions will not differ materially from those projected or suggested in such forward‑looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, the risk factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Equinix expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward‑looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in Equinix’s expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements are based.

Overview

Equinix, Inc. connects more than 8,500(1)companies directly to their customers and partners inside the world’s most interconnected data centers. Today, businesses leverage the Equinix interconnection platform in 41 strategic markets across the Americas, Asia-Pacific, and Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA). Equinix operates as a real estate investment trust ("REIT")  for federal income tax purposes.

In September 2012, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a plan for Equinix to pursue conversion to a REIT. On December 23, 2014, our Board of Directors formally approved our conversion to a REIT effective on January 1, 2015. We implemented the REIT conversion in 2014, and began operating as a REIT for federal income tax purposes effective January 1, 2015. In May 2015, we received a favorable response to the private letter ruling (“PLR”) we had requested from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) in connection with our REIT conversion for federal income tax purposes. Our REIT operations include almost all our data center operations in the U.S., Europe and Japan held through qualified REIT subsidiaries (“QRSs”). Our data center operations in other jurisdictions have been designated as taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”).

In January 2016, Equinix completed the acquisition of TelecityGroup, plc valued at approximately $3.7 billion. In December 2016, Equinix announced that it had signed a definitive agreement to purchase 24 new data center sites, consisting of 29 data centers across 15 metro areas, and their operations, from Verizon Communications Inc. ("Verizon") for $3.6 billion. This will be the 17th acquisition in our history and is consistent with our acquisition strategy of extending our platform to new markets and expanding our interconnection density. Organically, we continue to expand in key markets including the recent opening and expansion of six data centers on four continents: Sydney and Tokyo in 2016, and  Abu Dhabi, Dubai, London, and São Paulo in Q1 2017.

Platform EquinixTMcombines a global footprint of state-of-the-art International Business Exchange™ (IBX®) data centers, a variety of interconnection solutions, unique ecosystems and expert support. Together, these components accelerate business growth and opportunity for Equinix’s customers by securing their infrastructure and applications closer to their people, clouds, locations and data. This enables customers to improve performance with cost-effective and scalable interconnections, work with vendors to deploy new technologies, such as cloud computing, and collaborate with the widest variety of partners and customers to achieve their ambitions.

Equinix’s platform offers these unique value propositions to customers:

•Global Data Centers

◦A broad footprint of 150 IBX data centers in 21 countries on 5 continents, 14 million+ gross square feet globally.

◦More than $13.5 billion of capital invested in capacity, new markets and acquisitions since 1998.

◦Equinix delivered uptime of 99.9999% across its footprint in 2016.

•Interconnection

◦More than 1,400 networks and approximately 230,000+ cross connects in Equinix sites.

◦Equinix provides less than 10 milliseconds latency to the majority of the global markets in North America, Europe, Latin America and Asia-Pacific.



____________________

(1)All metrics in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are as of December 31, 2016









◦Equinix enables its customers to leverage an Interconnection Oriented ArchitectureTM(IOATM) strategy  - a  proven and repeatable engagement model that both enterprises and service providers can leverage to directly and securely connect people, locations, clouds and data - by deploying IT infrastructures on Platform EquinixTM.

•Partners, Customers and Prospects

◦Equinix sites house a blue-chip customer base of 8,500+ global businesses.

◦These customers represent a who’s who of network, digital media, financial services, cloud/IT and enterprise leaders.

•Opportunity

◦Equinix data centers contain a dynamic marketplace for communications services, interconnecting businesses, networks, carriers and content providers to potential suppliers, customers and partners.

◦More than 8,500+ potential partners to deploy world-class solutions.

Equinix has established a critical mass of customers that continues to drive new and existing customer growth and bookings. Our network- and cloud-neutral business model also contributes to our success in the market. Rather than selling a particular network, we offer customers direct interconnection to an aggregation of bandwidth providers. The providers in our sites include the world’s top carriers, mobile providers, internet service providers (ISPs), broadband access networks (DSL / cable) and international carriers. Our neutrality also means our customers can choose to buy from, or partner with, leading companies across our five targeted verticals. These include:

•Network and Mobile Providers (AT&T, British Telecom, China Mobile, Comcast, Level 3 Communications, Lycamobile, NTT Communications, SingTel Ltd., Syniverse Technologies, T-Mobile, TATA Communications, Verizon)

•Cloud and IT Services (Amazon Web Services, Box Inc., Google Cloud Platform, Carpathia Hosting Inc., NetApp, Microsoft Azure, Office 365, Salesforce.com, SoftLayer, Cisco Systems Inc., Oracle Cloud, Datapipe, CloudSigma, VMware vCloud Air, Workday, Inc.)

•Content Providers (Brightroll, eBay, ContentBridge, DIRECTV, Hulu, LinkedIn, Netflix, Priceline.com)

•Enterprise (Anheuser-Busch, InBev, Bechtel, BMC Software, Burger King Corporation, Caterpillar, Inc., CDM Smith, Chevron, GE, Harper Collins Publishers, Ingram Micro)

•Financial Companies (ACTIV Financial, Bloomberg, Chicago Board Options Exchange, DirectEdge, Quantlab Financial, NASDAQ, OMX Group Inc., NYSE Technologies, Thomson Reuters)

Equinix generates revenue by providing colocation and related interconnection and managed IT infrastructure offerings on a global platform of 150 IBX data centers.

•Colocation offerings include operations space, storage space, cabinets and power for customers’ colocation needs inside Equinix's IBX data centers.

•Interconnection offerings include:

◦Equinix Cloud Exchange™, which enables simultaneous, direct and secure connections to multiple clouds from a single port.

◦Equinix Performance Hub™, which takes enterprise IT inside any one of our global data centers, bringingour customers closer to their end users for improved network reliability, performance and security.

◦Equinix Data HubTM, which enables secure, compliant, efficient access to business-critical data and analytics wherever users are located around the globe.

•Equinix also offers cross connects, as well as switch ports, on the Equinix Internet Exchange. These offerings provide scalable and reliable connectivity that allows customers to exchange traffic directly and securely with the service provider of their choice or with each other, creating a performance optimized business ecosystem for the exchange of data between strategic partners, and collaboration and innovation opportunities that were not previously possible.

•Managed IT infrastructure services are offered in a few regional markets where customers typically have higher support needs. These services allow customers to leverage Equinix’s technical and local market expertise.

•Equinix Professional Services guide customers though complex IT infrastructure changes and hybrid and multi-cloud deployments quickly and securely, while delivering continuous and reliable technical support. Equinix Professional Services for Cloud provides expert consulting to our customers to optimize cloud migrations, matching service providers and architectures to individual business needs.









The market for Equinix’s offerings has previously been served by large telecommunications carriers that have bundled their telecommunications and managed services with their colocation offerings. In addition, some Equinix customers, such as Microsoft, build and operate their own data centers for their large infrastructure deployments, called server farms. However, these customers rely upon Equinix IBX data centers for many of their critical interconnection relationships. The need for sizable, wholesale, outsourced data centers is also being addressed by providers that build large data centers to meet customer needs for standalone data centers. This is a different customer segment than Equinix serves.

The increasing cost and complexity of the power and cooling requirements of today’s data center equipment has enabled Equinix to attract many customers who have outgrown their existing data centers, or who have realized the benefits of a network-neutral model and the ability to create their own optimized business ecosystems for the exchange of data. Strategically, we will continue to look at attractive opportunities to expand our footprint and offerings. We will also continue to leverage our worldwide reach and depth to differentiate Equinix based upon our ability to support truly global customer requirements in all our markets.

Equinix is benefiting from a growth in demand for data center and interconnection offerings. Several factors contribute to this growth in demand, including:

•The growth of “proximity communities” that rely on immediate physical colocation and interconnection with their strategic partners and customers, such as financial exchange ecosystems for electronic trading and settlement, media and content provider ecosystems, and ecosystems for real-time bidding and fulfillment of internet advertising.

•The adoption of cloud computing technology services, including the growth of hybrid/multi-clouds, enterprise cloud service offerings such as Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) and Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and security and disaster recovery services.

•The continuing growth of consumer internet traffic from new bandwidth-intensive services, such as video, voice over IP (VoIP), social media, mobile data, gaming, data-rich media, Ethernet and wireless services.

•The increasing requirements for anytime, anywhere and any device interconnection out at the edge of the corporate network to improve the performance, security, scalability and reliability of interconnecting people, locations, clouds and data.

•Significant increases in power and cooling requirements for today’s data center equipment. New generations of servers continue to concentrate processing capability and the associated power consumption and cooling load into smaller footprints, and many legacy-built data centers are unable to accommodate these new power and cooling demands. The high capital costs associated with building and maintaining “in-sourced” data centers creates an opportunity for capital savings by leveraging an outsourced colocation model.

Industry Background

The internet is a collection of numerous independent networks interconnected to form a network of networks. Users on different networks communicate with each other through interconnection between these networks. For example, when a person sends an email to someone who uses a different provider for his or her connectivity (e.g., Comcast versus Verizon), the email must pass from one network to the other to get to its final destination.  Equinix provides a physical point at which that interconnection can occur.

To accommodate the rapid growth of internet traffic, an organized approach for network interconnection was needed. This was the start of the network era, when networks gained mutual advantage by exchanging data traffic on interoperable platforms. The exchange of traffic between these networks became known as peering. Peering is when networks trade traffic at relatively equal amounts and set up agreements to trade traffic, often at no charge to the other party. At first, government and nonprofit organizations established places where these networks could exchange traffic, or peer, with each other. These points were known as network access points, or NAPs. Over time, many NAPs became a natural extension of carrier services and were run by such companies as MFS (now a part of Verizon Business), Sprint, Ameritech and Pacific Bell (the latter two are now part of AT&T).

Ultimately, these NAPs were unable to scale with the growth of the internet, and the lack of “neutrality” by the carrier owners of these NAPs created a conflict of interest with the participants. This created a market need for network-neutral interconnection points that could accommodate the rapidly growing need to increase performance for enterprise and consumer users of the internet, especially with the rise of important content providers such as AOL, Microsoft, Yahoo! and others. In addition, the providers, as well as a growing number of enterprises, required a more secure and reliable solution for direct connection to a variety of telecommunications networks, as the importance of their internet operations continued to grow. These were the seeds of the connected era, when peering expanded exponentially among new players, and access to information anytime and anywhere became the norm.









To accommodate internet traffic growth, the largest networks left the NAPs and began connecting and trading traffic by placing private circuits between each other. Peering, which once occurred at the NAP locations, was moved to these private circuits. Over the years, these circuits became expensive to expand and could not be built quickly enough to accommodate traffic growth. This led to a need by the large carriers to find a more efficient way to peer. Today, many customers satisfy their requirements for peering through data center providers like Equinix because this strategy permits them to peer with the networks they require within one location, using simple, direct and secure connections. Their ability to peer within a data center or across a data center campus, instead of across a metro area, has increased the scalability of their operations while decreasing network costs.

The interconnection model has further evolved over the years to include new offerings, as the collaborative landscape of the interconnected era imposes new demands on connectivity. As enterprises become increasingly interdependent and cloud-enabled, they need real-time data exchange and reliable, instant connections between the various corners of any given digital ecosystem to compete. Starting with the peering and network communities, interconnection has been used for new network services, including carrier Ethernet, multiprotocol label switching (MPLS), virtual private networks (VPNs) and mobile services, in addition to traditional international private line and voice services. The industry is working to keep up with the rapid digital transformation of today's businesses, and it continues to evolve with a set of new offerings where interconnection is often used to solve the network-to-network and the cloud-to-cloud interconnection challenges.

In addition, the enterprise customer segment is also evolving. In the past, most enterprises opted to keep their data center requirements in-house. However, current trends are leading more enterprise chief information officers (CIOs) to either outsource their data center requirements, and/or extend their corporate wide area networks (WANs) into carrier-neutral colocation facilities. These trends include:

•globalization

•the proliferation of bandwidth intensive internet-facing applications and rich media content

•the need to provide access to cloud computing environments

•evolving Internet of Things (IoT) infrastructures

•business continuity and disaster recovery options

•tight corporate IT budgets

Industry analysts forecast the compound annual growth rate of the global carrier neutral colocation market to be approximately 8% between 2016 and 2020.

Equinix Value Proposition

More than 8,500 companies, including a diversified mix of cloud and IT service providers, content providers, enterprises, financial companies, and network and mobile service providers, currently operate within Equinix IBX data centers. These companies derive specific value from the following elements of the Equinix service offering:

•Interconnection leadership:The digital economy’s demands for fast, secure business collaboration puts the interconnection inside Equinix at a premium. Equinix accelerates business performance by connecting companies to their customers, employees, and partners inside the world's most interconnected data centers. Equinix is the global interconnection platform for the world's leading businesses from a broad range of industries, including cloud, networks, finance, and media and entertainment. Inside Equinix, customers can interconnect across industries with the speed, security, reliability and scalability needed to compete and grow. Equinix is where opportunity connects.

•Cloud access and expertise:Equinix is home to 2,500+ cloud and IT service providers and a variety of secure routes to the efficiencies, performance and cost-savings of the cloud. Equinix Cloud Exchange offers on-demand access to multiple cloud providers from multiple networks, enabling customers to design scalable cloud services tailored to their needs at a given moment. Equinix Professional Services for Cloud experts enable our customers to successfully deploy a mix of private, public, hybrid and multi-cloud environments to best fit their business and customer requirements.

•Comprehensive global solution:With 150 IBX data centers in 41 markets in the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific, Equinix offers a consistent global solution.

•Premium data centers and expertise:Equinix IBX data centers feature advanced design, security, power and cooling elements to provide customers with industry-leading reliability, including average uptime of 99.9999% globally in 2016. While others in the market have business models that include additional offerings, Equinix is focused on colocation and interconnection as our core competencies. Equinix Professional Services offers practical guidance and proven solutions to help you optimize and future-proof your data center architecture.

•Dynamic business ecosystems:Equinix’s network- and cloud-neutral model has enabled us to attract a critical mass of networks and cloud and IT services providers, and that, in turn, attracts other businesses seeking to interconnect within









a single location. This ecosystem model reduces costs and optimizes the performance of data exchange, compared to connecting to multiple partners in disparate locations. As Equinix grows and attracts an ever-more diversified base of customers, the value of Equinix’s IBX data center offering increases.

•Improved economics:Customers seeking to outsource their data center operations rather than build their own capital-intensive data centers enjoy significant capital cost savings. Customers also benefit from improved economics because of the broad access to networks and clouds that Equinix provides. Rather than purchasing costly local loops from multiple transit providers, customers can connect directly to more than 1,400 networks and 2,500 cloud and IT service providers  inside Equinix’s IBX data centers. According to a recent Forrester Total Economic ImpactTMof Equinix Interconnection Solutions report, an enterprise that leverages Equinix colocation and interconnection solutions and services could realize a 300% return on investment in three years (risk-adjusted results), with a 4.2 months payback.

•Leading interconnection insight:After more than 18 years in the industry, Equinix has a specialized staff of industry experts, professional services specialists and solutions architects who helped build and shape the interconnection infrastructure of the internet, and who are now positioned to do the same for digital businesses. This specialization and industry knowledge base offers customers unique expertise and the competitive advantage needed to compete in the global digital economy.

•Lasting sustainability:Energy efficiency and environmental sustainability are part of everything we do, whether we're building new data centers or upgrading existing facilities. We have committed to design, build and operate our data centers with high energy efficiency standards, and we have a long term goal of using 100% clean and renewable energy across our global platform.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to expand our global leadership position as the premier network- and cloud-neutral data center platform for enterprises, cloud and IT services providers, media and content companies, financial services firms, IoT providers, and network and mobile services providers. The following are key components of our strategy:

Improve customer performance through interconnection.To succeed in today’s digital economy, enterprises around the globe must adopt interconnected, on-demand digital IT architectures. The business connections forged in Equinix data centers through the power of interconnection are vital to accelerating our customers' businesses. To help companies understand, deploy and benefit frominterconnection, Equinix created a blueprint for becoming an interconnected enterprise - the Interconnection Oriented ArchitectureTM(IOATM).  Based on work with more than 170 Fortune 500 customers, an IOA is a proven and repeatable engagement model that both enterprises and solution providers can leverage to directly and securely connect people, locations, clouds and data. An IOA strategy shifts the fundamental IT delivery architecture from siloed and centralized to interconnected and distributed. Since the introduction of its IOA strategy, Equinix has created an "IOA Playbook" and "IOA Knowledge Base," which were developed from our aggregated learnings across more than 600 Equinix customer (enterprise and service provider) deployments. These tools are offered online at no charge to any organization and provide four fundamental, repeatable steps that organizations can take to deploy an IOA strategy across common digital workloads and offer application blueprints for networks, security, data and applications.

When combined with Equinix's critical mass of premier network and cloud providers and content companies, the increasing rate of adoption of an IOA strategy by the world's enterprise companies enables Equinix to extend its leadership as one of the core interconnection hubs of the information-driven, digital world. The density of providers inside Equinix is a key selling point for companies looking to connect with a diverse set of networks and deliver the best connectivity to their end customers out at the edge of the corporate network as well as network companies that want to sell bandwidth to companies and efficiently interconnect with other networks. Equinix currently houses more than 1,400 unique networks, including the top-tier networks, allowing its customers to directly interconnect with providers that best meet their unique price and performance needs. We have a growing mass of key players in cloud and IT services (Accenture, Amazon Web Services, AT&T, Google Cloud Platform, Microsoft Azure and Office 365, Oracle Cloud, Salesforce.com, SoftLayer, VMware vCloud Air), and in the enterprise and financial sectors (Bechtel, Bloomberg, Chicago Board of Trade, The GAP, McGraw-Hill, etc.). We expect these segments will continue to grow as they seek to leverage our density of network providers and interconnect directly with each other to improve performance.

Streamline ease of doing business globally.Customers say data center reliability, power availability and network choice are the most important attributes they consider when choosing a data center provider in a particular location. We have long been recognized as a leader in these areas, and our performance continues to improve.

In 2016, more than half of our revenue came from customers with deployments in all three of our global regions, and we expect seamless global solutions to become increasingly important data center selection criteria as globalization continues. We continue to focus on strategic acquisitions to expand our market coverage and on global product standardization, pricing and contracts harmonization initiatives to meet these global demands.









Deepen existing ecosystems and develop new ones.As various enterprises and service and content providers locate in our IBX data centers, it benefits their suppliers and business partners to do the same and gain the full economic and performance benefits of direct interconnection for their business ecosystems. These partners, in turn, pull in their business partners, creating a “network effect” of customer adoption. Our interconnection offerings enable scalable, secure, reliable and cost-effective interconnectivity and optimized traffic exchange, which lowers overall costs and increases flexibility. The ability to directly interconnect with a wide variety of companies is a key differentiator for us and enables companies to create new opportunities within unique ecosystems by working together. We also have efficient and innovative internet and cloud exchange platforms in our IBX sites to accelerate commercial growth within the ecosystems via the network effect.

Expand vertical go-to-market plan.We plan to continue to focus our go-to-market efforts on customer segments and business applications that appreciate the Equinix value proposition of interconnection, reliability, global reach and prime collaboration opportunities within and across ecosystems. We have identified these segments today as cloud services, content and digital media, financial services, enterprises, IT services, and network and mobile service providers. As digital business evolves, we will continue to identify and focus our go-to-market efforts on industry segments that need our value proposition.

Accelerate global reach and scale.We continue to evaluate expansion opportunities in select markets based on customer demand. In January 2016, we closed the TelecityGroup acquisition in Europe, expanding Equinix's global interconnection platform to 150 data centers in 41 metros. In December 2016, we announced the signing of a definitive agreement to acquire a portfolio of Verizon’s data centers in 24 sites, consisting of 29 data center buildings across 15 metro areas. This strategic acquisition will further strengthen our global platform by increasing interconnection in the U.S. and Latin America and accelerate Equinix's penetration of the enterprise and strategic market sectors, including government and energy. In 2016, we also added capacity across our global footprint by opening TY5, our fifth IBX in Tokyo and SY4, our fourth IBX in Sydney. We have also opened AD1, our first IBX in Abu Dhabi, DX2, our second IBX in Dubai, LD10, our sixth IBX in London, and  SP3, our third data center in São Paulo, in Q1 2017. At the close of the Verizon data center acquisition, expected in mid-2017, Equinix's total global footprint is expected to be 179 data centers in 43 markets and approximately 17 million gross square feet across the Americas, Europe and Asia-Pacific.

We expect to continue to execute our expansion strategy in a cost-effective and disciplined manner through a combination of acquiring existing data centers through lease or purchase, acquiring or investing in local data center operators, and building new IBX data centers based on key criteria, such as demand and potential financial return in each market.

Our Customers

Our customers include carriers, mobile and other bandwidth providers, cloud and IT services providers, content providers, financial companies and global enterprises. We provide each customer access to a choice of business partners and solutions based on their colocation, interconnection and managed IT service needs. As of December 31, 2016, we had more than 8,500 customers worldwide.

Customers in our five key customer categories include the following:

Cloud and IT ServicesContent ProvidersEnterpriseFinancial CompaniesNetwork and Mobile ServicesAmazon Web ServicesBox Inc.Carpathia Hosting Inc.Cisco Systems Inc. CloudSigmaDatapipeMicrosoft Azure and Office 365           NetAppOracleSalesforce.comSoftLayerVMware vCloud Air       Workday, Inc.BrightrollContentBridge DIRECTVeBayHuluLinkedInNetflixPriceline.comAnheuser-Busch InBevBechtelBMC Software        Burger King CorporationCaterpillar, Inc.CDM SmithChevronGEHarper Collins PublishersIngram MicroACTIV Financial BloombergChicago Board Options Exchange DirectEdgeQuantlab Financial NASDAQOMX Group Inc.  NYSE Technologies Thomson ReutersAT&TBritish TelecomChina Mobile ComcastLevel 3 Communications LycamobileNTT Communications SingTel Ltd.Syniverse TechnologiesT-MobileTATA Communications Verizon

Customers typically sign renewable contracts of one or more years in length. Our largest customer accounted for approximately 3% of our recurring revenues for the periods ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, and 2% of our recurring revenues for the period ended December 31, 2014. Our 50 largest customers accounted for approximately 36%, 34% and 36% of our recurring revenues for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.









Our Offerings

Equinix provides a choice of data center offerings primarily comprised of colocation, interconnection solutions, bundled offers and professional services.

Colocation and Related Offerings

Our IBX data centers provide our customers with secure, reliable and robust environments that are necessary for optimum internet commerce interconnection. Our IBX data centers include multiple layers of physical security, scalable cabinet space availability, on-site trained staff (24x7x365), dedicated areas for customer care and equipment staging, redundant AC/DC power systems and other redundant and fault-tolerant infrastructure systems. Some specifications of offerings provided by individual IBX data centers may differ based on original facility design or market.

Within our IBX data centers, customers can deploy their equipment and interconnect with a choice of networks, cloud providers or other business partners. We also provide customized solutions for customers looking to package our IBX offerings as part of their complex solutions. Our colocation offerings include:

Cabinets.Our customers have several choices for colocating their networking, server and storage equipment. They can place the equipment in one of our shared or private cages or customize their space. In certain select markets, customers can purchase their own private “suite” which is walled off from the rest of the data center. As customers’ colocation requirements increase, they can expand within their original cage (or suite) or upgrade into a cage that meets their expanded requirements. Customers buy the hardware they place in our IBX data centers directly from their chosen vendors. Cabinets (or suites) are priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing recurring monthly charge.

Power.Power is an element of increasing importance in customers’ colocation decisions. We offer both AC and DC power circuits at various amperages and phases customized to a customer’s individual power requirements. Power is priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing recurring monthly charge. We also offer metered power in certain markets.

IBXflex.IBXflex allows customers to deploy mission-critical operations personnel and equipment on-site at our IBX data centers. Because of the close proximity to their infrastructure within our IBX data centers, IBXflex customers can offer a faster response and quicker troubleshooting solution than those available in traditional colocation facilities. This space can also be used as a secure disaster recovery point for customers’ business and operations personnel. This service is priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing recurring monthly charge.

Interconnection Solutions

Our interconnection solutions enable high-performance, secure, scalable, reliable and cost-effective interconnection and traffic exchange between Equinix customers. These interconnection solutions are either on a one-to-one basis with direct cross connects or one-to-many through one of our Equinix exchange solutions. In the peering community, we play an important industry leadership role by acting as the relationship broker between parties who would like to interconnect within our IBX data centers. Our staff holds or has held significant positions in many leading industry groups, such as the North American Network Operators’ Group (NANOG) and the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). Members of our staff have published industry-recognized white papers and strategy documents in the areas of peering and interconnection, many of which are used by other institutions worldwide in furthering the education and promotion of this important set of solutions. We expect to continue to develop additional solutions related to traffic exchange that will allow our customers to leverage the critical mass of networks, cloud services providers, and many important financial services and e-commerce industry leaders now available in our IBX data centers. Our current interconnection solutions are comprised of the following:

Physical Cross Connect/Direct Interconnections.Customers needing to directly and privately connect to another IBX data center customer can do so through single or multi-mode fiber. These cross connections are the physical link between customers and can be implemented within 24 hours of request. Cross-connect offerings are priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing monthly recurring charge.

Equinix Internet Exchange™.Customers may choose to connect to and peer through the central switching fabric of our Equinix Internet Exchange, rather than purchase a direct physical cross connection. With a connection to this switch, a customer can aggregate multiple interconnects over one physical connection with multiple, linked 100-gigabit ports of capacity, instead of purchasing individual physical cross connects. The offering is priced per IBX data center with an initial installation fee and an ongoing monthly recurring charge.

Equinix Metro Connect.Customers who are located in one IBX data center may need to interconnect with networks or other customers located in an adjacent or nearby IBX data center in the same metro area. Metro Connect allows customers to seamlessly









interconnect between IBX data centers at capacities up to 100 Gigabits per second level. Metro Connect offerings are priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing monthly recurring charge dependent on the capacity purchased by the customer.

Internet Connectivity Services.Customers who are installing equipment in our IBX data centers generally require IP connectivity or bandwidth services. Although many large customers prefer to contract directly with carriers, we offer customers the ability to contract for these services through us from any of the major bandwidth providers in that data center. This service is targeted to customers who require a single bill and a single point of support for their entire contract through Equinix for their bandwidth needs. Internet connectivity services are priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing monthly recurring charge based on the amount of bandwidth committed.

Equinix Cloud Exchange™.TheEquinix Cloud Exchange is an advanced interconnection solution that enables seamless, on-demand, direct access to multiple clouds from multiple networks around the world. Cloud Exchange provides virtualized, private direct connections that bypass the internet to provide better security and performance with a range of bandwidth options. It allows businesses to connect to many participants (clouds, networks, enterprise customers) over a single physical port, enabling dynamic bandwidth allocation among various parties. The Equinix Cloud Exchange Portal and APIs simplify the process of provisioning and managing connections to multiple cloud services and networks. Equinix Cloud Exchange offerings are priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing monthly recurring charge dependent on the capacity purchased by the customer.

Equinix Performance Hub™

The Equinix Performance Hub enables companies to securely and directly connect to leading public clouds, easily deploy a private cloud, and lay the foundation of a hybrid cloud. Performance Hub solutions are extensions of a company’s IT network that reside within Equinix data centers. An Equinix Performance Hub places corporate IT resources near large user populations in IBX data centers connected to many networks and clouds. Performance Hub solutions can be implemented gradually, without closing or moving out of existing data centers. This distributed, connectivity-driven approach to data center computing has been proven by Gartner, 451 Group, and many enterprise customers to provide dramatic benefits in application and network performance, as well as in business and IT agility. The Performance Hub offering is priced per IBX data center with an initial installation fee and an ongoing recurring monthly charge.



Equinix Data Hub™



Equinix Data Hub is an extension of the Equinix Performance Hub™ framework and is a data center solution that addresses enterprise demands for real-time analytics, IoT, data collection and data protection. Data Hub empowers organizations to build a globally optimized data platform located in strategic data centers around the world and maintain full control over business-critical data for any and all security and compliance demands. Data Hub use cases include: cloud integrated tiered storage, big data analytics infrastructures and data protection and replication. The Data Hub offering is priced per IBX data center with an initial installation fee and an ongoing recurring monthly charge.



Equinix Professional Services



Exponential increases in data traffic and growing demand for interconnection mean pressure on companies to stay competitive. They need a partner with deep knowledge of the global terrain and trends so they can maximize new technology and information and meet the needs of dispersed and demanding end users. Equinix Professional Services are uniquely positioned to be that partner. Equinix experts help companies tap the resources and opportunities for innovation available on a global platform of 8,500+ companies in 41 markets, including more than 1,400 network service providers and 2,500 cloud and IT services providers. Our consultants have the know-how and experience to help customers introduce new service offerings, optimize IT architectures, simplify hybrid and multi-cloud migrations and stay up-and-running. Equinix professional services are priced at the project level and include:

Cloud Consulting Services.Migration to a hybrid or multi-cloud environment comes with uncertainty, but it’s also become essential: The cloud’s cost advantages and flexibility are too critical to forego in an era of rising electronic collaboration and user expectations. Equinix's Professional Services for Cloud, are designed to take the mystery out of cloud migration with a detailed assessment, design and implementation process that gives customers a faster, smoother path to the cloud. The 2,500 cloud and IT service providers and 1,400 network service providers within Equinix's network help our experts tailor cloud deployments to individual business needs and maximize their cloud performance, savings and security while ensuring future resilience and agility.

Network and IOA Transformation Services.Digital transformation creates new revenue streams from information about an organizations’ physical operations, it also creates congestion and performance issues for an organization’s legacy network. The









growth in data, applications and locations that must be served by a digital enterprise, plus the reduction in latency required by real-time applications all put enormous stress on legacy IT infrastructure.  Equinix’s Professional Services for network and IOA transformation helps companies plan and build their future network and infrastructure architecture, ready for the challenges of digital business today and tomorrow.

Global Solutions Architects™

Equinix Global Solutions Architects (GSAs) are industry experts, innovators and thought leaders, committed to helping companies deploy their IT infrastructures in ways that best serve their business needs and fully exploit the advantages offered by Equinix’s global interconnection platform. Equinix’s GSAs have decades of combined experience in cloud deployments, facility operations, business analytics and network design and operations. They work as extensions of our customers’ IT and technology teams, helping efficiently deploy high-performance solutions, advising them on service provider choices, and designing IT architectures that help them reach today’s goals and anticipate tomorrow’s requirements.

Solution Validation Centers™

Equinix Solution Validation Centers (SVCs) are state-of-the-art facilities that allow customers to test and fine-tune their IT infrastructure, network, cloud and data center rollouts in a real-world environment before full build-out and deployment. Customers can measure how their applications perform when moved off legacy systems, spot and address unforeseen technical barriers, and optimize various infrastructure components, network connections and applications. Our SVCs operate in 18 strategic markets globally, helping companies reduce risk and maximize their IT investments.

Smart Hands Services™

The Equinix Smart Hands service enables customers to use our highly trained IBX data center personnel to act as their hands (or eyes and ears) when their own staff can’t be on-site. Smart Hands technicians offer a range of services, from routine equipment inventory and labeling to more complex installations and configuring. Smart Hands technicians also provide technical assistance and troubleshooting services.

Equinix Customer Portal

The Equinix Customer Portal offers all-day, every day access to our customer care personnel, so customers can report problems, schedule shipments or order Smart Hands services at any time of the day or night. Equinix conducts a significant portion of its transactions with its customers via this portal.

Business Continuity Trading Rooms

Trading infrastructure is mission-critical for financial firms worldwide, and our Business Continuity Trading Rooms (BCTRs) ensure that trading doesn’t stop, even if primary operations are knocked off-line or disabled. A BCTR backs up our customers’ trading operations in one of our secure data center facilities, right down to telephone services and multiple desktop monitors. BCTR offerings are protected with backup generators and uninterruptible power supply to guarantee reliability and deliver peace of mind.

Sales and Marketing

Sales.We use a direct sales force and channel marketing program to market our offerings to global enterprises, content providers, financial companies, and mobile and network service providers. We organize our sales force by customer type, as well as by establishing a sales presence in diverse geographic regions, which enables efficient servicing of the customer base from a network of regional offices. In addition to our worldwide headquarters located in Silicon Valley, we have established an Asia-Pacific regional headquarters in Hong Kong and a European regional headquarters in Amsterdam. Our Americas sales offices are located in Ashburn, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, Silicon Valley and Toronto. Our EMEA sales offices are located in Amsterdam, Dubai, Dublin, Dusseldorf, Enschede, Frankfurt, Geneva, Helsinki, London,  Manchester, Milan, Munich, Paris, Sofia, Stockholm, Warsaw and Zurich. Our Asia-Pacific sales offices are located in Beijing, Hong Kong, Jakarta, Osaka, Seoul, Shanghai, Singapore, Sydney, Melbourne and Tokyo.

Our sales team works closely with each customer to foster the natural network effect of our IBX model, resulting in access to a wider potential customer base via our existing customers. As a result of the IBX interconnection model, IBX data center participants often encourage their customers, suppliers and business partners to also locate in our IBX data centers. These customers,









suppliers and business partners, in turn, encourage their business partners to locate in our IBX data centers, resulting in additional customer growth. This network effect significantly reduces our new customer acquisition costs. In addition, large network providers, cloud providers or managed service providers may refer customers to Equinix as a part of their total customer solution. Equinix also focuses the selling by our vertical sales specialists on supporting specific industry requirements for network, mobile, and media and content providers, financial services, cloud computing, systems integrators and enterprise customer segments.

The Equinix channel program adds an ecosystem of leading system integrators and service providers, from managed to network to cloud services. They help our customers design and deploy the right cloud and IT solutions enterprises need to reach their customers, employees and supply chains. Our channel partners understand how to leverage and integrate the advantages of the Platform Equinix™ global footprint, high performance connectivity options and global supply-chain ecosystems to deliver solutions that precisely meet our customers’ performance, reliability and cost requirements.

Marketing.To support our sales efforts and to actively promote our brand in the Americas, Asia-Pacific and EMEA, we conduct comprehensive marketing programs. Our marketing strategies include active public relations and ongoing customer communications programs. Our marketing efforts are focused on major business and trade publications, online media outlets, industry events and sponsored activities. Our staff holds leadership positions in key networking organizations, and we participate in a variety of internet, enterprise IT, computer and financial industry conferences, placing our officers and employees in keynote speaking engagements at these conferences. We also regularly measure customer satisfaction levels and host key customer forums to ensure customer needs are understood and incorporated in product and service planning efforts. From a brand perspective, we build recognition through our website, external blog and social media channels, by sponsoring or leading industry technical forums, by participating in internet industry standard-setting bodies and through advertising and online campaigns. We continue to develop and host industry educational forums focused on peering technologies and practices for ISPs and content providers.

Our Competition

While a large number of enterprises own their own data centers, many others outsource some or all of their requirements to multi-tenant internet data center facilities, such as those operated by Equinix. We believe that the outsourcing trend is likely to accelerate in the coming years. It is estimated that Equinix is one of more than 650 companies that provide internet data center offerings around the world, ranging in size from firms with a single data center in a single market to firms in over 20 markets. Equinix competes with these firms, which vary in terms of their data center offerings, including:

Colocation Providers

Colocation data centers are a type of internet data center that can also be referred to as “retail” data center space. Typically, colocation data center space is offered on the basis of individual racks/cabinets or cages ranging from 500 to 10,000 square feet in size. Typical customers of colocation providers include:

•Large enterprises with significant IT expertise and requirements

•Small and medium businesses looking to outsource data center requirements

•Internet application providers

•Major internet content, entertainment and social networking providers

•Shared, dedicated and managed hosting providers

•Mobile and network service providers

•Content delivery networks



Full facility maintenance and systems, including fire suppression, security, power backup and HVAC, are routinely included in managed colocation offerings. A variety of additional services are typically available, including remote hands technician services and network monitoring services.

Providers in addition to Equinix that offer colocation both globally and locally include firms such as AT&T, COLT, and NTT.

Carrier-Neutral Colocation Providers

In addition to data center space and power, colocation providers also offer interconnection. Some of these providers, known as network or carrier-neutral colocation providers, can offer customers the choice of hundreds of network service providers or ISPs to choose from. Typically, customers use interconnection to buy internet connectivity, connect to VoIP telephone networks, perform financial exchange and settlement functions or perform business-to-business e-commerce. Carrier-neutral data centers are often located in key network hubs around the world, such as New York, Ashburn, Va., London, Amsterdam, Singapore and









Hong Kong. Two types of data center facilities offering carrier-neutral colocation are used for many network-to-network interconnections:

•A Meet Me Room (MMR) is typically a smaller space, generally 5,000 square feet or less, located in a major carrier hotel and often found in a wholesale data center facility.

•A carrier-neutral data center is generally larger than an MMR and may be a stand-alone building separate from existing carrier hotels.



Providers in addition to Equinix that we believe could be defined as offering carrier-neutral colocation include CoreSite, Digital Realty Trust, Global Switch, Interxion and Telehouse.

Wholesale Data Center Providers

Wholesale data center providers lease data center space that is typically offered in cells or pods (i.e., individual white-space rooms) ranging in size from 10,000 to 20,000 square feet, or larger. Wholesale data center offerings are targeted to both enterprises and colocation providers. These data centers primarily provide space and power without additional services like technicians, remote hands services or network monitoring (although other tenants might offer such services).

Sample wholesale data center providers include Digital Realty Trust, DuPont Fabros Technology, e-Shelter and Global Switch.

Managed Hosting Providers

Managed hosting services are provided by several firms that also provide data center colocation services. Typically, managed hosting providers can manage server hardware that is owned by either the hosting provider or the customer. They can also provide a combination of comprehensive systems administration, database administration and sometimes application management services. Frequently, this results in managed hosting providers “running” the customer’s servers, although such administration is frequently shared. The provider may manage such functions as operating systems, databases, security and patch management, while the customer will maintain management of the applications riding on top of those systems.

The full list of potential services that can be offered as part of managed hosting is substantial and includes services such as remote management, custom applications, helpdesk, messaging, databases, disaster recovery, managed storage, managed virtualization, managed security, managed networks and systems monitoring. Managed hosting services are typically used for:

•Application hosting by organizations of any size, including large enterprises

•Hosted or managed messaging, including Microsoft Exchange and other complex messaging applications

•Complex or highly scalable web hosting or e-commerce websites

•Managed storage solutions (including large drive arrays or backup robots)

•Server disaster recovery and business continuity, including clustering and global server load balancing

•Database servers, applications and services



Examples of managed hosting providers include: AT&T, CenturyLink, NaviSite, Rackspace, SunGard and Verizon Business.

Unlike other providers whose core businesses are bandwidth or managed services, we focus on neutral interconnection hubs for cloud and IT service providers, content providers, financial companies, enterprises and network service providers. As a result, we do not have the limited choices found commonly at other hosting/colocation companies. We compete based on the quality of our IBX data centers, our ability to provide a one-stop global solution in our Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific locations, the performance and diversity of our network- and cloud-neutral strategy, and the economic benefits of the aggregation of top network, cloud and business ecosystems under one roof. We expect to continue to benefit from several industry trends, including the need for contracting with multiple networks due to the uncertainty in the telecommunications market; customers’ increasing power requirements; enterprise customers’ increased use of virtualization and outsourcing; the continued growth of broadband and significant growth in Ethernet as a network alternative; and the growth in mobile applications.

Our Business Segment Financial Information

We currently operate in three reportable segments comprised of our Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific geographic regions. Information attributable to each of our reportable segments is set forth in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.









Employees

We had 5,993 employees as ofDecember 31, 2016. We had 2,510 employees based in the Americas, 2,063 employees based in EMEA and 1,420 employees based in Asia-Pacific. Of those employees, 2,827 employees were in engineering and operations, 1,177 employees were in sales and marketing and 1,989 employees were in management, finance and administration.

Available Information

We were incorporated in Delaware in June 1998. We are required to file reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may read and copy our materials on file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information regarding the SEC’s Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information.

You may also obtain copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to such reports, free of charge by visiting the Investor Relations page on our website, www.equinix.com. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practical after we file them with the SEC. Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.











