ITEM 1.BUSINESS

The words “Equinix”, “we”, “our”, “ours”, “us” and the “Company” refer to Equinix, Inc. All statements in this discussion that are not
historical areforward-lookingstatements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding Equinix’s “expectations”,
“beliefs”, “intentions”, “strategies”, “forecasts”, “predictions”, “plans” or the like. Such statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to a number of
factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in theforward-lookingstatements. Equinix cautions investors that there can be no assurance that actual
results or business conditions will not differ materially from those projected or suggested in suchforward-lookingstatements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, the risk factors
discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Equinix expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to anyforward-lookingstatements contained herein to
reflect any change in Equinix’s expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements are based.

Overview

Equinix, Inc. connects more than 4,500 companies directly to
their customers and partners inside the world’s most networked data centers. Today, businesses leverage the Equinix interconnection platform in 32 strategic markets across the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia-Pacific.

Platform Equinix™ combines a global footprint of state-of-the-art International Business Exchange®(IBX®) data centers, a variety of interconnection opportunities and unique ecosystems. Together these components accelerate business growth for Equinix’s customers by
safehousing their infrastructure and applications closer to users, enabling them to improve performance with cost effective and scalable interconnections, work with vendors to deploy new technologies such as cloud computing and to collaborate with
the widest variety of partners and customers.

Equinix’s platform offers these unique value propositions to customers:



•Global Data Centers



•A broad footprint of 95+ IBX data centers in 15 countries on 5 continents.



•More than $7.0 billion of capital invested in capacity, new markets and acquisitions since 1998.



•Equinix delivered more than 99.999% of uptime across its footprint in 2013.



•Connected



•More than 975 networks and approximately 128,000 cross connects in Equinix sites.



•Equinix provides less than 10 milliseconds latency to over 90 percent of the population of North America and Europe, as well as key population centers
throughout Latin America and Asia-Pacific.



•Partners, Customers and Prospects



•Equinix sites house a blue-chip customer base of 4,500+ global businesses.



•These customers represent a who’s who of network, digital media, financial services, cloud/IT and enterprise leaders.



•Opportunity



•Equinix data centers contain a dynamic marketplace for communications services, interconnecting businesses, networks, carriers and content providers to
potential suppliers, customers and partners.



•More than 4,500+ potential partners to deploy world-class solutions.







Equinix has established a critical mass of customers that continues to drive new and
existing customer growth and bookings. Our network-neutral business model also contributes to our success in the market. We offer customers direct interconnection to an aggregation of bandwidth providers, rather than focusing on selling a particular
network. The providers in our sites include the world’s top carriers, Internet Service Providers (ISPs), broadband access networks (DSL / cable) and international carriers. Neutrality also means our customers can choose to buy from, or partner
with, leading companies across our five targeted verticals. These include:



•Network and Mobility Providers (AT&T, British Telecom, Comcast, Level 3 Communications, NTT, SingTel, Syniverse, Verizon Business)



•Cloud and IT Services (Accenture, Amazon Web Services, Box.net, Carpathia, NetApp, Microsoft, Salesforce.com, Voxel.net, Cisco, WebEx)



•Content Providers (eBay, DIRECTV, Facebook, Hulu, LinkedIn, Priceline, Yahoo!, Zynga)



•Enterprise (Bechtel, Booz Allen Hamilton, Deloitte, The GAP, Ingram Micro, Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP, McGraw-Hill, United Stationers Inc.)



•Financial Companies (ACTIV Financial, Bloomberg, Chicago Board Options Exchange, DirectEdge, JP Morgan Chase, Quantlab Financial, NASDAQ OMX NLX, NYSE
Technologies, Thomson Reuters)

Equinix generates revenue by providing colocation and related
interconnection and managed IT infrastructure offerings on a global platform of 95+ IBX data centers.



•Colocation offerings include operations space, storage space, cabinets and power for customers’ colocation needs.



•Interconnection offerings include cross connects, as well as switch ports on the Equinix Internet Exchange and Equinix Carrier Ethernet Exchange
services. These offerings provide scalable and reliable connectivity that allows customers to exchange traffic directly with the service provider of their choice or directly with each other, creating a performance optimized business ecosystem for
the exchange of data between strategic partners.



•Managed IT infrastructure services allow customers to leverage Equinix’s significant telecommunications expertise, maximize the benefits of our
IBX data centers and optimize their infrastructure and resources.

The market for Equinix’s offerings
has historically been served by large telecommunications carriers which have bundled their telecommunications and managed services with their colocation offerings. In addition, some Equinix customers, such as Microsoft, build and operate their own
data centers for their large infrastructure deployments, called server farms. However, these customers rely upon Equinix IBX data centers for many of their critical interconnection relationships. The need for large, wholesale outsourced data centers
is also being addressed by providers that build large data centers to meet customers’ needs for standalone data centers, a different customer segment than Equinix serves.

Due to the increasing cost and complexity of the power and cooling requirements of today’s data center equipment, Equinix has gained many customers that have outgrown their existing data centers or
that have realized the benefits of a network-neutral model and the ability to create their own optimized business ecosystems for the exchange of data. Strategically, we will continue to look at attractive opportunities to grow market share and
selectively expand our footprint and offerings. We continue to leverage our global reach and depth to differentiate based upon our ability to support truly global customer requirements in all our markets.

Several factors contribute to the growth in demand for data center offerings, including:



•The continuing growth of consumer Internet traffic from new bandwidth-intensive services, such as video, voice over IP (VoIP), social media, mobile
data, gaming, data-rich media, Ethernet and wireless services.







•Significant increases in power and cooling requirements for today’s data center equipment. New generations of servers continue to concentrate
processing capability, with associated power consumption and cooling load, into smaller footprints and many legacy-built data centers are unable to accommodate these new power and cooling demands.



•The adoption of cloud computing technology services, including the growth of enterprise applications delivered across communications networks, such as
Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), and disaster recovery services.



•The financial services market is experiencing tremendous growth due to electronic trading and the increased volume of peak messages (transactions per
second), requiring optimized data exchange through business ecosystems.



•The growth of “proximity communities” that rely on immediate physical colocation and interconnection with their strategic partners and
customers, such as financial exchange ecosystems for electronic trading and settlement and ecosystems for real-time bidding and fulfillment of Internet advertising.



•The high capital costs associated with building and maintaining “in-sourced” data centers creates an opportunity for capital savings by
leveraging an outsourced colocation model.

Industry Background

The Internet is a collection of numerous independent networks interconnected to form a network of networks. Users on different networks
are able to communicate with each other through interconnection between these networks. For example, when a person sends an email to someone who uses a different provider for his or her connectivity (e.g., Comcast versus Verizon), the email must
pass from one network to the other in order to get to its final destination. Equinix provides a physical point at which that interconnection can occur.

In order to accommodate the rapid growth of Internet traffic, an organized approach for network interconnection was needed. The exchange of traffic between these networks became known as peering. Peering
is when networks trade traffic at relatively equal amounts and set up agreements to trade traffic often at no charge to the other party. At first, government and non-profit organizations established places where these networks could exchange
traffic, or peer, with each other—these points were known as network access points, or NAPs. Over time, many NAPs became a natural extension of carrier services and were run by such companies as MFS (now a part of Verizon Business), Sprint,
Ameritech and Pacific Bell (the last two now parts of AT&T).

Ultimately, these NAPs were unable to scale with the growth
of the Internet, and the lack of “neutrality” by the carrier owners of these NAPs created a conflict of interest with the participants. This created a market need for network-neutral interconnection points that could accommodate the
rapidly growing need to increase performance for enterprise and consumer users of the Internet, especially with the rise of important content providers such as AOL, Microsoft, Yahoo! and others. In addition, the providers, as well as a growing
number of enterprises, required a more secure and reliable solution for direct connection to a variety of telecommunications networks as the importance of their Internet operations continued to grow.

To accommodate Internet traffic growth, the largest of these networks left the NAPs and began trading traffic by placing private circuits
between each other. Peering, which once occurred at the NAP locations, was moved to these private circuits. Over the years, these circuits became expensive to expand and could not be built quickly enough to accommodate traffic growth. This led to a
need by the large carriers to find a more efficient way to peer. Today, many customers satisfy their requirements for peering through data center providers like Equinix because it permits them to peer with the networks they require within one
location, using simple direct connections. Their ability to peer within a data center or across a data center campus, instead of across a metro area, has increased the scalability of their operations while decreasing network costs.

The interconnection model has further evolved over the years to include new offerings. Starting with the peering and network communities,
interconnection has since been used for new network services including carrier Ethernet, multiprotocol label switching (MPLS), virtual private networks (VPNs) and mobility services, in addition to traditional international private line and voice
services. The industry continues to evolve with a set of new offerings where interconnection is often used to solve the network-to-network interconnection challenges.







In addition, the enterprise customer segment is also evolving. In the past, most enterprises
opted to keep their data center requirements in house. However, current trends are leading more and more enterprise CIOs to either outsource their data center requirements, and/or extend their corporate wide area networks (WANs) into carrier-neutral
colocation facilities. The combination of globalization, the proliferation of bandwidth intensive Internet-facing applications and rich media content, the need to provide access to cloud computing environments, business continuity and disaster
recovery needs, plus tight corporate IT budgets mean that enterprise CIOs must do more with less. Industry analysts forecast growth in the colocation market to be approximately 10% per year over the next four years.

Equinix Value Proposition

More than 4,500 companies, including a diversified mix of cloud and IT service providers, content providers, enterprises, financial
companies, and network and mobility service providers, currently operate within Equinix IBX data centers. These companies derive specific value from the following elements of the Equinix service offering:



•Comprehensive global solution:With 95+ IBX data centers in 32 markets in the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific, Equinix offers a
consistent global solution.



•Premium data centers:Equinix IBX data centers feature advanced design, security, power and cooling elements to provide customers with
industry-leading reliability. While others in the market have business models that include additional offerings, Equinix is focused on colocation and interconnection as our core competencies.



•Dynamic business ecosystems:Equinix’s network-neutral model has enabled us to attract a critical mass of networks and cloud and IT
services providers and that, in turn, attracts other businesses seeking to interconnect within a single location. This ecosystem model, versus connecting to multiple partners in disparate locations, reduces costs and optimizes the performance of
data exchange. As Equinix grows and attracts an even more diversified base of customers, the value of Equinix’s IBX data center offering increases.



•Improved economics:Customers seeking to outsource their data center operations rather than build their own capital-intensive data
centers enjoy significant capital cost savings. Customers also benefit from improved economics on account of the broad access to networks that Equinix provides. Rather than purchasing costly local loops from multiple transit providers, customers can
connect directly to more than 975 networks inside Equinix’s IBX data centers.



•Leading insight:With more than 15 years of industry experience, Equinix has a specialized staff of industry experts and solutions
architects who helped build and shape the interconnection infrastructure of the Internet. This specialization and industry knowledge base offer customers a unique consultative value and a competitive advantage.

Our Strategy

Our
objective is to expand our global leadership position as the premier network neutral data center platform for cloud and IT services providers, content providers, financial companies, enterprises and network and mobility services providers. Key
components of our strategy include the following:

Improve customer performance through interconnection.We
have assembled a critical mass of premier network providers and content companies and have become one of the core hubs of the information-driven world. This critical mass is a key selling point for companies that want to connect with a diverse set
of networks to provide the best connectivity to their end-customers and network companies that want to sell bandwidth to companies and interconnect with other networks in the most efficient manner available. Currently, we house more than 975 unique
networks, including all of the top tier networks, allowing our customers to directly interconnect with providers that best meet their unique global and regional price and performance needs. We have a growing mass of key players in cloud and IT
services, such as Accenture, Amazon Web Services, AT&T, Microsoft Azure and Salesforce.com, and in the enterprise and financial sectors, such as Bechtel, Bloomberg, Chicago Board of Trade, The GAP, McGraw-Hill, and others. We expect these
segments will continue to grow as they seek to leverage our critical mass of network providers and interconnect directly with each other to improve performance.







Streamline ease of doing business globally.Data center reliability,
power availability and network choice are the most important attributes considered by our customers when they are choosing a data center provider in a particular location. We have long been recognized as a leader in these areas and our performance
continues to improve against these criteria. Our power infrastructure delivered 99.999% uptime globally in 2013.

In
2013, more than half of our revenue came from customers with deployments across two or more of our global regions, and as globalization continues, seamless global solutions will become an increasingly important data center selection criteria. We
continue to focus on strategic acquisitions to expand our market coverage and on global product standardization, pricing and contracts harmonization initiatives to meet these global demands.

Deepen existing and grow new ecosystems.As networks, cloud and IT services providers, content providers, financial
services providers and enterprises locate in our IBX data centers, it benefits their suppliers and business partners to do so as well to gain the full economic and performance benefits of direct interconnection for their business ecosystems. These
partners, in turn, pull in their business partners, creating a “network effect” of customer adoption. Our interconnection offerings enable scalable, reliable and cost-effective interconnection and optimized traffic exchange thus lowering
overall cost and increasing flexibility. The ability to directly interconnect with a wide variety of companies is a key differentiator for us in the market. We are rolling out efficient and innovative Internet and Ethernet exchange platforms to
accelerate commercial growth in our sites and accelerate this network effect.

Expand vertical go-to-market
plan.We plan to continue to focus our go-to-market efforts on customer segments and business applications that appreciate the Equinix value proposition of reliability, global reach and ecosystem collaboration opportunities. Today we
have identified these segments as cloud services, content and digital media, financial services, enterprises and IT services and network and mobility service providers. As digital business evolves, we will continue to identify and focus our
go-to-market efforts on industry segments that need our value proposition.

Accelerate global reach and scale.We continue to evaluate expansion opportunities in select markets based on customer demand. In 2013, we acquired the Kleyer 90 carrier hotel in Frankfurt to consolidate our position in one of Europe’s key communications hubs. We entered the
Osaka, Japan market with a new data center that provides geographic redundancy within the Japanese market. We also added capacity across our global footprint with a second data center in Seattle, an eleventh in Northern Virginia, a fifth in Zurich,
a fourth in Tokyo, a second in Rio de Janeiro and a major expansion in Singapore.

Our strategy is to continue to grow in
select existing markets and possibly expand to additional markets where demand and financial return potential warrant. We expect to execute this expansion strategy in a cost-effective and disciplined manner through a combination of acquiring
existing data centers through lease or purchase, acquiring or investing in local data center operators and building new IBX data centers based on key criteria, such as demand and potential financial return, in each market.

Our Customers

Our
customers include carriers, mobility and other bandwidth providers, cloud and IT services providers, content providers, financial companies and global enterprises. We provide each customer access to a choice of business partners and solutions based
on their colocation, interconnection and managed IT service needs. As of December 31, 2013, we had more than 4,500 customers worldwide.







Typical customers in our five key customer categories include the following:



Cloud and ITServicesContentProvidersEnterpriseFinancialCompaniesNetwork andMobility ServicesAccentureeBayBechtelACTIV FinancialAT&TAmazon WebServicesDIRECTVBooz Allen HamiltonBloombergBTBox.netFacebookDeloitteChicago OptionsBoard ExchangeComcastCarpathiaHuluThe GAPIngram MicroDirectEdgeLevel 3CommunicationsMicrosoftNetAppLinkedInPricelineKatten MuchinRosenman LLPNASDAQ OMXNLXNYSE TechnologiesNTTSalesforce.comTencentMcGraw-HillJP Morgan ChaseSingTelVoxel.netCisco WebExYahoo!ZyngaUnited Stationers Inc.Quantlab FinancialThomson ReutersSyniverse VerizonBusiness

Customers typically sign renewable contracts of one or more years in length. No single customer accounted
for 10% or more of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.

Our Offerings

Equinix provides a choice of data center offerings primarily comprised of colocation, interconnection solutions and managed IT
infrastructure services.

Colocation and Related Offerings

Our IBX data centers provide our customers with secure, reliable and fault-tolerant environments that are necessary for optimum Internet commerce interconnection. Many of our IBX data centers include
multiple layers of physical security, scalable cabinet space availability, on-site trained staff 24 hours per day, 365 days a year, dedicated areas for customer care and equipment staging, redundant AC/DC power systems and multiple other redundant
and fault-tolerant infrastructure systems. Some specifications or offerings provided may differ based on original facility design or market.

Within our IBX data centers, customers can place their equipment and interconnect with a choice of networks or other business partners. We also provide customized solutions for customers looking to
package our IBX offerings as part of their complex solutions. Our colocation offerings include:

Cabinets.Our customers have several choices for colocating their networking, server and storage equipment. They can
place the equipment in one of our shared or private cages or customize their space. In certain select markets, customers can purchase their own private “suite” which is walled off from the rest of the data center. As customers’
colocation requirements increase, they can expand within their original cage (or suite) or upgrade into a cage that meets their expanded requirements. Customers buy the hardware they place in our IBX data centers directly from their chosen vendors.
Cabinets (or suites) are priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing recurring monthly charge.

Power.Power is an element of increasing importance in customers’ colocation decisions. We offer both AC and DC
power circuits at various amperages and phases customized to a customer’s individual power requirements. We also offer metered power in certain markets. Power is priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing recurring monthly charge.







IBXflex.IBXflex allows customers to deploy mission-critical operations
personnel and equipment on-site at our IBX data centers. Because of the close proximity to their infrastructure within our IBX data centers, IBXflex customers can offer a faster response and quicker troubleshooting solution than those available in
traditional colocation facilities. This space can also be used as a secure disaster recovery point for customers’ business and operations personnel. This service is priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing recurring monthly
charge.

Interconnection Solutions

Our interconnection solutions enable scalable, reliable and cost-effective interconnection and traffic exchange between Equinix customers. These interconnection solutions are either on a one-to-one basis
with direct cross connects or one-to-many through one of our Equinix Exchange solutions. In the peering community, we provide an important industry leadership role by acting as the relationship broker between parties who would like to interconnect
within our IBX data centers. Our staff holds or has held significant positions in many leading industry groups, such as the North American Network Operators’ Group, or NANOG, and the Internet Engineering Task Force, or IETF. Members of our
staff have published industry-recognized white papers and strategy documents in the areas of peering and interconnection, many of which are used by other institutions worldwide in furthering the education and promotion of this important set of
solutions. We expect to continue to develop additional solutions in the area of traffic exchange that will allow our customers to leverage the critical mass of networks, cloud services providers, and many important financial services and e-commerce
industry leaders now available in our IBX data centers. Our current exchange solutions are comprised of the following:

Physical Cross Connect/Direct Interconnections.Customers needing to directly and privately connect to another IBX
data center customer can do so through single or multi-mode fiber. These cross connections are the physical link between customers and can be implemented within 24 hours of request. Cross connect offerings are priced with an initial installation fee
and an ongoing monthly recurring charge.

Equinix Internet Exchange.Customers may choose to connect to and
peer through the central switching fabric of our Equinix Internet Exchange rather than purchase a direct physical cross connection. With a connection to this switch, a customer can aggregate multiple interconnects over one physical connection with
up to multiple, linked 10 gigabit ports of capacity instead of purchasing individual physical cross connects. The offering is priced per IBX data center with an initial installation fee and an ongoing monthly recurring charge. Individual IBX data
center prices increase as the number of participants on the exchange service grows.

Equinix Metro Connect.Customers who are located in one IBX data center may need to interconnect with networks or other customers located in an adjacent or nearby IBX data center in the same metro area. Metro Connect allows customers to seamlessly interconnect between
IBX data centers at capacities up to an OC-192, or 10 gigabits per second level. Metro Connect offerings are priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing monthly recurring charge dependent on the capacity the customer purchases.

Internet Connectivity Services.Customers who are installing equipment in our IBX data centers generally
require IP connectivity or bandwidth services. Although many large customers prefer to contract directly with carriers, we offer customers the ability to contract for these services through us from any of the major bandwidth providers in that data
center. This service, which is provided in our Asia-Pacific and EMEA regions, is targeted to customers who require a single bill and a single point of support for their entire contract through Equinix for their bandwidth needs. Internet
connectivity services are priced with an initial installation fee and an ongoing monthly recurring charge based on the amount of bandwidth committed.

Ethernet Exchange Services.The Ethernet Exchange offering is similar to the Equinix Internet Exchange, and we offer it in 17 markets so that customers can connect via a central switching
fabric to interconnect between multiple Carrier Ethernet Providers rather than creating individual Network to Network interfaces (NNIs) between individual carriers. The offering builds on the benefits of the Internet community and extends the
ability to interconnect to the high growth Ethernet industry. The offering is priced per IBX data center with an initial fee and a monthly recurring charge.







Managed IT Infrastructure Services

With the continued growth in Internet traffic, networks, cloud providers, service providers, enterprises and content providers are
challenged to deliver fast and reliable service, while lowering costs. With more than 975 Internet Service Providers (ISPs), fixed and mobile carriers located in our IBX data centers, we leverage the value of network choice with our set of
multi-network management and other outsourced IT services, including:

Professional Services.Our IBX data
centers are staffed with Internet and telecommunications specialists who are on-site and/or available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. These professionals are trained to perform installations of customer equipment and cabling. Professional services
are custom-priced depending on customer requirements.

Smart Hands Services.Our customers can take
advantage of our professional “Smart Hands” service, which gives customers access to our IBX data center staff for a variety of tasks, when their own staff is not on site. These tasks may include equipment rebooting and power cycling, card
swapping and performing emergency equipment replacement. Services are available on-demand or by customer contract and are priced on an hourly basis.

Sales and Marketing

Sales.We use a direct sales force
and channel marketing program to market our offerings to global enterprises, content providers, financial companies and mobility and network service providers. We organize our sales force by customer type as well as by establishing a sales presence
in diverse geographic regions, which enables efficient servicing of the customer base from a network of regional offices. In addition to our worldwide headquarters located in Silicon Valley, we have established an Asia-Pacific regional headquarters
in Hong Kong, and a European regional headquarters in Amsterdam. Our Americas sales offices are located in Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, Reston, Virginia and Silicon Valley, and sales offices in Brazil operate out of data centers in Sao
Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Our EMEA sales offices are located in Amsterdam, Dubai, Dusseldorf, Enschede, Frankfurt, Geneva, London, Munich, Paris, Zurich, and Zwolle. Our Asia-Pacific sales offices are located in Beijing, Hong Kong, Jakarta,
Shanghai, Singapore, Sydney and Tokyo.

Our sales team works closely with each customer to foster the natural network effect
of our IBX model, resulting in access to a wider potential customer base via our existing customers. As a result of the IBX interconnection model, IBX data center participants often encourage their customers, suppliers and business partners to also
locate in our IBX data centers. These customers, suppliers and business partners, in turn, encourage their business partners to locate in our IBX data centers resulting in additional customer growth. This network effect significantly reduces our new
customer acquisition costs. In addition, large network providers or managed service providers may refer customers to Equinix as a part of their total customer solution. Equinix also focuses vertical sales specialists selling to support specific
industry requirements for network, mobility and content providers, financial services, cloud computing and systems integrators and enterprise customer segments.

Marketing.To support our sales efforts and to actively promote our brand in the Americas, Asia-Pacific and EMEA, we conduct comprehensive marketing programs. Our marketing strategies
include active public relations and ongoing customer communications programs. Our marketing efforts are focused on major business and trade publications, online media outlets, industry events and sponsored activities. Our staff holds leadership
positions in key networking organizations, and we participate in a variety of Internet, Carrier Ethernet, computer and financial industry conferences, placing our officers and employees in keynote speaking engagements at these conferences. We also
regularly measure customer satisfaction levels and host key customer forums to ensure customer needs are understood and incorporated in product and service planning efforts. From a brand perspective, we build recognition through our website,
sponsoring or leading industry technical forums, participating in Internet industry standard-setting bodies and through advertising and online campaigns. We continue to develop and host industry educational forums focused on peering technologies and
practices for ISPs and content providers.







Our Competition

While a large number of enterprises own their own data centers, many others outsource some or all of their requirements to multi-tenant Internet data center facilities, such as those operated by Equinix.
We believe that the outsourcing trend is likely to not only continue but also to grow in the coming years. It is estimated that Equinix is one of over 650 companies that provide Internet data center offerings around the world, ranging in size from
firms with a single data center in a single market to firms in over 20 markets. Equinix competes with these firms, which vary in terms of their data center offerings, including:

Colocation Providers

Colocation data centers are a type of Internet
data center that can also be referred to as “retail” data center space. Typically, colocation data center space is offered on the basis of individual racks/cabinets or cages ranging from 500 to 10,000 square feet in size. Typical customers
of colocation providers include:



•Large enterprises with significant IT expertise and requirements



•Small and medium businesses looking to outsource data center requirements



•Internet application providers



•Major Internet content, entertainment and social networking providers



•Shared, dedicated and managed hosting providers



•Mobility and network service providers



•Content delivery networks

Full facility maintenance and systems, including fire suppression, security, power backup and HVAC, are routinely included in managed colocation offerings. A variety of additional services are typically
available in colocation facilities, including remote hands technician services and network monitoring services.

In addition
to Equinix, providers that offer colocation both globally and locally include firms such as AT&T, CenturyLink, COLT, CyrusOne, Level 3 Communications, NTT and Verizon Business.

Carrier-Neutral Colocation Providers

In addition to data center
space and power, colocation providers also offer interconnection. Certain of these providers, known as network or carrier-neutral colocation providers, can offer customers the choice of hundreds of network service providers, or ISPs, to choose from.
Typically, customers use interconnection to buy Internet connectivity, connect VoIP telephone networks, perform financial exchange and settlement functions or perform business-to-business e-commerce. Carrier-neutral data centers are often located in
key network hubs around the world like New York; Ashburn, Virginia; London; Amsterdam; Singapore and Hong Kong. Two types of data center facilities offering carrier-neutral colocation are used for many network-to-network interconnections:



•A Meet Me Room (MMR) is typically a smaller space, generally 5,000 square feet or less, located in a major carrier hotel and often found in a wholesale
data center facility.



•A carrier-neutral data center is generally larger than an MMR and may be a stand-alone building separate from existing carrier hotels.

In addition to Equinix, other providers that we believe could be defined as offering carrier-neutral
colocation include CoreSite, Global Switch, Interxion, Telecity Group, Telehouse and Telx.

Wholesale Data Center Providers

Wholesale data center providers lease data center space that is typically offered in cells or pods (i.e., individual
white-space rooms) ranging in size from 10,000 to 20,000 square feet, or larger. Wholesale data center offerings are targeted to both enterprises and to colocation providers. These data centers primarily provide space and power without additional
services like technicians, remote hands services or network monitoring (although other tenants might offer such services).







Sample wholesale data center providers include Digital Realty Trust, DuPont Fabros
Technology, e-Shelter and Sentrum.

Managed Hosters

Managed hosting services are provided by several firms that also provide data center colocation services. Typically, managed hosting providers can manage server hardware that is owned by either the
hosting provider or the customer. They can also provide a combination of comprehensive systems administration, database administration and sometimes application management services. Frequently, this results in managed hosting providers
“running” the customer’s servers, although such administration is frequently shared. The provider may manage such functions as operating systems, databases, security and patch management, while the customer will maintain management of
the applications riding on top of those systems.

The full list of potential services that can be offered as part of managed
hosting is substantial and includes services such as remote management, custom applications, helpdesk, messaging, databases, disaster recovery, managed storage, managed virtualization, managed security, managed networks and systems monitoring.
Managed hosting services are typically used for:



•Application hosting by organizations of any size, including large enterprises



•Hosted or managed messaging, including Microsoft Exchange and other complex messaging applications



•Complex or highly scalable web hosting or e-commerce websites



•Managed storage solutions (including large drive arrays or backup robots)



•Server disaster recovery and business continuity, including clustering and global server load balancing



•Database servers, applications and services

Examples of managed hosters include AT&T, CenturyLink, NaviSite, Rackspace, SunGard, Verizon Business and Verizon Terremark.

Unlike other providers whose core businesses are bandwidth or managed services, we focus on neutral interconnection hubs for cloud and IT service providers, content providers, financial companies,
enterprises and network service providers. As a result, we do not have the limited choices found commonly at other hosting/colocation companies. We compete based on the quality of our IBX data centers, our ability to provide a one-stop global
solution in our Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific locations, the performance and diversity of our network-neutral strategy, and the economic benefits of the aggregation of top network and business ecosystems under one roof. We expect to continue to
benefit from several industry trends including the need for contracting with multiple networks due to the uncertainty in the telecommunications market, customers’ increasing power requirements, enterprise customers’ increased use of
virtualization and outsourcing, the continued growth of broadband and significant growth in Ethernet as a network alternative, and the growth in mobile applications.

Our Business Segment Financial Information

We currently operate in three
reportable segments, comprised of our Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific geographic regions. Information attributable to each of our reportable segments is set forth in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.







Employees

As of December 31, 2013, we had 3,500 employees. We had 1,984 employees based in the Americas, 899 employees based in EMEA and 617 employees based in Asia-Pacific. Of those employees, 1,579 were in
engineering and operations, 717 were in sales and marketing and 1,204 were in management, finance and administration.

Potential Real
Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”) Conversion

In September 2012, we announced that our board of directors approved
a plan for Equinix to pursue conversion to a REIT. We have begun implementation of the REIT conversion, and we plan to make a tax election for REIT status for the taxable year beginning January 1, 2015. Any REIT election made by us must be
effective as of the beginning of a taxable year; therefore, as a calendar year taxpayer, if we are unable to convert to a REIT by January 1, 2015, the next possible conversion date would be January 1, 2016.







In accordance with tax rules applicable to REIT conversions, we expect to issue special distributions to our stockholders of undistributed accumulated earnings and profits of approximately $700.0 million
to $1.1 billion (the “E&P distribution”), which we expect to pay out in a combination of up to 20% in cash and at least 80% in the form of our common stock. The estimated E&P distribution may change due to potential changes in
certain factors impacting the calculations, such as finalization of the 2013 E&P amounts and the actual financial year 2014 performance of the entities to be included in the REIT structure. We expect to make the E&P distribution only after
receiving a favorable PLR from the IRS, obtaining Board approval and completion of other necessary REIT conversion actions. The Company anticipates making an E&P distribution before 2015 with the balance distributed in 2015. In addition,
following the completion of the REIT conversion, we intend to declare regular distributions to our stockholders.

Available Information

We were incorporated in Delaware in June 1998. We are required to file reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with
the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may read and copy our materials on file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information regarding the SEC’s Public Reference
Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information.

You may also obtain copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K,
and any amendments to such reports, free of charge by visiting the Investor Relations page on our website, www.equinix.com. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practical after we file them with the SEC. Information contained on our
website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



