ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Overview



We are a provider of Internet infrastructure services. By leveraging our global infrastructure, we provide network confidence and availability for mission-critical Internet services, such as domain name
registry services and infrastructure assurance services. Our service capabilities enable domain name registration through our registrar partners and provide network availability for registrars and Internet users alike.



Our one reportable segment is Naming Services, which consists
of Registry Services and Network Intelligence and Availability (“NIA”) Services. We have operations inside as well as outside the United States (“U.S.”). For a geographic breakdown of revenues and changes in revenues, see Note
10, “Geographic and Customer Information”of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K.



Registry Services operates the authoritative directory of all.com, .net, .cc, .tv,and.namedomain names and the back-end
systems for all.gov, .jobsand.edudomain names. NIA Services provides infrastructure assurance services to organizations and is comprised of Verisign iDefense Security Intelligence Services (“iDefense”), Managed Domain
Name System Services (“Managed DNS”), and Distributed Denial of Service (“DDoS”) Protection Services.



We were incorporated in Delaware on April 12, 1995. On November 15, 2011, we purchased the land and building that we had
previously leased in Reston, Virginia. Our principal executive offices are now located at 12061 Bluemont Way, Reston, Virginia 20190. Our telephone number at that address is (703) 948-3200. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select
Market under the ticker symbol VRSN. VERISIGN, the VERISIGN logo, and certain other product or service names are our registered or unregistered trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. Other names used in this Form 10-K may be trademarks of their
respective owners. Our primary website iswww.verisigninc.com. The information on our website is not a part of this Form 10-K.



Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are available, free of charge, on the Investor Relations section of our website as soon as is reasonably practicable
after filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The
public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers
that file electronically with the SEC atwww.sec.gov.



Naming Services



Registry Services



Registry Services operates the authoritative directory of all.com, .net, .cc, .tv,and.namedomain names and the back-end
systems for all.gov, .jobsand.edudomain names. Registry Services allows individuals and organizations to establish their online identities, while providing the secure, always-on access they need to communicate and transact reliably
with large-scale online audiences.



We are the
exclusive registry of domain names within the.com, .netand.namegeneric top-level domains (“gTLDs”) under agreements with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (“ICANN”) and











the U.S. Department of Commerce (“DOC”). As a registry, we maintain the master directory of all second-level domain names in these top-level domains (e.g., johndoe.com and janedoe.net).
These top-level domains are supported by our global constellation of domain name servers. In addition, we own and maintain the shared registration system that allows all registrars to enter new second-level domain names into the master directory and
to submit modifications, transfers, re-registrations and deletions for existing second-level domain names (“Shared Registration System”).



Separate from our agreements with ICANN, we have agreements to be the exclusive registry for the.tvand.cccountry code
top-level domains (“ccTLDs”) and to operate the back-end registry systems for the.gov,.jobsand.edugTLDs. These top-level domains are also supported by our global constellation of domain name servers and
Shared Registration System.



With our existing
gTLDs and ccTLDs, we also provide internationalized domain name (“IDN”) services that enable Internet users to access websites in characters representing their local language. Currently, IDNs may be registered in as many as 350 different
native languages and scripts. We also support the Domain Name Systems (“DNS”) by locating and translating certain Internet Protocol (“IP”) addresses into Internet domain names.



Domain names can be registered for between one and ten years,
and the fees charged for.comand.netmay only be increased according to adjustments prescribed in our agreements with ICANN over the applicable term. Revenues for registrations of.nameare not subject to the same pricing
restrictions as those applicable to.comand.net;however,.namefees charged are subject to our agreement with ICANN over the applicable term. Revenues for.ccand.tvdomain names are based on a similar fee
system and registration system, though the fees charged are not subject to the same pricing restrictions as those imposed by ICANN. The fees received from operating the .govregistry are based on the terms of Verisign’s agreement with
the U.S. General Services Administration (“GSA”). The fees received from operating the.jobsregistry infrastructure are based on the terms of Verisign’s agreement with the registry operator of.jobs.No fees are
received from operating the.eduregistry infrastructure.



Historically, we have experienced higher domain name growth in the first quarter of the year compared to other quarters. Our quarterly revenue does not reflect these seasonal patterns because the
preponderance of our revenue for each quarterly period is provided by the ratable recognition of our deferred revenue balance.



Network Intelligence and Availability Services



NIA Services provides infrastructure assurance to
organizations and is comprised of iDefense, Managed DNS and DDoS Protection Services.



iDefense provides 24 hours a day, every day of the year, access to cyber intelligence related to vulnerabilities, malicious code, and global threats. Our teams enable companies to improve vulnerability
management, incident response, fraud mitigation, and proactive mitigation of the particular threats targeting their industry or global operations. Customers include financial institutions, large corporations, and governmental and quasi-governmental
organizations. Customers pay an annual fee for iDefense.



Managed DNS is a hosting service that delivers DNS resolution, improving the availability of web-based systems. Managed DNS provides DNS availability through a globally distributed, securely managed,
cloud-based DNS infrastructure, allowing enterprises to save on capital expenses associated with DNS infrastructure deployment and reduce operational costs and complexity associated with DNS management. In 2011, Verisign enhanced Managed DNS
services by providing full support for DNS Security Extensions compliance features and Geo Location capabilities. Security Extensions are designed to protect the DNS infrastructure from man-in-the-middle attacks that corrupt, or poison, DNS data.
Geo Location allows website owners to customize responses for end-users based on their physical location or IP address, giving them the ability to deliver location-specific content. Customers include financial institutions and e-commerce providers.
Customers pay a monthly subscription fee that varies depending on the customer’s network requirements.







DDoS Protection Services supports online business continuity by providing monitoring and
mitigation services against DDoS attacks. We help companies stay online without needing to make significant investments in infrastructure or establish internal DDoS expertise. As a cloud-based service, it can be deployed quickly and easily, with no
customer premise equipment required. This saves time and money through operational efficiencies, support cost, and economies of scale to provide detection and protection against the largest of DDoS attacks. Customers include financial institutions
and e-commerce providers. Customers pay a monthly subscription fee that varies depending on the customer’s network requirements.



Operations Infrastructure



Our operations infrastructure consists of three primary Company-operated secure data centers in Dulles, Virginia; New Castle, Delaware;
and Fribourg, Switzerland as well as approximately 70 globally distributed resolution sites, which includes both regional resolution sites and supersites. These secure data centers operate 24-hours a day, supporting our business units and services.
The performance and scale of our infrastructure are critical for our Naming Services businesses, and give us the platform to maintain our leadership position. Key features of our operations infrastructure include:



•Distributed Servers:We deploy a large number of high-speed servers globally to support capacity and availability demands
that, in conjunction with our proprietary software, processes and procedures, offer automatic failover, global and local load balancing and threshold monitoring on critical servers.



•Advanced Telecommunications:We deploy and maintain redundant and diverse telecommunications and routing hardware and
maintain high-speed connections to multiple Internet service providers (“ISPs”) and peering relationships globally to ensure that our critical services are readily accessible to customers at all times.





•



Network Security:



•Services Integrity:Verisign employs both phased and systemic integrity validation operations via a number of proprietary
mechanisms on all internal DNS publication operations.



As part of our operations infrastructure for our Registry Services business, we operate all authoritative domain name servers that answer domain name lookups for the.comand.netzones, as
well as for the other top-level domains for which we are the registry. We also operate two of the thirteen externally visible root zone server addresses, which are considered to be the authoritative root zone servers of the Internet’s DNS. The
domain name servers provide the associated authoritative name servers and IP addresses for every.comand.netdomain name on the Internet and a large number of other top-level domain queries, resulting in an annual average of over 60
billion transactions per day. These name servers are located around the world, providing local











domain name service throughout North America, South America, Europe, Africa, Asia, and Australia. Each server facility is a controlled and monitored environment, incorporating security and system
maintenance features. This network of name servers is one of the cornerstones of the Internet’s DNS infrastructure.



In 2011, we deployed DNS Security Extensions in the.comdomain, to protect the integrity of domain name system data. In 2010, we
announced an approximately $300 million new initiative called “Project Apollo” to meet infrastructure challenges expected over the next decade. We expect that this initiative will strengthen, scale and in some cases
revamp the.cominfrastructure to absorb very large loads, repel significant DDoS attacks and provide enhanced monitoring and logging capabilities. We expect to grow capacity 1,000 times today’s level of 4 trillion queries to
manage 4 quadrillion queries per day to support normal and peak system load and attack volumes based on what we have experienced historically, as well as to accommodate projected Internet attack trends. In 2009, we completed the prior
infrastructure initiative called “Project Titan,” a three-year large-scale infrastructure upgrade that included the deployment of a new operations center as well as regional resolution sites, of which we now have more than
50 globally.



Call Centers and Help
Desk:We provide customer support services through our phone-based call centers, email help desks and Web-based self-help systems. Our Virginia call center is staffed 24 hours a day, every day of the year to support our
businesses. All call centers have a staff of trained customer support agents and provide Web-based support services utilizing customized automatic response systems to provide self-help recommendations.



Operations Support and
Monitoring:Through our network operations centers, we have an extensive monitoring capability that enables us to track the status and performance of our critical database systems and our global resolution systems. Our
distributed network operations centers are staffed 24 hours a day, every day of the year.



Disaster Recovery Plans:We have disaster recovery and business continuity capabilities that are designed to deal with the loss of entire data centers and other facilities.
Our Registry Services business maintains dual mirrored data centers that allow rapid failover with no data loss and no loss of function or capacity, as well as off-continent tertiary Registry Services capabilities. Our critical data services
(including domain name registration and global resolution) use advanced storage systems that provide data protection through techniques such as synchronous mirroring and remote replication.



Divestitures and Restructuring



In 2011, we completed our four-year restructuring plans, which included divesting or winding down our non-core businesses, the sale of our
Authentication Services business, and relocating our headquarters. Information about the divestitures and restructuring is included in Note 4 “Discontinued Operations” and Note 6 “Restructuring Charges” of our Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K.



Marketing, Sales and Distribution



We offer promotional marketing programs for our registrars based upon market conditions and the business environment in which the registrars operate. We market our NIA Services worldwide through multiple
distribution channels, including direct sales and indirect channels. Our direct sales and marketing organization as of December 31, 2011, consisted of 191 employees. We have marketing and sales offices throughout the world.



Research and Development



We believe that timely development of new and enhanced
Internet security, e-commerce, information, and technologies is necessary to remain competitive in the marketplace. During 2011, 2010 and 2009 our research and development expenses were $53.3 million, $53.7 million and $52.4 million, respectively.



Our future success will depend in large part on
our ability to continue to maintain and enhance our current technologies and services. In the past, we developed our services both independently and through efforts with







leading application developers and major customers. We have also, in certain circumstances, acquired or licensed technology from third parties. Although we will continue to work closely with
developers and major customers in our development efforts, we expect that most of the future enhancements to existing services and new services will be developed internally.



The markets for our services are dynamic, characterized by
rapid technological developments, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. The constantly changing nature of these markets and their rapid evolution will require us to continually improve the performance, features and
reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings, and to introduce both new and enhanced services as quickly as possible and prior to our competitors.



Competition



We compete with numerous companies in each of the Registry Services and NIA Services businesses. The overall
number of our competitors may increase and the identity and composition of competitors may change over time.



Competition in Registry Services:We face competition in the domain name registry space from other
gTLD and ccTLD registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to establish a Web presence, including registries offering services related to the.info, .org, .mobi, .biz, .pro, .aero, .museum, .coopand.xxxgTLDs and registries offering services related to ccTLDs. ICANN currently has registry agreements with 16 registries for the operation of 18 gTLDs. In addition, there are over 250 Latin script ccTLD registries and 38 IDN ccTLD
registries. Furthermore, under our agreements with ICANN, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of.com,.netand.nameon pricing, bundling, methods of distribution and use of registrars that do not apply to
ccTLDs and therefore may create a competitive disadvantage. If other registries launch marketing campaigns for new or existing TLDs, including forms of marketing campaigns that we are prohibited from running under the terms of our agreements with
ICANN, which result in registrars giving other TLDs greater prominence on their websites, advertising or marketing materials, we could be at a competitive disadvantage and our business could suffer.



We also face competition from service providers that offer
outsourced domain name registration, resolution and other DNS services to organizations that require a reliable and scalable infrastructure. Among the competitors are Neustar Inc., Afilias Limited, ARI Registry Services and Nominet UK, Inc. In
addition, to the extent end-users navigate using search engines or social media, as opposed to direct navigation, we may face competition from search engine operators such as Google Inc., Microsoft Corporation, and Yahoo! Inc., operators of social
networks such as Facebook, and operators of microblogging tools such as Twitter. Furthermore, to the extent end-users increase the use of web and phone applications to locate and access content, we may face competition from providers of such web and
mobile applications.



Additional competition to
our business may arise from the introduction of new TLDs by ICANN. These include IDN TLDs and the upcoming introduction of new gTLDs by ICANN. On October 30, 2009, ICANN approved a fast track process for the awarding of new IDN ccTLDs and such
new IDN ccTLDs have started to be introduced into the root. An application period for other new domain extensions (including ones for which we could apply) opened in January 2012 with new registration opportunities available by the beginning of
2013. We do not yet know the impact, if any, that these new domain extensions may have on our business. Applicants for such new TLDs may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Furthermore, ICANN will allow the
operators of new gTLDs to also own, be owned 100% by or otherwise affiliated with a registrar, whereas we are currently prohibited by our agreements with ICANN and the DOC from owning more than 15% of a registrar. As a result, operators of new gTLDs
may be able to obtain competitive advantages through such vertical integration. ICANN has also approved a process pursuant to which an operator of an existing gTLD could apply to become a registrar with respect to a new gTLD; however, it is
uncertain whether ICANN and/or the DOC would approve the necessary changes to Verisign’s existing agreements to allow us to











vertically integrate with respect to new gTLDs, in which case, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. While we intend to apply for one or more of these new domain extensions, there is no
certainty that we will ultimately be successful, and even if we are successful in obtaining one or more of these new domain extensions, there is no guarantee that such extensions will be any more successful than the domain name extensions obtained
by our competitors. Similarly, while we may provide back-end registry services to other applicants for new gTLDs, we face competition from other back-end registry service providers and there is no guarantee that such applicants we do enter into
agreements with will be successful in obtaining one or more these new domain extensions or that such domain extensions will be successful.



Competition in Network Intelligence and Availability Services:Several of our current and potential
competitors have longer operating histories and/or significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and therefore may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies,
standards and customer requirements. Many of these competitors also have broader and more established distribution channels that may be used to deliver competing products or services directly to customers through bundling or other means. If such
competitors were to bundle competing products or services for their customers, we may experience difficulty establishing or increasing demand for our products and services or distributing our products successfully.



We face competition in the network intelligence and
availability services industry from companies or services such as iSight Partners, Security Services X-Force Threat Analysis Service, Secunia ApS, Dell SecureWorks, McAfee, Inc., Prolexic Technologies, Inc., AT&T Inc., Verizon Communications,
Inc., Dyn, Inc.’s Dynect Platform, NeuStar Ultra Services, OpenDNS, BlueCat Networks, Inc., Infoblox Inc., Nominum, Inc. and Afilias Limited.



Industry Regulation



Registry Services:Within the U.S. Government, oversight of Internet administration is provided by the DOC.
Effective October 1, 2009, the DOC and ICANN entered into a new agreement, known as the “Affirmation of Commitments” which replaced a prior agreement known as the Joint Project Agreement. Under the Affirmation of Commitments, the DOC
became one of several parties working together with other representative constituency members in providing an on-going review of ICANN’s performance and accountability. The Affirmation of Commitments provides for more defined international
participation in this review. The agreement sets forth periodic reviews by committees. These review panels are charged with reviewing and making recommendations regarding: (i) the accountability and transparency of ICANN; (ii) the
security, stability and resiliency of the DNS; (iii) the impact of new gTLDs on competition, consumer trust, and consumer choice; and (iv) the effectiveness of ICANN’s policies with respect to registrant data in meeting the legitimate
needs of law enforcement and promoting consumer trust. Under the Affirmation of Commitments, the Assistant Secretary of Communications and Information of the DOC will be a member of the “Accountability and Transparency” review panel. The
reviews generally are to occur no less than every three to four years.



As the exclusive registry of domain names within the.com,.netand.namegTLDs, we have entered into certain agreements with ICANN and the DOC:



.comRegistry Agreement: On November 29, 2006,
the DOC approved the Registry Agreement between ICANN and Verisign for the.comgTLD (the “.comRegistry Agreement”). The.comRegistry Agreement provides that we will continue to be the sole registry operator for
domain names in the.comtop-level domain through November 30, 2012. The.comRegistry Agreement provides that it shall be renewed for successive terms unless it has been determined that Verisign has been in fundamental and
material breach of certain provisions of the.comRegistry Agreement and has failed to cure such breach. The DOC shall approve such renewal if it concludes that approval will serve the public interest in (a) the continued security and
stability of the Internet DNS and the operation of the.comregistry including, in addition to other relevant factors, consideration of Verisign’s compliance with consensus policies and technical specifications, its service level
agreements as set







forth in the.comRegistry Agreement, and the investment associated with improving the security and stability of the DNS, and (b) the provision of registry services as defined in the.comRegistry Agreement at reasonable prices, terms and conditions. The parties have an expectancy of renewal of the.comRegistry Agreement so long as the foregoing public interest standard is met and Verisign is not in breach of the.comRegistry Agreement. We have commenced the renewal process with ICANN. If we fail to renew the.comRegistry Agreement on the same or similar terms, our business could be materially adversely affected. For further information
regarding the impact of this renewal on our business, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors—Substantially all of our revenue is derived from our Registry Services business;—Issues arising from our agreements with ICANN, the DOC and the GSA
could harm our Registry Services business.”



We are required to comply with and implement temporary specifications or policies and consensus policies, as well as other provisions
pursuant to the.comRegistry Agreement relating to handling of data and other registry operations. The.comRegistry Agreement also provides a procedure for Verisign to propose, and ICANN to review and approve, additional registry
services.



Cooperative Agreement: In connection
with the DOC’s approval of the.comRegistry Agreement, Verisign and the DOC entered into Amendment No. Thirty (30) to their Cooperative Agreement—Special Awards Conditions NCR-92-18742 (the “Amendment”), regarding
operation of the.comregistry, which extends the term of Cooperative Agreement through November 30, 2012, and provides that any renewal or extension of the.comRegistry Agreement is subject to prior written approval by the DOC.
As described above, the Amendment provides that the DOC shall approve such renewal if it concludes that it is in the public interest and in the continued security and stability of the DNS and that the provision of.comregistry services
is offered on reasonable terms.



.netRegistry Agreement: On June 27, 2011, we entered into a renewal of our Registry Agreement with ICANN for the.netgTLD (the “.netRegistry Agreement”). The.netRegistry Agreement provides that we will continue to
be the sole registry operator for domain names in the.nettop-level domain through June 30, 2017. The.netRegistry Agreement provides that it shall be renewed unless it has been determined that Verisign has been in fundamental
and material breach of certain provisions of the.netRegistry Agreement and has failed to cure such breach.



The descriptions of the.comRegistry Agreement, the Amendment, and the.netRegistry Agreement are qualified in their
entirety by the text of the complete agreements that are incorporated by reference as exhibits in this Form 10-K.



.nameRegistry Agreement: On October 1, 2008, we acquired The Global Name Registry Ltd. (“GNR”), the holder of the.nameRegistry Agreement which was assigned to VeriSign Information Services, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, and provides that we will continue to be the sole registry operator for domain names in the.nametop-level domain through
August 15, 2012. The renewal provisions are the same as for the.netRegistry Agreement. We have commenced the renewal process with ICANN.



Some of the services we provide to customers globally may require approval under applicable U.S. export law. As the list of products and
countries for which export approval is expanded or changes, government restrictions on the export of software and hardware products utilizing encryption technology may grow and become an impediment to our growth in international markets. If we do
not obtain required approvals or we violate applicable laws, we may not be able to provide some of our services in international markets and may be subject to fines and other penalties.



Intellectual Property



We rely primarily on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, patents, restrictions on disclosure and other methods to
protect our intellectual property. We also enter into confidentiality and/or











invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and current and potential affiliates, customers and business partners. We also generally control access to and distribution of
proprietary documentation and other confidential information.



We have been issued numerous patents in the U.S. and abroad, covering a wide range of our technology. Additionally, we have filed numerous patent applications with respect to certain of our technology in
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and patent offices outside the U.S. Patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, such patents may not provide us with sufficient protection of our
intellectual property.



We have obtained trademark
registrations for the VERISIGN mark in the U.S. and other countries, and have filed new trademark applications for the new VERISIGN logo in the same countries. We have common law rights in other proprietary names. We take steps to enforce and police
Verisign’s trademarks. We rely on the strength of our Verisign brand to help differentiate ourselves in the marketing of our products and services.



With regard to our Naming Services businesses, our principal intellectual property consists of, and our success is dependent upon,
proprietary software used in our Naming Services businesses and certain methodologies and technical expertise we use in both the design and implementation of our current and future registry services and Internet-based products and services
businesses, including the conversion of IDNs. We own our proprietary Shared Registration System through which registrars submit second-level domain name registrations for each of the registries we operate, as well as the ATLAS distributed lookup
system which processes billions of queries per day. Some of the software and protocols used in our registry services are in the public domain or are otherwise available to our competitors.



Under the agreement reached with Symantec for the sale of our Authentication Services business, which closed on
August 9, 2010 (the “Closing Date”), Symantec acquired all trademarks primarily used in our Authentication Services business, including our checkmark logo and the Geotrust and thawte brand names, and we granted Symantec a five-year
license in connection with the VeriSign.com website. The VeriSign.com website will be operated by Symantec for a period of five years following the Closing Date, subject to certain rights of Verisign (including the right to include links to
sub-domains operated by us).



Employees



The following table shows a comparison of our consolidated
employee headcount, by function, including historical headcount associated with the divested and wound-down businesses:



As of December 31,201120102009Employee headcount by function:Cost of revenues284256658Sales and marketing191133488Research and development287272571General and administrative247387611Total1,0091,0482,328



We have never had a work
stoppage, and no U.S.-based employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements. Our ability to achieve our financial and operational objectives depends in large part upon our continued ability to attract, integrate, train, retain and
motivate highly qualified sales, technical and managerial personnel, and upon the continued service of our senior management and key sales and technical personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry and in some of our geographical
locations is intense, particularly for software development personnel.







