Item 1A.Risk Factors

Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by the factors set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results.

Our Global Growth May be Affected by Global Economic, Capital Market and Political Conditions.

Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions and geopolitical risks, including credit market conditions, levels of consumer and business confidence, commodity prices, exchange rates, levels of government spending and deficits, trade policies, political conditions, actual or anticipated default on sovereign debt and other challenges that could affect the global economy.  These economic conditions affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. Tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services as well as impact the ability of our customers to make payments. Similarly, such tightening of credit may adversely affect our supplier base and increase the potential for one or more of our suppliers to experience financial distress or bankruptcy. Our global business is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending, air travel, construction activity, the financial strength of airlines and business jet operators, and government procurement.









Our Financial Performance Is Dependent on the Conditions of the Construction and Aerospace Industries.

The results of our commercial and industrial businesses, which generated approximately50percent of our consolidated sales in2017, are influenced by a number of external factors including fluctuations in residential and commercial construction activity, regulatory changes, interest rates, labor costs, foreign currency exchange rates, customer attrition, raw material and energy costs, global credit market conditions, and other global and political factors. For example, a slowdown in building and remodeling activity can adversely affect the financial performance of Otis and UTC Climate, Controls & Security. In addition, the financial performance of UTC Climate, Controls & Security can also be influenced by production and utilization of transport equipment and, particularly in its residential business, weather conditions.

The results of our commercial and military aerospace businesses, which generated approximately


percent of our consolidated sales in


, are directly tied to the economic conditions in the commercial aviation and defense industries, which are cyclical in nature. Capital spending and demand for aircraft engines, aerospace products and component aftermarket parts and service by commercial airlines, aircraft operators and aircraft manufacturers are influenced by a wide variety of factors, including current and predicted traffic levels, load factors, aircraft fuel pricing, labor issues, worldwide airline profits, airline consolidation, bankruptcies, competition, the retirement of older aircraft, regulatory changes, terrorism and related safety concerns, general economic conditions, corporate profitability, cost reduction efforts and backlog levels.  Any of these conditions could reduce the sales and margins of our aerospace businesses. Other factors, including future terrorist actions, pandemic health issues or major natural disasters, could also dramatically reduce the demand for air travel, which could negatively impact the sales and margins of our aerospace businesses. Additionally, because a substantial portion of the backlog for commercial aerospace customers is scheduled for delivery beyond


Our International Operations Subject Us to Economic Risk As Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Economic Conditions and Changes in Local Government Regulation.

We conduct our business on a global basis, with approximately61percent of our2017total segment sales derived from international operations, including U.S. export sales. Changes in local and regional economic conditions, including fluctuations in exchange rates, may affect product demand and reported profits in our non-U.S. operations (especially the commercial businesses and P&WC), where transactions are generally denominated in local currencies. In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the prices we pay suppliers for materials used in our products. As a result, our operating margins also may be negatively impacted by worldwide currency fluctuations that result in higher costs for certain cross border transactions. Our financial statements are denominated in U.S. Dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates may also give rise to translation gains or losses when financial statements of non-U.S. operating units are translated into U.S. Dollars. Given that the majority of our sales are non-U.S. based, a strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against other major foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations.

The majority of sales in the aerospace businesses are transacted in U.S. Dollars, consistent with established industry practice, while the majority of costs at locations outside the U.S. are incurred in the applicable local currency (principally the Euro, the Canadian Dollar, and the Polish Zloty). For operating units with U.S. Dollar sales and local currency costs, there is foreign currency exposure that could impact our results of operations depending on market changes in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar against the applicable foreign currencies. To manage certain exposures, we employ long-term hedging strategies associated with U.S. Dollar sales. See Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our2017Annual Report for further discussion of our hedging strategies.









In addition, as part of our globalization strategy, we have invested in certain countries, including Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Poland, Russia, South Africa, Ukraine and countries in the Middle East, that carry high levels of currency, political, compliance and economic risk.  We expect that sales to emerging markets will continue to account for a significant portion of our sales as our businesses evolve and as these and other developing nations and regions around the world increase their demand for our products.  Emerging market operations can present many risks, including cultural differences (such as employment and business practices), volatility in gross domestic product, economic and government instability, and the imposition of exchange controls and capital controls.  While these factors and their impact are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

We Use a Variety of Raw Materials, Supplier-Provided Parts, Components, Sub-Systems and Contract Manufacturing Services in Our Businesses, and Significant Shortages, Supplier Capacity Constraints, Supplier Production Disruptions or Price Increases Could Increase Our Operating Costs and Adversely Impact the Competitive Positions of Our Products.

Our reliance on suppliers (including third-party contract manufacturing and logistics) and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts, components and sub-systems used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of these materials. In many instances, we depend upon a single source of supply, manufacturing, logistics support or assembly or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations of limited supplies by suppliers. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality issues, closing or bankruptcy of our suppliers, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe that our supply management and production practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. Nonetheless, price increases, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions or the unavailability of some raw materials may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

We Engage in Acquisitions and Divestitures, and May Encounter Difficulties Integrating Acquired Businesses with, or Disposing of Divested Businesses From, Our Current Operations; Therefore, We May Not Realize the Anticipated Benefits of these Acquisitions and Divestitures.









accounting requirements relating to business combinations, including the requirement to expense certain acquisition costs as incurred, may cause us to incur greater earnings volatility and generally lower earnings during periods in which we acquire new businesses. Furthermore, we make strategic divestitures from time to time. Our divestitures may result in continued financial exposure to the divested businesses, such as through guarantees or other financial arrangements or continued supply and services arrangements, following the transaction. Under these arrangements, nonperformance by those divested businesses could result in obligations being imposed on us that could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, cash flows, results of operations, or financial condition.  The success of future acquisitions, including the Rockwell Collins transaction, and divestitures will depend on the satisfaction of conditions precedent to, and consummation of, the pending transactions, the timing of consummation of these pending transactions, and the ability of the parties to secure any required regulatory approvals in a timely manner, among other things. We also enter into joint ventures in which we maintain significant influence, but do not control the businesses. Accordingly, our ability to apply our internal controls and compliance policies to these businesses is limited and can result in additional financial and reputational risks.

We may not complete the acquisition of Rockwell Collins or complete the acquisition within the time frame we anticipate; the acquired business may underperform relative to our expectations; the acquisition may cause our financial results to differ from our expectations or the expectations of the investment community; we may not be able to achieve anticipated cost savings or other anticipated synergies.

The completion of the acquisition of Rockwell Collins is subject to a number of conditions, including the receipt of required regulatory approvals. The failure to satisfy all of the required conditions could delay the completion of the acquisition for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring at all. Any delay in completing the acquisition could cause UTC not to realize some or all of the benefits, or realize them on a different timeline than expected, that UTC expects to achieve if the acquisition is successfully completed within the expected time frame. In addition, the terms and conditions of the required regulatory authorizations and consents for the acquisition that are granted, if any, may impose requirements, limitations or costs, or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business or may materially delay the completion of the acquisition.

The ultimate success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on UTC’s ability to successfully combine and integrate the businesses of UTC and Rockwell Collins, and realize the anticipated benefits, including synergies, cost savings, innovation opportunities and operational efficiencies, from the acquisition. If UTC is unable to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of UTC’s common stock may decline.

The integration of the two companies may result in material challenges, including, without limitation:

•the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns and performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a result of the devotion of management’s attention to the acquisition;

•managing a larger combined aerospace systems business;

•maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees;

•retaining existing business and operational relationships, including customers, suppliers and employees and other counterparties, as may be impacted by contracts containing consent and/or other provisions that may be triggered by the acquisition, and attracting new business and operational relationships;

•the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process;

•consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations;

•coordinating geographically separate organizations;

•unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; and

•unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the acquisition.

Our Debt Levels and Related Debt Service Obligations Could Have Negative Consequences; Our Ability to Access Debt May Be Affected by Changes in Global Capital Markets, Our Financial Performance or Outlook or Our Credit Ratings.

We have outstanding debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. In connection with the Rockwell Collins merger, we anticipate that approximately $15 billion will be required to pay the aggregate cash portion of the Merger Consideration. We expect to fund the cash portion of the Merger Consideration through debt issuances and cash on hand.  We expect to assume approximately $7 billion of Rockwell Collins' outstanding debt upon completion of the merger. The increased indebtedness of UTC in connection with the merger may have the effect of, among other things:

•a downgrade of our credit ratings resulting in increased borrowing costs;









•requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce funds we have available for other purposes, such as acquisitions, reinvestment in our businesses, dividends and repurchases of our common stock;

•reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and

•exposing us to interest rate risk at the time of refinancing outstanding debt or on the portion of our debt obligations that are issued at variable rates.

We depend, in part, upon the issuance of debt to fund our operations and contractual commitments. If we require additional funding in order to fund outstanding financing commitments or meet other business requirements, our market liquidity may not be sufficient.  A number of factors could cause us to incur increased borrowing costs and to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for debt, including disruptions or declines in the global capital markets and/or a decline in our financial performance, outlook or credit ratings.  In particular, following the announcement of the proposed Rockwell Collins acquisition, the credit rating agencies announced that they were reviewing our credit ratings for possible downgrades.

Quarterly Cash Dividends and Share Repurchases May Be Discontinued or Modified, Are Subject to a Number of Uncertainties and May Affect the Price of Our Common Stock.

The reduction or elimination of our cash dividend or share repurchase program could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  Additionally, there can be no assurance that any share repurchases will enhance shareholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock. Although our share repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term shareholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program's effectiveness.

See Item 5, "Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities" in this Form 10-K for a description of our share repurchase program and past share repurchases, including our prior accelerated share repurchase (ASR) transactions.

We Design, Manufacture and Service Products that Incorporate Advanced Technologies; The Introduction of New Products and Technologies Involves Risks and We May Not Realize the Degree or Timing of Benefits Initially Anticipated.

We seek to achieve growth through the design, development, production, sale and support of innovative products that incorporate advanced technologies. The product, program and service needs of our customers change and evolve regularly, and we invest substantial amounts in research and development efforts to pursue advancements in a wide range of technologies, products and services. Of particular note, Pratt & Whitney is currently producing and delivering the PurePower PW1000G Geared TurboFan engine to power various aircraft, including the A320neo family of aircraft, which entered into service in January 2016. The level of orders received for the PurePower family of engines coupled with a requirement to achieve mature production levels in a very short time frame are necessitating significant additional manufacturing and supply chain capacity. If any of our production ramp-up efforts are delayed, if suppliers cannot timely deliver or perform to our standards, and/or if we identify or experience issues with in-service engines, we may not meet customers’ production schedules, which could result in material additional costs, including penalties that could be assessed under existing contractual provisions. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our technological advancements depends on a variety of factors, including meeting development, production, certification and regulatory approval schedules; execution of internal and external performance plans; availability









of supplier and internally produced parts and materials; performance of suppliers and subcontractors; availability of supplier and internal facility capacity to perform maintenance, repair and overhaul services on our products; hiring and training of qualified personnel; achieving cost and production efficiencies; identification of emerging technological trends in our target end-markets; validation of innovative technologies; the level of customer interest in new technologies and products; and customer acceptance of our products and products that incorporate technologies we develop. For example, certain of our aerospace products are incorporated into larger systems and end products manufactured by our customers.  These systems and end products may incorporate additional technologies manufactured by third parties and involve additional risks and uncertainties. As a result, the performance and market acceptance of these larger systems and end products could affect the level of customer interest and acceptance of our own products in the marketplace.

Our Business May Be Affected by Government Contracting Risks.









Exports of Certain of Our Products Are Subject to Various Export Control and Sanctions Regulations and May Require Authorization From the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of the Treasury or Regulatory Agencies of Other Countries.

We Are Subject to Litigation, Environmental, Product Safety and Other Legal and Compliance Risks.

At times we are involved in disputes with private parties over environmental issues, including litigation over the allocation of cleanup costs, alleged personal injuries and alleged property damage. Personal injury lawsuits may involve individual and purported class actions alleging that contaminants originating from our or our subsidiaries’ current or former operating facilities caused or contributed to medical conditions, including cancers incurred by employees, former employees or residents in the area and environmental damage or diminution of real estate values. Even in litigation where we believe our liability is remote, there is a risk that a negative finding or decision in a matter involving multiple plaintiffs or a purported class action could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition, in particular with respect to environmental claims in regions where we have, or previously had, significant operations.

Product recalls and product liability claims (including claims related to the safety or reliability of our products) also can result in significant costs, including fines, as well as negative publicity, management distraction and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products and services.

In addition, the FCPA and other anti-bribery and corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA applies to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents. U.S. companies also may be held liable for actions taken by strategic or local partners or representatives. The FCPA also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments. Certain of our customer relationships outside of the U.S. are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to the FCPA and other anti-bribery and corruption laws. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery and corruption laws. Despite meaningful measures that we undertake to seek to ensure lawful conduct, which include training and internal control policies, these measures may not always prevent our employees or agents from violating the FCPA or similar laws. As a result, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, further changes or









enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes or other remedial actions. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, cause reputational harm, involve significant management distraction and result in a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

For a description of current material legal proceedings and regulatory matters, see "Legal Proceedings" in in this Form 10-K and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2017 Annual Report.

Additional Tax Expense or Additional Tax Exposures Could Affect Our Future Profitability.

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various international jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes and conflicts in related interpretations and other tax guidance could materially impact our tax receivables and liabilities and our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Additionally, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to examinations by various authorities, including tax authorities. In addition to ongoing investigations, there could be additional investigations launched in the future by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions, and existing investigations could be expanded. The global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue to exist and additional investigations, proceedings and contingencies will arise from time to time. Our competitive position, cash flows, results of operation or financial condition may be affected by the outcome of investigations, proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty.

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the headings "Business Overview", "Results of Operations - Income Taxes," and "Liquidity and Financial Condition" and Notes 1 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our2017Annual Report for further discussion on income taxes and related contingencies, including our provisional accounting and assessment of the effect of  the TCJA.

Our Defined Benefit Pension Plans are Subject to Financial Market Risk that Could Adversely Affect Our Results.

The performance of the financial markets and interest rates can impact our defined benefit pension plan expenses and funding obligations.  Significant decreases in the discount rate or investment losses on plan assets may increase our funding obligations and adversely impact our financial results. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our2017Annual Report for further discussion on pension plans and related obligations and contingencies.

We May Be Unable to Realize Expected Benefits From Our Cost Reduction and Restructuring Efforts and Our Profitability May Be Hurt or Our Business Otherwise Might Be Adversely Affected.

In order to operate more efficiently and control costs, we announce from time to time restructuring plans, which include workforce reductions as well as global facility consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives. These plans are intended to generate operating expense savings through reductions in direct and indirect expenses as well as other savings. We may undertake further workforce reductions or restructuring actions in the future. These types of cost reduction and restructuring activities are complex. If we do not successfully manage our current restructuring activities, or any future restructuring activities, expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted. Risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues include unfavorable political responses to such actions, unforeseen delays in the implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, additional unexpected costs, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees or work stoppages, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions, or otherwise harm our business, or have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

Our Business and Financial Performance May Be Adversely Affected By Attacks on Information Technology Infrastructure and Other Cyber-based and Business Disruptions.

Our business may be impacted by disruptions to our own or third-party information technology (“IT”) infrastructure, which could result from (among other causes) cyber-attacks on or failures of such infrastructure or compromises to its physical security, as well as from damaging weather or other acts of nature. Cyber-based risks, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, both attacks on our IT infrastructure and attacks on the IT infrastructure of third parties (both on premises and in the cloud) attempting to gain unauthorized access to our confidential or other proprietary information, classified information, or information relating to our employees, customers and other third parties.  Cyber-based risks could also include attacks targeting the security, integrity and/or availability of the hardware, software and information installed, stored or transmitted in our products, including after the purchase of those products and when they are incorporated into third-party products, facilities or infrastructure.  Such attacks could disrupt our systems or those of third parties, impact business operations, result in unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corrupt our data or that of third parties. We have experienced cyber-based attacks, and due to the evolving threat landscape, may continue to experience them going forward, potentially with more frequency. We continue to make investments and adopt measures designed to









enhance our protection, detection, response, and recovery capabilities, and to mitigate potential risks to our technology, products, services and operations from potential cyber-attacks. However, given the unpredictability, nature and scope of cyber-attacks, it is possible that potential vulnerabilities could go undetected for an extended period.  We could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers, the compromise of confidential or otherwise protected information, misappropriation, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our or third-party systems, networks or products, financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability, and/or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.  Due to the evolving nature of such risks, the impact of any potential incident cannot be predicted.

We Depend On Our Intellectual Property, and Have Access to Certain Intellectual Property and Information of Our Customers and Suppliers; Infringement or Failure to Protect Our Intellectual Property Could Adversely Affect Our Future Growth and Success.



