Item 1A.Risk Factors

Our business, financial
condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated
future results. For a discussion identifying additional risk factors and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, see the discussion in the “Business” section under the headings
“Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole” and “Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results” in this Form 10-K and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” and “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in our 2010 Annual Report.

Our Global Growth Is Subject to
a Number of Economic Risks

The global economy, which experienced a significant downturn throughout 2008 and 2009, including
widespread recessionary conditions, record levels of unemployment, significant distress of financial institutions, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments
and declining valuations of others, began showing signs of gradual improvement in 2010. However, while some economic indicators trended positively, the overall rate of global recovery experienced during the course of 2010 has been uneven and
uncertainty continues to exist over the stability of the recovery. Global gross domestic product growth in 2010 was led by emerging markets. In the developed economies, particularly in Europe, where the recovery is sluggish, the unwinding of fiscal
stimuli and lingering high unemployment have encouraged the use of expansionary monetary policies to sustain economic recoveries. Although consumer confidence in the U.S. has improved since the economic downturn, it still remains low, while
unemployment remains high and the housing market remains depressed. There can be







Our Financial Performance Is Dependent on the Conditions of the Construction and Aerospace Industries

The results of our commercial and industrial businesses, which generated approximately 57% of our consolidated net sales in
2010, are influenced by a number of external factors including fluctuations in residential and commercial construction activity, regulatory changes, interest rates, labor costs, foreign currency exchange rates, customer attrition, raw material and
energy costs, the tightening of the U.S. credit markets and other global and political factors. A slowdown in building and remodeling activity can adversely impact Carrier’s business. In addition to these factors, Carrier’s financial
performance can also be influenced by production and utilization of transport equipment and, in its residential business, weather conditions.

Our Business May Be Affected by Government
Contracting Risks







Our International Operations Subject Us to Economic Risk As Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected
by Changes in Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Economic Conditions and Changes in Local Government Regulation

We conduct our
business on a global basis, with approximately 60% of our total 2010 segment sales derived from international operations, including U.S. export sales. Changes in local and regional economic conditions, including fluctuations in exchange rates, may
affect product demand and reported profits in our non-U.S. operations (primarily the commercial businesses) where transactions are generally denominated in local currencies. In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the prices we pay suppliers
for materials used in our products. As a result, our operating margins may also be negatively impacted by worldwide currency fluctuations that result in higher costs for certain cross border transactions. Our financial statements are denominated in
U.S. dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates may also give rise to translation gains or losses when financial statements of non-U.S. operating units are translated into U.S. dollars. Given that the majority of our sales are non-U.S.
based, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations.

The
majority of sales in the aerospace businesses are transacted in U.S. dollars, consistent with established industry practice, while the majority of costs at locations outside the United States are incurred in the applicable local currency
(principally the Euro and the Canadian dollar). For operating units with U.S. dollar sales and local currency costs, there is a foreign currency exposure that could impact our results of operations depending on market changes in the exchange rate of
the U.S. dollar against the applicable foreign currencies. To manage certain exposures, we employ long-term hedging strategies associated with U.S. dollar sales. See Note 1 and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual
Report for a discussion of our hedging strategies.

Our international sales and operations are subject to risks associated with changes
in local government laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, capital controls, employment regulations, and repatriation of earnings. Our international sales and
operations are also sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities, including government budgets, as well as to political and economic instability. International transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing
legal systems and customs in foreign countries. For example, as a condition of sale or award of a contract, some international customers require us to agree to offset arrangements, which may include in-country purchases, manufacturing and financial
support arrangements. The contract may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements.

In addition, as part of our globalization strategy, we have invested in certain countries, including Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Mexico,
Russia, South Africa and countries in the Middle East, that carry high levels of currency, political and economic risk. We expect that sales to emerging markets will continue to account for a significant portion of our sales as our business evolves
and as these and other developing nations and regions around the world increase their demand for our products. Emerging market operations can present many risks, including civil disturbances, health concerns, cultural differences, such as employment
and business practices, volatility in gross domestic product, economic and government instability, and the imposition of exchange controls and capital controls. While these factors and their impact are difficult to predict, any one or more of them
could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations.

We Use a Variety of
Raw Materials, Supplier-Provided Parts, Components, Sub-Systems and Third Party Contract Manufacturing Services in Our Businesses, and Significant Shortages, Supplier Capacity Constraints, Supplier Production Disruptions or Price Increases Could
Increase Our Operating Costs and Adversely Impact the Competitive Positions of Our Products

Our reliance on suppliers, third
party contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts, components and sub-systems used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of these materials. In many instances, we depend upon a single
source of supply, manufacturing or assembly or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations of limited supplies by suppliers. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or third party contract manufacturers, supplier
capacity constraints, supplier and third party contract manufacturer production disruptions, closing or bankruptcy of our suppliers, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, could have a material adverse effect on
our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe that our supply management and production practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices.
Nonetheless, price increases, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions or the unavailability of some raw materials may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of
operations.







We Engage in Acquisitions and Divestitures, and May Encounter Difficulties Integrating Acquired Businesses with,
or Disposing of Divested Businesses from, Our Current Operations; Therefore, We May Not Realize the Anticipated Benefits of these Acquisitions and Divestitures

We Design, Manufacture and Service Products that Incorporate Advanced Technologies; The Introduction of New Products and Technologies Involves Risks and We May Not Realize the Degree or Timing of Benefits
Initially Anticipated

We Are Subject to Litigation, Tax, Environmental and Other Legal Compliance Risks







In the area of taxes, changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related
interpretations and other tax guidance could materially impact our tax receivables and liabilities and our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Additionally, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to examinations by various
authorities, including tax authorities. In addition to ongoing investigations, there could be additional investigations launched in the future by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions and existing investigations could be expanded. The
global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and contingencies will arise from time to time. Our results may be affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other
contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty.

We May Be Unable to Realize Expected Benefits From Our Cost
Reduction and Restructuring Efforts and Our Profitability May Be Hurt or Our Business Otherwise Might Be Adversely Affected

In
order to operate more efficiently and control costs, we announce from time to time restructuring plans, which include workforce reductions as well as global facility consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives. These plans are intended to
generate operating expense savings through direct and indirect overhead expense reductions as well as other savings. We may undertake further workforce reductions or restructuring actions in the future. These types of cost reduction and
restructuring activities are complex. If we do not successfully manage our current restructuring activities, or any other restructuring activities that we may undertake in the future, expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not
realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted. Risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, additional unexpected costs, changes in
restructuring plans that increase or decrease the number of employees affected, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated
costs reductions or may otherwise harm our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations.

We Depend On Our Intellectual Property, and Infringement or Failure to Protect Intellectual Property Could Adversely Affect Our Future Growth and Success

We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual
property. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be sufficient. We cannot be sure that our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents to us, that patents issued to or licensed by us in
the past or in the future will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors, or that these patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to preclude our competitors from introducing technologies similar to those covered by our patents
and patent applications. In addition, our ability to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights may be limited in certain countries outside the United States, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position in such
countries by utilizing technologies that are similar to those developed or licensed by us.

Any of these events or factors could
diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs, and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected
products or services.



