Item 1A.Risk Factors

Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by the factors set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results.

Our Global Growth May be Affected by Global Economic, Capital Market and Political Conditions.

Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions and geopolitical risks, including credit market conditions, levels of consumer and business confidence, commodity prices, exchange rates, levels of government spending and deficits, trade policies, political conditions, actual or anticipated default on sovereign debt and other challenges that could affect the global economy.  These economic conditions affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. Tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations, could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services, and impact the ability of our customers to make payments. Similarly, such tightening of credit may adversely affect our supplier base and increase the potential for one or more of our suppliers to experience financial distress or bankruptcy. Our global business is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer









spending, air travel, construction activity, the financial strength of airlines and business jet operators, and government procurement.

Our Financial Performance Is Dependent on the Conditions of the Construction and Aerospace Industries.

The results of our commercial and industrial businesses, which generated approximately47percent of our consolidated sales in2018, are influenced by a number of external factors including fluctuations in residential and commercial construction activity, regulatory changes, interest rates, labor costs, foreign currency exchange rates, customer attrition, raw material and energy costs, global credit market conditions, and other global and political factors, including trade policies. A slowdown in building and remodeling activity can adversely affect the financial performance of Otis and Carrier. In addition, the financial performance of Carrier can also be influenced by production and utilization of transport equipment and, particularly in its residential business, weather conditions.

The results of our commercial and military aerospace businesses, which generated approximately


percent of our consolidated sales in


, are directly tied to the economic conditions in the commercial aviation and defense industries, which are cyclical in nature. Capital spending and demand for aircraft engines, aerospace products and component aftermarket parts and service by commercial airlines, aircraft operators and aircraft manufacturers are influenced by a wide variety of factors, including current and predicted traffic levels, load factors, aircraft fuel prices, labor issues, airline profits, airline consolidation, bankruptcies, competition, the retirement of older aircraft, regulatory changes, terrorism and related safety concerns, general economic conditions, corporate profitability, cost reduction efforts and RPO levels.  Any of these factors could reduce the sales and margins of our aerospace businesses. Other factors, including future terrorist actions, pandemic health issues or major natural disasters, could also dramatically reduce the demand for air travel, which could negatively impact the sales and margins of our aerospace businesses. Additionally, because a substantial portion of the RPO for commercial aerospace customers is scheduled for delivery beyond


Our International Operations Subject Us to Economic Risk As Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Economic Conditions, Trade Policies, and Changes in Local Government Regulation.

We conduct our business on a global basis, with approximately63percent of our2018total segment sales derived from international operations, including U.S. export sales. Changes in local and regional economic conditions, including fluctuations in exchange rates, may affect product demand and reported profits in our non-U.S. operations (especially the commercial businesses and P&WC), where transactions are generally denominated in local currencies. In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the prices we pay suppliers for materials used in our products. As a result, our operating margins also may be negatively impacted by worldwide currency fluctuations that result in higher costs for certain cross border transactions. Our financial statements are denominated in U.S. Dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates may also give rise to translation gains or losses when financial statements of non-U.S. operating units are translated into U.S. Dollars. Given that the majority of our sales are non-U.S. based, a strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against other major foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations.

The majority of sales in the aerospace businesses are transacted in U.S. Dollars, consistent with established industry practice, while the majority of costs at locations outside the U.S. are incurred in the applicable local currency (principally the Euro, the Canadian Dollar, the British Pound and the Polish Zloty). For operating units with U.S. Dollar sales and local currency costs, there is foreign currency exposure that could impact our results of operations depending on market changes in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar against the applicable foreign currencies. To manage certain exposures,









we employ long-term hedging strategies associated with U.S. Dollar sales. See Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our2018Annual Report for further discussion of our hedging strategies.

In addition, as part of our globalization strategy, we have invested in certain countries, including Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Poland, Russia, South Africa, Turkey, Ukraine and countries in the Middle East, that carry high levels of currency, political, compliance and economic risk.  We expect that sales to emerging markets will continue to account for a significant portion of our sales as our businesses evolve and as these and other developing nations and regions around the world increase their demand for our products.  Emerging market operations can present many risks, including cultural differences (such as employment and business practices), volatility in gross domestic product, economic and government instability, the imposition of exchange and capital controls, and the risks associated with exporting components manufactured in those countries for incorporation into finished products completed in other countries.  While these factors and their impact are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

We Use a Variety of Raw Materials, Supplier-Provided Parts, Components, Sub-Systems and Contract Manufacturing Services in Our Businesses, and Significant Shortages, Supplier Capacity Constraints, Supplier Production Disruptions or Price Increases Could Increase Our Operating Costs and Adversely Impact the Competitive Positions of Our Products.

Our reliance on suppliers (including third-party manufacturing suppliers and logistics providers) and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts, components and sub-systems used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of these materials. In many instances, we depend upon a single source of supply, manufacturing, logistics support or assembly or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations of limited supplies by suppliers. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality issues, closing or bankruptcy of our suppliers, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe that our supply management and production practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. Nonetheless, price increases, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions or the unavailability of some raw materials may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.



We May Not Complete the Separation Transactions or Complete Them Within the Time Frame We Anticipate; The Separation Transactions May Present Difficulties That Could Have an Adverse Effect on Us and/or the Independent Businesses Resulting from the Separation, and/or Costs Associated with the Separation Transactions May Be Higher Than Anticipated; The Independent Businesses May Underperform Relative to Our Expectations; We May Not Realize Some or All of the Expected Benefits of the Separation Transactions.

On November 26, 2018, we announced our intention to separate into three independent companies: (1) UTC, an aerospace company comprised of the Collins Aerospace Systems and Pratt & Whitney businesses, (2) Otis, and (3) Carrier. The proposed separations are expected to be effected through spin-offs by UTC of Otis and Carrier that are intended to be tax-free for the Company’s shareowners for U.S. federal income tax purposes. These separation transactions will be subject to the satisfaction of a number of customary conditions, including, among others, final









Whether or not the separation transactions are completed, our businesses may face material challenges in connection with these transactions, including, without limitation:

•the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns and impact on the businesses of UTC (including Otis and Carrier) as a result of the devotion of management’s attention to the separation transactions;

•maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees;

•retaining existing business and operational relationships, including with customers, suppliers, employees and other counterparties, and attracting new business and operational relationships;

•execution and related risks in connection with UTC, Otis and Carrier financing transactions undertaken in connection with the separation transactions;

•foreseen and unforeseen dis-synergy costs, costs of restructuring transactions (including taxes) and other significant costs and expenses; and

•potential negative reactions from the financial markets if we fail to complete the separation transactions as currently expected, within the anticipated time frame or at all.



Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or the price of our common stock. In addition, if the separation transactions are completed, each of the separate companies will incur ongoing costs, including costs of operating as independent companies, that the separated businesses will no longer be able to share. Those costs may exceed our estimates or could diminish the benefits we expect to realize from the separation transactions.

If the Separation Transactions Are Completed, UTC and the Independent Businesses’ Operational and Financial Profiles Will Change and Each Will Be a Smaller, Less Diversified Company Than UTC as It Exists Today.

The separation transactions will result in UTC, Otis and Carrier being smaller, less diversified companies with more limited businesses concentrated in their respective industries. Of note, UTC’s businesses following the expected separation transactions will be significantly more reliant on three customers, namely Airbus, Boeing and the U.S. Government.As a result, each company may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the diversification of revenues, costs, and cash flows will diminish, such that each company’s results of operations, cash flows, working capital, effective tax rate, and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility and its ability to fund capital expenditures and investments, pay dividends and service debt may be diminished. It is anticipated that the effective tax rate for each separate company will differ from the UTC consolidated effective tax rate.

If the Separation Transactions Are Completed, There May Be Changes in Our Shareowner Base, Which May Cause the Price of Our Common Stock To Fluctuate.

Investors holding our common stock may hold our common stock because of a decision to invest in a company that operates in multiple markets with a diversified portfolio. If the separation transactions are completed, shares of our common stock will represent an investment in a business concentrated in the commercial aerospace and defense industry,









and shares of the common stock of the new independent companies conducting the Otis and Carrier businesses will represent investments in businesses concentrated in their respective industries. These changes may not match some shareowners’ investment strategies, which could cause them to sell their shares of our common stock or the common stock of the new independent companies, and excessive selling pressure could cause the market price to decrease following the consummation of the separation transactions. Additionally, we cannot predict whether the market value of our common stock and the common stock of each of the new independent companies after the separation transactions will be, in the aggregate, less than, equal to or greater than the market value of our common stock prior to the separation transactions.

We Engage in Acquisitions and Divestitures, and May Encounter Difficulties Integrating Acquired Businesses with, or Disposing of Divested Businesses From, Our Current Operations; Therefore, We May Not Realize the Anticipated Benefits of these Acquisitions and Divestitures.



The Rockwell Collins acquisition may cause our financial results to differ from our expectations or the expectations of the investment community; we may not be able to achieve anticipated cost savings or other anticipated synergies.

The ultimate success of the Rockwell Collins acquisition will depend, in part, on UTC’s ability to successfully combine and integrate the businesses of UTC and Rockwell Collins, and realize the anticipated benefits, including revenue and cost synergies, innovation opportunities and operational efficiencies, from the acquisition. If UTC is unable to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of UTC’s common stock may decline as a result.

The integration of the two companies may result in material challenges, including, without limitation:

•the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns and performance shortfalls at Collins Aerospace Systems as a result of the devotion of management’s attention to the integration;

•managing a larger combined aerospace systems business;

•maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees;

•retaining existing business and operational relationships, including customers, suppliers and other counterparties, as may be impacted by contracts containing consent and/or other provisions that may be triggered by the acquisition, and attracting new business and operational relationships;

•the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process;

•consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations;

•coordinating geographically separate organizations;









•unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems;

•increased competitive pressure from customers; and

•unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the acquisition.

Our Debt Levels and Related Debt Service Obligations Could Have Negative Consequences; Our Ability to Access Debt May Be Affected by Our Increased Indebtedness, Changes in Global Capital Markets, Our Financial Performance or Outlook, the Expected Separation Transactions or Our Credit Ratings.

We have outstanding debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. In connection with the Rockwell Collins acquisition, we issued $11 billion of aggregate principal notes, and $7.8 billion of Rockwell Collins debt remained outstanding at the time of the closing of the acquisition. As expected, the completion of the acquisition resulted in a downgrade of UTC's long-term issuer credit ratings by one notch.  Following the announcement of the expected separation transactions, one credit agency placed UTC's long-term issuer credit rating on negative outlook.

The expected separation transactions and the increased indebtedness of UTC in connection with the Rockwell Collins acquisition may have the effect of, among other things:

•requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt or the payment of costs associated with the separation transactions, which will reduce funds we have available for other purposes, such as acquisitions, reinvestment in our businesses, dividends and repurchases of our common stock;

•reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions;

•exposing us to interest rate risk at the time of refinancing outstanding debt or on the portion of our debt obligations that are issued at variable rates; and

•further downgrades of our credit ratings resulting in increased borrowing costs.

We depend, in part, upon the issuance of debt to fund our operations and contractual commitments. If we require additional funding in order to fund outstanding financing commitments or meet other business requirements, our market liquidity may not be sufficient.  A number of factors could cause us to incur increased borrowing costs and to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for debt, including disruptions or declines in the global capital markets and/or a decline in our financial performance, outlook or credit ratings.

Quarterly Cash Dividends and Share Repurchases May Be Discontinued or Modified, Are Subject to a Number of Uncertainties and May Affect the Price of Our Common Stock.

Quarterly cash dividends and share repurchases under our share repurchase program constitute components of our capital allocation strategy, which we fund with free operating cash flow, borrowings and divestitures. However, we are not required to declare dividends or make any share repurchases under our share repurchase program. Dividends and share repurchases may be discontinued, accelerated, suspended or delayed at any time without prior notice. Even if not discontinued, the amount of such dividends and repurchases may be changed, and the amount, timing and frequency of such dividends and repurchases may vary from historical practice or from the company’s stated expectations. Decisions with respect to dividends and share repurchases are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be based on a variety of factors. Important factors that could cause us to discontinue, limit, suspend, increase or delay our quarterly cash dividends or share repurchases include market conditions, the price of our common stock, the nature and timing of other investment opportunities, changes in our business strategy, the terms of our financing arrangements, our outlook as to the ability to obtain financing at attractive rates, the impact on our credit ratings and the availability of domestic cash. To help manage the cash flow and liquidity impact resulting from the Rockwell Collins acquisition and the proposed separation transactions, we have limited our share repurchases.

The reduction or elimination of our cash dividend or share repurchase program could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  Additionally, there can be no assurance that any share repurchases will enhance shareholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock. Although our share repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term shareholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program's effectiveness.

See Item 5, "Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities" in this Form 10-K for a description of our share repurchase program and past share repurchases.









We Design, Manufacture and Service Products that Incorporate Advanced Technologies; The Introduction of New Products and Technologies Involves Risks and We May Not Realize the Degree or Timing of Benefits Initially Anticipated.

Development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and these efforts may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. In addition, the markets for our products or products that incorporate our technologies may not develop or grow as we anticipate. We or our customers, suppliers or subcontractors may encounter difficulties in developing and producing new products and services, and may not realize the degree or timing of benefits initially anticipated or may otherwise suffer significant adverse financial consequences. Due to the design complexity of our products, we may experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. Delays could result in increased development costs or deflect resources from other projects. In particular, we cannot predict with certainty whether, when and in what quantities our aerospace businesses will produce and sell aircraft engines, aircraft systems and components and other products currently in development or pending required certifications.

Our contracts are typically awarded on a competitive basis. Our bids are based upon, among other items, the cost to provide the products and services. To generate an acceptable return on our investment in these contracts, we must be able to accurately estimate our costs to provide the services and deliver the products required by the contract and to be able to complete the contracts in a timely manner. If we fail to accurately estimate our costs or the time required to complete a contract, the profitability of our contracts may be materially and adversely affected. Some of our contracts provide for liquidated damages in the event that we are unable to perform and deliver in accordance with the contractual specifications and schedule. In addition, we may face customer directed cost reduction targets that could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our contracts.

Furthermore, our competitors, including our customers, may develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of or instead of our products. The possibility also exists that our competitors might develop new technologies or offerings that might cause our existing technologies and offerings to become obsolete.  In addition, the possibility exists that competitors will develop aftermarket services and aftermarket parts for our products which attract customers and adversely impact our return on investment on new products.

Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

Our Business May Be Affected by Government Contracting Risks.

Most of our contracts with the U.S. Government are fixed price, which subjects us to the risk of reduced margins or losses if we are unable to achieve estimated costs, performance improvements, or efficiencies.









U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for convenience or for default. If terminated for convenience, we generally would be entitled to recover payment for work completed and certain termination costs. If terminated for default, the government would pay only for the work that has been accepted and could require us to pay the difference between the original contract price and the cost to re-procure the undelivered goods or services from another source as well as other damages resulting from the default.

We are now, and believe that in light of the current U.S. Government contracting environment we will continue to be, the subject of U.S. Government investigations relating to our U.S. Government contracts. Such U.S. Government investigations often take years to complete and could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines, treble and other damages, forfeitures, restitution or penalties, or could lead to suspension or debarment of U.S. Government contracting or of export privileges.  For instance, if we or one of our business units were charged with wrongdoing in connection with a U.S. Government investigation (including fraud, or violation of certain environmental or export laws, as further described below), the U.S. Government could suspend us from bidding on or receiving awards of new U.S. Government contracts pending the completion of legal proceedings. If convicted or found liable, the U.S. Government could fine and debar us from new U.S. Government contracting for a period generally not to exceed three years and could void any contracts found to be tainted by fraud.  We also could suffer reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us, even if such allegations are later determined to be unsubstantiated.

Our contracts with the U.S. Government are also subject to audit. Like many defense contractors, we have received audit reports recommending that certain contract prices should be reduced, or that certain payments should be delayed, refunded or withheld to comply with various government regulations, including reports alleging that cost or pricing data we submitted in negotiation of the contract prices was incomplete or that cost accounting practices may not have conformed to government regulations. Some of these audit reports involve substantial amounts, of which those that allege noncompliance with the cost accounting practices associated with our military engine business could, if the audit reports’ theories were to prevail in litigation, increase the costs absorbed by our commercial engine business in the future.

Exports of Certain of Our Products Are Subject to Various Export Control and Sanctions Regulations and May Require Authorization From the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of the Treasury or Regulatory Agencies of Other Countries.

We Are Subject to Litigation, Environmental, Product Safety and Other Legal and Compliance Risks.

We are subject to a variety of litigation and legal compliance risks. These risks relate to, among other things, product safety, personal injuries, intellectual property rights, contract-related claims, government contracts, taxes, environmental matters and compliance with U.S. and foreign laws, competition laws and laws governing improper business practices. We or one of our business units could be charged with wrongdoing as a result of such matters. If convicted or found liable, we could be subject to significant fines, penalties, repayments, other damages (in certain cases, treble damages). As a global business, we are subject to complex laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. Those laws and regulations may be interpreted in different ways. They may also change from time to time, as may related interpretations and other guidance. Changes in laws or regulations could result in higher expenses. Uncertainty relating to laws or regulations may also affect how we conduct our operations and structure our investments and could limit our ability to enforce our rights. Changes in environmental and climate change laws or regulations,









including laws relating to greenhouse gas emissions, could lead to new or additional investment in product designs and could increase environmental compliance expenditures. Changes in climate change concerns, or in the regulation of such concerns, including greenhouse gas emissions, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, including increased energy and raw materials costs. Climate-related events also could disrupt our businesses and require us to incur additional costs.

At times we are involved in disputes with private parties over environmental issues, including litigation over the allocation of cleanup costs, alleged personal injuries and alleged property damage. Personal injury lawsuits may involve individual and purported class actions alleging that contaminants originating from our or our subsidiaries’ current or former products or operating facilities caused or contributed to medical conditions, including cancers incurred by employees, former employees, third-parties' employees or residents in the area, and environmental damage or diminution of real estate values. Even in litigation where we believe our liability is remote, there is a risk that a negative finding or decision in a matter involving multiple plaintiffs or a purported class action could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition, in particular with respect to environmental claims in regions where we have, or previously had, significant operations.

Product recalls and product liability claims (including claims related to the safety or reliability of our products) also can result in significant costs, including fines, as well as negative publicity, management distraction and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products and services.

Cybersecurity and data privacy and protection laws and regulations are evolving and present increasing compliance challenges, which increase our costs, may affect our competitiveness, cause reputational harm, and expose us to substantial fines or other penalties.



For a description of current material legal proceedings and regulatory matters, see "Legal Proceedings" in in this Form 10-K and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2018 Annual Report.

Additional Tax Expense or Additional Tax Exposures Could Affect Our Future Profitability.

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various international jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes and conflicts in related interpretations and other tax guidance could materially impact our tax receivables and liabilities and our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Additionally, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to examinations by various tax authorities. In addition to ongoing investigations, there could be additional investigations launched in the future by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions, and existing investigations could be expanded. The global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue to exist and additional investigations, proceedings and contingencies will arise from time to time. Our competitive position, cash flows, results of operation or financial condition may be affected by the outcome of investigations, proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty.

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the headings "Business Overview, ""Results of Operations - Income Taxes," and "Liquidity and Financial Condition" and Notes 1 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our2018Annual Report for further discussion on income taxes and related contingencies, including our accounting and assessment of the effect of the TCJA.

Our Defined Benefit Pension Plans are Subject to Financial Market Risk that Could Adversely Affect Our Results.

The performance of the financial markets and interest rates can impact our defined benefit pension plan expenses and funding obligations.  Significant decreases in the discount rate or investment losses on plan assets may increase our









funding obligations and adversely impact our financial results. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our2018Annual Report for further discussion on pension plans and related obligations and contingencies.

We May Be Unable to Realize Expected Benefits From Our Cost Reduction and Restructuring Efforts and Our Profitability May Be Hurt or Our Business Otherwise Might Be Adversely Affected.

In order to operate more efficiently and control costs, we announce from time to time restructuring plans, which include workforce reductions as well as global facility consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives. These plans are intended to generate operating expense savings through reductions in direct and indirect expenses as well as improved efficiencies. We may undertake further workforce reductions or restructuring actions in the future. These types of cost reduction and restructuring activities are complex. If we do not successfully manage our current restructuring activities, or any future restructuring activities, expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted. Risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues include unfavorable political responses to such actions, unforeseen delays in the implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, additional unexpected costs, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees or work stoppages, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions, or otherwise harm our business, or have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

Our Business and Financial Performance May Be Adversely Affected By Cyber-attacks on Information Technology Infrastructure and Products and Other Business Disruptions

We Depend On Our Intellectual Property, and Have Access to Certain Intellectual Property and Information of Our Customers and Suppliers; Infringement or Failure to Protect Our Intellectual Property Could Adversely Affect Our Future Growth and Success.

We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements, information technology security systems, internal controls and compliance systems and other measures to protect our intellectual property. We also rely on nondisclosure agreements, information technology security systems and other measures to protect certain customer and supplier information and intellectual property that we have in our possession or to which we have access. Our efforts to protect intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be sufficient. We cannot be sure that our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents to us, that patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors, or that these patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to preclude our competitors from introducing technologies similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications.  Our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights may be limited in certain countries outside the U.S.  In addition, we may be the target of competitor or other third-party patent enforcement actions seeking substantial monetary damages or seeking to prevent our sale and marketing of certain of our products or









services. Our competitive position also may be adversely impacted by limitations on our ability to obtain possession of, and ownership or necessary licenses concerning, data important to the development or provision of our products or service offerings, or by limitations on our ability to restrict the use by others of data related to our products or services. We may also be subject to disruptions, losses and liability resulting from various cybersecurity attacks or information technology failures, as described above. Any of these events or factors could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.



