Item 1A.Risk Factors

Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by the factors set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results.

Our Global Growth May be Affected by Global Economic, Capital Market and Political Conditions.

Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions and geopolitical risks, including credit market conditions, levels of consumer and business confidence, commodity prices, exchange rates, levels of government spending and deficits, political conditions, actual or anticipated default on sovereign debt and other challenges that could affect the global economy.  These economic conditions affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. The tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services as well as impact the ability of our customers to make payments. Similarly, this tightening of credit may adversely affect our supplier base and increase the potential for one or more of our suppliers to experience financial distress or bankruptcy. Our global business is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending, air travel, construction activity, the financial strength of airlines and business jet operators, and government procurement.

Our Financial Performance Is Dependent on the Conditions of the Construction and Aerospace Industries.

The results of our commercial and industrial businesses, which generated approximately 47 percent of our consolidated sales in 2013, are influenced by a number of external factors including fluctuations in residential and commercial construction activity, regulatory changes, interest rates, labor costs, foreign currency exchange rates, customer attrition, raw material and energy costs, global credit market conditions, and other global and political factors. For example, a slowdown in building and remodeling activity can adversely affect the financial performance of Otis and UTC Climate, Controls & Security. In addition, the financial performance of UTC Climate, Controls & Security can also be influenced by production and utilization of transport equipment and, particularly in its residential business, weather conditions.









our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. The defense industry is also affected by a changing global political environment, continued pressure on U.S. and global defense spending and U.S. foreign policy and the level of activity in military flight operations. U.S. Government deficit reduction measures, the U.S. Government shut-down in 2013, Congressional disputes over budgets and debt ceilings and the impact of sequestration have increased market uncertainty and adversely affected our military businesses.  Should these factors continue and overall U.S. Government defense spending decline, it could result in significant reductions to revenue, cash flow, profit and backlog for our military businesses.  One or more of the programs that we currently support or are currently pursuing could be phased-out or terminated.  Reductions in these existing programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, cash flows, results of operations or financial condition.

Our Business May Be Affected by Government Contracting Risks.

Our International Operations Subject Us to Economic Risk As Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Economic Conditions and Changes in Local Government Regulation.

We conduct our business on a global basis, with approximately 62 percent of our 2013 consolidated sales derived from international operations, including U.S. export sales. Changes in local and regional economic conditions, including fluctuations in exchange rates, may affect product demand and reported profits in our non-U.S. operations (primarily the commercial businesses), where transactions are generally denominated in local currencies. In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the prices we pay suppliers for materials used in our products. As a result, our operating margins also may be negatively impacted by worldwide currency fluctuations that result in higher costs for certain cross border transactions. Our financial statements are denominated in U.S. Dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates may also give rise to translation gains or losses when financial statements of non-U.S. operating units are translated into U.S. Dollars. Given that the majority of our sales are non-U.S. based, a strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against other major foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations.

The majority of sales in the aerospace businesses are transacted in U.S. Dollars, consistent with established industry practice, while the majority of costs at locations outside the U.S. are incurred in the applicable local currency (principally the Euro, the Canadian Dollar, and the Polish Zloty). For operating units with U.S. Dollar sales and local currency costs, there is foreign currency exposure that could impact our results of operations depending on market changes in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar against the applicable foreign currencies. To manage certain exposures, we employ long-term hedging strategies associated with U.S. Dollar sales. See Note 1 and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2013 Annual Report for further discussion of our hedging strategies.

Our international sales and operations are subject to risks associated with changes in local government laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, capital controls, employment regulations, and repatriation of earnings. Our international sales and operations are also sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities, including government budgets, as well as to political and economic instability. International transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs in foreign countries. For example, as a condition of sale or award of a contract, some international customers require us to agree to offset arrangements, which may include in-country purchases, manufacturing and financial support arrangements. The contract may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements.

In addition, as part of our globalization strategy, we have invested in certain countries, including Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Mexico, Russia, South Africa and countries in the Middle East, that carry high levels of currency, political, compliance and economic risk.  We expect that sales to emerging markets will continue to account for a significant portion of our sales as









our business evolves and as these and other developing nations and regions around the world increase their demand for our products.  Emerging market operations can present many risks, including cultural differences (such as employment and business practices), volatility in gross domestic product, economic and government instability, and the imposition of exchange controls and capital controls.  While these factors and their impact are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

We Use a Variety of Raw Materials, Supplier-Provided Parts, Components, Sub-Systems and Contract Manufacturing Services in Our Businesses, and Significant Shortages, Supplier Capacity Constraints, Supplier Production Disruptions or Price Increases Could Increase Our Operating Costs and Adversely Impact the Competitive Positions of Our Products.

Our reliance on suppliers (including third party contract manufacturing) and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts, components and sub-systems used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of these materials. In many instances, we depend upon a single source of supply, manufacturing or assembly or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations of limited supplies by suppliers. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers, supplier capacity constraints, contract manufacturer production disruptions, closing or bankruptcy of our suppliers, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe that our supply management and production practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. Nonetheless, price increases, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions or the unavailability of some raw materials may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

We Engage in Acquisitions and Divestitures, and May Encounter Difficulties Integrating Acquired Businesses with, or Disposing of Divested Businesses From, Our Current Operations; Therefore, We May Not Realize the Anticipated Benefits of these Acquisitions and Divestitures.









Our Debt Has Increased As a Result of the Goodrich Acquisition; Our Ability to Access Debt is Subject to Increased Costs and May Be Affected by Changes in the Global Capital Market, Our Financial Performance or Outlook or Our Credit Ratings.

We have outstanding debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity.  We incurred substantial additional debt as a result of the Goodrich acquisition.  Our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including, among others:

• requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce funds we have available for other purposes, such as acquisitions and reinvestment in our businesses;

• reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and

• exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates.

We depend, in part, upon the issuance of debt to fund our operations and contractual commitments.  If we require additional funding in order to fund outstanding financing commitments or meet other business requirements, our market liquidity may not be sufficient.  A number of factors could cause us to incur increased borrowing costs and to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for debt, including disruptions or declines in the global capital markets and/or a decline in our financial performance, outlook or credit ratings.

We Design, Manufacture and Service Products that Incorporate Advanced Technologies; The Introduction of New Products and Technologies Involves Risks and We May Not Realize the Degree or Timing of Benefits Initially Anticipated.









become obsolete. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

Exports of Certain of Our Products Are Subject to Various Export Control Regulations and May Require a License From the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce or the U.S. Department of the Treasury.

We Are Subject to Litigation, Environmental and Other Legal Compliance Risks.

Additional Tax Expense or Additional Tax Exposures Could Affect Our Future Profitability.

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various international jurisdictions.  Changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance could materially impact our tax receivables and









liabilities and our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Additionally, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to examinations by various authorities, including tax authorities. In addition to ongoing investigations, there could be additional investigations launched in the future by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions, and existing investigations could be expanded. The global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue to exist and additional investigations, proceedings and contingencies will arise from time to time. Our competitive position, cash flows, results of operation or financial condition may be affected by the outcome of investigations, proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty.

See Notes 11 and 17  to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2013 Annual Report for further discussion on income taxes and related contingencies.

We May Be Unable to Realize Expected Benefits From Our Cost Reduction and Restructuring Efforts and Our Profitability May Be Hurt or Our Business Otherwise Might Be Adversely Affected.

In order to operate more efficiently and control costs, we announce from time to time restructuring plans, which include workforce reductions as well as global facility consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives. These plans are intended to generate operating expense savings through direct and indirect overhead expense reductions as well as other savings. We may undertake further workforce reductions or restructuring actions in the future. These types of cost reduction and restructuring activities are complex. If we do not successfully manage our current restructuring activities, or any other restructuring activities that we may undertake in the future, expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted. Risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, additional unexpected costs, changes in restructuring plans that increase or decrease the number of employees affected, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

Our Business and Financial Performance May Be Adversely Affected By Information Technology and Other Business Disruptions.

We Depend On Our Intellectual Property, and Have Access to Certain Intellectual Property and Information of Our Customers and Suppliers; Infringement or Failure to Protect Our Intellectual Property Could Adversely Affect Our Future Growth and Success.

We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements, information technology security systems and other measures to protect our proprietary intellectual property. We also rely on nondisclosure agreements, information technology security systems and other measures to protect certain customer and supplier information and intellectual property that we have in our possession or to which we have access. Our efforts to protect intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be sufficient. We cannot be sure that our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents to us, that patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors, or that these patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to preclude our competitors from introducing technologies similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications.  Our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights may be limited in certain countries outside the U.S.  In addition, we may be the target of competitor or other third party patent enforcement actions seeking substantial monetary damages or seeking to prevent our sale and marketing of certain of our products or services. We may also be subject to disruptions, losses and liability resulting from various









cybersecurity attacks or information technology failures, as described above. Any of these events or factors could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.







