Item 1A.Risk Factors

Our business, financial
condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated
future results. For a discussion identifying additional risk factors and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, see the discussion in the “Business” section under the headings
“Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole” and “Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results” in this Form 10-K and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” and “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in our 2009 Annual Report.

Our Global Growth Is Subject to
a Number of Economic Risks







such as decreases in business and consumer spending, air travel, construction activity, the financial strength of airline customers and business jet operators, and government procurement.
Strengthening of the rate of exchange for the U.S. Dollar against certain major currencies such as the Euro, the Canadian Dollar and other currencies also adversely affects our results. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity
of disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries.

Our Financial Performance Is Dependent on the
Conditions of the Construction and Aerospace Industries

The results of our commercial and industrial businesses, which generated
approximately 58% of our consolidated revenues in 2009, are influenced by a number of external factors including fluctuations in residential and commercial construction activity, regulatory changes, interest rates, labor costs, foreign currency
exchange rates, customer attrition, raw material and energy costs, the tightening of the U.S. credit markets and other global and political factors. In addition to these factors, Carrier’s financial performance can also be influenced by
production and utilization of transport equipment and, in its residential business, weather conditions.

Our Business May Be Affected by Government Contracting Risks

Our International Operations Subject Us to Economic Risk As Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Economic Conditions, Foreign
Currency Fluctuations and Changes in Local Government Regulation

We conduct our business on a global basis, with approximately
59% of our total 2009 segment revenues derived from operations outside of the United States and from U.S. export sales. Changes in local and regional economic conditions, including fluctuations in exchange rates, may affect product demand and
reported profits in our non-U.S. operations (primarily the commercial businesses) where transactions are generally denominated in local currencies. In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the prices we pay suppliers for materials used in our
products. As a result, our operating margins may also be negatively impacted by worldwide







currency fluctuations that result in higher costs for certain cross border transactions. Our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates may
also give rise to translation gains or losses when financial statements of non-U.S. operating units are translated into U.S. dollars. Given that the majority of our revenues are non-U.S. based, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major
foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations.

The majority of sales in the aerospace businesses are transacted
in U.S. dollars, consistent with established industry practice, while the majority of costs at locations outside the United States are incurred in the applicable local currency (principally the Euro and the Canadian dollar). For operating units with
U.S. dollar sales and local currency costs, there is a foreign currency exposure that could impact our results of operations depending on market changes in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the applicable foreign currencies. To manage
certain exposures, we employ long-term hedging strategies associated with U.S. dollar revenues. See Note 1 and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Annual Report for a discussion of our hedging strategies.

Our international sales and operations are subject to risks associated with changes in local government laws, regulations and policies, including
those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, employment regulations, and repatriation of earnings. Our international sales and operations are also sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities,
including government budgets, as well as to political and economic instability. International transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs in foreign countries. For example, as a condition
of sale or award of a contract, some international customers require us to agree to offset arrangements, which may include in-country purchases, manufacturing and financial support arrangements. The contract may provide for penalties in the event we
fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements.

In addition, as part of our globalization strategy, we have invested in
certain countries, including Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Russia, South Africa and countries in the Middle East, that carry high levels of currency, political and economic risk. We expect that sales to emerging markets will continue to account
for a significant portion of our total sales as our business evolves and as these and other developing nations and regions around the world increase their demand for our products. Emerging market operations can present many risks, including civil
disturbances, health concerns, cultural differences, such as employment and business practices, volatility in gross domestic product, economic and government instability, and the imposition of exchange controls. While these factors and their impact
are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.

We Use a Variety
of Raw Materials, Supplier-Provided Parts, Components, Sub-Systems and Third Party Contract Manufacturing Services in Our Businesses, and Significant Shortages, Supplier Capacity Constraints, Supplier Production Disruptions or Price Increases Could
Increase Our Operating Costs and Adversely Impact the Competitive Positions of Our Products

Our reliance on suppliers, third
party contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts, components and sub-systems used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of these materials. In some instances, we depend upon a single
source of supply, manufacturing or assembly or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations of limited supplies by suppliers. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or third party contract manufacturers, supplier
capacity constraints, supplier and third party contract manufacturer production disruptions, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers
or increase our operating costs. We believe that our supply management and production practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. Nonetheless, price increases, supplier capacity
constraints, supplier production disruptions or the unavailability of some raw materials may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.

We Engage in Acquisitions and Divestitures, and May Encounter Difficulties Integrating Acquired Businesses with, or Disposing of Divested Businesses from, Our Current Operations; Therefore, We May Not Realize
the Anticipated Benefits of these Acquisitions and Divestitures

We Design, Manufacture and Service Products that Incorporate Advanced Technologies; The Introduction of New Products and
Technologies Involves Risks and We May Not Realize the Degree or Timing of Benefits Initially Anticipated

We seek to achieve
growth through the design, development, production, sale and support of innovative products that incorporate advanced technologies. We regularly invest substantial amounts in research and development efforts that pursue







advancements in a wide range of technologies, products and services. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of these advancements depends on a variety of factors, including meeting
development, production, certification and regulatory approval schedules; execution of internal and external performance plans; availability of internal and supplier-produced parts and materials; performance of suppliers and subcontractors;
achieving cost and production efficiencies, validation of innovative technologies and the level of customer interest in new technologies and products. These factors involve significant risks and uncertainties. We or our suppliers and subcontractors
may encounter difficulties in developing and producing these new products and services, and may not realize the degree or timing of benefits initially anticipated. In particular, we cannot predict with certainty whether, when and in what quantities
our aerospace businesses, particularly Pratt & Whitney, Sikorsky and Hamilton Sundstrand, will produce aircraft engines, helicopters, aircraft systems and components and other products currently in development or pending required
certifications. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations.

We Are Subject to Litigation, Tax,
Environmental and Other Legal Compliance Risks That Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results



