Item 1.Business



OVERVIEW



Lincoln
National Corporation (“LNC,” which also may be referred to as “Lincoln,” “we,”
“our” or “us”) is a holding company, which operates multiple insurance and
retirement businesses through subsidiary companies.  Through our
business segments, we sell a wide range of wealth protection, accumulation and
retirement income products and solutions.  These products include
fixed and indexed annuities, variable annuities, universal life insurance
(“UL”), variable universal life insurance (“VUL”), linked-benefit UL, term life
insurance, mutual funds and group life insurance.  LNC was organized
under the laws of the state of Indiana in 1968.  We currently maintain
our principal executive offices in Radnor, Pennsylvania. “Lincoln Financial
Group” is the marketing name for LNC and its subsidiary companies. As of
December 31, 2009, LNC had consolidated assets of $177.4 billion and
consolidated stockholders’ equity of $11.7 billion.



We
provide products and services in two operating businesses and report results
through four segments as follows:



BusinessCorresponding
      SegmentsRetirement
      SolutionsAnnuitiesDefined
      ContributionInsurance
      SolutionsLife
      InsuranceGroup
      Protection



We also
have Other Operations, which includes the financial data for operations that are
not directly related to the business segments, unallocated corporate items and
the ongoing amortization of deferred gain on the indemnity reinsurance portion
of the sale of our former reinsurance segment to Swiss Re Life & Health
America Inc. (“Swiss Re”) in the fourth quarter of 2001.  Unallocated
corporate items include investment income on investments related to the amount
of statutory surplus in our insurance subsidiaries that is not allocated to our
business units and other corporate investments, interest expense on short-term
and long-term borrowings and certain expenses, including restructuring and
merger-related expenses.  Other Operations also includes our run-off
institutional pension business, the results of certain disability income
business due to the rescission of a reinsurance agreement with Swiss Re and the
results of our remaining media businesses.



As a
result of entering agreements of sale for Lincoln National (UK) plc (“Lincoln
UK”) and Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. (“Delaware”) during 2009, we have
reported the results of these businesses as discontinued operations on our
Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss) and the assets and liabilities as held
for sale on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for all periods
presented.  For further information, see “Acquisitions and
Dispositions” below.



The
results of Lincoln Financial Network (“LFN”) and Lincoln Financial Distributors
(“LFD”), our retail and wholesale distributors, respectively, are included in
the segments for which they distribute products.  LFD distributes our
individual products and services, defined contribution (“DC”) plans and
corporate-owned UL and VUL (“COLI”) and bank-owned UL and VUL (“BOLI”) products
and services.  The distribution occurs primarily through consultants,
brokers, planners, agents, financial advisors, third party administrators
(“TPAs”) and other intermediaries.  Insurance Solutions – Group
Protection distributes its products and services primarily through employee
benefit brokers, TPAs and other employee benefit firms.  As of
December 31, 2009, LFD had approximately 600 internal and external wholesalers
(including sales managers).  As of December 31, 2009, LFN offered LNC
and non-proprietary products and advisory services through a national network of
approximately 7,700 active producers who placed business with us within the last
twelve months.






Financial
information in the tables that follow is presented in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), unless
otherwise indicated.  We provide revenues, income (loss) from
operations and assets attributable to each of our business segments and Other
Operations, as well as revenues derived inside and outside the U.S. for the last
three fiscal years, in Note 23.



Revenues
by segment (in millions) were as follows:



For
      the Years Ended December 31,200920082007RevenuesOperating
      revenues:Retirement
      Solutions:Annuities$2,301$2,438$2,535Defined
      Contribution926932986Total
      Retirement Solutions3,2273,3703,521Insurance
      Solutions:Life
      Insurance4,2934,2594,189Group
      Protection1,7131,6401,500Total
      Insurance Solutions6,0065,8995,689Other
      Operations467534578Excluded
      realized loss, pre-tax(1,200)(573)(183)Amortization
      of deferred gain from reservechanges
      on business sold throughreinsurance,
      pre-tax339Amortization
      of deferred front-end loads(“DFEL”)
      associated with benefitratio
      unlocking, pre-tax(4)(9)-Total
      revenues$8,499$9,224$9,614



Acquisitions
and Dispositions



On
January 4, 2010, LNC and its wholly owned subsidiary, Lincoln National
Investment Companies, completed the sale of the outstanding capital stock of
Delaware, our former subsidiary, to Macquarie Bank Limited, pursuant to a
Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of August 18, 2009.  Delaware
provided investment products and services to individuals and
institutions.  We currently expect to receive cash consideration at
closing of approximately $405 million, after-tax.  The closing
purchase price is subject to post-closing adjustments, including an adjustment
based on the final closing balance sheet as determined under the Purchase and
Sale Agreement.



In
addition, certain of our subsidiaries, including The Lincoln National Life
Insurance Company (“LNL”), our primary insurance subsidiary, have entered into
investment advisory agreements with Delaware dated January 4, 2010, pursuant to
which Delaware will continue to manage the majority of the general account
insurance assets of the subsidiaries.  The investment advisory
agreements will have 10-year terms, and we may terminate them without cause,
subject to a purchase price adjustment of up to $84 million in the event that
all of the agreements with our subsidiaries are terminated.  The
amount of the potential adjustment will decline on a pro rata basis over the
10-year term of the advisory agreements.



On
October 1, 2009, we completed the sale of the capital stock of Lincoln UK to SLF
of Canada UK Limited for proceeds of $307 million, after-tax, subject to
customary post-closing adjustments.  We retained Lincoln UK’s pension
plan assets and liabilities. The former Lincoln UK segment primarily focused on
providing life and retirement income products in the United
Kingdom.



On
January 8, 2009, the Office of Thrift Supervision approved our application to
become a savings and loan holding company and our acquisition of Newton County
Loan & Savings, FSB (“NCLS”), a federally regulated savings bank located in
Indiana.  We contributed $10 million to the capital of
NCLS.  We closed on our purchase of NCLS on January 15,
2009.








On
November 12, 2007, Lincoln Financial Media Company (“LFMC”), our wholly-owned
subsidiary, entered into two stock purchase agreements with Raycom Holdings, LLC
(“Raycom”).  Pursuant to one of the agreements, LFMC agreed to sell to
Raycom all of the outstanding capital stock of three of LFMC’s wholly-owned
subsidiaries:  WBTV, Inc., the owner and operator of television
station WBTV, Charlotte, North Carolina; WCSC, Inc., the owner and operator of
television station WCSC, Charleston, South Carolina; and WWBT, Inc., the owner
and operator of television station WWBT, Richmond, Virginia.  The
transaction closed on March 31, 2008, and LFMC received proceeds of $546
million.  Pursuant to the other agreement, LFMC agreed to sell to
Raycom all of the outstanding capital stock of Lincoln Financial Sports, Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of LFMC.  This transaction closed on November
30, 2007, and LFMC received $42 million of proceeds.



On
November 12, 2007, LFMC also entered into a stock purchase agreement with
Greater Media, Inc., to sell all of the outstanding capital stock of LFMC of
North Carolina, the owner and operator of radio stations WBT(AM), Charlotte,
North Carolina; WBT-FM, Chester, South Carolina; and WLNK(FM), Charlotte, North
Carolina.  This transaction closed on January 31, 2008, and LFMC
received proceeds of $100 million.  More information on these LFMC
transactions can be found in our Form 8-K filed on November 14, 2007, and in
Note 3.



On April
3, 2006, we completed our merger with Jefferson-Pilot Corporation
(“Jefferson-Pilot”), pursuant to which Jefferson-Pilot merged into one of our
wholly-owned subsidiaries.  Prior to the merger, Jefferson-Pilot,
through its subsidiaries, offered full lines of individual life, annuity and
investment products, and group life insurance products, disability income and
dental contracts, and it operated television and radio stations and a sports
broadcasting network.



For
further information about acquisitions and divestitures, see Note
3.



BUSINESS
SEGMENTS AND OTHER OPERATIONS



RETIREMENT
SOLUTIONS



Overview



The
Retirement Solutions business, with principal operations in Radnor,
Pennsylvania; Fort Wayne, Indiana; Hartford, Connecticut; and Greensboro, North
Carolina and additional operations in Concord, New Hampshire and Arlington
Heights, Illinois, provides its products through two
segments:  Annuities and Defined Contribution.  The
Annuities segment provides tax-deferred growth and lifetime income opportunities
for its clients by offering individual fixed annuities, including indexed
annuities, and variable annuities.  The Defined Contribution segment
provides employer-sponsored fixed and variable annuities and mutual fund-based
programs in the 401(k), 403(b) and 457 plan marketplaces.  Products
for both segments are distributed through a wide range of intermediaries
including both affiliated and unaffiliated channels including advisors,
consultants, brokers, banks and wirehouses.



Retirement
Solutions – Annuities



Overview



The
Retirement Solutions – Annuities segment provides tax-deferred growth and
lifetime income opportunities for its clients by offering fixed and variable
annuities.  The Retirement Solutions – Annuities segment offers
non-qualified and qualified fixed and variable annuities to
individuals.  The “fixed” and “variable” classification describes
whether we or the contract holders bear the investment risk of the assets
supporting the contract.  This also determines the manner in which we
earn investment margin profits from these products, either as investment spreads
for fixed products or as asset-based fees charged to variable
products.



Annuities
have several features that are attractive to customers.  First, they
provide tax-deferred growth in the underlying principal, thereby deferring the
tax consequences of the growth in value until withdrawals are made from the
accumulation values, often at lower tax rates occurring during
retirement.  Second, annuities are unique in that contract holders can
select a variety of payout alternatives to help provide an income flow for
life.  Many annuity contracts include guarantee features (living and
death benefits) that are not found in any other investment vehicle and, we
believe, make annuities attractive especially in times of economic
uncertainty.  Over the last several years, the individual annuities
market has seen an increase in competition with respect to guarantee
features.








Products



In
general, an annuity is a contract between an insurance company and an individual
or group in which the insurance company, after receipt of one or more premium
payments, agrees to pay an amount of money either in one lump sum or on a
periodic basis (i.e., annually, semi-annually, quarterly or monthly), beginning
on a certain date and continuing for a period of time as specified in the
contract.  Periodic payments can begin within twelve months after the
premium is received (referred to as an immediate annuity) or at a future date in
time (referred to as a deferred annuity).  This retirement vehicle
helps protect an individual from outliving his or her money and can be either a
fixed annuity or a variable annuity.



The
Retirement Solutions – Annuities segment’s deposits (in millions) were as
follows:



For
      the Years Ended December 31,200920082007DepositsVariable
      portion of variable annuity$4,007$6,690$9,135Fixed
      portion of variable annuity3,1943,4332,795Total
      variable annuity7,20110,12311,930Fixed
      indexed annuity2,1821,078755Other
      fixed annuity979529772Total
      annuity deposits$10,362$11,730$13,457



Variable
Annuities



A
variable annuity provides the contract holder the ability to direct the
investment of premium deposits into one or more sub-accounts offered through the
product (“variable portion”) or into a fixed account with a guaranteed return
(“fixed portion”).  The value of the variable portion of the contract
holder’s account varies with the performance of the underlying sub-accounts
chosen by the contract holder.  The underlying assets of the
sub-accounts are managed within a special insurance series of mutual
funds.  The contract holder’s return is tied to the performance of the
segregated assets underlying the variable annuity (i.e. the contract holder
bears the investment risk associated with these investments).  The
value of the fixed portion is guaranteed by us and recorded in our general
account liabilities.  Variable annuity account values were $59.4
billion, $44.5 billion and $62.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively, including the fixed portion of variable accounts of
$4.0 billion, $3.6 billion and $3.5 billion, for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.



We charge
mortality and expense assessments and administrative fees on variable annuity
accounts to cover insurance and administrative expenses.  These
assessments are built into accumulation unit values, which when multiplied by
the number of units owned for any sub-account equals the contract holder’s
account value for that sub-account.  The fees that we earn from these
contracts are reported as insurance fees on our Consolidated Statements of
Income (Loss).  In addition, for some contracts, we collect surrender
charges that range from 0% to 10% of withdrawals when contract holders surrender
their contracts during the surrender charge period, which is generally higher
during the early years of a contract.  Our individual variable annuity
products have a maximum surrender charge period of ten years.



We offer
A-share, B-share, C-share, L-share and bonus variable annuities, although not
with every annuity product.  The differences in these relate to the
sales charge and fee structure associated with the contract.



·An
      A-share has a front-end sales charge and no back-end contingent deferred
      sales charge, also known as a surrender charge.  The net premium
      (premium less front-end charge) is invested in the contract, resulting in
      full liquidity and lower mortality and expense assessments over the long
      term than those in other share classes.

·A
      B-share has a seven-year surrender charge that is only paid if the account
      is surrendered or withdrawals are in excess of contractual free
      withdrawals within the contract’s specified surrender charge
      period.  The entire premium is invested in the contract, but it
      offers limited liquidity during the surrender charge
    period.

·A
      C-share has no front-end sales charge or back-end surrender
      charge.  Accordingly, it offers maximum liquidity but mortality
      and expense assessments are higher than those for A-share or B-share
      during the surrender charge period.  A persistency credit is
      applied beginning in year eight so that the total charge to the customer
      is consistent with B-share
levels.








·An
      L-share has a four to five year surrender charge that is only paid if the
      account is surrendered or withdrawals are in excess of contractual free
      withdrawals within the contract’s specified surrender charge
      period.  The differences between the L-share and the B-share are
      the length of the surrender charge period and the fee
      structure.  L-shares have a shorter surrender charge period, so
      for the added liquidity, mortality and expense assessments are
      higher.  We offer L-share annuity products with persistency
      credits that are applied in all years after surrender charges are no
      longer applicable so that the total charge to the customer is consistent
      with B-share levels.

·A
      bonus annuity is a variable annuity contract that offers a bonus credit to
      a contract based on a specified percentage (typically ranging from 2% to
      5%) of each deposit.  The entire premium plus the bonus are
      invested in the sub-accounts supporting the contract.  It has a
      seven to nine-year surrender charge.  The expenses are slightly
      more than those for a B-share.  We offer bonus annuity products
      with persistency credits that are applied in all years after surrender
      charges are no longer applicable so that the total charge to the customer
      is consistent with B-share levels.



We offer
guaranteed benefit riders with certain of our variable annuity products, such as
a guaranteed death benefit (“GDB”), a guaranteed withdrawal benefit (“GWB”), a
guaranteed income benefit (“GIB”) and a combination of such
benefits.  Most of our variable annuity products also offer the choice
of a fixed option that provides for guaranteed interest credited to the account
value.



We design
and actively manage the features and structure of our guaranteed benefit riders
to maintain a competitive suite of products consistent with profitability and
risk management goals.  In late 2008 and early 2009, in light of
changes in the variable annuity marketplace driven by financial market
conditions, we made changes to our riders to reduce our exposure to equity
market volatility and interest rate movements while compensating us for
increasing costs to provide the benefits.  The changes include, but
are not limited to, implementing investment restrictions for all new rider sales
and for the majority of in-force policies with guaranteed riders, raising the
charge for guaranteed benefit riders, reducing roll-up periods and eliminating
certain features.



Approximately
92%, 91% and 91% of
variable annuity separate account values had a GDB rider as of December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The GDB features currently offered
include those where we contractually guarantee to the contract holder that upon
death, we will return no less than:  the total deposits made to the
contract, adjusted to reflect any partial withdrawals; the total deposits made
to the contract, adjusted to reflect any partial withdrawals, plus a minimum
return; or the highest contract value on a specified anniversary date adjusted
to reflect any partial withdrawals following the contract
anniversary.



Approximately
23%, 26% and 28% of variable annuity account values as of December 31, 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively, had aLincoln SmartSecurity®
Advantage rider.  TheLincoln SmartSecurity®
Advantage one-year benefit is a GWB rider that offers the contract holder a
guarantee equal to the initial deposit (or contract value, if elected after
issue), adjusted for any subsequent purchase payments or
withdrawals.Lincoln SmartSecurity®
Advantage one-year allows an owner to step up the guarantee amount automatically
on the benefit anniversary to the current contract value if the contract value
is greater than the guarantee amount at the time of step up.  To
receive the full amount of the guarantee, annual withdrawals are limited to 5%
of the guaranteed amount.  Withdrawals will continue until the longer
of when the guarantee is equal to zero or for the rest of the owner’s life
(“single life version”) or the life of the owner or owner’s spouse (“joint life
version”) as long as withdrawals begin after attained age 65 and are limited to
5% of the guaranteed amount.  Withdrawals in excess of the applicable
maximum in any contract year are assessed any applicable surrender charges, and
the guaranteed amount is recalculated.



We offer
other product riders includingi4LIFE® Advantage and
4LATER®Advantage.Thei4LIFE® rider, on which we
have received a U.S. patent, allows variable annuity contract holders access and
control during the income distribution phase of their contract.  This
added flexibility allows the contract holder to access the account value for
transfers, additional withdrawals and other service features like portfolio
rebalancing.  Approximately 11%, 11% and 9% of variable annuity
account values as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, have
elected ani4LIFE®
Advantage feature.  In general, GIB is an optional feature available
withi4LIFE® Advantage
that guarantees regular income payments will not fall below 75% of the highest
income payment on a specified anniversary date (reduced for any subsequent
withdrawals).  Approximately 94%, 92% and 88% ofi4LIFE® Advantage account
values elected the GIB feature as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  4LATER®Advantage provides a
minimum income base used to determine the GIB floor when a client begins income
payments underi4LIFE®
Advantage.  The income base is equal to the initial deposit (or contract
value, if elected after issue) and increases by 15% every three years (subject
to a 200% cap).  The owner may step up the income base on or after the
third anniversary of rider election or of the most recent step-up (which also
resets the 200% cap).








TheLincoln Lifetime IncomeSMAdvantage andLincoln Lifetime
IncomeSMAdvantage Plus are hybrid benefit riders combining aspects of GWB and GIB.
 Both benefit riders allow the contract holder the ability to take income
at a maximum rate of 5% of the guaranteed amount when they are above the
lifetime income age or income throughi4LIFE® Advantage with the
GIB.Lincoln Lifetime
IncomeSMAdvantage andLincoln Lifetime
IncomeSMAdvantage Plus provide higher income if the contract holder delays withdrawals,
including both a 5% enhancement to the guaranteed amount each year a withdrawal
is not taken for a specified period of time and an annual step-up of the
guaranteed amount to the current contract value.  TheLincoln Lifetime IncomeSMAdvantage Plus provides an additional benefit, which is a return of principal at
the end of the seventh year if the customer has not taken any
withdrawals.  Contract holders under both theLincoln Lifetime IncomeSMAdvantage andLincoln Lifetime
IncomeSMAdvantage Plus are subject to restrictions on the allocation of their account
value within the various investment choices.  Approximately 17% and 8%
of variable annuity account values as of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, had aLincoln
Lifetime IncomeSMAdvantage orLincoln Lifetime
IncomeSMAdvantage Plus rider.



To
mitigate the increased risks associated with guaranteed benefits, we developed a
dynamic hedging program.  The customized dynamic hedging program uses
equity and interest rate futures positions, interest rate and variance swaps, as
well as equity-based options depending upon the risks underlying the
guarantees.  Our program is designed to offset both positive and
negative changes in the carrying value of the guarantees.  However,
while we actively manage these hedge positions, the hedge positions may not be
effective to exactly offset the changes in the carrying value of the guarantees
due to, among other things, the time lag between changes in their values and
corresponding changes in the hedge positions, high levels of volatility in the
equity markets, contract holder behavior, management decisions not to fully
hedge every risk and divergence between the performance of the underlying funds
and hedging indices, which is referred to as basis risk.  For more
information on our hedging program, see “Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates – Derivatives” and “Realized Loss” in the MD&A.  For
information regarding risks related to guaranteed benefits, see “Item 1A. Risk
Factors – Changes in the equity markets, interest rates and/or volatility affect
the profitability of our products with guaranteed benefits; therefore, such
changes may have a material adverse effect on our business and
profitability.”



Fixed
Annuities



A fixed
annuity preserves the principal value of the contract while guaranteeing a
minimum interest rate to be credited to the accumulation value.  We
offer single and flexible premium fixed deferred annuities to the individual
annuities market.  Single premium fixed deferred annuities are
contracts that allow only a single premium to be paid.  Flexible
premium fixed deferred annuities are contracts that allow multiple premium
payments on either a scheduled or non-scheduled basis.  Our fixed
annuities include both traditional fixed-rate and fixed indexed
annuities.  With fixed deferred annuities, the contract holder has the
right to surrender the contract and receive the current accumulation value less
any applicable surrender charge and, if applicable, a market value adjustment
(“MVA”).  Depending on market conditions, MVAs can, for some products,
be less than zero, which means the MVA results in an increase to the amount
received by the contract holder.



Fixed
indexed annuities allow the contract holder to elect an interest rate linked to
the performance of the Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) 500 Index® (“S&P
500”).  The indexed interest rate is guaranteed never to be less than
zero.  Our fixed indexed annuities provide contract holders a choice
of a traditional fixed-rate account and one or more different indexed
accounts.  A contract holder may elect to change allocations at
renewal dates, either annually or biannually.  At each renewal date,
we have the opportunity to re-price the indexed component (i.e. reset the caps,
spreads or participation rates), subject to guarantees.



Fixed
annuity contracts are general account obligations.  We bear the
investment risk for fixed annuity contracts.  To protect from
premature withdrawals, we impose surrender charges.  Surrender charges
are typically applicable during the early years of the annuity contract, with a
declining level of surrender charges over time.  We expect to earn a
spread between what we earn on the underlying general account investments
supporting the fixed annuity product line and what we credit to our fixed
annuity contract holders’ accounts.  In addition, with respect to
fixed indexed annuities, we purchase options that are highly correlated to the
indexed account allocation decisions of our contract holders, such that we are
closely hedged with respect to indexed interest for the current reset
period.  For more information on our hedging program for fixed indexed
annuities, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Derivatives” and
“Realized Loss” in the MD&A.



Individual
fixed annuity account values were $15.9 billion, $14.0 billion and $14.4 billion
as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  Approximately
$11.8 billion of individual fixed annuity account values as of December 31,
2009, were still within the surrender charge period.








Our fixed
annuity product offerings as of December 31, 2009, consisted of traditional
fixed-rate and fixed indexed deferred annuities, as well as fixed-rate immediate
annuities with various payment options, including lifetime
incomes.  In addition to traditional fixed-rate immediate annuities,
in 2007 we introducedLincoln
SmartIncomeSMInflation Annuity.  This product provides lifetime income with annual
adjustments to keep pace with inflation.  It uses a patent-pending
design to preserve access to remaining principal, also adjusted annually for
inflation, for premature death or unexpected needs.  The traditional
fixed-rate deferred annuity products include theLincoln ClassicSM(Single and Flexible Premium),Lincoln SelectSMandLincoln ChoicePlusSMFixed annuities.  The fixed indexed deferred annuity products include
the LincolnOptiPoint®,Lincoln OptiChoiceSM,Lincoln New Directions®
andLincolnFuture Point®
annuities.  The fixed indexed annuities offer one or more of the
following indexed accounts:



·The
      Performance Triggered Indexed Account pays a specified rate, declared at
      the beginning of the indexed term, if the S&P 500 value at the end of
      the indexed term is the same or greater than the S&P 500 value at the
      beginning of the indexed term;

·The
      Point to Point Indexed Account compares the value of the S&P 500 at
      the end of the indexed term to the S&P 500 value at the beginning of
      the term.  If the S&P 500 at the end of the indexed term is
      higher than the S&P 500 value at the beginning of the term, then the
      percentage change, up to the declared indexed interest cap, is credited to
      the indexed account;

·The
      Monthly Cap Indexed Account reflects the monthly changes in the S&P
      500 value over the course of the indexed term.  Each month, the
      percentage change in the S&P 500 value is calculated, subject to a
      monthly indexed cap that is declared at the beginning of the indexed
      term.  At the end of the indexed term, all of the monthly change
      percentages are summed to determine the rate of indexed interest that will
      be credited to the account; and

·The
      Monthly Average Indexed Account compares the average monthly value of the
      S&P 500 to the S&P 500 value at the beginning of the
      term.  The average of the S&P 500 values at the end of each
      of the twelve months in the indexed term is calculated.  The
      percentage change of the average S&P 500 value to the starting S&P
      500 value is calculated.  From that amount, the indexed interest
      spread, which is declared at the beginning of the indexed term, is
      subtracted.  The resulting rate is used to calculate the indexed
      interest that will be credited to the
account.



If the
S&P 500 values produce a negative indexed interest rate, no indexed interest
is credited to the indexed account.

During
2009, we added new traditional fixed annuity products,Lincoln MYGuaranteeSMPlus
andLincoln
GrowSmartSMFixed Annuity, with multi-year guarantee periods that vary from 3-10 years to
allow consumers greater flexibility.



We
introduced theLincoln Living
IncomeSMAdvantage in 2007.  Available with certain of our fixed indexed
annuities, it provides the contract holder a guaranteed lifetime withdrawal
benefit.  Withdrawals in excess of the free amount are assessed any
applicable surrender charges, and the guaranteed withdrawal amount is
recalculated.



Many of
our fixed annuities have an MVA.  If a contract with an MVA is
surrendered during the surrender charge period, both a surrender charge and an
MVA may be applied.  The MVA feature increases or decreases the
contract value of the annuity based on a decrease or increase in interest
rates.  We updated our MVA formula, during 2009, which provides better
protection when changes in available asset yields are not in line with changes
in Treasury rates.  Individual fixed annuities with an MVA feature
constituted 55%, 46% and 40% of total fixed annuity account values as of
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.



Distribution



The
Retirement Solutions – Annuities segment distributes its individual fixed and
variable annuity products through LFD.  LFD’s distribution channels
give the Retirement Solutions – Annuities segment access to its target
markets.  LFD distributes the segment’s products to a large number of
financial intermediaries, including LFN.  The financial intermediaries
include wire/regional firms, independent financial planners, financial
institutions and managing general agents.



Competition



The
annuities market is very competitive and consists of many companies, with no one
company dominating the market for all products.  The Annuities segment
competes with numerous other financial services companies.  The main
factors upon which entities in this market compete are distribution channel
access and the quality of wholesalers, investment performance, cost, product
features, speed to market, brand recognition, financial strength ratings,
crediting rates and client service.








Retirement
Solutions – Defined Contribution



Overview



The
Retirement Solutions – Defined Contribution segment provides employers the
ability to offer tax-deferred retirement savings plans to their employees,
primarily through 403(b) and 401(k) retirement savings plans.  We
provide a variety of plan investment vehicles, including individual and group
variable annuities, group fixed annuities and mutual funds.  We also
offer a broad array of plan services including plan recordkeeping, compliance
testing, participant education and other related services.



DC plans
are a popular employee benefit offered by many employers across a wide spectrum
of industries and by employers large and small.  Some plans include
employer matching of contributions, which can increase participation by
employees.  Growth in the number of DC plans has occurred as these
plans have been used as replacements for frozen or eliminated defined benefit
retirement plans.  In general, DC plans offer tax-deferred
contributions and investment growth, thereby deferring the tax consequences of
both the contributions and investment growth until withdrawals are made from the
accumulated values, often at lower tax rates occurring during
retirement.



Lincoln’s
403(b) assets accounted for 58% of total assets under management in this segment
as of December 31, 2009.  The 401(k) business accounted for 43% of our
deposits during 2009 for this segment.



Products
and Services



The
Retirement Solutions – Defined Contribution segment currently brings four
primary offerings to the employer-sponsored market:  LINCOLN
DIRECTORSMgroup variable annuity,LINCOLN ALLIANCE® program,Lincoln SmartFuture®
program andMulti-Fund®
variable annuity.



The
Retirement Solutions – Defined Contribution segment’s deposits (in millions)
were as follows:



For
      the Years Ended December 31,200920082007DepositsVariable
      portion of variable annuity$1,586$2,170$2,355Fixed
      portion of variable annuity331369351Total
      variable annuity1,9172,5392,706Fixed
      annuity1,011812754Mutual
      fund2,0242,1962,090Total
      annuity and mutual fund deposits$4,952$5,547$5,550



LINCOLN
DIRECTORSMandMulti-Fund® products
are variable annuities.LINCOLN ALLIANCE® andLincoln SmartFuture® programs
are mutual fund-based programs.  This suite of products covers the
403(b), 401(k) and 457 marketplace.  These 403(b), 401(k) and 457
plans are tax-deferred, DC plans offered to employees of an entity to enable
them to save for retirement.  The 403(b) plans are available to
employees of educational institutions, not-for-profit healthcare organizations
and certain other not-for-profit entities; 401(k) plans are generally available
to employees of for-profit entities; and 457 plans are available to government
employees and certain employees of non-profit organizations.  The
investment options for our annuities encompass the spectrum of asset classes
with varying levels of risk and include both equity and fixed
income.  Healthcare clients accounted for 43%, 45% and 43% of account
values for these products as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.








SM

SM

SM

i4LIFE

Lincoln American Legacy
Retirement



Lincoln
American Legacy Retirement



SM

SM

SM

SM

SM



TheLINCOLN ALLIANCE® program is
a DC retirement plan solution aimed at mid to large employers, typically those
that have DC plans with $15 million or more in account value.  The
target market is primarily for-profit corporations, educational institutions and
healthcare providers.  The program bundles our traditional fixed
annuity products with the employer’s choice of retail mutual funds, along with
recordkeeping, plan compliance services and customized employee education
services.  Included in the product offering is the LIFESPAN®learning program, which
provides participants with educational materials and one-on-one guidance for
retirement planning assistance.  The program allows the use of any
retail mutual fund.  We earn fees for our recordkeeping and
educational services and the services we provide to mutual fund
accounts.  We also earn investment margins on fixed
annuities.  The retail mutual funds associated with this program are
not included in the separate accounts reported on our Consolidated Balance
Sheets, as we do not have any ownership interest in them.LINCOLN ALLIANCE® program
account values were $13.4 billion, $9.4 billion and $9.5 billion as of December
31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.



TheLincoln SmartFuture® program
is a DC retirement plan solution aimed at small to mid to large employers,
typically those that have DC plans with between $3 million to $15 million or
more in account value.  The target market is primarily for-profit
corporations, educational institutions and healthcare providers.  TheLincoln SmartFuture®
program was introduced in 2008 and is built on theLINCOLN ALLIANCE®
platform.  LikeLINCOLN ALLIANCE®, the program bundles our traditional fixed annuity
products with retail mutual funds, recordkeeping, plan compliance services and
employee education services using the LIFESPAN®learning program, which
is described further above.  However, theLincoln SmartFuture® program
allows the employer to choose from a list of over 100 retail mutual funds chosen
by us, which consists of a broad range of low-cost funds.  Services
for this program are typically not customized for each employer.  We
earn fees for our recordkeeping and educational services and the services we
provide to mutual fund accounts.  We also earn investment margins on
fixed annuities.  The retail mutual funds associated with this program
are not included in the separate accounts reported on our Consolidated Balance
Sheets, as we do not have any ownership interest in them.Lincoln SmartFuture® program
account values were $223 million and $104 million as of December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively.



Multi-Fund® Variable Annuity
is a DC retirement plan solution with full-bundled administrative services and
high quality investment choices marketed to small- to mid-sized healthcare,
education, governmental and not-for-profit plans.  The product can be sold
either to the employer through theMulti-Fund® group variable
annuity contract or directly to the individual through theMulti-Fund® Select variable
annuity contract.  Included in the product offering is the
LIFESPAN®learning
program, which is described further above.  We earn mortality and expense
charges, investment income on the fixed account and surrender charges from this
product.  We also receive fees for services that we provide to the
underlying mutual fund accounts.  TheMulti-Fund® variable annuity
is currently available in all states except New York.  Account values for
theMulti-Fund®
variable annuity were $10.9 billion, $9.7 billion and $13.3 billion as of
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.Multi-Fund® program deposits
represented 13%, 15% and 17% of the segment’s deposits in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.



Also
within this segment, we have created theLincoln Unifier® service
offering to further assist employers meet the administrative challenges of
bringing retirement plans into compliance with the new 403(b)
regulations.Lincoln Unifier® includes
common remitter administration, compliance monitoring and proactive transaction
monitoring.






Distribution



DC
products are primarily distributed by LFD.  The wholesalers distribute
these products through advisors, consultants, banks, wirehouses, TPAs and
individual planners.  Although theMulti-Fund® program is sold
primarily by affiliated advisors, certain non-affiliated advisors can also
distribute the product.  TheLINCOLN ALLIANCE® program and
theLincoln
SmartFuture® program are sold primarily through consultants and
affiliated advisors.  LINCOLN DIRECTORSMgroup
variable annuity is sold primarily by TPAs and individual planners and is
in the early stages of introduction to wirehouses and banks.



Competition



The DC
marketplace is very competitive and is comprised of many providers, with no one
company dominating the market for all products.  We compete with
numerous other financial services companies.  The main factors upon
which entities in this market compete are distribution channel access and the
quality of wholesalers, investment performance, cost, product features, speed to
market, brand recognition, financial strength ratings, crediting rates and
client service.



INSURANCE
SOLUTIONS



The
Insurance Solutions business provides its products through two
segments:  Life Insurance and Group Protection.  The
Insurance Solutions – Life Insurance segment offers wealth protection and
transfer opportunities through term insurance, a linked-benefit product and both
single and survivorship versions of UL and VUL, including COLI and BOLI
products.  The Insurance Solutions – Group Protection segment offers
group life, disability and dental insurance primarily in the small- to mid-sized
employer marketplace for their eligible employees.



Insurance
Solutions – Life Insurance



Overview



The
Insurance Solutions – Life Insurance segment, with principal operations in
Greensboro, North Carolina and Hartford, Connecticut and additional operations
in Concord, New Hampshire and Fort Wayne, Indiana, focuses on the creation and
protection of wealth for its clients through the manufacturing of life insurance
products.  The Insurance Solutions – Life Insurance segment offers
wealth protection and transfer opportunities through term insurance, a
linked-benefit product (which is a UL policy linked with riders that provide for
long-term care costs) and both single and survivorship versions of UL and VUL,
including COLI and BOLI products.



The
Insurance Solutions – Life Insurance segment primarily targets the affluent to
high net worth markets, defined as households with at least $250,000 of
financial assets.  For those individual policies we sold in 2009, the
average face amount (excluding term and MoneyGuard® products) was $1 million and
average first year premiums paid were approximately $50,000.



The
Insurance Solutions – Life Insurance segment also offers COLI and BOLI products
and services to small- to mid-sized banks and mid- to large-sized corporations,
mostly through executive benefit brokers.






Products



The
Insurance Solutions – Life Insurance segment sells primarily
interest/market-sensitive products (UL and VUL), including COLI and BOLI
products, and term products.  The segment’s sales (in millions) were
as follows:



For
      the Years Ended December 31,200920082007Sales
      by ProductUL:ExcludingMoneyGuard®$397$525$597MoneyGuard®675040Total
      UL464575637VUL365477COLI
      and BOLI518491Term/whole
      life592832Total
      sales$610$741$837



UL and
VUL sales (including COLI and BOLI), represent first year commissionable
premiums plus 5% of excess premium received, including an adjustment for
internal replacements of approximately 50% of commissionable premiums; whole
life and term sales represent 100% of first year paid premiums; and
linked-benefit sales represent 15% of premium deposits.



The
segment generally has higher sales in the second half of the year than in the
first half of the year.  Approximately 44% and 46% of total sales were
in the first half of 2009 and 2008, respectively; however, in 2007,
approximately 50% of total sales were in the first half of the
year.  In 2007, this was due to the transition of our product
portfolio to the new unified product portfolio.



Life
policies’ in-force face amount (in millions) were as follows:



As
      of December 31,200920082007In-Force
      Face AmountUL
      and other$291,879$310,198$299,598Term
      insurance248,726235,023235,919Total
      in-force face amount$540,605$545,221$535,517



Mortality
margins, morbidity margins (for linked-benefit products), investment margins
(through spreads or fees), net expense charges (expense charges assessed to the
contract holder less expenses incurred to manage the business) and surrender
fees drive life insurance profits.  Mortality margins represent the
difference between amounts charged to the customer to cover the mortality risk
and the actual cost of reinsurance and death benefits paid.  Mortality
charges are either specifically deducted from the contract holder’s policy
account value (i.e., cost of insurance assessments or “COIs”) or are embedded in
the premiums charged to the customer.  In either case, these amounts
are a function of the rates priced into the product and level of insurance in
force (less reserves previously set aside to fund
benefits).  Insurance in force, in turn, is driven by sales,
persistency and mortality experience.



Similar
to the annuity product classifications described above, life products can be
classified as “fixed” or “variable” contracts.  This classification
describes whether we or the contract holders bear the investment risk of the
assets supporting the policy.  This also determines the manner in
which we earn investment margin profits from these products, either as
investment spreads for fixed products or as asset-based fees charged to variable
products.



We offer
four categories of life insurance products consisting of:



Interest-sensitive
Life Insurance (Primarily UL)



Interest-sensitive
life insurance products provide life insurance with account (cash) values that
earn rates of return based on company-declared interest
rates.  Contract holder account values are invested in our general
account investment portfolio, so we bear the risk of investment
performance.  Some of our UL contracts include secondary guarantees,
which are explained more fully below.






In a UL
contract, contract holders have flexibility in the timing and amount of premium
payments and the amount of death benefit, provided there is sufficient account
value to cover all policy charges for mortality and expenses for the coming
period.  Under certain contract holder options and market conditions,
the death benefit amount may increase or decrease.  Premiums received
on a UL product, net of expense loads and charges, are added to the contract
holder’s account value.  The client has access to their account value
(or a portion thereof) through contractual liquidity features such as loans,
partial withdrawals and full surrenders.  Loans and withdrawals reduce
the death benefit amount payable and are limited to certain contractual maximums
(some of which are required under state law), and interest is charged on all
loans.  Our UL contracts assess surrender charges against the
policies’ account values for full or partial face amount surrenders that occur
during the contractual surrender charge period.  Depending on the
product selected, surrender charge periods can range from 0 to 20
years.



We also
offer a fixed indexed UL product that functions similarly to a traditional UL
policy, with the added flexibility of allowing contract holders to have portions
of their account value earn interest credits linked to the performance of the
S&P 500.  The indexed interest rate is guaranteed never to be less
than 1%.  Our fixed indexed UL policy provides contract holders a
choice of a traditional fixed rate account and several different indexed
accounts.  A contract holder may elect to change allocations annually
for amounts in the indexed accounts and quarterly for new premiums into the
policy.  Prior to each new allocation, we have the opportunity to
re-price the indexed components, subject to minimum guarantees.



As
mentioned previously, we offer survivorship versions of our individual UL
products.  These products insure two lives with a single policy and
pay death benefits upon the second death.



Sales
results are heavily influenced by the series of UL products with secondary
guarantees.  A UL policy with a secondary guarantee can stay in force,
even if the base policy account value is zero, as long as secondary guarantee
requirements have been met.  The secondary guarantee requirement is
based on the evaluation of a reference value within the policy, calculated in a
manner similar to the base policy account value, but using different assumptions
as to expense charges, COI charges and credited interest.  The
assumptions for the secondary guarantee requirement are listed in the
contract.  As long as the contract holder funds the policy to a level
that keeps this calculated reference value positive, the death benefit will be
guaranteed.  The reference value has no actual monetary value to the
contract holder; it is only a calculated value used to determine whether or not
the policy will lapse should the base policy account value be less than zero.



Unlike
other GDB designs, our secondary guarantee benefits maintain the flexibility of
a traditional UL policy, which allows a contract holder to take loans or
withdrawals.  Although loans and withdrawals are likely to shorten the
time period of the guaranteed death benefit, the guarantee is not automatically
or completely forfeited, as is sometimes the case with other death benefit
guarantee designs.  The length of the guarantee may be increased at
any time through additional excess premium deposits.  Secondary
guarantee UL face amount in force was $110.4 billion, $99.0 billion and $83.9
billion as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  For
information on the reserving requirements for this business, see “Regulatory”
below and “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition” in the
MD&A.



We manage
investment margins (i.e., the difference between the amount the portfolio earns
compared to the amount that is credited to the customer) by seeking to maximize
current yields, in line with asset/liability and risk management targets, while
crediting a competitive rate to the customer.  Crediting rates are
typically subject to guaranteed minimums specified in the underlying life
insurance contract.  Interest-sensitive life account values (includingMoneyGuard® and the
fixed portion of VUL) were $27.3 billion, $27.5 billion and $26.5 billion as of
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.



Linked-benefit
Life Products



Linked-benefit
life products combine UL with long-term care insurance through the use of
riders.  The first rider allows the contract holder to accelerate
death benefits on a tax-free basis in the event of a qualified long-term care
need.  The second rider extends the long-term care insurance benefits
for an additional period of time if the death benefit is fully depleted for the
purposes of long-term care.  If the long-term care benefits are never
used, the policy provides a tax-free death benefit to the contract holder’s
heirs.  Linked-benefit life products generate earnings through
investment, mortality and morbidity margins.MoneyGuard® products are
linked-benefit life products.








VUL



VUL
products are UL products that provide a return on account values linked to an
underlying investment portfolio of sub-accounts offered through the
product.  The value of the contract holder’s account varies with the
performance of the sub-accounts chosen by the contract holder.  The
underlying assets of the sub-accounts are managed within a special insurance
series of mutual funds.  Premiums, net of expense loads and charges
for mortality and expenses, received on VUL products are invested according to
the contract holder’s investment option selection.  As the return on
the investment portfolio increases or decreases, the account value of the VUL
policy will increase or decrease.  As with fixed UL products, contract
holders have access, within contractual maximums, to account values through
loans, withdrawals and surrenders.  Surrender charges are assessed
during the surrender charge period, ranging from 0 to 20 years depending on the
product.  The investment choices we offer in VUL products are the
same, in most cases, as the investment choices offered in our individual
variable annuity contracts.



In
addition, VUL products offer a fixed account option that is managed by
us.  Investment risk is borne by the customer on all but the fixed
account option.  We charge fees for mortality costs and administrative
expenses as well as asset-based investment management fees.  VUL
account values (excluding the fixed portion of VUL) were $4.5 billion, $4.3
billion and $6.0 billion as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.



We also
offer survivorship versions of our individual VUL products.  These
products insure two lives with a single policy and pay death benefits upon the
second death.



We also
offer an enhanced single lifeversion
of our secondary guarantee VUL products with a survivorship
option.  These products combine the lapse protection elements of UL
with the upside potential of a traditional VUL product, giving clients the
flexibility to choose the appropriate balance between protection and market risk
that meets their individual needs.  The combined single life and
survivorship face amount in force of these products was $5.3 billion, $4.9
billion and $4.0 billion as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.



Term
Life Insurance



Term life
insurance provides a fixed death benefit for a scheduled period of
time.  It usually does not offer cash values.  Scheduled
policy premiums are required to be paid at least annually.  Products
offering a return of premium benefit payable at the end of a specified period
are also available.



Distribution



The
Insurance Solutions – Life Insurance segment’s products are sold through
LFD.  LFD provides the Insurance Solutions – Life Insurance segment
with access to financial intermediaries in the following primary distribution
channels:  wire/regional firms; independent planner firms (including
LFN); financial institutions; and managing general agents/independent marketing
organizations.  LFD primarily distributes COLI and BOLI products to 14
intermediaries who specialize in the executive benefits market and are serviced
through a network of internal and external sales professionals



Competition



The life
insurance industry is very competitive and consists of many companies with no
one company dominating the market for all products.  As of the end of
2008, the latest year for which data is available, there were 976 life insurance
companies in the U.S., according to the American Council of Life
Insurers.



The
Insurance Solutions – Life Insurance segment competes on product design and
customer service.  The Insurance Solutions –Life Insurance segment
designs products specifically for the high net worth and affluent
markets.  In addition to the growth opportunity offered by its target
market, our product breadth, design innovation, competitiveness, speed to
market, customer service, underwriting and risk management and extensive
distribution network all contribute to the strength of the Insurance Solutions –
Life Insurance segment.  On average, the development of products takes
approximately six months.  The Insurance Solutions – Life Insurance
segment implemented several major product upgrades and/or new features,
including important UL, VUL, linked-benefit and term product enhancements in
2009.  With respect to customer service, management tracks the speed,
accuracy and responsiveness of service to customers’ calls and transaction
requests.  Further, the Insurance Solutions – Life Insurance segment
tracks the turnaround time and quality for various client services such as
processing of applications.








Underwriting



In the
context of life insurance, underwriting is the process of evaluating medical and
non-medical information about an individual and determining the effect these
factors statistically have on life expectancy or mortality.  This
process of evaluation is often referred to as risk classification.  Of
course, no one can accurately predict how long any individual will live, but
certain risk factors can affect life expectancy and are evaluated during the
underwriting process.



Claims
Administration



Claims
services are delivered to customers from the Greensboro, North Carolina and
Concord, New Hampshire home offices.  Claims examiners are assigned to
each claim notification based on coverage amount, type of claim and the
experience of the examiner.  Claims meeting certain criteria are
referred to senior claim examiners.  A formal quality assurance
program is carried out to ensure the consistency and effectiveness of claims
examining activities.  A network of in-house legal counsel, compliance
officers, medical personnel and an anti-fraud investigative unit also support
claim examiners.  A special team of claims examiners, in conjunction
with claims management, focus on more complex claims matters such as long-term
care claims, claims incurred during the contestable period, beneficiary
disputes, litigated claims and the few invalid claims that are
encountered.



The
Insurance Solutions – Life Insurance segment maintains a centralized claim
service center in order to minimize the volume of clerical and repetitive
administrative demands on its claims examiners while providing convenient
service to policy owners and beneficiaries.



Insurance
Solutions – Group Protection



Overview



The
Insurance Solutions – Group Protection segment based in Omaha, Nebraska offers
group non-medical insurance products, principally term life, disability and
dental, to the employer marketplace through various forms of contributory and
noncontributory plans.  Most of the segment’s group contracts are sold
to employers with fewer than 500 employees.



The
segment’s insurance premiums (in millions) by product line were as
follows:



For
      the Years Ended December 31,200920082007Insurance
      Premiums by Product LineLife$584$541$494Disability692672601Dental149150136Total
      non-medical1,4251,3631,231Medical154154149Total
      insurance premiums$1,579$1,517$1,380



Products



Group
Life Insurance



We offer
employer-sponsored group term life insurance products including basic, optional
and voluntary term life insurance to employees and their
dependents.  Additional benefits may be provided in the event of a
covered individual’s accidental death or dismemberment.



Group
Disability Insurance



We offer
short- and long-term employer-sponsored group disability insurance, which
protects an employee against loss of wages due to illness or
injury.  Short-term disability generally provides benefits for up to
26 weeks following a short waiting period, ranging from 1 to 30
days.  Long-term disability provides benefits following a longer
waiting period, usually between 30 and 180 days and provides benefits for a
longer period, at least 2 years and typically extending to normal (Social
Security) retirement age.








Group
Dental



We offer
employer-sponsored group dental insurance, which covers a portion of the cost of
eligible dental procedures for employees and their
dependents.  Products offered include indemnity coverage, which does
not distinguish benefits based on a dental provider’s participation in a network
arrangement, and a Preferred Provider Organization (“PPO”) product that does
reflect the dental provider’s participation in the PPO network arrangement,
including agreement with network fee schedules.



Distribution



The
segment’s products are marketed primarily through a national distribution
system, including approximately 140 managers and marketing
representatives.  The managers and marketing representatives develop
business through employee benefit brokers, TPAs and other employee benefit
firms.



Competition



The group
protection marketplace is very competitive.  Principal competitive
factors include particular product features, price, quality of customer service
and claims management, technological capabilities, financial strength and
claims-paying ratings.  In the group insurance market, the Insurance
Solutions – Group Protection segment competes with a limited number of major
companies and selected other companies that focus on these
products.



Underwriting



The
Insurance Solutions – Group Protection segment’s underwriters evaluate the risk
characteristics of each employee group.  Generally, the relevant
characteristics evaluated include employee census information (such as age,
gender, income and occupation), employer industry classification, geographic
location, benefit design elements and other factors.  The segment
employs detailed underwriting policies, guidelines and procedures designed to
assist the underwriter to properly assess and quantify risks.  The
segment uses technology to efficiently review, price and issue smaller cases,
utilizing its underwriting staff on larger, more complex
cases.  Individual underwriting techniques (including evaluation of
individual medical history information) may be used on certain covered
individuals selecting larger benefit amounts.  For voluntary and other
forms of employee paid coverages, minimum participation requirements are used to
obtain a better spread of risk and minimize the risk of
anti-selection.



Claims
Administration



Claims
for the Insurance Solutions – Group Protection segment are managed by a staff of
experienced claim specialists.  Disability claims management is
especially important to segment results, as results depend on both the incidence
and the length of approved disability claims.  The segment employs
nurses and rehabilitation specialists to help evaluate medical conditions and
develop return to work plans.  Independent medical reviews are
routinely performed by external medical professionals to further evaluate
conditions as part of the claim management process.



OTHER
OPERATIONS



Other
Operations includes the results of operations that are not directly related
to the business segments, unallocated corporate items and the ongoing
amortization of deferred gain on the indemnity reinsurance portion of the sale
of our former reinsurance segment to Swiss Re in the fourth quarter of
2001.  Unallocated corporate items include investment income on
investments related to the amount of statutory surplus in our insurance
subsidiaries that is not allocated to our business units and other corporate
investments, such as our remaining radio properties, interest expense on
short-term and long-term borrowings, our closed block of run-off pension
business in the form of group annuity and insured funding-type of contracts with
assets under management of approximately $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2009,
and certain expenses, including restructuring and merger-related expenses. Other
Operations also includes the results of certain disability income business due
to the rescission of the indemnity reinsurance agreement with Swiss Re and the
results of our remaining media businesses.








Revenues
(in millions) from Other Operations were as follows:



For
      the Years Ended December 31,200920082007Operating
      RevenuesInsurance
      premiums$4$4$3Net
      investment income307358372Amortization
      of deferred gain on businesssold
      through reinsurance737474Media
      revenues (net)6885107Other
      revenues and fees151322Total
      operating revenues$467$534$578



REINSURANCE



We follow
the industry practice of reinsuring a portion of our life insurance and annuity
risks with unaffiliated reinsurers.  In a reinsurance transaction, a
reinsurer agrees to indemnify another insurer for part or all of its liability
under a policy or policies it has issued for an agreed upon
premium.  We use reinsurance to protect our insurance subsidiaries
against the severity of losses on individual claims and unusually serious
occurrences in which a number of claims produce an aggregate extraordinary
loss.  We also use reinsurance to improve our results by leveraging
favorable reinsurance pricing.  Although reinsurance does not
discharge the insurance subsidiaries from their primary liabilities to their
contract holders for losses insured under the insurance policies, it does make
the assuming reinsurer liable to the insurance subsidiaries for the reinsured
portion of the risk.  Because we bear the risk of nonpayment by one or
more of our reinsurers, we primarily cede reinsurance to well-capitalized,
highly rated reinsurers.



We
reinsure approximately 45% to 50% of the mortality risk on newly issued non-term
life insurance contracts and approximately 30% to 35% of total mortality risk
including term insurance contracts.  Our policy for this program is to
retain no more than $10 million on a single insured life issued on fixed and VUL
insurance contracts.  Additionally, the retention per single insured
life for term life insurance and for COLI is $2 million for each type of
insurance.



Portions
of our deferred annuity business have been reinsured on a modified coinsurance
(“Modco”) basis with other companies to limit our exposure to interest rate
risks.  In a Modco program, the reinsurer shares proportionally in all
financial terms of the reinsured policies (i.e. premiums, expenses, claims,
etc.) based on their respective quota share of the risk.



In
addition, we acquire other reinsurance to cover products other than as discussed
above with retentions and limits that management believes are appropriate for
the circumstances.



We obtain
reinsurance from a diverse group of reinsurers and we monitor concentration and
financial strength ratings of our principal reinsurers.  Swiss Re
represents our largest exposure.  As of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
the amounts recoverable from reinsurers were $6.4 billion and $8.4 billion,
respectively, of which $3.0 billion and $4.5 billion was recoverable from Swiss
Re for the same periods, respectively.



For more
information regarding reinsurance, see “Reinsurance” in the MD&A and Note
9.  For risks involving reinsurance, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – We
face a risk of non-collectibility of reinsurance, which could materially affect
our results of operations.”



RESERVES



The
applicable insurance laws under which insurance companies operate require that
they report, as liabilities, policy reserves to meet future obligations on their
outstanding policies.  These reserves are the amounts that, with the
additional premiums to be received and interest thereon compounded annually at
certain assumed rates, are calculated to be sufficient to meet the various
policy and contract obligations as they mature.  These laws specify
that the reserves shall not be less than reserves calculated using certain
specified mortality and morbidity tables, interest rates and methods of
valuation.



For more
information on reserves, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates –
Derivatives” and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Future Contract
Benefits and Other Contract Holder Obligations” in the MD&A.



See
“Regulatory” below for information on permitted practices and proposed
regulations that may impact the amount of statutory reserves necessary to
support our current insurance liabilities.






For risks
related to reserves, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Changes in interest rates may
cause interest rate spreads to decrease and may result in increased contract
withdrawals.”



INVESTMENTS



An
important component of our financial results is the return on invested
assets.  Our investment strategy is to balance the need for current
income with prudent risk management, with an emphasis on generating sufficient
current income to meet our obligations.  This approach requires the
evaluation of risk and expected return of each asset class utilized, while still
meeting our income objectives.  This approach also permits us to be
more effective in our asset-liability management because decisions can be made
based upon both the economic and current investment income considerations
affecting assets and liabilities.  Investments by our insurance
subsidiaries must comply with the insurance laws and regulations of the states
of domicile.



We do not
use derivatives for speculative purposes.  Derivatives are used for
hedging purposes and income generation.  Hedging strategies are
employed for a number of reasons including, but not limited to, hedging certain
portions of our exposure to changes in our GDB, GWB and GIB liabilities,
interest rate fluctuations, the widening of bond yield spreads over comparable
maturity U.S. Government obligations and credit, foreign exchange and equity
risks.  Income generation strategies include credit default swaps
through replication synthetic asset transactions.  These derivatives
synthetically create exposure in the general account to corporate debt, similar
to investing in the credit markets.



As of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, our most significant investment in one issuer was
our investment securities issued by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
with a fair value of $4.8 billion and $3.5 billion, or 6% and 5% of our invested
assets portfolio totaling $75.9 billion and $66.5 billion,
respectively.  As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our most significant
investment in one industry was our investment securities in
the collateralized mortgage obligation industry with a fair value of $6.9
billion and $6.8 billion, or 9% and 10% of the invested assets portfolio,
respectively.



For
additional information on our investments, including carrying values by
category, quality ratings and net investment income, see “Consolidated
Investments” in the MD&A, as well as Notes 1 and 5.



RATINGS



The
Nationally Recognized Statistical Ratings Organizations rate the financial
strength of our principal insurance subsidiaries and the debt of
LNC.  Ratings are not recommendations to buy our
securities.



Rating
agencies rate insurance companies based on financial strength and the ability to
pay claims, factors more relevant to contract holders than
investors.  We believe that the ratings assigned by nationally
recognized, independent rating agencies are material to our
operations.  There may be other rating agencies that also rate our
securities, which we do not disclose in our reports.



Insurer
Financial Strength Ratings



The
insurer financial strength rating scales of A.M. Best, Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”),
Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) and S&P are characterized as
follows:



·A.M.
      Best – A++ to S

·Fitch
      – AAA to C

·Moody’s
      – Aaa to C

·S&P
      – AAA to R



As of
February 19, 2010, the financial strength ratings of our principal insurance
subsidiaries, as published by the principal rating agencies that rate our
securities, or us, were as follows:



A.M.
      BestFitchMoody'sS&PInsurer
      Financial Strength RatingsLNLA+A+A2AA-(2nd
      of 16)(5th
      of 21)(6th
      of 21)(4th
      of 21)Lincoln
      Life & Annuity Co. of New York ("LLANY")A+A+A2AA-(2nd
      of 16)(5th
      of 21)(6th
      of 21)(4th
      of 21)First
      Penn-Pacific Life Insurance Co. ("FPP")A+A+A2A+(2nd
      of 16)(5th
      of 21)(6th
      of 21)(5th
      of 21)








A
downgrade of the financial strength rating of one of our principal insurance
subsidiaries could affect our competitive position in the insurance industry and
make it more difficult for us to market our products, as potential customers may
select companies with higher financial strength ratings.



Debt
Ratings



The
long-term credit rating scales of A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody’s and S&P are
characterized as follows:



·A.M.
      Best – aaa to rs

·Fitch
      – AAA to D

·Moody’s
      – Aaa to C

·S&P
      – AAA to D



As of
February 19, 2010, our long-term credit ratings, as published by the principal
rating agencies that rate our long-term credit, were as follows:



A.M.
      BestFitchMoody'sS&Pa-BBBBaa2A-(7th
      of 23)(9th
      of 21)(9th
      of 21)(7th
      of 22)



The
short-term credit rating scales of A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody’s and S&P are
characterized as follows:



·A.M.
      Best – AMB-1+ to d

·Fitch
      – F1+ to D

·Moody’s
      – P-1 to NP

·S&P
      – A-1+ to D





As of
February 19, 2010, our short-term credit ratings, as published by the principal
rating agencies that rate our short-term credit, were as follows:



A.M.
      BestFitchMoody'sS&PAMB-1F2P-2A-2(2nd
      of 6)(3rd
      of 7)(2nd
      of 4)(3rd
      of 10)



A
downgrade of our debt ratings could affect our ability to raise additional debt
with terms and conditions similar to our current debt, and accordingly, likely
increase our cost of capital.  In addition, a downgrade of these
ratings could make it more difficult to raise capital to refinance any maturing
debt obligations, to support business growth at our insurance subsidiaries and
to maintain or improve the current financial strength ratings of our principal
insurance subsidiaries described above.



All
ratings are on outlook negative, with the exception of S&P, which is
stable.  All of our ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at
any time by the rating agencies, and therefore, no assurance can be given that
our principal insurance subsidiaries or LNC can maintain these
ratings.  Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other
rating.



REGULATORY



Insurance
Regulation



Our
insurance subsidiaries, like other insurance companies, are subject to
regulation and supervision by the states, territories and countries in which
they are licensed to do business.  The extent of such regulation
varies, but generally has its source in statutes that delegate regulatory,
supervisory and administrative authority to supervisory agencies.  In
the U.S., this power is vested in state insurance departments.



In
supervising and regulating insurance companies, state insurance departments,
charged primarily with protecting contract holders and the public rather than
investors, enjoy broad authority and discretion in applying applicable insurance
laws and regulation for that purpose.  Our principal insurance
subsidiaries, LNL, LLANY and FPP, are domiciled in the states of Indiana, New
York and Indiana, respectively.








The
insurance departments of the domiciliary states exercise principal regulatory
jurisdiction over our insurance subsidiaries.  The extent of
regulation by the states varies, but in general, most jurisdictions have laws
and regulations governing standards of solvency, adequacy of reserves,
reinsurance, capital adequacy, licensing of companies and agents to transact
business, prescribing and approving policy forms, regulating premium rates for
some lines of business, prescribing the form and content of financial statements
and reports, regulating the type and amount of investments permitted and
standards of business conduct.   Insurance company regulation is
discussed further under “Insurance Holding Company Regulation” and “Restrictions
on Subsidiaries’ Dividends and Other Payments.”



As part
of their regulatory oversight process, state insurance departments conduct
periodic, generally once every three to five years, examinations of the books,
records, accounts, and business practices of insurers domiciled in their
states.  During the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, we
have not received any material adverse findings resulting from state insurance
department examinations of our insurance subsidiaries conducted during this
three-year period.



State
insurance laws and regulations require our U.S. insurance companies to file
financial statements with state insurance departments everywhere they do
business, and the operations of our U.S. insurance companies and accounts are
subject to examination by those departments at any time.  Our U.S.
insurance companies prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with
accounting practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by these
departments.  The National Association of Insurance Commissioners
(“NAIC”) has approved a series of statutory accounting principles that have been
adopted, in some cases with minor modifications, by virtually all state
insurance departments.



The NAIC
allows our U.S. insurance subsidiaries to include certain deferred tax assets in
our statutory capital and surplus, but we are not able to consider the benefit
from this when calculating available dividends.



A new
statutory reserving standard, Actuarial Guideline 43, Commissioners Annuity
Reserve Valuation Method for Variable Annuities (“VACARVM”), replaced previous
statutory reserving practices for variable annuities with guaranteed benefits,
such as GWBs.  VACARVM was adopted by the NAIC in September 2008 and was
effective as of December 31, 2009. The effect of the adoption was dependent
upon several factors, including account values, market conditions,
the carrying value of derivative and other assets as compared to the
carrying value of the reserves (whose change in value may be
uncorrelated with the new reserving requirements) they supported and the
use of captive or third-party reinsurance that existed as of December 31,
2009.  For more information on VACARVM and our use of captive
reinsurance structures, see “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition –
Liquidity and Capital Resources” in the MD&A.



Insurance
Holding Company Regulation



LNC and
its primary insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation pursuant to the
insurance holding company laws of the states of Indiana and New
York.  These insurance holding company laws generally require an
insurance holding company and insurers that are members of such insurance
holding company’s system to register with the insurance department authorities,
to file with it certain reports disclosing information, including their capital
structure, ownership, management, financial condition, and certain inter-company
transactions, including material transfers of assets and inter-company business
agreements and to report material changes in that information.  These
laws also require that inter-company transactions be fair and reasonable and,
under certain circumstances, prior approval of the insurance departments must be
received before entering into an inter-company transaction.  Further,
these laws require that an insurer’s contract holders’ surplus following any
dividends or distributions to shareholder affiliates is reasonable in relation
to the insurer’s outstanding liabilities and adequate for its financial
needs.



In
general, under state holding company regulations, no person may acquire,
directly or indirectly, a controlling interest in our capital stock unless such
person, corporation or other entity has obtained prior approval from the
applicable insurance commissioner for such acquisition of
control.  Pursuant to such laws, in general, any person acquiring,
controlling or holding the power to vote, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of
the voting securities of an insurance company, is presumed to have “control” of
such company.  This presumption may be rebutted by a showing that
control does not exist in fact.  The insurance commissioner, however,
may find that “control” exists in circumstances in which a person owns or
controls a smaller amount of voting securities.  To obtain approval
from the insurance commissioner of any acquisition of control of an insurance
company, the proposed acquirer must file with the applicable commissioner an
application containing information regarding:  the identity and
background of the acquirer and its affiliates; the nature, source and amount of
funds to be used to carry out the acquisition; the financial statements of the
acquirer and its affiliates; any potential plans for disposition of the
securities or business of the insurer; the number and type of securities to be
acquired; any contracts with respect to the securities to be acquired; any
agreements with broker-dealers; and other matters.








Other
jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are licensed to transact
business may have similar or additional requirements for prior approval of any
acquisition of control of an insurance or reinsurance company licensed or
authorized to transact business in those jurisdictions.  Additional
requirements in those jurisdictions may include re-licensing or subsequent
approval for renewal of existing licenses upon an acquisition of
control.  As further described below, laws that govern the holding
company structure also govern payment of dividends to us by our insurance
subsidiaries.



Restrictions
on Subsidiaries’ Dividends and Other Payments



We are a
holding company that transacts substantially all of our business directly and
indirectly through subsidiaries.  Our primary assets are the stock of
our operating subsidiaries.  Our ability to meet our obligations on
our outstanding debt and to pay dividends and our general and administrative
expenses depends on the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and the ability
of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to
us.



greater

lesser



Indiana
law also provides that following the payment of any dividend, the insurer’s
contract holders’ surplus must be reasonable in relation to its outstanding
liabilities and adequate for its financial needs, and permits the Commissioner
to bring an action to rescind a dividend which violates these
standards.  In the event that the Commissioner determines that the
contract holders’ surplus of one subsidiary is inadequate, the Commissioner
could use his or her broad discretionary authority to seek to require us to
apply payments received from another subsidiary for the benefit of that
insurance subsidiary.  For information regarding dividends paid to us
during 2009 from our insurance subsidiaries, see “Review of Consolidated
Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources of Liquidity and
Cash Flow” in the MD&A.



Risk-Based
Capital (“RBC”)



The NAIC
has adopted RBC requirements for life insurance companies to evaluate the
adequacy of statutory capital and surplus in relation to investment and
insurance risks.  The requirements provide a means of measuring the
minimum amount of statutory surplus appropriate for an insurance company to
support its overall business operations based on its size and risk
profile.  There are five major risks involved in determining the
requirements:



CategoryNameDescriptionAsset
      risk - affiliatesC-0Risk
      of assets' default for certain affiliated investmentsAsset
      risk - otherC-1Risk
      of assets' default of principal and interest orfluctuation
      in fair valueInsurance
      riskC-2Risk
      of underestimating liabilities from business alreadywritten
      or inadequately pricing business to be written inthe
      futureInterest
      rate risk, health creditC-3Risk
      of losses due to changes in interest rate levels, riskrisk
      and market riskthat
      health benefits prepaid to providers become theobligation
      of the health insurer once again and risk ofloss
      due to changes in market levels associated withvariable
      products with guaranteesBusiness
      riskC-4Risk
      of general business






A
company’s risk-based statutory surplus is calculated by applying factors and
performing calculations relating to various asset, premium, claim, expense and
reserve items.  Regulators can then measure adequacy of a company’s
statutory surplus by comparing it to the RBC determined by the
formula.  Under RBC requirements, regulatory compliance is determined
by the ratio of a company’s total adjusted capital, as defined by the NAIC, to
its company action level of RBC (known as the RBC ratio), also as defined by the
NAIC.  Accordingly, factors that have an impact on the total adjusted
capital of our insurance subsidiaries, such as the permitted practices discussed
above, will also affect their RBC levels.



Four
levels of regulatory attention may be triggered if the RBC ratio is
insufficient:



·“Company
      action level” – If the RBC ratio is between 75% and 100%, then the insurer
      must submit a plan to the regulator detailing corrective action it
      proposes to undertake;

·“Regulatory
      action level” – If the RBC ratio is between 50% and 75%, then the insurer
      must submit a plan, but a regulator may also issue a corrective order
      requiring the insurer to comply within a specified
      period;

·“Authorized
      control level” – If the RBC ratio is between 35% and 50%, then the
      regulatory response is the same as at the “Regulatory action level,” but
      in addition, the regulator may take action to rehabilitate or liquidate
      the insurer; and

·“Mandatory
      control level” – If the RBC ratio is less than 35%, then the regulator
      must rehabilitate or liquidate the
insurer.



As of
December 31, 2009, the RBC ratios of LNL, LLANY and FPP reported to their
respective states of domicile and the NAIC all exceeded the “company action
level.”  We believe that we will be able to maintain the RBC ratios of
our insurance subsidiaries in excess of “company action level” through prudent
underwriting, claims handling, investing and capital
management.  However, no assurances can be given that developments
affecting the insurance subsidiaries, many of which could be outside of our
control, will not cause the RBC ratios to fall below our targeted
levels.  These developments may include, but may not be limited
to:  changes to the manner in which the RBC ratio is calculated; new
regulatory requirements for calculating reserves, such as principles based
reserving; economic conditions leading to higher levels of impairments of
securities in our insurance subsidiaries’ general accounts; and an inability to
finance life reserves including the issuing of letters of credit
supporting captive reinsurance structures.



See “Item
1A. Risk Factors – A decrease in the capital and surplus of our insurance
subsidiaries may result in a downgrade to our credit and insurer financial
strength ratings.”



Privacy
Regulations



In the
course of our business, we collect and maintain personal data from our customers
including personally identifiable non-public financial and health information,
which subjects us to regulation under federal and state privacy laws. 
These laws require that we institute certain policies and procedures in our
business to safeguard this information from improper use or disclosure.  If
the federal or state regulators establish further regulations for addressing
customer privacy, we may need to amend our policies and adapt our internal
procedures.



Federal
Initiatives



The U.S.
federal government does not directly regulate the insurance industry; however,
federal initiatives from time to time can impact the insurance
industry.



Health
Care Reform Legislation



In 2009,
the House and the Senate passed health care reform legislation.  Many
details will need to be worked out before a final bill emerges, but both the
House and Senate bills as passed include a number of provisions that provide for
new or increased taxes to help finance the cost of these reforms, substantive
changes to existing health care laws and the addition of new health care and
related laws, each of which could potentially impact some of our lines of
businesses.



Financial
Reform Legislation



In 2009,
the House and the Senate both considered legislation related to financial
regulatory reform.  In December 2009, the House passed H.R. 4173, “The
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009,” a wide-ranging bill
that includes a number of reforms.  The bill includes, among other
things, a new harmonized fiduciary standard for broker-dealers and investment
advisers, the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, the creation
of a pre-funded resolution trust to cover the costs of winding down certain
failing institutions, the creation of the Federal Insurance Office within the
Treasury Department and provisions relating to executive
compensation.  The current version of the bill would require insurance
companies to contribute funds to the resolution trust, but the amount the
Company would have to contribute is currently unknown.  Similar
legislation is currently under consideration, in draft form, in the Senate
Banking Committee.  The House bill will have to be reconciled before a
single bill could be sent to the President and signed into law.






Stimulus
Legislation



In
reaction to the recession, credit market illiquidity and global financial crisis
experienced during the latter part of 2008 and into 2009, Congress enacted the
Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) on October 3, 2008, and
the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) which was signed
into law on February 17, 2009, in an effort to restore liquidity to the U.S.
credit markets and to stimulate the U.S. economy.  The ARRA and the
Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) authorized the purchase of “troubled
assets” from financial institutions, including insurance
companies.  Pursuant to the authority granted under the TARP, the U.S.
Treasury also adopted the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”), the Generally
Available Capital Access Program and the Exceptional Financial Recovery
Assistance Program.



TARP
CPP



On
November 13, 2008, we filed an application to participate in the CPP that was
established under the EESA.  On January 8, 2009, the Office of Thrift
Supervision approved our application to become a savings and loan holding
company and our acquisition of NCLS, a federally regulated savings bank located
in Indiana.  We contributed $10 million to the capital of NCLS and
closed on our purchase on January 15, 2009.  On May 8, 2009, the U.S.
Treasury granted us preliminary approval to participate in the
CPP.  On July 10, 2009, we issued, in a private placement, $950
million of Series B preferred stock and a warrant for 13,049,451 shares of our
common stock with an exercise price of $10.92 per share to the U.S. Treasury
under the CPP.  See “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition –
Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources of Liquidity and Cash Flow – Financing
Activities” for more information about our preferred stock
issuance.



Participation
in the CPP subjects us to increased oversight by the U.S.
Treasury.  The U.S. Treasury has the power to unilaterally amend the
terms of the purchase agreement to the extent required to comply with changes in
applicable statutes and to inspect our corporate books and records through our
federal banking regulators.  In addition, the U.S. Treasury has the
right to appoint two directors to our Board if we miss dividend payments on the
preferred stock as discussed below.  Participation in the CPP may also
subject us to increased Congressional scrutiny.



In
connection with participating in the CPP, because we registered as a savings and
loan holding company, we are subjected to new legal and regulatory requirements,
including minimum capital requirements, regulation and examination by the Office
of Thrift Supervision.



We are
also subject to certain restrictions, including limits on incentive compensation
for certain executives and employees for the duration of the U.S. Treasury’s
investment.  We are subject to limits on increasing the dividend on
our common stock and redeeming capital stock (unless the U.S. Treasury
consents), both of which apply until the third anniversary of the U.S.
Treasury’s investment unless we redeem the Series B preferred shares in whole or
the U.S. Treasury transfers all of the Series B preferred stock to third
parties.



Financial
Crisis Responsibility Fee



In
January 2010, the President proposed as a part of its budget proposal a new
“financial crisis responsibility fee” on certain financial institutions as a
means to recoup any shortfall in revenues resulting from the TARP program, so
that the program does not add to the federal budget deficit.  As
proposed, the fee would apply to financial institutions, including bank holding
companies, thrift holding companies, insured depositories, and insurance
companies that own one of these entities, with over $50 billion in assets,
regardless of whether the firm participated in the TARP program.  The
fee as proposed is expected to be an assessment of 15 basis points against a
calculated “covered liabilities” amount and would be in place for a minimum of
10 years.  Details as to the precise calculation of “covered
liabilities” are still unclear.  Legislation implementing this fee
will need to be introduced and passed by Congress before this tax would take
effect.



Federal
Tax Legislation



In June
2001, the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 (“EGTRRA”)
was enacted.  EGTRRA contains provisions that will continue in effect,
near term, the significantly lower individual tax rates.  These may
have the effect of reducing the benefits of tax deferral on the inside build-up
of annuities and life insurance products.  EGTRRA also includes
provisions that eliminate the estate tax for a single year in 2010, while also
replacing the step-up in basis rule applicable to property held in a decedent’s
estate with a modified carryover basis rule.  EGTRRA also reduces the
gift tax rate in 2010 to the highest marginal rate (35% in
2010).  Some of these changes might hinder our sales and result in the
increased surrender of insurance and annuity products.  These
provisions all expire after 2010, unless extended. Should these provisions not
be extended, the higher marginal tax rates on individuals could have a positive
impact upon the sale of our insurance and annuity products.








In May
2003, the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 (“JGTRRA”) was
enacted.  Individual taxpayers are the principal beneficiaries of
JGTRRA, which accelerated certain of the income tax rate reductions enacted
originally under the EGTRRA, as well as reduced the long-term capital gains and
dividend tax rates to 15%.  On May 17, 2006, the Tax Increase
Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2006 (“TIPRA”) was signed into
law.  TIPRA extended the lower capital gains and dividends rates
through the end of 2010.  Unless further extended, these rate
reductions expire after 2010.  Should the lower capital gains and
dividend rates not be extended beyond 2010, the higher rates on investment
income could have a positive impact on the sale of our insurance and annuity
products.



On August
17, 2006, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (“PPA”) was signed into
law.  The PPA makes numerous changes to pension and other tax laws
including:  permanence for the EGTRRA enacted pension provisions
including higher annual contribution limits for DC plans and IRAs as well as
catch-up contributions for persons over age 50; clarification of the safest
available annuity standard for the selection of an annuity as a distribution
option for DC plans; expansion of investment advice options for DC plan
participants and IRA owners; more stringent funding requirements for defined
benefit pension plans and clarification of the legal status of hybrid (cash
balance) pension plans; non-pension related tax changes, such as the
codification of COLI best practices, bringing more certainty to this market
segment; permanence for EGTRRA enacted tax benefits for Section 529 college
savings plans; and favorable tax treatment for long-term care insurance included
as a rider to or on annuity products.  We expect many of these changes
to have a beneficial effect upon various segments of our business
lines.





Patriot
Act



The USA
PATRIOT Act of 2001 (“Patriot Act”) contains anti-money laundering and financial
transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations
applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including
insurance companies.  The Patriot Act seeks to promote cooperation
among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in
identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money
laundering.  Anti-money laundering laws outside of the U.S. contain
provisions that may be different, conflicting or more rigorous.  The
increased obligations of financial institutions to identify their customers,
watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for
information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share
information with other financial institutions require the implementation and
maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls.



Employee
Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) Considerations



ERISA is
a comprehensive federal statute that applies to U.S. employee benefit plans
sponsored by private employers and labor unions.  Plans subject to
ERISA include pension and profit sharing plans and welfare plans, including
health, life and disability plans.  ERISA provisions include reporting
and disclosure rules, standards of conduct that apply to plan fiduciaries and
prohibitions on transactions known as “prohibited transactions,” such as
conflict-of-interest transactions and certain transactions between a benefit
plan and a party in interest.  ERISA also provides for a scheme of
civil and criminal penalties and enforcement.  Our insurance, asset
management, plan administrative services and other businesses provide services
to employee benefit plans subject to ERISA, including services where we may act
as an ERISA fiduciary.  In addition to ERISA regulation of businesses
providing products and services to ERISA plans, we become subject to ERISA’s
prohibited transaction rules for transactions with those plans, which may affect
our ability to enter transactions, or the terms on which transactions may be
entered, with those plans, even in businesses unrelated to those giving rise to
party in interest status.






Broker-Dealer,
Securities and Savings and Loan Regulation



In
addition to being registered under the Securities Act of 1933, some of our
separate accounts as well as mutual funds that we sponsor are registered as
investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and the shares of
certain of these entities are qualified for sale in some or all states and the
District of Columbia.  We also have several subsidiaries that are
registered as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(“Exchange Act”) and are subject to federal and state regulation, including but
not limited to the Financial Industry Regulation Authority’s (“FINRA”) net
capital rules.  In addition, we have several subsidiaries that are
investment advisors registered under the Investment Advisers Act of
1940.  Agents and employees registered or associated with any of our
broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the Exchange Act and to examination
requirements and regulation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”), FINRA and state securities commissioners.  Regulation also
extends to various LNC entities that employ or control those
individuals.  The SEC and other governmental agencies and
self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the
U.S., have the power to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in
censure, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension and
termination or limitation of the activities of the regulated entity or its
employees.



Our U.S.
banking operations are subject to federal and state regulation.  As a
result of its ownership of NCLS, which was approved on January 8, 2009, LNC is
considered to be a savings and loan holding company and, along with NCLS, is
subject to annual examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision of the U.S.
Department of Treasury.  Federal and state banking laws generally
provide that no person may acquire control of LNC, and gain indirect control of
NCLS, without prior regulatory approval.  Generally, beneficial
ownership of 10% or more of the voting securities of LNC would be presumed to
constitute control.



Environmental
Considerations



Federal,
state and local environmental laws and regulations apply to our ownership and
operation of real property.  Inherent in owning and operating real
property are the risk of hidden environmental liabilities and the costs of any
required clean-up.  Under the laws of certain states, contamination of
a property may give rise to a lien on the property to secure recovery of the
costs of clean-up, which could adversely affect our commercial mortgage
lending.  In several states, this lien has priority over the lien of
an existing mortgage against such property.  In addition, in some
states and under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”), we may be liable, as an “owner” or
“operator,” for costs of cleaning-up releases or threatened releases of
hazardous substances at a property mortgaged to us.  We also risk
environmental liability when we foreclose on a property mortgaged to
us.  Federal legislation provides for a safe harbor from CERCLA
liability for secured lenders that foreclose and sell the mortgaged real estate,
provided that certain requirements are met.  However, there are
circumstances in which actions taken could still expose us to CERCLA
liability.  Application of various other federal and state
environmental laws could also result in the imposition of liability on us for
costs associated with environmental hazards.



We
routinely conduct environmental assessments for real estate we acquire for
investment and before taking title through foreclosure to real property
collateralizing mortgages that we hold.  Although unexpected
environmental liabilities can always arise, based on these environmental
assessments and compliance with our internal procedures, we believe that any
costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any
clean-up of properties would not have a material adverse effect on our results
of operations.



Intellectual
Property

We rely
on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to
establish and protect our intellectual property.  We have implemented
a patent strategy designed to protect innovative aspects of our products and
processes which we believe distinguish us from competitors.  We
currently own four issued U.S. patents and have additional patent
applications pending in the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  Our currently issued U.S. patents will expire between
2015 and 2021.  We intend to continue to file patent applications as
we develop new products, technologies and patentable enhancements.



We regard
our patents as valuable assets and intend to vigorously protect them against
infringement.  However, complex legal and factual determinations and
evolving laws make patent protection uncertain, and while we believe our patents
provide us with a competitive advantage, we cannot be certain that patents will
be issued from any of our pending patent applications or that any issued patents
will have sufficient breadth to offer meaningful protection.  In
addition, our issued patents may be successfully challenged, invalidated,
circumvented or found unenforceable so that our patent rights would not create
an effective competitive barrier.  We have in the past instituted
litigation against competitors to enforce our intellectual property rights with
success.  For example, during 2009 we won a $13 million judgment that
upheld the validity of one of our patents and found infringement by the
defendants.  We are currently reviewing the judgment and its
applicability in relation to other potentially infringing parties.








Finally,
we have an extensive portfolio of trademarks and service marks that we consider
important in the marketing of our products and services, including, among
others, the trademarks of the Lincoln National and Lincoln Financial names, the
Lincoln silhouette logo and the combination of these marks.  Trademark
registrations may be renewed indefinitely subject to continued use and
registration requirements.  We regard our trademarks as valuable
assets in marketing our products and services and protect them against
infringement.



EMPLOYEES



As of
December 31, 2009, we had a total of 8,208 employees.  In addition, we
had a total of 1,331 planners and agents who had active sales contracts with one
of our insurance subsidiaries.  None of our employees are represented
by a labor union, and we are not a party to any collective bargaining
agreements.  We consider our employee relations to be
good.



AVAILABLE
INFORMATION



We file
annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with
the SEC under the Exchange Act.  The public may read and copy any
materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F
Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.  The public may obtain information
on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330.  Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that
contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information
regarding issuers, including LNC, that file electronically with the
SEC.  The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at
http://www.sec.gov.



We also
make available, free of charge, on or through our Internet website
http://www.lincolnfinancial.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange
Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material
with, or furnish it to, the SEC.



The
information on the website listed above is not, and should not, be considered
part of this annual report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated by reference in
this document.  This website is, and is only intended to be, an
inactive textual reference.








