Item 1.Business



OVERVIEW



Lincoln National Corporation (“LNC,” which also may be referred to as “Lincoln,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is a holding company, which operates multiple insurance and retirement businesses through subsidiary companies.  Through our business segments, we sell a wide range of wealth protection, accumulation and retirement income products and solutions.  These products include fixed and indexed annuities, variable annuities, universal life insurance (“UL”), variable universal life insurance (“VUL”), linked-benefit UL, term life insurance, employer-sponsored retirement plans and services, and group life, disability and dental.  LNC was organized under the laws of the state of Indiana in 1968.  We currently maintain our principal executive offices in Radnor, Pennsylvania.  “Lincoln Financial Group” is the marketing name for LNC and its subsidiary companies.  As of December 31, 2011, LNC had consolidated assets of $202.9 billion and consolidated stockholders’ equity of $14.2 billion.



We provide products and services and report results through four segments as follows:



Business SegmentsAnnuitiesRetirement Plan Services (formerly known as the “Defined Contribution Segment”)Life InsuranceGroup Protection



We also have Other Operations, which includes the financial data for operations that are not directly related to the business segments.



As a result of entering agreements of sale for Lincoln National (UK) plc (“Lincoln UK”) and Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. (“Delaware”) during 2009, we have reported the results of these businesses as discontinued operations on our Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss) for all periods presented and the assets and liabilities, prior to the sale, as held for sale on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  For further information, see “Acquisitions and Dispositions” below.



The results of Lincoln Financial Network (“LFN”) and Lincoln Financial Distributors (“LFD”), our retail and wholesale distributors, respectively, are included in the segments for which they distribute products.  LFD distributes our individual products and services, defined contribution plans and corporate-owned UL and VUL (“COLI”) and bank-owned UL and VUL (“BOLI”) products and services.  The distribution occurs primarily through consultants, brokers, planners, agents, financial advisors, third-party administrators (“TPAs”) and other intermediaries.  Group Protection distributes its products and services primarily through employee benefit brokers, TPAs and other employee benefit firms.  As of December 31, 2011, LFD had approximately 560 internal and external wholesalers (including sales managers).  As of December 31, 2011, LFN offered LNC and non-proprietary products and advisory services through a national network of approximately 8,150 active producers who placed business with us within the last 12 months.



Financial information in the tables that follow is presented in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), unless otherwise indicated.  We provide revenues, income (loss) from operations and assets attributable to each of our business segments and Other Operations in Note 22.  Assets, revenues and earnings attributable to foreign activities were not material in the periods presented.



Acquisitions and Dispositions



On January 8, 2009, the Office of Thrift Supervision approved our application to become a savings and loan holding company and our acquisition of Newton County Loan & Savings, FSB (“NCLS”), a federally regulated savings bank located in Indiana.  We closed on our purchase of NCLS on January 15, 2009.  On July 25, 2011, NCLS submitted a voluntary plan of dissolution with the Officer of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”).  The OCC approved NCLS’s voluntary dissolution effective November 30, 2011.








On August 18, 2009, we entered into a purchase and sale agreement with Macquarie Bank Limited (“MBL”), pursuant to which we agreed to sell to MBL all of the outstanding capital stock of Delaware, our former subsidiary, which provided investment products and services to individuals and institutions.  This transaction closed on January 4, 2010, with net of tax proceeds of approximately $405 million.



In addition, certain of our subsidiaries, including The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company (“LNL”), our primary insurance subsidiary, entered into investment advisory agreements with Delaware dated January 4, 2010, pursuant to which Delaware will continue to manage the majority of the general account insurance assets of the subsidiaries.  The investment advisory agreements will have 10-year terms, and we may terminate them without cause, subject to a purchase price adjustment of up to $67 million in the event that all of the agreements with our subsidiaries are terminated.  The amount of the potential adjustment declines on a pro rata basis over the 10-year term of the advisory agreements.



On October 1, 2009, we completed the sale of the capital stock of Lincoln UK to SLF of Canada UK Limited for net of tax proceeds of $325 million.  We retained Lincoln UK’s pension plan assets and liabilities.  The former Lincoln UK segment primarily focused on providing life and retirement income products in the United Kingdom.



On November 12, 2007, Lincoln Financial Media Company (“LFMC”), our wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into two stock purchase agreements with Raycom Holdings, LLC (“Raycom”).  Pursuant to one of the agreements, LFMC agreed to sell to Raycom all of the outstanding capital stock of three of LFMC’s wholly-owned subsidiaries:  WBTV, Inc., the owner and operator of television station WBTV, Charlotte, North Carolina; WCSC, Inc., the owner and operator of television station WCSC, Charleston, South Carolina; and WWBT, Inc., the owner and operator of television station WWBT, Richmond, Virginia.  The transaction closed on March 31, 2008, and LFMC received proceeds of $546 million.  Pursuant to the other agreement, LFMC agreed to sell to Raycom all of the outstanding capital stock of Lincoln Financial Sports, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of LFMC.  This transaction closed on November 30, 2007, and LFMC received $42 million of proceeds.



On November 12, 2007, LFMC also entered into a stock purchase agreement with Greater Media, Inc., to sell all of the outstanding capital stock of LFMC of North Carolina, the owner and operator of radio stations WBT(AM), Charlotte, North Carolina; WBT-FM, Chester, South Carolina; and WLNK(FM), Charlotte, North Carolina.  This transaction closed on January 31, 2008, and LFMC received proceeds of $100 million.  More information on these LFMC transactions can be found in our Form 8-K filed on November 14, 2007.



On April 3, 2006, we completed our merger with Jefferson-Pilot Corporation (“Jefferson-Pilot”), pursuant to which Jefferson-Pilot merged into one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries.  Prior to the merger, Jefferson-Pilot, through its subsidiaries, offered full lines of individual life, annuity and investment products, and group life insurance products, disability income and dental contracts, and it operated television and radio stations and a sports broadcasting network.



For further information about acquisitions and divestitures, see Note 3.



BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND OTHER OPERATIONS



ANNUITIES



Overview



The Annuities segment provides tax-deferred investment growth and lifetime income opportunities for its clients by offering fixed (including indexed) and variable annuities.  The “fixed” and “variable” classifications describe whether we or the contract holders bear the investment risk of the assets supporting the contract.  This also determines the manner in which we earn investment margin profits from these products, either as investment spreads for fixed products or as asset-based fees charged to variable products.



Annuities have several features that are attractive to customers.  First, they provide tax-deferred growth on the underlying principal, thereby deferring the tax consequences of the growth in value until withdrawals are made from the accumulation values, often at lower tax rates occurring during retirement.  Second, annuities are unique in that contract holders can select a variety of payout alternatives to help provide an income flow for life.  Many annuity contracts include guarantee features (living and death benefits) that are not found in any other investment vehicle and, we believe, make annuities attractive especially in times of economic uncertainty.



Products



In general, an annuity is a contract between an insurance company and an individual or group in which the insurance company, after receipt of one or more premium payments, agrees to pay an amount of money either in one lump sum or on a periodic basis (i.e., annually, semi-annually, quarterly or monthly), beginning on a certain date and continuing for a period of time as specified in






the contract or as requested.  Periodic payments can begin within 12 months after the premium is received (referred to as an immediate annuity) or at a future date in time (referred to as a deferred annuity).  This retirement vehicle helps protect an individual from outliving his or her money.



Variable Annuities



A variable annuity provides the contract holder the ability to direct the investment of premium deposits into one or more sub-accounts offered through the product (“variable portion”) or into a fixed account with a guaranteed return (“fixed portion”).  The value of the variable portion of the contract holder’s account varies with the performance of the underlying sub-accounts chosen by the contract holder.



We charge mortality and expense assessments and administrative fees on variable annuity accounts to cover insurance and administrative expenses.  These assessments are built into accumulation unit values, which when multiplied by the number of units owned for any sub-account equals the contract holder’s account value for that sub-account.  The fees that we earn from these contracts are reported as insurance fees on our Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss).  In addition, for some contracts, we collect surrender charges that range from 0% to 10% of withdrawals when contract holders surrender their contracts during the surrender charge period, which is generally higher during the early years of a contract.



We offer guaranteed benefit riders with certain of our variable annuity products, such as a guaranteed death benefit (“GDB”), a guaranteed withdrawal benefit (“GWB”), a guaranteed income benefit (“GIB”) and a combination of such benefits.  Most of our variable annuity products also offer the choice of a fixed option that provides for guaranteed interest credited to the account value.



The GDB features offered in 2011 included those where we contractually guarantee to the contract holder that upon death, depending on the particular product, we will return no less than:  the current contract value; the total deposits made to the contract, adjusted to reflect any partial withdrawals; the highest contract value on a specified anniversary date adjusted to reflect any partial withdrawals following the contract anniversary; or the current contract value plus a specified percentage of contract earnings, not to exceed a covered earnings limit.



In 2011, we offered product riders including theLincoln Lifetime IncomeSMAdvantage,Lincoln Lifetime IncomeSMAdvantage 2.0 andLincoln Lifetime IncomeSMAdvantage Plus, which are hybrid benefit riders combining aspects of GWB and GIB.  These benefit riders allow the contract holder the ability to take income at a maximum rate of 4% or 5% of the guaranteed amount when they are above the lifetime income age or income throughi4LIFE® Advantage with the GIB.Lincoln Lifetime IncomeSMAdvantage,Lincoln Lifetime IncomeSMAdvantage 2.0 andLincoln Lifetime IncomeSMAdvantage Plus provide higher income if the contract holder delays withdrawals, including both a 5% enhancement to the guaranteed amount each year a withdrawal is not taken for a specified period of time and an annual step-up of the guaranteed amount to the current contract value.  TheLincoln Lifetime IncomeSMAdvantage Plus provides an additional benefit, which is a return of principal at the end of the seventh year if the customer has not taken any withdrawals.  Contract holders underLincoln Lifetime IncomeSMAdvantage,Lincoln Lifetime IncomeSMAdvantage 2.0 andLincoln Lifetime IncomeSMAdvantage Plus are subject to restrictions on the allocation of their account value within the various investment choices.



We also offered thei4LIFE® Advantage and 4LATER®Advantage.Thei4LIFE® Advantage rider, on which we have received a U.S. patent, allows variable annuity contract holders access and control during the income distribution phase of their contract.  This added flexibility allows the contract holder to access the account value for transfers, additional withdrawals and other service features like portfolio rebalancing.  In general, GIB is an optional feature available withi4LIFE® Advantage that guarantees regular income payments will not fall below the greater of a minimum income floor set at benefit issue, or 75% of the highest income payment on a specified anniversary date (reduced for any subsequent withdrawals).  4LATER®Advantage provides a minimum income base used to determine the GIB floor when a client begins income payments underi4LIFE® Advantage.  The income base is equal to the initial deposit, or contract value, if elected after issue, and increases by 15% every three years, subject to a 200% cap.  The owner may step up the income base to the current contract value on or after the third anniversary of rider election or of the most recent step-up, which also resets the 200% cap.



TheLincoln SmartSecurity® Advantage one-year benefit is a GWB rider that offers the contract holder a guarantee equal to the initial deposit (or contract value, if elected after issue), adjusted for any subsequent purchase payments or withdrawals.Lincoln SmartSecurity® Advantage one-year allows an owner to step up the guarantee amount automatically on the benefit anniversary to the current contract value if the contract value is greater than the guarantee amount at the time of step up.  To receive the full amount of the guarantee, annual withdrawals are limited to 5% of the guaranteed amount.  Withdrawals will continue until the longer of when the guarantee is equal to zero or for the rest of the owner’s life (“single life version”) or the life of the owner or owner’s spouse (“joint life version”) as long as withdrawals begin after attained age 65 and are limited to 5% of the guaranteed amount.  Withdrawals in excess of the applicable maximum in any contract year are assessed any applicable surrender charges, and the guaranteed amount is recalculated.

We design and actively manage the features and structure of our guaranteed benefit riders to maintain a competitive suite of products consistent with profitability and risk management goals.  To mitigate the increased risks associated with guaranteed




benefits, we developed a dynamic hedging program.  The customized dynamic hedging program uses equity and interest rate futures positions, interest rate and variance swaps, as well as equity-based options depending upon the risks underlying the guarantees.  For more information on our hedging program, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Derivatives” and “Realized Gain (Loss) and Benefit Ratio Unlocking” in the MD&A.  For information regarding risks related to guaranteed benefits, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Market Conditions – Changes in the equity markets, interest rates and/or volatility affect the profitability of our products with guaranteed benefits; therefore, such changes may have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.”



Fixed Annuities



A fixed annuity preserves the principal value of the contract while guaranteeing a minimum interest rate to be credited to the accumulation value.  Our fixed annuity product offerings as of December 31, 2011, consisted of traditional fixed-rate and fixed indexed deferred annuities, as well as fixed-rate immediate annuities with various payment options, including lifetime incomes.



Our traditional fixed-rate deferred annuity products includeLincoln ClassicSM(Single and Flexible Premium),Lincoln SelectSM,Lincoln Smart Course®,Lincoln MYGuaranteeSMPlus andLincoln GrowSmartSMFixed Annuity.



Our fixed indexed deferred annuity products include LincolnOptiPoint®,Lincoln OptiChoiceSMandLincoln New Directions®.  Our fixed indexed annuities allow the contract holder to elect an interest rate based on the performance of the Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) 500 Index® (“S&P 500”).  The indexed interest rate is guaranteed never to be less than zero.  Available with certain of our fixed indexed annuities,Lincoln Living IncomeSMAdvantage andLincoln Lifetime IncomeSMEdge provide the contract holder a guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit.  Withdrawals in excess of the free amount are assessed any applicable surrender charges, and the guaranteed withdrawal amount is recalculated.  We use derivatives to hedge the equity market risk associated with our fixed indexed annuity products.  For more information on our hedging program, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Derivatives” and “Realized Gain (Loss) and Benefit Ratio Unlocking” in the MD&A.



In addition to traditional fixed-rate immediate annuities, we offered theLincoln SmartIncomeSMInflation Annuity that provides lifetime income with annual adjustments to keep pace with inflation.



We offer single and flexible premium fixed deferred annuities.  Single premium fixed deferred annuities are contracts that allow only a single premium to be paid.  Flexible premium fixed deferred annuities are contracts that allow multiple premium payments on either a scheduled or non-scheduled basis.



Fixed annuity contracts are general account obligations.  We bear the investment risk for fixed annuity contracts.  To protect from premature withdrawals, we impose surrender charges.  Surrender charges are typically applicable during the early years of the annuity contract, with a declining level of surrender charges over time.  We expect to earn a spread between what we earn on the underlying general account investments supporting the fixed annuity product line and what we credit to our fixed annuity contract holders’ accounts.



Distribution



The Annuities segment distributes its individual fixed and variable annuity products through LFD.  LFD’s distribution channels give the Annuities segment access to its target markets.  LFD distributes the segment’s products to a large number of financial intermediaries, including LFN.  The financial intermediaries include wire/regional firms, independent financial planners, financial institutions and managing general agents.



Competition



The annuities market is very competitive and consists of many companies, with no one company dominating the market for all products.  The Annuities segment competes with numerous other financial services companies.  The main factors upon which entities in this market compete are distribution channel access and the quality of wholesalers, investment performance, cost, product features, speed to market, brand recognition, financial strength ratings, crediting rates and client service.



RETIREMENT PLAN SERVICES



Overview



The Retirement Plan Services segment provides employers with retirement plan products and services, primarily in the defined contribution retirement plan marketplaces.  While our focus is employer-sponsored defined contribution plans, we also serve thedefined benefit plan and individual retirement account (“IRA”) markets.  We provide a variety of plan investment vehicles, including individual and group variable annuities, group fixed annuities and mutual fund-based programs.  We also offer a broad array of plan services including plan recordkeeping, compliance testing, participant education and other related services.






Defined contribution plans are a popular employee benefit offered by many employers across a wide spectrum of industries and by employers large and small.  Retirement Plan Services primarily focuses on the Mid – Large market, which accounted for 45% of this segment’s total assets under management as of December 31, 2011.   In addition, Retirement Plan Services focuses on the small market 401(k) business, which accounted for 16% of this segment’s total assets under management as of December 31, 2011.



Products and Services



The Retirement Plan Services segment currently brings three primary offerings to the employer-sponsored market:  LINCOLN DIRECTORSMgroup variable annuity,LINCOLN ALLIANCE® program, andMulti-Fund® variable annuity.



LINCOLN DIRECTORSMandMulti-Fund® products are variable annuities.  TheLINCOLN ALLIANCE® program is mutual fund-based.  These offerings primarily cover the 403(b) and 401(k) marketplace.  The 403(b) plans are available to employees of educational institutions, not-for-profit healthcare organizations and certain other not-for-profit entities; and 401(k) plans are generally available to employees of for-profit entities.  The investment options for our annuities encompass the spectrum of asset classes with varying levels of risk and include both equity and fixed income.



LINCOLN DIRECTORSMgroup variable annuity is a 401(k) defined contribution retirement plan solution available to small businesses, typically those with plans having less than $2 million in account values.  The LINCOLN DIRECTORSMproduct offers participants a broad array of investment options from several fund families and a fixed account.  The Retirement Plan Services segment earns revenue through asset charges, investment management fees, surrender charges and recordkeeping fees from this product.  We also receive fees from the underlying mutual funds companies for the services we provide, and we earn investment margins on assets in the fixed account.



TheLINCOLN ALLIANCE® program is a defined contribution retirement plan solution aimed at mid to large employers, typically those that have defined contribution plans with $2 million or more in account value.  The target market is primarily for-profit corporations, educational institutions and healthcare providers.  The program bundles our traditional fixed annuity products with the employer’s choice of mutual funds, along with recordkeeping, plan compliance services and customized employee education services.  The program allows the use of any mutual fund.  We earn fees for our recordkeeping and educational services and the services we provide to mutual fund accounts.  We also earn investment margins on fixed annuities.



Multi-Fund® Variable Annuity is a defined contribution retirement plan solution with full-bundled administrative services and high quality investment choices marketed to small- to mid-sized healthcare, education, governmental and not-for-profit plans.  The product can be sold either to the employer through theMulti-Fund® group variable annuity contract or directly to the individual through theMulti-Fund® Select variable annuity contract.  We earn mortality and expense charges, investment income on the fixed account and surrender charges from this product.  We also receive fees for services that we provide to funds in the underlying separate accounts.



Distribution



Retirement Plan Services products are primarily distributed by LFD.  Wholesalers and managers distribute these products through advisors, consultants, banks, wirehouses, TPAs and individual planners.  During 2011, LFD expanded its distribution of the segment’s products by increasing wholesalers and managers from 49 to 55, increasing relationship management expertise and growing the number of broker-dealer relationships.



TheMulti-Fund® program is sold primarily by affiliated advisors.  TheLINCOLN ALLIANCE® program is sold primarily through consultants and affiliated advisors.  LINCOLN DIRECTORSMgroup variable annuity is sold in the small marketplace by intermediaries, including financial advisors, TPAs, planners and wirehouses.



Competition



The retirement plan marketplace is very competitive and is comprised of many providers with no one company dominating the market for all products.  As stated above, we compete in the small, mid and large markets.  We compete with numerous other financial services companies.  The main factors upon which entities in this market compete are distribution channel access and the quality of wholesalers, investment performance, cost, product features, speed to market, brand recognition, financial strength ratings, crediting rates, client service and client compliance and fiduciary services.  During the fourth quarter of 2011, we began to put new clients on our enhanced recordkeeping platform.  We believe the new platform will allow us to compete more effectively in the retirement plan marketplace.






LIFE INSURANCE



Overview



The Life Insurance segment focuses on the creation and protection of wealth for its clients through the manufacturing of life insurance products, including term insurance, a linked-benefit product (which is a UL policy linked with riders that provide for long-term care costs) and both single and survivorship versions of UL and VUL, including COLI and BOLI products.



The segment generally has higher sales in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year.  Approximately 45%, 44% and 44% of total sales were in the first half of 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



Mortality margins, morbidity margins (for linked-benefit products), investment margins (through spreads or fees), expense margins (expense charges assessed to the contract holder less expenses incurred to manage the business) and surrender fees drive life insurance profits.  Mortality margins, morbidity margins, and some expense assessments are a function of the rates priced into the product and level of insurance in force.  Insurance in force, in turn, is driven by sales, persistency and mortality experience.



Similar to the annuity product classifications described above, life products can be classified as “fixed” (which includes indexed) or “variable” contracts.  This classification describes whether we or the contract holders bear the investment risk of the assets supporting the policy.  This also determines the manner in which we earn investment margin profits from these products, either as investment spreads for fixed products or as asset-based fees charged to variable products.



Products



We offer four categories of life insurance products consisting of:



Interest-Sensitive Life Insurance



Interest-sensitive life insurance products provide life insurance with account values that earn rates of return based on company-declared interest rates.  Contract holder account values are invested in our general account investment portfolio, so we bear the risk of investment performance.  Some of our UL contracts include secondary guarantees, which are explained more fully below.



In a UL contract, contract holders typically have flexibility in the timing and amount of premium payments and the amount of death benefit, provided there is sufficient account value to cover all policy charges for mortality and expenses for the coming period.  Under certain contract holder options and market conditions, the death benefit amount may increase or decrease.  Premiums received on a UL product, net of expense loads and charges, are added to the contract holder’s account value.  The client has access to their account value (or a portion thereof), less surrender charges and policy loan payoffs, through contractual liquidity features such as loans, partial withdrawals and full surrenders.  Loans and withdrawals reduce the death benefit amount payable and are limited to certain contractual maximums (some of which are required under state law), and interest is charged on all loans.  Our UL contracts assess surrender charges against the policies’ account values for full or partial surrenders that occur during the contractual surrender charge period.  Depending on the product selected, surrender charge periods can range from 0 to 20 years.



We also offer a fixed indexed UL product that functions similarly to a traditional UL policy, with the added flexibility of allowing contract holders to have portions of their account value earn interest credits based on the performance of the S&P 500.



As mentioned previously, we offer survivorship versions of our individual UL products.  These products insure two lives with a single policy and pay death benefits upon the second death.



Sales results are influenced by the series of UL products with secondary guarantees.  A UL policy with a secondary guarantee can stay in force, even if the base policy cash value is zero, as long as secondary guarantee requirements have been met.  The secondary guarantee requirement is based on the evaluation of a reference value within the policy, calculated in a manner similar to the base policy account value, but using different assumptions as to expense charges, cost of insurance (“COI”) charges and credited interest.  The assumptions for the secondary guarantee requirement are listed in the contract.  As long as the contract holder funds the policy to a level that keeps this calculated reference value positive, the death benefit will be guaranteed.  The reference value has no actual monetary value to the contract holder; it is only a calculated value used to determine whether or not the policy will lapse should the base policy cash value be less than zero.



Unlike other GDB designs, our secondary guarantee benefits maintain the flexibility of a traditional UL policy, which allows a contract holder to take loans or withdrawals.  Although loans and withdrawals are likely to shorten the time period of the guaranteed death benefit, the guarantee is not automatically or completely forfeited, as is sometimes the case with other death benefit guarantee designs.  The length of the guarantee may be increased at any time through additional excess premium deposits.








Linked-Benefit Life Products



Linked-benefit life products combine UL with long-term care insurance through the use of riders.  The first rider allows the contract holder to accelerate death benefits on a tax-free basis in the event of a qualified long-term care need.  The second rider extends the long-term care insurance benefits for an additional period of time if the death benefit is fully depleted for the purposes of long-term care.  The policy also provides a reduced death benefit to the contract holder’s beneficiary if the contract holder accelerates the death benefit as long-term care benefits during his or her life.



VUL



VUL products are UL products that provide a return on account values linked to an underlying investment portfolio of sub-accounts offered through the product.  The value of the contract holder’s account varies with the performance of the sub-accounts chosen by the contract holder.  As the return on the investment portfolio increases or decreases, the account value of the VUL policy will increase or decrease.  As with fixed UL products, contract holders have access, within contractual maximums, to account values through loans, withdrawals and surrenders.  Surrender charges are assessed during the surrender charge period, ranging from 0 to 20 years depending on the product.



In addition, VUL products offer a fixed account option that is managed by us.  Investment risk is borne by the customer on all but the fixed account option.



We also offer survivorship versions of our individual VUL products.  These products insure two lives with a single policy and pay death benefits upon the second death.



We also offer single life and survivorship versions of our VUL products with secondary guarantees.



Term Life Insurance



Term life insurance provides a fixed death benefit for a scheduled period of time.  It usually does not offer cash values.  Scheduled policy premiums are required to be paid at least annually.



Distribution



The Life Insurance segment’s products are sold through LFD.  LFD provides the Life Insurance segment with access to financial intermediaries in the following primary distribution channels:  wire/regional firms; independent planner firms (including LFN); financial institutions; and managing general agents/independent marketing organizations.  LFD distributes COLI and BOLI products and services to small- to mid-sized banks and mid- to large-sized corporations, primarily through 14 intermediaries who specialize in one or both of these markets and who are serviced through a network of internal and external LFD sales professionals.



Competition



The life insurance industry is very competitive and consists of many companies with no one company dominating the market for all products.  As of the end of 2010, the latest year for which data is available, there were 917 life insurance companies in the U.S. and U.S. territories, according to the American Council of Life Insurers.



The Life Insurance segment primarily targets the affluent to high net worth markets, defined as households with at least $250,000 of financial assets.  For those individual policies we sold in 2011, the average face amount (excludingMoneyGuard® products) was approximately $1 million and average first year premiums paid were approximately $40,000.  The Life Insurance segment competes primarily on product design and customer service.  With respect to customer service, management tracks the speed, accuracy and responsiveness of service to customers’ calls and transaction requests.  Further, management tracks the turnaround time and quality for various client services such as processing of applications.  Additional competitive factors relevant to the Life Insurance segment include product breadth, speed to market, underwriting and risk management, financial strength ratings and extent of distribution network.



Underwriting



In the context of life insurance, underwriting is the process of evaluating medical and non-medical information about an individual and determining the effect these factors statistically have on mortality.  This process of evaluation is often referred to as risk classification.  Of course, no one can accurately predict how long any individual will live, but certain risk factors can affect life expectancy and are evaluated during the underwriting process.






Claims Administration



Claims services are delivered to customers from the Greensboro, North Carolina and Concord, New Hampshire offices.  Claims examiners are assigned to each claim notification based on coverage amount, type of claim and the experience of the examiner.  Claims meeting certain criteria are referred to senior claim examiners.  A formal quality assurance program is carried out to ensure the consistency and effectiveness of claims examining activities.  A network of in-house legal counsel, compliance officers, medical personnel and an anti-fraud investigative unit also support claim examiners.  A special team of claims examiners, in conjunction with claims management, focus on more complex claims matters such as long-term care claims, claims incurred during the contestable period, beneficiary disputes, litigated claims and the few invalid claims that are encountered.



GROUP PROTECTION



Overview



The Group Protection segment offers group non-medical insurance products, principally term life, disability and dental, to the employer marketplace through various forms of contributory and noncontributory plans.  Most of the segment’s group contracts are sold to employers with fewer than 500 employees.



Products



Group Life Insurance



We offer employer-sponsored group term life insurance products including basic, optional and voluntary term life insurance to employees and their dependents.  Additional benefits may be provided in the event of a covered individual’s accidental death or dismemberment.



Group Disability Insurance



We offer short- and long-term employer-sponsored group disability insurance, which protects an employee against loss of wages due to illness or injury.  Short-term disability generally provides benefits for up to 26 weeks following a short waiting period, ranging from 1 to 30 days.  Long-term disability provides benefits following a longer waiting period, usually between 30 and 180 days and provides benefits for a longer period, at least 2 years and typically extending to normal (Social Security) retirement age.



Group Dental



We offer employer-sponsored group dental insurance, which covers a portion of the cost of eligible dental procedures for employees and their dependents.  Products offered include indemnity coverage, which does not distinguish benefits based on a dental provider’s participation in a network arrangement, and a Preferred Provider Organization (“PPO”) product that does reflect the dental provider’s participation in the PPO network arrangement, including agreement with network fee schedules.



Group Accident Insurance



We offer employer-sponsored group accident insurance products for employees and their covered dependents.  This product is predominantly purchased on an employee-paid basis.  Accident insurance provides scheduled benefits for over 30 types of benefit triggers related to accidental causes, and it is available for non-occupational accidents exclusively or on a 24-hour coverage basis.



Group Critical Illness Insurance



We offer employer-sponsored group critical illness insurance to employees and their covered dependents.  This product is predominantly purchased on an employee-paid basis.  The coverage provides for lump sum payouts upon the occurrence of one of the specified critical illness benefit triggers covered within a critical illness insurance policy.   This product also includesLincoln CareCompassSM, a package of benefits and services that assists employees and their family members in prevention, early detection and treatment of critical illness events.



Group Medical



We manage employer-sponsored benefits designed to supplement a company’s major medical plan by reimbursing executives and eligible dependents for health care expenses not covered by the basic plan.  Along with medical expense reimbursement, EXEC-U-CARE® plans include Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage, EXEC-U-CARE CONCIERGE® health care assistance andTravelConnectSMtravel assistance services.






Distribution



The segment’s products are marketed primarily through a national distribution system, including approximately 150 managers and marketing representatives.  The managers and marketing representatives develop business through employee benefit brokers, TPAs and other employee benefit firms.



Competition



The group protection marketplace is very competitive.  Principal competitive factors include particular product features, price, quality of customer service and claims management, technological capabilities and financial strength ratings.  In this market, the Group Protection segment competes with a limited number of major companies and selected other companies that focus on these products.



Underwriting



The Group Protection segment’s underwriters evaluate the risk characteristics of each employee group.  Generally, the relevant characteristics evaluated include employee census information (such as age, gender, income and occupation), employer industry classification, geographic location, benefit design elements and other factors.  The segment employs detailed underwriting policies, guidelines and procedures designed to assist the underwriter to properly assess and quantify risks.  The segment uses technology to efficiently review, price and issue smaller cases, utilizing its underwriting staff on larger, more complex cases.  Individual underwriting techniques (including evaluation of individual medical history information) may be used on certain covered individuals selecting larger benefit amounts.  For voluntary and other forms of employee paid coverages, minimum participation requirements are used to obtain a better spread of risk and minimize the risk of anti-selection.



Claims Administration



Claims for the Group Protection segment are managed by a staff of experienced in-house claim specialists and outsourced third-party resources. Claims are evaluated for eligibility and payment of benefits pursuant to the group insurance contract and in compliance with federal and state regulations.  Prompt decisions, accurate benefit payment and fair claims handling are paramount to customer satisfaction with claim services.  Disability claims management is especially important to segment results, as results depend on both the incidence and the length of approved disability claims.  The segment employs a variety of clinical experts, including internal and external medical professionals and rehabilitation specialists, to evaluate medically supported functional capabilities, assess employability and develop return to work plans.  Dental claims management focuses on assisting plan administrators and members with the rising costs of insurance by utilizing tools to optimize dental claims payment accuracy through advanced claims review and validation, improved data analysis, enhanced clinical review of claims and provider utilization monitoring.



OTHER OPERATIONS



Other Operations includes the financial data for operations that are not directly related to the business segments.  Other Operations includes investments related to the excess capital in our insurance subsidiaries; investments in media properties and other corporate investments; benefit plan net liability; the unamortized deferred gain on indemnity reinsurance related to the sale of reinsurance to Swiss Re Life & Health America, Inc. (“Swiss Re”) in 2001; the results of certain disability income business; our run-off Institutional Pension business in the form of group annuity and insured funding-type of contracts with assets under management of approximately $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2011; and debt.  We are actively managing our remaining radio station clusters to maximize performance and future value.



REINSURANCE



We follow the industry practice of reinsuring a portion of our life insurance and annuity risks with unaffiliated reinsurers.  In a reinsurance transaction, a reinsurer agrees to indemnify another insurer for part or all of its liability under a policy or policies it has issued for an agreed upon premium.  We use reinsurance to protect our insurance subsidiaries against the severity of losses on individual claims and unusually serious occurrences in which a number of claims produce an aggregate extraordinary loss.  We also use reinsurance to improve our results by leveraging favorable reinsurance pricing.  Although reinsurance does not discharge the insurance subsidiaries from their primary liabilities to their contract holders for losses insured under the insurance policies, it does make the assuming reinsurer liable to the insurance subsidiaries for the reinsured portion of the risk.  Because we bear the risk of nonpayment by one or more of our reinsurers, we primarily cede reinsurance to well-capitalized, highly rated reinsurers.



We reinsure approximately 25% to 30% of the mortality risk on newly issued non-term life insurance contracts and approximately 30% to 35% of total mortality risk including term insurance contracts.  As of December 31, 2011, our policy for this program was to retain no more than $11 million on a single insured life issued on fixed, VUL and term life insurance contracts.  The retention per single insured life for COLI was less than $1 million.






Portions of our deferred annuity business have been reinsured on a modified coinsurance (“Modco”) basis with other companies to limit our exposure to interest rate risks.  In a Modco program, the reinsurer shares proportionally in all financial terms of the reinsured policies (i.e. premiums, expenses, claims, etc.) based on their respective quota share of the risk.



In addition, we acquire other reinsurance to cover products other than as discussed above with retentions and limits that management believes are appropriate for the circumstances.



We obtain reinsurance from a diverse group of reinsurers, and we monitor concentration and financial strength ratings of our principal reinsurers.  Swiss Re represents our largest reinsurance exposure.  The amounts recoverable from reinsurers were $6.5 billion as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, of which $2.8 billion and $3.0 billion for the respective periods were recoverable from Swiss Re related to the sale of our reinsurance business to Swiss Re.



We also utilize inter-company reinsurance agreements to manage our statutory capital position as well as our hedge program for variable annuity guarantees.  These inter-company agreements do not have an effect on our consolidated financial statements.



For more information regarding reinsurance, see “Reinsurance” in the MD&A and Note 9.  For risks involving reinsurance, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Operational Matters – We face a risk of non-collectibility of reinsurance, which could materially affect our results of operations.”



RESERVES



The applicable insurance laws under which insurance companies operate require that they report, as liabilities, policy reserves to meet future obligations on their outstanding policies.  These reserves are the amounts that, with the additional premiums to be received and interest thereon compounded annually at certain assumed rates, are calculated to be sufficient to meet the various policy and contract obligations as they mature.  These laws specify that the reserves shall not be less than reserves calculated using certain specified mortality and morbidity tables, interest rates and methods of valuation.



For more information on reserves, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Derivatives” and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Future Contract Benefits and Other Contract Holder Obligations” in the MD&A.



See “Regulatory” below for information on permitted practices and proposed regulations that may impact the amount of statutory reserves necessary to support our current insurance liabilities.



For risks related to reserves, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Market Conditions – Changes in interest rates and sustained low interest rates may cause interest rate spreads to decrease and changes in interest rates may also result in increased contract withdrawals.”



INVESTMENTS



An important component of our financial results is the return on invested assets.  Our investment strategy is to balance the need for current income with prudent risk management, with an emphasis on generating sufficient current income to meet our obligations.  This approach requires the evaluation of risk and expected return of each asset class utilized, while still meeting our income objectives.  This approach also permits us to be more effective in our asset-liability management because decisions can be made based upon both the economic and current investment income considerations affecting assets and liabilities.  Investments by our insurance subsidiaries must comply with the insurance laws and regulations of the states of domicile.



Derivatives are used for hedging purposes and income generation.  Hedging strategies are employed for a number of reasons including, but not limited to, hedging certain portions of our exposure to changes in our GDB, GWB and GIB liabilities, interest rate fluctuations, the widening of bond yield spreads over comparable maturity U.S. Government obligations and credit, foreign exchange and equity risks.  Income generation strategies include credit default swaps through replication synthetic asset transactions.  These derivatives synthetically create exposure in the general account to corporate debt, similar to investing in the credit markets.



For additional information on our investments, including carrying values by category, quality ratings and net investment income, see “Consolidated Investments” in the MD&A, as well as Notes 1 and 5.



FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATINGS



The Nationally Recognized Statistical Ratings Organizations rate the financial strength of our principal insurance subsidiaries.



Rating agencies rate insurance companies based on financial strength and the ability to pay claims, factors more relevant to contract holders than investors.  We believe that the ratings assigned by nationally recognized, independent rating agencies are material to








our operations.  There may be other rating agencies that also rate our insurance companies, which we do not disclose in our reports.



Insurer Financial Strength Ratings



The insurer financial strength rating scales of A.M. Best, Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”), Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) and S&P are characterized as follows:



·A.M. Best – A++ to S

·Fitch – AAA to C

·Moody’s – Aaa to C

·S&P – AAA to D



As of February 21, 2012, the financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries, as published by the principal rating agencies that rate our securities, or us, were as follows:



A.M. BestFitchMoody'sS&PInsurer Financial Strength RatingsLNLA+A+A2AA-(2nd of 16)(5th of 19)(6th of 21)(4th of 22)Lincoln Life & Annuity Co. of New York ("LLANY")A+A+A2AA-(2nd of 16)(5th of 19)(6th of 21)(4th of 22)First Penn-Pacific Life Insurance Co. ("FPP")A+A+A2A-(2nd of 16)(5th of 19)(6th of 21)(7th of 22)



A downgrade of the financial strength rating of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our competitive position in the insurance industry and make it more difficult for us to market our products, as potential customers may select companies with higher financial strength ratings.  Ratings are not recommendations to buy our securities.



All ratings are on outlook stable, except Moody's ratings, which are on outlook positive.  All of our ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies, and therefore, no assurance can be given that our principal insurance subsidiaries can maintain these ratings.  Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.



REGULATORY



Insurance Regulation



Our insurance subsidiaries, like other insurance companies, are subject to regulation and supervision by the states, territories and countries in which they are licensed to do business.  The extent of such regulation varies, but generally has its source in statutes that delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to supervisory agencies.  In the U.S., this power is vested in state insurance departments.



In supervising and regulating insurance companies, state insurance departments, charged primarily with protecting contract holders and the public rather than investors, enjoy broad authority and discretion in applying applicable insurance laws and regulation for that purpose.  Our principal insurance subsidiaries, LNL, LLANY and FPP, are domiciled in the states of Indiana, New York and Indiana, respectively.



The insurance departments of the domiciliary states exercise principal regulatory jurisdiction over our insurance subsidiaries.  The extent of regulation by the states varies, but in general, most jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing standards of solvency, adequacy of reserves, reinsurance, capital adequacy, licensing of companies and agents to transact business, prescribing and approving policy forms, regulating premium rates for some lines of business, prescribing the form and content of financial statements and reports, regulating the type and amount of investments permitted and standards of business conduct.   Insurance company regulation is discussed further under “Insurance Holding Company Regulation” and “Restrictions on Subsidiaries’ Dividends and Other Payments.”



As part of their regulatory oversight process, state insurance departments conduct periodic, generally once every three to five years, examinations of the books, records, accounts, and business practices of insurers domiciled in their states.  During the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, we have not received any material adverse findings resulting from state insurance department examinations of our insurance subsidiaries conducted during this period.






State insurance laws and regulations require our U.S. insurance companies to file financial statements with state insurance departments everywhere they do business, and the operations of our U.S. insurance companies and accounts are subject to examination by those departments at any time.  Our U.S. insurance companies prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with accounting practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by these departments.  The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) has approved a series of statutory accounting principles that have been adopted, in some cases with minor modifications, by virtually all state insurance departments.  Changes in these statutory accounting principles can significantly affect our capital and surplus.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Legislative, Regulatory and Tax – Changes to the calculation of reserves and attempts to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX and Actuarial Guideline 38 may fail in whole or in part resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.”



Statutory reserves established for variable annuity contracts and riders are sensitive to changes in the equity markets and are affected by the level of account values relative to the level of any guarantees, product design and reinsurance arrangements.  As a result, the relationship between reserve changes and equity market performance is non-linear during any given reporting period.



For more information on statutory reserving and our use of captive reinsurance structures, see “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources” in the MD&A.



Insurance Holding Company Regulation



LNC and its primary insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation pursuant to the insurance holding company laws of the states of Indiana and New York.  These insurance holding company laws generally require an insurance holding company and insurers that are members of such insurance holding company’s system to register with the insurance department authorities, to file with it certain reports disclosing information, including their capital structure, ownership, management, financial condition, and certain inter-company transactions, including material transfers of assets and inter-company business agreements and to report material changes in that information.  These laws also require that inter-company transactions be fair and reasonable and, under certain circumstances, prior approval of the insurance departments must be received before entering into an inter-company transaction.  Further, these laws require that an insurer’s contract holders’ surplus following any dividends or distributions to shareholder affiliates is reasonable in relation to the insurer’s outstanding liabilities and adequate for its financial needs.



In general, under state holding company regulations, no person may acquire, directly or indirectly, a controlling interest in our capital stock unless such person, corporation or other entity has obtained prior approval from the applicable insurance commissioner for such acquisition of control.  Pursuant to such laws, in general, any person acquiring, controlling or holding the power to vote, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting securities of an insurance company, is presumed to have “control” of such company.  This presumption may be rebutted by a showing that control does not exist in fact.  The insurance commissioner, however, may find that “control” exists in circumstances in which a person owns or controls a smaller amount of voting securities.  To obtain approval from the insurance commissioner of any acquisition of control of an insurance company, the proposed acquirer must file with the applicable commissioner an application containing information regarding: the identity and background of the acquirer and its affiliates; the nature, source and amount of funds to be used to carry out the acquisition; the financial statements of the acquirer and its affiliates; any potential plans for disposition of the securities or business of the insurer; the number and type of securities to be acquired; any contracts with respect to the securities to be acquired; any agreements with broker-dealers; and other matters.



Other jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are licensed to transact business may have similar or additional requirements for prior approval of any acquisition of control of an insurance or reinsurance company licensed or authorized to transact business in those jurisdictions.  Additional requirements in those jurisdictions may include re-licensing or subsequent approval for renewal of existing licenses upon an acquisition of control.  As further described below, laws that govern the holding company structure also govern payment of dividends to us by our insurance subsidiaries.



Restrictions on Subsidiaries’ Dividends and Other Payments



We are a holding company that transacts substantially all of our business directly and indirectly through subsidiaries.  Our primary assets are the stock of our operating subsidiaries.  Our ability to meet our obligations on our outstanding debt and to pay dividends and our general and administrative expenses depends on the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us.



Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain insurance department regulatory restrictions as to the transfer of funds and payment of dividends to the holding company.  Under Indiana laws and regulations, our Indiana insurance subsidiaries, including our primary insurance subsidiary, LNL, may pay dividends to LNC without prior approval of the Indiana Insurance Commissioner (the “Commissioner”), only from unassigned surplus or must receive prior approval of the Commissioner to pay a dividend if such dividend, along with all other dividends paid within the preceding 12 consecutive months, would exceed the statutory limitation.  The current statutory limitation is the greater of 10% of the insurer’s contract holders’ surplus, as shown on its last annual






statement on file with the Commissioner or the insurer’s statutory net gain from operations for the previous 12 months, but in no event to exceed statutory unassigned surplus.  We may not consider the benefit from the statutory accounting principles relating to our insurance subsidiaries’ deferred tax assets in calculating available dividends.  Indiana law gives the Commissioner broad discretion to disapprove requests for dividends in excess of these limits.  New York, the state of domicile of our other major insurance subsidiary, LLANY, has similar restrictions, except that in New York it is the lesser of 10% of surplus to contract holders as of the immediately preceding calendar year or net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year, not including realized capital gains.



Indiana law also provides that following the payment of any dividend, the insurer’s contract holders’ surplus must be reasonable in relation to its outstanding liabilities and adequate for its financial needs, and permits the Commissioner to bring an action to rescind a dividend that violates these standards.  In the event the Commissioner determines that the contract holders’ surplus of one subsidiary is inadequate, the Commissioner could use his or her broad discretionary authority to seek to require us to apply payments received from another subsidiary for the benefit of that insurance subsidiary.  For information regarding dividends paid to us during 2011 from our insurance subsidiaries, see “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources of Liquidity and Cash Flow” in the MD&A.



Risk-Based Capital (“RBC”)



The NAIC has adopted RBC requirements for life insurance companies to evaluate the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus in relation to investment and insurance risks.  The requirements provide a means of measuring the minimum amount of statutory surplus appropriate for an insurance company to support its overall business operations based on its size and risk profile.  There are five major risks involved in determining the requirements:



CategoryNameDescriptionAsset risk - affiliatesC-0Risk of assets' default for certain affiliated investmentsAsset risk - othersC-1Risk of assets' default of principal and interest or fluctuation infair valueInsurance riskC-2Risk of underestimating liabilities from business already writtenor inadequately pricing business to be written in the futureInterest rate risk, health creditC-3Risk of losses due to changes in interest rate levels, risk thatrisk and market riskhealth benefits prepaid to providers become the obligation ofthe health insurer once again and risk of loss due to changes inmarket levels associated with variable products with guaranteesBusiness riskC-4Risk of general business



A company’s risk-based statutory surplus is calculated by applying factors and performing calculations relating to various asset, premium, claim, expense and reserve items.  Regulators can then measure adequacy of a company’s statutory surplus by comparing it to the RBC determined by the formula.  Under RBC requirements, regulatory compliance is determined by the ratio of a company’s total adjusted capital, as defined by the NAIC, to its company action level of RBC (known as the RBC ratio), also as defined by the NAIC.  Accordingly, factors that have an impact on the total adjusted capital of our insurance subsidiaries, such as the permitted practices discussed above, will also affect their RBC levels.



Four levels of regulatory attention may be triggered if the RBC ratio is insufficient:



·“Company action level” – If the RBC ratio is between 75% and 100%, then the insurer must submit a plan to the regulator detailing corrective action it proposes to undertake;

·“Regulatory action level” – If the RBC ratio is between 50% and 75%, then the insurer must submit a plan, but a regulator may also issue a corrective order requiring the insurer to comply within a specified period;

·“Authorized control level” – If the RBC ratio is between 35% and 50%, then the regulatory response is the same as at the “Regulatory action level,” but in addition, the regulator may take action to rehabilitate or liquidate the insurer; and

·“Mandatory control level” – If the RBC ratio is less than 35%, then the regulator must rehabilitate or liquidate the insurer.



As of December 31, 2011, the RBC ratios of LNL, LLANY and FPP reported to their respective states of domicile and the NAIC all exceeded the “company action level.”  We believe that we will be able to maintain the RBC ratios of our insurance subsidiaries in excess of “company action level” through prudent underwriting, claims handling, investing and capital management.  However, no assurances can be given that developments affecting the insurance subsidiaries, many of which could be outside of our control, will not cause the RBC ratios to fall below our targeted levels.  These developments may include, but may not be limited to:  changes to the manner in which the RBC ratio is calculated; new regulatory requirements for calculating reserves, such as principles-based reserving; economic conditions leading to higher levels of impairments of securities in our insurance subsidiaries’






general accounts; and an inability to finance life reserves including the issuing of letters of credit supporting captive reinsurance structures.



See “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Liquidity and Capital Position – A decrease in the capital and surplus of our insurance subsidiaries may result in a downgrade to our credit and insurer financial strength ratings.”



Privacy Regulations



In the course of our business, we collect and maintain personal data from our customers including personally identifiable non-public financial and health information, which subjects us to regulation under federal and state privacy laws.  These laws require that we institute certain policies and procedures in our business to safeguard this information from improper use or disclosure.  If the federal or state regulators establish further regulations for addressing customer privacy, we may need to amend our policies and adapt our internal procedures.



Federal Initiatives



The U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the insurance industry; however, federal initiatives from time to time can impact the insurance industry.



Financial Reform Legislation



The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed by the President in July 2010.  This wide-ranging legislation requires substantial reform of the financial services industry and financial products.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires significant rulemaking across numerous federal agencies, a process that began in the second half of 2010, but is proceeding slower than anticipated.  Consequently, we are unable to predict at this time the manner or the extent to which financial markets in general, or our business, financial condition and results of operations, may be affected following its full implementation.





Another area of concern related to the Dodd-Frank Act is the possible impact of the Volcker Rule on non-bank financial market participants.  Restrictive implementation of the Volcker Rule’s proprietary trading provisions could potentially inhibit legitimate market-making activities and impair overall liquidity in the marketplace to the detriment of investors such as life insurers.  Because the Volcker rulemaking is still in progress, we are unable to predict its ultimate impact on our business.



In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires new regulations governing broker-dealers and investment advisers.  In particular, the fiduciary standard rulemaking could potentially have broad implications for how our products are designed and sold in the future.  In January 2011, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) released a study on the obligations and standards of conduct of financial professionals, as required under the Dodd-Frank Act.  The SEC staff recommended establishing a uniform fiduciary standard for investment advisers and broker-dealers when providing investment advice about securities, including guidance for principal trading and definitions of the duties of loyalty and care owed to retail customers that would be consistent with the standard that currently applies to investment advisers.  A more uniform fiduciary standard could potentially affect our business in areas including, but not limited to: design and availability of proprietary products; commission-based compensation arrangements; advertising and other communications; use of finders or solicitors of clients (i.e., business contacts who provide referrals); and continuing education requirements for advisors.



Additional provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act include, among other things, the creation of a new Federal Insurance Office within the U.S. Department of the Treasury to gather information regarding the insurance industry; the creation of a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to protect consumers of certain financial products; and changes to certain corporate governance rules.  The SEC has postponed rule-making on a number of these provisions through 2012.  Given the state of the rulemaking and implementation process, the ultimate impact on our business is undeterminable at this time.



Department of Labor Regulation



In October 2010, the U.S. Department of Labor (“DOL”) issued a proposed regulation that would, if finalized in current form, substantially expand the range of activities that would be considered to be fiduciary investment advice under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) and the Internal Revenue Code.  If finalized as proposed, the investment-related information and support that our advisors and employees could provide to plan sponsors, participants and IRA holders on a non-fiduciary basis could be substantially limited beyond what is allowed under current law.  This could have a material impact on the level and type of services we can provide as well as the nature and amount of compensation and fees we and our advisors and employees may receive for investment-related services.  This proposal has generated substantial public comment and as a result, it is likely that any final regulation will be different from the proposal.  On September 19, 2011, the DOL announced that it would re-




propose the regulation in early 2012.  The exact nature of any re-proposed regulation, the extent of any substantive changes from the originally proposed regulation and any potential effect on our businesses is undeterminable as this time.



Federal Tax Legislation



In May 2003, the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 (“JGTRRA”) was enacted.  Individual taxpayers are the principal beneficiaries of JGTRRA, which accelerated certain of the income tax rate reductions enacted originally under the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 ( “EGTRRA”), as well as reduced the long-term capital gains and dividend tax rates to 15%.  On May 17, 2006, the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2006 (“TIPRA”) was signed into law.  TIPRA extended the lower capital gains and dividends rates through the end of 2010.  EGTRRA also included provisions that eliminated the estate tax for a single year in 2010, while also replacing the step-up in basis rule applicable to property held in a decedent’s estate with a modified carryover basis rule.  The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010 extended for two years through 2012 all of the lower individual tax rates and set the estate tax rate at 35% with a personal exemption of $5 million.  Should these provisions not be extended beyond 2012, the higher marginal tax rates on individuals could have a positive impact upon the sale of insurance and annuity products.





Health Care Reform Legislation



In March 2010, the President signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which was subsequently amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act.  This legislation, as well as subsequent state and federal laws and regulations, includes provisions that provide for additional taxes to help finance the cost of these reforms, and substantive changes and additions to health care and related laws, which could potentially impact some of our lines of businesses.



Patriot Act



The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 includes anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws as well as various regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies.  Financial institutions are required to collect information regarding the identity of their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions.  As a result, we are required to maintain certain internal compliance practices, procedures and controls.



ERISA Considerations



ERISA is a comprehensive federal statute that applies to U.S. employee benefit plans sponsored by private employers and labor unions.  Plans subject to ERISA include pension and profit sharing plans and welfare plans, including health, life and disability plans.  ERISA provisions include reporting and disclosure rules, standards of conduct that apply to plan fiduciaries and prohibitions on transactions known as “prohibited transactions,” such as conflict-of-interest transactions and certain transactions between a benefit plan and a party in interest.  ERISA also provides for a scheme of civil and criminal penalties and enforcement.  Our insurance, asset management, plan administrative services and other businesses provide services to employee benefit plans subject to ERISA, including services where we may act as an ERISA fiduciary.  In addition to ERISA regulation of businesses providing products and services to ERISA plans, we become subject to ERISA’s prohibited transaction rules for transactions with those plans, which may affect our ability to enter transactions, or the terms on which transactions may be entered, with those plans, even in businesses unrelated to those giving rise to party in interest status.



Broker-Dealer and Securities Regulation



In addition to being registered under the Securities Act of 1933, some of our separate accounts as well as mutual funds that we sponsor are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and the shares of certain of these






entities are qualified for sale in some or all states and the District of Columbia.  We also have several subsidiaries that are registered as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”) and are subject to federal and state regulation, including but not limited to the Financial Industry Regulation Authority’s (“FINRA”) net capital rules.  In addition, we have several subsidiaries that are investment advisors registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.  Agents and employees registered or associated with any of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the Exchange Act and to examination requirements and regulation by the SEC, FINRA and state securities commissioners.  Regulation also extends to various LNC entities that employ or control those individuals.  The SEC and other governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the U.S., have the power to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension and termination or limitation of the activities of the regulated entity or its employees.



Environmental Considerations



Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations apply to our ownership and operation of real property.  Inherent in owning and operating real property are the risk of hidden environmental liabilities and the costs of any required clean-up.  Under the laws of certain states, contamination of a property may give rise to a lien on the property to secure recovery of the costs of clean-up, which could adversely affect our commercial mortgage lending.  In several states, this lien has priority over the lien of an existing mortgage against such property.  In addition, in some states and under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”), we may be liable, as an “owner” or “operator,” for costs of cleaning-up releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at a property mortgaged to us.  We also risk environmental liability when we foreclose on a property mortgaged to us.  Federal legislation provides for a safe harbor from CERCLA liability for secured lenders that foreclose and sell the mortgaged real estate, provided that certain requirements are met.  However, there are circumstances in which actions taken could still expose us to CERCLA liability.  Application of various other federal and state environmental laws could also result in the imposition of liability on us for costs associated with environmental hazards.



We routinely conduct environmental assessments for real estate we acquire for investment and before taking title through foreclosure to real property collateralizing mortgages that we hold.  Although unexpected environmental liabilities can always arise, based on these environmental assessments and compliance with our internal procedures, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any clean-up of properties would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.



Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property.  We have implemented a patent strategy designed to protect innovative aspects of our products and processes which we believe distinguish us from competitors.  We currently own several issued U.S. patents and have additional patent applications pending in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.



We regard our patents as valuable assets and intend to vigorously protect them against infringement.  However, complex legal and factual determinations and changes in patent law make protection uncertain, and while we believe our patents provide us with a competitive advantage, we cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending patent applications or that any issued patents will have sufficient breadth to offer meaningful protection.  In addition, our issued patents may be successfully challenged, invalidated, circumvented or found unenforceable so that our patent rights would not create an effective competitive barrier.



Finally, we have an extensive portfolio of trademarks and service marks that we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, including, among others, the trademarks of the Lincoln National and Lincoln Financial names, the Lincoln silhouette logo and the combination of these marks.  Trademark registrations may be renewed indefinitely subject to continued use and registration requirements.  We regard our trademarks as valuable assets in marketing our products and services and intend to protect them against infringement and dilution.



EMPLOYEES



As of December 31, 2011, we had a total of 8,564 employees.  In addition, we had a total of 1,159 planners and agents who had active sales contracts with one of our insurance subsidiaries.  None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements.  We consider our employee relations to be good.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Exchange Act.  The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at






1-800-SEC-0330.  Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, including LNC, that file electronically with the SEC.  The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.



We also make available, free of charge, on or through our Internet website http://www.lincolnfinancial.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.



The information on the website listed above is not, and should not, be considered part of this annual report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated by reference in this document.  This website is, and is only intended to be, an inactive textual reference.



