Item 1.Business



OVERVIEW



Lincoln National Corporation (“LNC,” which also may be referred to as “Lincoln,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is a holding company, which operates multiple insurance and retirement businesses through subsidiary companies.  Through our business segments, we sell a wide range of wealth protection, accumulation and retirement income products and solutions.  These products include fixed and indexed annuities, variable annuities, universal life insurance (“UL”), variable universal life insurance (“VUL”), linked-benefit UL, term life insurance, indexeduniversal life insurance (“IUL”), employer-sponsored retirement plans and services, and group life, disability and dental.  LNC was organized under the laws of the state of Indiana in 1968.  We currently maintain our principal executive offices in Radnor, Pennsylvania.  “Lincoln Financial Group” is the marketing name for LNC and its subsidiary companies.  As of December 31, 2014, LNC had consolidated assets of $253.4billion and consolidated stockholders’ equity of $15.7billion.



We provide products and services and report results through four segments as follows:





Business SegmentsAnnuitiesRetirement Plan ServicesLife InsuranceGroup Protection



We also have Other Operations, which includes the financial data for operations that are not directly related to the business segments.



The results of Lincoln Financial Network (“LFN”) and Lincoln Financial Distributors (“LFD”), our retail and wholesale distributors, respectively, are included in the segments for which they distribute products.  LFD distributes our individual products and services, retirement plans and corporate-owned UL and VUL (“COLI”) and bank-owned UL and VUL (“BOLI”) products and services.  The distribution occurs primarily through consultants, brokers, planners, agents, financial advisors, third-party administrators (“TPAs”) and other intermediaries.  Group Protection distributes its products and services primarily through employee benefit brokers, TPAs and other employee benefitfirms.  As of December 31, 2014, LFD had approximately610internal and external wholesalers (including sales managers).  As of December 31, 2014, LFN offered LNC and non-proprietary products and advisory services through a national network of approximately8,460active producers who placed business with us within the last 12 months.



Financial information in the tables that follow is presented in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), unless otherwise indicated.  We provide revenues, income (loss) from operations and assets attributable to each of our business segments and Other Operations in Note 22.  Assets, revenues and earnings attributable to foreign activities were not material in the periods presented.



Acquisitions and Dispositions



On July 25, 2011, Newton CountyLoan & Savings, FSB (“NCLS”), our wholly-owned subsidiary, submitted a voluntary plan of dissolution with the Officer of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”).  The OCC approved NCLS’s voluntary dissolution effective November 30, 2011.



On December7, 2014, we entered into astockpurchase agreement with Entercom Communications Corp. (“EntercomParent”)and Entercom Radio, LLC (“Entercom”), pursuant to which we agreed to sell Lincoln Financial Media Company, our media properties,to Entercom for $105 million consisting of cash and perpetual cumulative convertible preferred stock of Entercom Parent.  The transactionis subject toFederalCommunications Commission, Hart-Scott-Rodino (“H-S-R”) and other customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions.  As a result of a request for additional information under the H-S-R Act, closing may be delayed beyond the second quarter of 2015.



For further information about acquisitions and divestitures, see Note 3.












BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND OTHER OPERATIONS



ANNUITIES



Overview



The Annuities segment provides tax-deferred investment growth and lifetime income opportunities for its clients by offering fixed (including indexed) and variable annuities.  The “fixed” and “variable” classifications describe whether we or the contract holders bear the investment risk of the assets supporting the contract.  This also determines the manner in which we earn investment margin profits from these products, either as investment spreads for fixed products or as asset-based fees charged to variable products.



Annuities have several features that are attractive to customers.First, annuities are unique in that contract holders can select a variety of payout alternatives to help provide an income flow for life.  Many annuity contracts include guarantee features (living and death benefits) that are not found in any other investment vehicle and, we believe, make annuities attractive especially in times of economic uncertainty.Second, annuities offertax-deferred growth on the underlying principal, thereby deferring the tax consequences of the growth in value until withdrawals are made from the accumulation values, often at lower tax rates occurring during retirement.



Products



In general, an annuity is a contract between an insurance company and an individual or group in which the insurance company, after receipt of one or more premium payments, agrees to pay an amount of money either in one lump sum or on a periodic basis (i.e., annually, semi-annually, quarterly or monthly), beginning on a certain date and continuing for a period of time as specified in the contract or as requested.  Periodic payments can begin within 12 months after the premium is received (referred to as an immediate annuity) or at a future date in time (referred to as a deferred annuity).  This retirement vehicle helps protect an individual from outliving his or her money.



Variable Annuities



A variable annuity provides the contract holder the ability to direct the investment of premium deposits into one or morevariablesub-accounts(“variable funds”)offered through the product (“variable portion”) and into a fixed account with a guaranteed return (“fixed portion”).  The value of the variable portion of the contract holder’s account varies with the performance of the underlyingvariable fundschosen by the contract holder.



Ourvariable fundsinclude theManaged RiskStrategies fund options, a series of funds that embed volatilityriskmanagement and, with some funds, capital protectionstrategies, inside the funds themselves.  These funds, introduced in late 2011,seek toreduce equity market risk for both the contract holder and us.  As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, theManaged Risk Strategiesfunds totaled $28.7 billion and $20.2 billion, or 28%and 21%of totalvariable annuity account values, respectively.



We charge mortality and expense assessments and administrative fees on variable annuity accounts to cover insurance and administrative expenses.  These assessments are built into accumulation unit values, which when multiplied by the number of units owned for anyvariable fundequals the contract holder’s account value for thatvariable fund.  In addition, for some contracts, we impose surrender charges, which are typically applicable during the early years of the annuity contract, with a declining level of surrender charges over time.



We offer guaranteed benefit riders with certain of our variable annuity products, such as a guaranteed death benefit (“GDB”), a guaranteed withdrawal benefit (“GWB”), a guaranteed income benefit (“GIB”) and a combination of such benefits.



The GDB features offered in 2014included those where we contractually guarantee to the contract holder that upon death, depending on the particular product, we will return no less than:  the current contract value; the total deposits made to the contract, adjusted to reflect any partial withdrawals; the highest contract value on a specified anniversary date adjusted to reflect any partial withdrawals following the contract anniversary; or the current contract value plus a specified percentage of contract earnings, not to exceed a covered earnings limit.



In 2014, we offered product riders including theLincoln Lifetime IncomeSMAdvantage 2.0(Managed Risk)andLincolnLifetime IncomeSMAdvantage 2.0riders, which are hybrid benefit riders combining aspects of GWB and GIB.  These benefit riders allow the contract holder the ability to take income at a maximum rate of up to 5% of the guaranteed amount when they are above the lifetime income age or income throughi4LIFE® Advantage with the GIB.Lincoln Lifetime IncomeAdvantage 2.0(Managed Risk)andLincoln Lifetime IncomeAdvantage 2.0ridersprovide higher income if the contract holder delays withdrawals, including both a 5% enhancement to the guaranteed amount each year a withdrawal is not taken for a specified period of time and an annual step-up of the guaranteed amount to the current contract value.  Contract holders underLincoln Lifetime IncomeAdvantage 2.0(Managed Risk)are subject to the allocation of their accountvalueto ourManaged RiskStrategiesfund options and certain fixed-income options.  Contract holders underLincoln Lifetime IncomeAdvantage 2.0are subject torestrictions onthe allocation of their account value within the various investment choices.



Wealso offered thei4LIFE® Advantage,i4LIFE® AdvantageGuaranteed Income Benefit(Managed Risk)andi4LIFE® Advantage Guaranteed Income Benefitriders.  These riders, which are covered by U.S. patents, allow variable annuity contract holders access and control duringa portion ofthe income distribution phase of their contract.  This added flexibility allows the contract holder to access the account value for transfers, additional withdrawals and other service features like portfolio rebalancing.  In general, GIB is an optional








feature available withi4LIFEAdvantage and a non-optional feature oni4LIFEAdvantageGuaranteed Income Benefit (Managed Risk) andi4LIFEAdvantage Guaranteed Income Benefitthat guarantees regular income payments will not fall below the greater of a minimum income floor set at benefit issue and 75% of the highest income payment on a specified anniversary date (reduced for any subsequent withdrawals).  Contract holders underi4LIFEAdvantageGuaranteed Income Benefit (Managed Risk)are subject to the allocation of their account value to our Managed RiskStrategiesfund options and certain fixed-income options.Contract holders underi4LIFEAdvantage Guaranteed Income Benefit are subject torestrictions onthe allocation of their account valuewithin the various investment choices.



We also offered the4LATER® Advantage (Managed Risk) rider.  This rider providesa minimum income base used to determine the GIB floor when a client begins income payments underi4LIFEAdvantage Guaranteed Income Benefit (Managed Risk).4LATERAdvantage (Managed Risk) riderprovides growth during the accumulation phase through both a 5% enhancement to the income base each year a withdrawal is not taken for a specified period of time and an annual step-up of the income base to the current contract value.  Contract holders underthe4LATERAdvantage(Managed Risk)riderare subject to the allocation of their account value to our Managed RiskStrategiesfund options and certain fixed-income options.



We design and actively manage the features and structure of our guaranteed benefit riders to maintain a competitive suite of products consistent with profitability and risk management goals.  To mitigate the increased risks associated with guaranteed benefits, we developed a dynamic hedging program.  The customized dynamic hedging program uses equity, interest rateand currency futures positions, interest rate and total return swapsand equity-based options depending upon the risks underlying the guarantees.  For more information on our hedging program, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Derivatives” and “Realized Gain (Loss) and Benefit Ratio Unlocking” in the MD&A.  For information regarding risks related to guaranteed benefits, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Market Conditions – Changes in the equity markets, interest rates and/or volatility affect the profitability of our products with guaranteed benefits; therefore, such changes may have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.”



In 2014, we also launchedLincoln Investor AdvantageSM, an investment-focused variable annuity product delivering tax efficient growth and income without associated guaranteed benefit riders.



Although we do not have any significant concentration of customers, our American Legacy Variable Annuity (“ALVA”) product is significant to this segment.  The ALVA product accountedfor 20%,17% and19%ofour variable annuity product deposits in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and represented44%,47% and50%of the segment’s total variable annuity product account values as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  In addition, fund choices for certain of our other variable annuity products offered includeAmerican Fund Insurance SeriesSM(“AFIS”) funds.  AFIS funds accounted for22%,19% and21%of variableannuity product deposits in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and represented50%,54% and58%of the segment’s total variable annuity product account values as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.



Fixed Annuities



A fixed annuity preserves the principal value of the contract while guaranteeing a minimum interest rate to be credited to the accumulation value.  Our fixed annuity product offerings as of December 31, 2014, consisted of traditional fixed-rate and fixed indexed deferred annuities, as well as fixed-rate immediateand deferred incomeannuities with various payment options, including lifetime incomes.Fixed annuity contracts are general account obligations.  We bear the investment risk for fixed annuity contracts.  To protect from premature withdrawals, we impose surrender charges.  Surrender charges are typically applicable during the early years of the annuity contract, with a declining level of surrender charges over time.  We expect to earn a spread between what we earn on the underlying general account investments supporting the fixed annuity product line and what we credit to our fixed annuity contract holders’ accounts.



We offer single and flexible premium fixed deferred annuities.  Single premium fixed deferred annuities are contracts that allow only a single premium to be paid.  Flexible premium fixed deferred annuities are contracts that allow multiple premium payments on either a scheduled or non-scheduled basis.



Our traditional fixed-rate deferred annuity products includeLincoln ClassicSolutionSMFixed Annuity,Lincoln SelectSM,Lincoln Smart CourseSMFixed Annuity andLincoln MYGuaranteeSMPlus Fixed Annuity.We also offer income annuities, including an immediate income annuity,Lincoln Insured IncomeSMAnnuity, and deferred income annuities,Lincoln Deferred Income SolutionsSMAnnuity andLincoln Deferred Income PlannerSMAnnuity.



Our fixed indexed deferred annuity products includeLincoln OptiPoint®,Lincoln OptiChoiceSM,Lincoln New Directions®and Prime Income OptimizerTM.  Our fixed indexed annuities providethe contract holderwithinterestcrediting potentialbased on the performance of the Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) 500 Index® (“S&P 500”).  The indexed interestcreditis guaranteed never to be less than zero.  Available with certain of our fixed indexed annuities,LincolnLifetimeIncomeSMEdge providesthe contract holder a guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit.  Withdrawals in excess of the free amount are assessed any applicable surrender charges, and the guaranteed withdrawal amount is recalculated.  We use derivatives to hedge the equity market risk associated with our fixed indexed annuity products.  For more information on our hedging program, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Derivatives” and “Realized Gain (Loss) and Benefit Ratio Unlocking” in the MD&A.












Distribution



The Annuities segment distributes its individual fixed and variable annuity products through LFD.  LFD’s distribution channels give the Annuities segment access to its target markets.  LFD distributes the segment’s products to a large number of financial intermediaries, including LFN.  The financial intermediaries include wire/regional firms, independent financial planners, financial institutions and managing general agents.



Competition



The annuities market is very competitive and consists of many companies, with no one company dominating the market for all products.  The Annuities segment competes with numerous other financial services companies.  The main factors upon which entities in this market compete are distribution channel access and the quality of wholesalers, investment performance, cost, product features, speed to market, brand recognition, financial strength ratings, crediting rates and client service.



RETIREMENT PLAN SERVICES



Overview



The Retirement Plan Services segment provides employers with retirement plan products and services, primarily in the defined contribution retirement plan marketplace.  While our focus is employer-sponsored defined contribution plans, we also serve the defined benefit plan and individual retirement account (“IRA”) markets.  We provide a variety of plan investment vehicles, including individual and group variable annuities, group fixed annuities and mutual fund-based programs.  We also offer a broad array of plan services including plan recordkeeping, compliance testing, participant education and trust and custodial services through our affiliated trust company, the Lincoln Financial Group Trust Company.



Defined contribution plans are a popular employee benefit offered by many employers across a wide spectrum of industries and by employers large and small.  Retirement Plan Services primarily focuses on themid to largemarket, which accountedfor 52%of this segment’s total assets under management as of December 31, 2014.  In addition, Retirement Plan Services focuses on the small market 401(k) business, which accounted for16%of this segment’s total assets under management as of December 31, 2014.



Products and Services



The Retirement Plan Services segment currently brings three primary offerings to the employer-sponsored market:  LINCOLN DIRECTORSMgroup variable annuity,LINCOLN ALLIANCE® programandMulti-Fund® variable annuity.  Retirement Plan Services also provides a series of IRA products, including theLincoln Next Step®and theLincoln Next Step SelectSMIRA.Additionally, in 2014 we introduced theLincoln Secured Retirement IncomeSM, a new GWB product available through a group variable annuity contract.



LINCOLN DIRECTOR andMulti-Fundproducts are variable annuities.  TheLINCOLN ALLIANCEprogram isamutual fund-basedrecord-keeping platform.  These offerings primarily cover the 403(b),401(k)and 457 planmarketplace.  The 403(b) plans are available to employees of educational institutions, not-for-profit healthcare organizations and certain other not-for-profit entities;401(k) plans are generally available to employees of for-profit entities; and 457 plans are available to employees of not-for-profit entities and state and local government entities.  The investment options for our annuities encompass the spectrum of asset classes with varying levels of risk and includeboth equity and fixed-income.



LINCOLN DIRECTORgroup variable annuity is a 401(k) defined contribution retirement plan solution available to small businesses, typically those with plans having less than$2million in account values.  The LINCOLN DIRECTORproduct offers participants a broad array of investment options from several fund families and a fixed account.  The Retirement Plan Services segment earns revenue through asset charges, investment management fees, surrender charges and recordkeeping fees from this product.  We also receive fees from the underlying mutual fund companies for the services we provide, and we earn investment margins on assets in the fixed account.



TheLINCOLN ALLIANCEprogram is a defined contribution retirement plan solution aimed at mid to large employers, typically those that have defined contribution planswith $2 millionor more in account value.  The target market is primarily corporations, educational institutions,healthcare providersand public sector employers.  The program bundles our traditional fixed annuity products with the employer’s choice of mutual funds, along with recordkeeping, plan compliance services and customized employee education services.  The program allows the use of any mutual fund.  We earn fees for our recordkeepingand educational services and otherservicesthatwe provide toplan sponsors and participants.  We also earn investment margins on fixed annuities.



Multi-FundVariable Annuity is a defined contribution retirement plan solution with full-bundled administrative services and investment choices forsmall- to mid-sized healthcare, education, governmental and not-for-profit plans.  The productis availableto the employer through theMulti-Fundgroup variable annuity contract or directly to the individual through theMulti-FundSelect variable annuity contract.  We earn mortality and expense charges, investment income on the fixed account and surrender charges from this product.  We also receive fees for services that we provide to funds in theunderlying separate accounts.



TheLincolnNextStepseries of productsis asuite of mutual fund-basedIRAsavailable exclusively for participantsinLincoln-serviced retirement plans and their spouses.  The productscan accept rollovers and transfers from otherproviders as well as ongoing








contributions.TheLincoln Next StepIRAproduct has no annual account charges and offers an array of mutual fund investment options provided by 20 fund families all offered at net asset value.TheLincoln Next Step SelectIRA has an annual record keeping charge and offers an even wider array of mutual fund investment options from more than 20 families, all at net asset value.We earn 12b-1and servicefees on the mutual funds within the product.



In 2014, Retirement Plan Services developed and launched theLincoln Secured Retirement IncomeSMproduct, a GWB available through group variable annuity contracts.



Distribution



Retirement Plan Services products are primarily distributed in two ways:through our Institutional Retirement Distribution team and by LFD.  Wholesalersdistribute these products through advisors, consultants, banks, wirehouses, TPAs and individual planners.  We expanded the distribution of the segment’s products by growing the number of wholesalers as of the end of 2014 to 71and also by other means including continuing to increase relationship management expertise and growing the number of broker-dealer relationships.



TheMulti-Fund® program is sold primarily by affiliated advisors.  TheLINCOLN ALLIANCE® program is sold primarily through consultants, registered independent advisors,andbothaffiliatedand non-affiliatedfinancialadvisors, planners and wirehouses.  LINCOLN DIRECTORSMgroup variable annuity is sold in the small marketplace by intermediaries, including financial advisors, TPAs, planners and wirehouses.



Competition



The retirement plan marketplace is very competitive and is comprised of many providers with no one company dominating the market for all products.  As stated above, we compete in the small, mid and large markets.  We compete with numerous other financial services companies.  The main factors upon which entities in this market compete are distribution channel access and the quality of wholesalers, investment performance, cost, product features, speed to market, brand recognition, financial strength ratings, crediting rates, client service and client compliance and fiduciary services.



LIFE INSURANCE



Overview



The Life Insurance segment focuses on the creation and protection of wealth for its clients by providing life insurance products, including term insurance,both single (including COLI and BOLI) and survivorship versions of UL, VUL and IUL products, alinked-benefit product(which is UL with riders providing for long-term care costs) and a critical illness rider, which can be attached to UL, VUL or IUL policies.Some of ourproductsinclude secondary guarantees, which are discussed more fully below.



Generally, this segment has higher sales during the second half of the year with the fourth quarter being the strongest.



Mortalitymargins, morbidity margins, investment margins, expense marginsand surrender fees drive life insurance profits.  Mortality margins, morbidity margins, and some expense assessments are a function of the rates priced into the product and level of insurance in force.  Insurance in force, in turn, is driven by sales, persistency and mortality experience.



Similar to the annuity product classifications described above, life products can be classified as “fixed” (includingindexed) or “variable” contracts.  This classification describes whether we or the contract holders bear the investment risk of the assets supporting the policy.  This also determines the manner in which we earn investment margin profits from these products, either as investment spreads for fixed products or as asset-based fees charged to variable products.



Products



We offer four categories of life insurance products consisting of:



Interest-Sensitive Life Insurance



Interest-sensitive life insurance products provide life insurance with account values that earn rates of return based on company-declared interest rates.  Contract holder account values are invested in our general account investment portfolio, so we bear the risk of investment performance.



In a UL contract, contract holders typically have flexibility in the timing and amount of premium payments and the amount of death benefit, provided there is sufficient account value to cover all policy charges for mortality and expenses for the coming period.  Under certain contract holder options and market conditions, the death benefit amount may increase or decrease.  Premiums received on a UL product, net of expense loads and charges, are added to the contract holder’s account value.  The client has access to their account value (or a portion thereof), less surrender charges and policy loan payoffs, through contractual liquidity features such as loans, partial withdrawals and full surrenders.  Loans and withdrawals reduce the death benefit amount payable and are limited to certain contractual maximums (some of which are required under state law),and interest is charged on all loans.Our UL contracts assess surrender charges








against the policies’ account values for full or partial surrendersand certain policy changesthat occur during the contractual surrender charge period.  Depending on the product selected, surrender charge periods can rangefrom 0 to 25years.



We also offer fixedIUL products that function similarly to a traditional UL policy, with the added flexibility of allowing contract holders to have portions of theiraccount values earn credits based on the performance of indexessuch as the S&P 500 or the 10-year Treasury yield.



As mentioned previously, we offer survivorship versions of our individualUL and IUL products.  These products insure two lives with a single policy and pay death benefits upon the second death.



Reserves on UL products with secondary guarantees represented approximately 30% of total life reserves for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.A UL policy with a secondary guarantee can stay in force, even if the base policy cash value is zero, as long as secondary guarantee requirements have been met.  The secondary guarantee requirement is basedon the payment of a required minimum premium oron the evaluation of a reference value within the policy, calculated in a manner similar to the base policy account value, but using different assumptions as to expense charges, cost of insurance charges and credited interest.The assumptions for the secondary guarantee requirement are listed in the contract.  As long as the contract holder funds the policy to a level that keeps this calculated reference value positive, the death benefit will be guaranteed.  The reference value has no actual monetary value to the contract holder; it is only a calculated value used to determine whether or not the policy will lapse should the base policycash value be less than zero.



Our secondary guarantee benefits maintain the flexibility of a traditional UL policy, which allows a contract holder to take loans or withdrawals.  Although loans and withdrawals are likely to shorten the time period of theGDB, the guarantee is not automatically or completely forfeited.  The length of the guarantee may be increased at any time through additional excess premium deposits.



VUL



VUL products are UL products that provide a return on account values linked to an underlying investment portfolio ofvariable fundsoffered through the product.  The value of the contract holder’s account varies with the performance of thevariable fundschosen by the contract holder.  As the return on the investment portfolio increases or decreases, the account value of the VUL policy will increase or decrease.  As with fixed UL products, contract holders have access, within contractual maximums, to account values through loans, withdrawals and surrenders.  Surrender charges are assessed during the surrender charge period, rangingfrom 0 to 20 yearsdepending on the product.



In addition, VUL products offer a fixed account option that is managed by us.  Investment risk is borne by the customer on all but the fixed account option.



We also offer survivorship versionsof our individual VUL products.  These products insure two lives with a single policy and pay death benefits upon the second death.  Our COLI products are also VUL-type products.



Linked-Benefit Life Productsand Products with Critical Illness Riders



Linked-benefit life products combine ULwith long-term care insurancethrough the use of riders.One type ofrider allows the contract holder to accelerate death benefits on a tax-free basis in the event of aqualified long-term care need, reducing the remaining death benefit.Anotherrider extends the long-term care insurance benefits for an additional period of time if the death benefit is fully accelerated.  Certain policiesalso provide a reduced death benefit to the contract holder’s beneficiary if thedeath benefit has been fullyacceleratedas long-term care benefits duringthe contract holder’slife.



Some life products provide for critical illness insurance by the use of riders attached to UL, VUL or IUL policies.  These riders allow the contract holder to accelerate death benefits on a tax-free basis in the event of a qualified critical illness condition.



Term Life Insurance



Term life insurance provides a fixed death benefit for a scheduled period of time.Some of our term life insurance products give the policy holder the option to reduce the death benefit at a future time.  They usually donot offer cash values.  Scheduled policy premiums are required to be paid at least annually.



Distribution



The Life Insurance segment’s products are sold through LFD.  LFD provides the Life Insurance segment with access to financial intermediaries in the following primary distribution channels:  wire/regional firms; independent planner firms (including LFN); financial institutions; and managing general agents/independent marketing organizations.  LFD distributes COLI and BOLI products and services to small- to mid-sized banks and mid- to large-sized corporations, primarilythrough 28 intermediarieswho specialize in one or both of these markets and who are serviced through a network of internal and external LFD sales professionals.












Competition



The life insurance industry is very competitive and consists of many companies with no one company dominating the market for all products.As of the end of 2013, the latest year for which data is available, there were 850life insurance companies in the U.S. and U.S. territories, according to the American Council of Life Insurers.



The Life Insurance segment primarily targets the affluent to high net worth markets, definedas households with at least $1 millionof financial assets.  For those individual policies we sold in2014, the average face amount (excludingMoneyGuard® products) wasapproximately$1 millionandaverage first year premiums paid wereapproximately$20,000.  TheLife Insurance segment competes primarily on product design and customer service.  With respect to customer service, management tracks the speed, accuracy and responsiveness of service to customers’ calls and transaction requests.  Further, management tracks the turnaround time and quality for various client services such as processing of applications.  Additional competitive factors relevant to the Life Insurance segment include product breadth, speed to market, underwriting and risk management, financial strength ratings and extent of distribution network.



Underwriting



In the context of life insurance, underwriting is the process of evaluating medical and non-medical information about an individual and determining the effect these factors statistically have on mortality.  This process of evaluation is often referred to as risk classification.  Of course, no one can accurately predict how long any individual will live, but certain risk factors can affect life expectancy and are evaluated during the underwriting process.



Claims Administration



Claims services arehandled in-house, and claims examiners are assigned to each claim notification based on coverage amount, type of claim and the experience of the examiner.  Claims meeting certain criteria are referred to senior claimsexaminers.  A formal quality assurance program is carried out to ensure the consistency and effectiveness of claims examining activities.  A network of in-house legal counsel, compliance officers, medical personnel and an anti-fraud investigative unit also support claimsexaminers.  A special team of claims examiners, in conjunction with claims management, focus on more complex claims matters such as claims incurred during the contestable period, beneficiary disputes andlitigated claims.



GROUP PROTECTION



Overview



The Group Protection segment offers group non-medical insurance products, principally term life, disability and dental, to the employer marketplace through various forms of employee-paid and employer-paid plans.  Although the majorityof the segment’s group contracts are sold to employerswith fewer than 500 employees, we may target some products specifically to employers with greater than 500 employees.  For additional information on our employee-paid and employer-paid business, see “Results of Group Protection–Income (Loss) from Operations” in the MD&A.



Products



Life Insurance



We offer employer-sponsored group term life insurance products including basic, optional and voluntary term life insurance to employees and their dependents.  Additional benefits may be provided in the event of a covered individual’s accidental death or dismemberment.



Wealsooffer employer-sponsored universal life insurance for employees and their covered dependents.  The universal life product is purchased on an employee paid basis.



Group Disability Insurance



We offer short- and long-term employer-sponsored group disability insurance, which protects an employee against loss of wages due to illness or injury.  Short-term disability generally provides benefits for up to 26 weeks following a short waiting period, ranging from 1 to 30 days.  Long-term disability provides benefits following a longer waiting period, usually between 30 and 180 days and provides benefits for a longer period, at least 2 years and typically extending to normal (Social Security) retirement age.The benefits paid are subject to Social Security offsets.














Group Dental, Vision and Medical



We offera variety ofemployer-sponsored group dental insuranceplans, which cover a portion of the cost of eligible dental procedures for employees and their dependents.  Products offered include indemnity coverage, which does not distinguish benefits based on a dental provider’s participation in a network arrangement, and a Preferred Provider Organization (“PPO”) product that does reflect the dental provider’s participation in the PPO network arrangement, includinganagreement with network fee schedules.



We offer comprehensive employer-sponsored fully-insured vision plans with a wide range of benefits for protecting covered members’ sight and vision health.  All plans provide access to a national network of providers, with in- and out-of-network benefits.



Accident and Critical Illness Insurance



We offer employer-sponsored group accident insurance products for employees and their covered dependents.  This product is predominantly purchased on an employee-paid basis.  Accident insurance provides scheduled benefits for over 30 types of benefit triggers related to accidental causes, and it is available for non-occupational accidents exclusively or on a 24-hour coverage basis.



We offer employer-sponsored group critical illness insurance to employees and their covered dependents.  This product is predominantly purchased on an employee-paid basis.  The coverage provides for lump sum payouts upon the occurrence of one of the specified critical illness benefit triggers covered within a critical illness insurance policy.  This product also includes LincolnCareCompassSM, a package of benefits and services that assists employees and their family members in prevention, early detection and treatment of critical illness events.



Distribution



The segment’s products are marketed primarily through a national distribution system, including approximately 180managers and marketing representatives.  The managers and marketing representatives develop business through employee benefit brokers, TPAs and other employee benefit firms that work with employers to provide access to our products.



Competition



The group protection marketplace is very competitive.  Principal competitive factors include particular product features, price, quality of customer service and claims management, technological capabilities and financial strength ratings.  In this market, the Group Protection segment competes with a limited number of major companies and selected other companies that focus on these products.



Underwriting



The Group Protection segment’s underwriters evaluate the risk characteristics of each employee group.  Generally, the relevant characteristics evaluated include employee census information (such as age, gender, income and occupation), employer industry classification, geographic location, benefit design elements and other factors.  The segment employs detailed underwriting policies, guidelines and procedures designed to assist the underwriter to properly assess and quantify risks.  The segment uses technology to efficiently review, price and issue smaller cases, utilizing its underwriting staff on larger, more complex cases.  Individual underwriting techniques (including evaluation of individual medical history information) may be used on certain covered individuals selecting larger benefit amounts.  For voluntary and other forms of employee paid coverages, minimum participation requirements are used to obtain a better spread of risk and minimize the risk of anti-selection.



Claims Administration



Claims for the Group Protection segment are managed by in-house claim specialists and outsourced third-party resources.  Claims are evaluated for eligibility and payment of benefits pursuant to the group insurance contract and in compliance with federal and state regulations.  Disability claims management is especially important to segment results, as results depend on both the incidence and the length of approved disability claims.In July 2014, Group Protection introduced a new claims management system and is continuing to work through its implementation.The segment employs a variety of clinical experts, including internal and external medical professionals and rehabilitation specialists, to evaluate medically supported functional capabilities, assess employability and develop return to work plans.  Dental claims management focuses on assisting plan administrators and members with the rising costs of insurance by utilizing tools to optimize dental claims payment accuracy through advanced claims review and validation, improved data analysis, enhanced clinical review of claims and provider utilization monitoring.



OTHER OPERATIONS



Other Operations includes the financial data for operations that are not directly related to the business segments.  Other Operations includes investments related to the excess capital in our insurance subsidiaries; corporate investments; benefit plan net liability; the unamortized deferred gain on indemnity reinsurance related to the sale to Swiss Re Life & Health America, Inc. (“Swiss Re”) in 2001; the results of certain disability income business; our run-off Institutional Pension business in the form of group annuity and insured funding-type of contracts; and debt.Other Operations also includes our investment in media properties.  In December 2014, we entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell our media properties to Entercom as described above.












REINSURANCE



We follow the industry practice of reinsuring a portion of our life insurance and annuity risks with unaffiliated reinsurers.  In a reinsurance transaction, a reinsurer agrees to indemnify another insurer for part or all of its liability under a policy or policies it has issued for an agreed upon premium.  We use reinsurance to protect our insurance subsidiaries against the severity of losses on individual claims and unusually serious occurrences in which a number of claims produce an aggregate extraordinary loss.  Although reinsurance does not discharge the insurance subsidiaries from their primary liabilities to their contract holders for losses insured under the insurance policies, it does make the assuming reinsurer liable to the insurance subsidiaries for the reinsured portion of the risk.  Because we bear the risk of nonpayment by one or more of our reinsurers, we primarily cede reinsurance to well-capitalized, highly rated reinsurers.



We reinsure approximately 25% of the mortality risk on newly issued life insurance contracts.  As of December 31, 2014, our policy for this program was to retain no more than$20 millionon a single insured life.



Portions of our deferred annuity business have been reinsured on a modified coinsurance (“Modco”) basis with other companies to limit our exposure to interest rate risks.  In a Modco program, the reinsurer shares proportionally in all financial terms of the reinsured policies (i.e., premiums, expenses, claims, etc.) based on their respective quota share of the risk.



In addition, we acquire other reinsurance to cover products other than as discussed above with retentions and limits that management believes are appropriate for the circumstances.



We obtain reinsurance from a diverse group of reinsurers, and we monitor concentration and financial strength ratings of our principal reinsurers.  Swiss Re represents our largest reinsurance exposure.  The amounts recoverable from reinsurers were$5.7billionand $6.0 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, of which $2.5billionand $2.6 billionwererecoverable from Swiss Re related to the sale of our reinsurance business to Swiss Re for the respective periods.



We also utilize inter-company reinsurance agreements to manage our statutory capital position as well as our hedge program for variable annuity guarantees.  These inter-company agreements do not have an effect on our consolidated financial statements.



For more information regarding reinsurance, see “Reinsurance” in the MD&A and Note 9.  For risks involving reinsurance, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors –Operational Matters –We face risks of non-collectabilityof reinsurance and increased reinsurance rates, which could materially affect our results of operations.”



RESERVES



The applicable insurance laws under which insurance companies operate require that they report, as liabilities, policy reserves to meet future obligations on their outstanding policies.  These reserves are the amounts that, with the additional premiums to be received and interest thereon compounded annually at certain assumed rates, are calculated to be sufficient to meet the various policy and contract obligations as they mature.  These laws specify that the reserves shall not be less than reserves calculated using certain specified mortality and morbidity tables, interest rates and methods of valuation.



For more information on reserves, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Derivatives” and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Future Contract Benefits and Other Contract Holder Obligations” in the MD&A.



See “Regulatory” below for information on permitted practices and proposed regulations that may impact the amount of statutory reserves necessary to support our current insurance liabilities.



For risks related to reserves, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Market Conditions – Changes in interest rates and sustained low interest rates may cause interest rate spreads to decrease and changes in interest rates may also result in increased contract withdrawals.”



INVESTMENTS



An important component of our financial results is the return on invested assets.  Our investment strategy is to balance the need for current income with prudent risk management, with an emphasis on generating sufficient current income to meet our obligations.  This approach requires the evaluation of risk and expected return of each asset class utilized, while still meeting our income objectives.  This approach also permits us to be more effective in our asset-liability management because decisions can be made based upon both the economic and current investment income considerations affecting assets and liabilities.  Investments by our insurance subsidiaries must comply with the insurance laws and regulations of the states of domicile.



Derivatives are usedprimarily for hedging purposes and, to a lesser extent,income generation.  Hedging strategies are employed for a number of reasons including, but not limited to, hedging certain portions of our exposure to changes in our GDB, GWB and GIB liabilities, interest rate fluctuations, the widening of bond yield spreadsover comparable maturity U.S. government obligations and credit, foreign exchange and equity risks.  Income generation strategies include credit default swaps through replication synthetic asset transactions.  These derivatives synthetically create exposure in the general account to corporate debt, similar to investing in the credit markets.












For additional information on our investments, including carrying values by category, quality ratings and net investment income, see “Consolidated Investments”in the MD&A, as well as Notes1 and 5.



FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATINGS



The Nationally Recognized Statistical Ratings Organizations rate the financial strength of our principal insurance subsidiaries.



Rating agencies rate insurance companies based on financial strength and the ability to pay claims, factors more relevant to contract holders than investors.  We believe that the ratings assigned by nationally recognized, independent rating agencies are material to our operations.  There may be other rating agencies that also rate our insurance companies, which we do not disclose in our reports.



Insurer Financial Strength Ratings



The insurer financial strength rating scales of A.M. Best, Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”), Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) and S&P are characterized as follows:



·A.M. Best – A++ to S

·Fitch – AAA to C

·Moody’s – Aaa to C

·S&P – AAA to D



As ofFebruary18, 2015,the financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries, as published by the principal rating agencies that rate uswere as follows:





A.M. BestFitchMoody'sS&PInsurer Financial Strength RatingsThe Lincoln National Life Insurance Company ("LNL")A+A+A1AA-(2nd of 16)(5th of 19)(5th of 21)(4th of 22)Lincoln Life & Annuity Company of New York ("LLANY")A+A+A1AA-(2nd of 16)(5th of 19)(5th of 21)(4th of 22)First Penn-Pacific Life Insurance Company ("FPP")AA+A1A-(3rd of 16)(5th of 19)(5th of 21)(7th of 22)



A downgrade of the financial strength rating of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our competitive position in the insurance industry and make it more difficult for us to market our products, as potential customers may select companies with higher financial strength ratings.  Ratings are not recommendations to buy our securities.



Allof our financial strengthratings are on outlook stable.  All of our ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies, and therefore, no assurance can be given that our principal insurance subsidiaries can maintain these ratings.  Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.See “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources of Liquidity and Cash Flow” in the MD&A for a discussion of our credit ratings.



REGULATORY



Insurance Regulation



Our insurance subsidiaries, like other insurance companies, are subject to regulation and supervision by the states, territories and countries in which they are licensed to do business.  The extent of such regulation varies, but generally has its source in statutes that delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to supervisory agencies.  In the U.S., this power is vested in state insurance departments.



In supervising and regulating insurance companies, state insurance departments, charged primarily with protecting contract holders and the public rather than investors, enjoy broad authority and discretion in applying applicable insurance laws and regulation for that purpose.  Our principal insurance subsidiaries, LNL, LLANY and FPP, are domiciled in the states of Indiana, New York and Indiana, respectively.



The insurance departments of the domiciliary states exercise principal regulatory jurisdiction over our insurance subsidiaries.  The extent of regulation by the states varies, but in general, most jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing standards of solvency, adequacy of reserves, reinsurance, capital adequacy, licensing of companies and agents to transact business, prescribing and approving policy forms, regulating premium rates for some lines of business, prescribing the form and content of financial statements and reports, regulating the








type and amount of investments permitted and standards of business conduct.   Insurance company regulation is discussed further under “Insurance Holding Company Regulation” and “Restrictions on Subsidiaries’ Dividends and Other Payments.”



As part of their regulatory oversight process, state insurance departments conduct periodic, generally once every three to five years, examinations of thebooks, records, accountsand business practices of insurers domiciled in their states.During the three-year period ended December 31, 2014, we have not received any material adverse findings resulting from state insurance department examinations of our insurance subsidiaries conducted during this period.



State insurance laws and regulations require our U.S. insurance companies to file financial statements with state insurance departments everywhere they do business, and the operations of our U.S. insurance companies and accounts are subject to examination by those departments at any time.  Our U.S. insurance companies prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with accounting practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by these departments.  The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) has approved a series of statutory accounting principles that have been adopted, in some cases with minor modifications, by virtually all state insurance departments.  Changes in these statutory accounting principles can significantly affect our capital and surplus.  The New York

State

Department of Financial Services (“NYDFS”) does not recognize the NAIC revisions to Actuarial Guideline 38 (“AG38”) in applying New York law governing the reserves to be held for UL and VUL products containing secondary guarantees.  The change, which was effective as of December 31, 2013, impacts our New York-domiciled insurance subsidiary, LLANY

.  LLANY discontinued the sale of these products in early 2013, but the change affects those policies sold prior to that time.

We began phasing in the increase in reserves over five years beginning in 2013.  As of December 31, 2014, we

have

increased reserves by $180 million.  The additional increase in reserves over the ne

xt three years is subject to on

going discussions with the NYDFS.  However, we do not expect the amount for each of the remaining years to exceed $90 million per year.  We do not expect the total reserve increase to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Legislative, Regulatory and Tax – Attempts to mitigate the impact of

Regulation XXX and Actuarial Guideline 38 may fail in whole or in part resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.”



Currently, insurance companies are using a variety of captive reinsurance structures to support their respective businesses.  The NAIC through itsvarious committees, task forcesand working groups has been studying the use of captives and special purpose vehicles to transfer insurance risk and has been evaluating the adequacy of existing NAIC model laws and regulations applicable to captives.Recently,the NAIC adopted new Actuarial Guideline 48 (“AG48”)thatprovides additional restrictions on the type and quality of assets that may be used to support reinsurance transactions on business covered bythe Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Model Regulation (“XXX”)and AG38 effective for new transactions on or after January 1, 2015.  Failure to comply with these requirements will generally result in the appointed actuary being required to issue a qualified actuarial opinion with regard to that reinsurance transaction.  Pre-existing reinsurance arrangements will not be affected by AG48 unless they are modified in certain specified ways on or after January 1, 2015.



For more information on statutory reserving and our use of captive reinsurance structures, see “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources” in the MD&A.



Insurance Holding Company Regulation



LNC and its primary insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation pursuant to the insurance holding company laws of the states of Indiana and New York.  These insurance holding company laws generally require an insurance holding company and insurers that are members of such insurance holding company’s system to register with the insurance department authorities, to file with it certain reports disclosing information, including their capital structure, ownership,management, financial conditionand certain inter-company transactions, including material transfers of assets and inter-company business agreements and to report material changes in that information.  These laws also require that inter-company transactions be fair and reasonable and, under certain circumstances, prior approval of the insurance departments must be received before entering into an inter-company transaction.  Further, these laws require that an insurer’s contract holders’ surplus following any dividends or distributions to shareholder affiliates is reasonable in relation to the insurer’s outstanding liabilities and adequate for its financial needs.



In general, under state holding company regulations, no person may acquire, directly or indirectly, a controlling interest in our capital stock unless such person, corporation or other entity has obtained prior approval from the applicable insurance commissioner for such acquisition of control.  Pursuant to such laws, in general, any person acquiring, controlling or holding the power to vote, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting securities of an insurance company, is presumed to have “control” of such company.  This presumption may be rebutted by a showing that control does not exist in fact.  The insurance commissioner, however, may find that “control” exists in circumstances in which a person owns or controls a smaller amount of voting securities.  To obtain approval from the insurance commissioner of any acquisition of control of an insurance company, the proposed acquirer must file with the applicable commissioner an application containing information regarding: the identity and background of the acquirer and its affiliates; the nature, source and amount of funds to be used to carry out the acquisition; the financial statements of the acquirer and its affiliates; any potential plans for disposition of the securities or business of the insurer; the number and type of securities to be acquired; any contracts with respect to the securities to be acquired; any agreements with broker-dealers; and other matters.



Other jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are licensed to transact business may have similar or additional requirements for prior approval of any acquisition of control of an insurance or reinsurance company licensed or authorized to transact business in those jurisdictions.  Additional requirements in those jurisdictions may include re-licensing or subsequent approval for renewal of existing








licenses upon an acquisition of control.  As further described below, laws that govern the holding company structure also govern payment of dividends to us by our insurance subsidiaries.



Restrictions on Subsidiaries’ Dividends and Other Payments



We are a holding company that transacts substantially all of our business directly and indirectly through subsidiaries.  Our primary assets are the stock of our operating subsidiaries.  Our ability to meet our obligations on our outstanding debt and to pay dividends and our general and administrative expenses depends on the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us.



Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain insurance department regulatory restrictions as to the transfer of funds and payment of dividends to the holding company.  Under Indiana laws and regulations, our Indiana insurance subsidiaries, including our primary insurance subsidiary, LNL, may pay dividends to LNC without prior approval of the Indiana Insurance Commissioner (the “Commissioner”), only from unassigned surplus or must receive prior approval of the Commissioner to pay a dividend if such dividend, along with all other dividends paid within the preceding 12 consecutive months, would exceed the statutory limitation.  The current statutory limitation is the greater of 10% of the insurer’s contract holders’ surplus, as shown on its last annual statement on file with the Commissioner or the insurer’s statutory net gain from operations for the previous 12 months, but in no event to exceed statutory unassigned surplus.  Indiana law gives the Commissioner broad discretion to disapprove requests for dividends in excess of these limits.  LNL’s subsidiary, LLANY, a New York-domiciled insurance company, has similar restrictions, except that in New York it is the lesser of 10% of surplus to contract holders as of the immediately preceding calendar year or net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year, not including realized capital gains.



Indiana law also provides that following the payment of any dividend, the insurer’s contract holders’ surplus must be reasonable in relation to its outstanding liabilities and adequate for its financial needs, and permits the Commissioner to bring an action to rescind a dividend that violates these standards.  In the event the Commissioner determines that the contract holders’ surplus of one subsidiary is inadequate, the Commissioner could use his or her broad discretionary authority to seek to require us to apply payments received from another subsidiary for the benefit of that insurance subsidiary.  For information regarding dividends paid to us during 2014from our insurance subsidiaries, see “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources of Liquidity and Cash Flow” in the MD&A.



Risk-Based Capital



The NAIC has adoptedrisk-based capital (“RBC”)requirements for life insurance companies to evaluate the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus in relation to investment and insurance risks.  The requirements provide a means of measuring the minimum amount of statutory surplus appropriate for an insurance company to support its overall business operations based on its size and risk profile.  There are five major risks involved in determining the requirements:





CategoryNameDescriptionAsset risk–affiliatesC-0Risk of assets' default for certain affiliated investmentsAsset risk–othersC-1Risk of assets' default of principal and interest or fluctuation in fair valueInsurance riskC-2Risk of underestimating liabilities from business already written or inadequately pricingbusiness to be written in the futureInterest rate risk, health creditRisk of losses due to changes in interest rate levels, risk that health benefits prepaid torisk and market riskC-3providers become the obligation of the health insurer once again and risk of loss dueto changes in market levels associated with variable products with guaranteesBusiness riskC-4Risk of general business



A company’s risk-based statutory surplus is calculated by applying factors and performing calculations relating to various asset, premium, claim, expense and reserve items.  Regulators can then measure adequacy of a company’s statutory surplus by comparing it to the RBC determined by the formula.  Under RBC requirements, regulatory compliance is determined by the ratio of a company’s total adjusted capital, as defined by the NAIC, to its company action level of RBC (known as the RBC ratio), also as defined by the NAIC.  Accordingly, factors that have an impact on the total adjusted capital of our insurance subsidiaries, such as the permitted practices discussed above, will also affect their RBC levels.



Four levels of regulatory attention may be triggered if the RBC ratio is insufficient:



·“Company action level” – If the RBC ratio is between 75% and 100%, then the insurer must submit a plan to the regulator detailing corrective action it proposes to undertake;

·“Regulatory action level” – If the RBC ratio is between 50% and 75%, then the insurer must submit a plan, but a regulator may also issue a corrective order requiring the insurer to comply within a specified period;

·“Authorized control level” – If the RBC ratio is between 35% and 50%, then the regulatory response is the same as at the “Regulatory action level,” but in addition, the regulator may take action to rehabilitate or liquidate the insurer; and

·“Mandatory control level” – If the RBC ratio is less than 35%, then the regulator must rehabilitate or liquidate the insurer.












As of December 31, 2014, the RBC ratios of LNL, LLANY and FPP reported to their respective states of domicile and theNAIC allexceeded the “company action level.”  We believe that we will be able to maintain the RBC ratios of our insurance subsidiaries in excess of “company action level” through prudent underwriting, claims handling, investing and capital management.  However, no assurances can be given that developments affecting the insurance subsidiaries, many of which could be outside of our control, will not cause the RBC ratios to fall below our targeted levels.  These developments may include, but may not be limited to:  changes to the manner in which the RBC ratio is calculated; new regulatory requirements for calculating reserves, such as principles-based reserving; economic conditions leading to higher levels of impairments of securities in our insurance subsidiaries’ general accounts; and an inability to finance life reserves including the issuing of letters of credit(“LOCs”) supporting inter-companyreinsurance structures.



See “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Liquidity and Capital Position – A decrease in the capital and surplus of our insurance subsidiaries may result in a downgrade to our credit and insurer financial strength ratings.”



Privacy Regulations



In the course of our business, we collect and maintain personal data from our customers including personally identifiable non-public financial and health information, which subjects us to regulation under federal and state privacy laws.  These laws require that we institute certain policies and procedures in our business to safeguard this information from improper use or disclosure.  While we employ a robust and tested information security program, if the federal or state regulators establish further regulations for addressing customer privacy, we may need to amend our policies and adapt our internal procedures.



Federal Initiatives



The U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the insurance industry; however, federal initiatives from time to time can impact the insurance industry.



Financial Reform Legislation



Since it was enacted in 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”)has imposed considerable reform inthe financial services industry.  The ongoing implementation continues to present challenges and uncertainties for financial market participants.



For instance,

the Dodd-Frank Act

imposes significant changes to the regulation of

derivatives transactions, which we use to mitigate many types of risk in our

business.  The new regulations

require clearing and centralized execution for many derivatives transactions that

have historically been

conducted over-the-counter.

In mid-2013, we began clearing swaps subject to a clearing mandate without

significant consequences to our business other than the posting of initial margin and the attendant transaction costs of clearing.  However, the use of swap execution facilities in the U.S. and the continuing disharmonization across international regulatory efforts appear to be creating market fragmentation leading in some cases to decreased liquidity and increased price volatility.  Whether these trends will continue or become pervasive, and their ultimate impact on our business, remains uncertain.  Additionally, U.S. banking regulators and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission are currently considering final rules for margin on uncleared swaps.  The rules proposed in the U.S. are in some cases more restrictive than those advocated in the international context.  The proposed rules contemplate that, likely beginning in 2019, U.S. insurers will be required to post initial margin in support of their uncleared swaps activity, which neither we nor our industry peers have typically been required to do.  Additionally, the new rules limit eligible margin to a narrow range of assets (in some cases, to only cash).  The full implementation of these rules may

require us to hold more of our ass

ets in cash and other assets

that generate lower yields than other investments.

Documentation requirements attendant to the new margining regime are potentially burdensome and costly.

The new regulations may reduce the level of risk exposure we have to our derivatives counterparties (currently managed by holding collateral), but will increase our exposure to central clearinghouses and clearing members with which we transact.  The standardization of derivatives products for clearing may make customized products unavailable or uneconomical, potentially decreasing the effectiveness of some of our hedging activities.

As implementation of

the

new

regulatory

framework continues

, the extent to which our derivatives costs and strategies may change and the extent to which those changes may affect the r

ange or pricing of our products remains uncertain.



Another area ofcontinuingconcern related to the Dodd-Frank Act is the possible impact of the Volcker Rule on non-bank financial market participants.The rule was approved by federal regulators in December 2013; implementation will continue through mid-2015 with respect to certain covered activities and has been extended to mid-2017 with respect to others.  Although the final rule appears to preservelegitimate market-making activitiesby banks, the ultimate impact of the Volcker Rule on market liquidity and any resulting detriment to long-term investors, such as insurance companies, cannot be predicted at this time.



In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires new regulations governing broker-dealers and investment advisers.  In particular, the fiduciary standard rulemaking could potentially have broad implications for how our products are designed and sold in the future.  In January 2011, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) released a study on the obligations and standards of conduct of financial professionals, as required under the Dodd-Frank Act.  The SEC staff recommended establishing a uniform fiduciary standard for investment advisers and broker-dealers when providing investment advice about securities, including guidance for principal trading and definitions of the duties of loyalty and care owed to retail customers that would be consistent with the standard that currently applies to investment advisers.  A more uniform fiduciary standard could potentially affect our business in areas including, but not limited to:








design and availability of proprietary products; commission-based compensation arrangements; advertising and other communications; use of finders or solicitors of clients (i.e., business contacts who provide referrals); and continuing education requirements for advisors.



Additional provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act include, among other things, the creation of a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to protect consumers of certain financial products; and changes to certain corporate governance rules.  The SEC has postponed rulemaking on a numberof these provisions through 2015.In December 2013, the new Federal Insurance Office established under Dodd-Frank issued a wide-ranging report on the state of insurance regulation in the U.S., together with a series of recommendations on ways to monitor and improve the regulatory environment.  Theultimate impactof these recommendationson our business is undeterminable at this time.



Department of Labor Regulation



In October 2010, the U.S. Department of Labor (“DOL”) issued a proposed regulation that would, if finalized in current form, substantially expand the range of activities that would be considered to be fiduciary investment advice under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) and the Internal Revenue Code.  If finalized as proposed, the investment-related information and support that our advisors and employees could provide to plan sponsors, participants and IRA holders on a non-fiduciary basis could be substantially limited beyond what is allowed under current law.  This could have a material impact on the level and type of servicesthatwe can provide as well as the nature and amount of compensation and fees we and our advisors and employees may receive for investment-related services.  This proposal has generated substantial public comment and as a result, it is likely that any final regulation will be different from the proposal.  On September 19, 2011, the DOL announced that it would re-propose the regulation in 2012.  This re-proposal has been delayed, and it is currently expected that the re-proposal willbe issuedsometime in 2015.  The exact nature of any re-proposed regulation, the extent of any substantive changes from the originally proposed regulation and any potential effect on our businesses is undeterminable as this time.



Federal Tax Legislation



There have been several tax reform initiatives underway in the House and the Senate over the last year.  Most notably, the House Ways and Means Committee, led by Representative Dave Camp, released a draft of a tax reform proposal in early 2014.  Some of the proposed changes include (i) changes to the calculation of the separate account dividends-received deduction that would largely eliminate the benefit insurance companies receive, (ii) changes to the calculation of deductible insurance reserves that would decrease the value of the reserve deduction available to insurance companies and (iii) changes to the rules for deferred acquisition costs (“DAC”) that would increase the amount of premiums received that a company would be required to capitalize.  All of these proposals are identical (or at least similar) to proposals that have been discussed previously with various industry groups and coalitions.  The likelihood of enactment of any of the proposals, whether as the part of a comprehensive tax reform act or as discrete legislative changes, is highly uncertain at this time due to the volatile political environment as well as the uncertainty that always exists with any tax reform initiative.



On February 2, 2015, t

he Obama Administration submit

ted its fiscal year 2016

budget

proposal to Congress

.

The proposal for 2016

follows previous budget proposals from t

he Obama Administration and

include

d

policy and tax recommendations that could have an effect on our Company and our products.  Included among the various proposed policy recommendations could be modifications to the dividends-received deduction for life insurance company separate accounts.  If these proposed changes were enacted into law or, if applicable, changed administratively through the tax regulation process, they could have an adverse effect upon the Company’s profitability.  The budget could also propose changes to the tax laws that would affect purchasers of products offered and sold through our various business lines, including such items as expanding the pro-rata interest expense disallowance for COLI, the creation of an auto-enrollment IRA program for small employers and encouraging increased use of qualified plans through tax credits to defray start-up costs.



The 2016 budget proposal also included an updated version of a financial services surcharge, known as the “Bank Tax,” that for the first time would include insurance companies within its reach.

Some of these changes, should they become law, would have the potential to improve the attractiveness of our products to consumers and enhance our sales.  Other provisions could have the opposite effect.  The submission of the Administration’s budget to Congress begins the Congressional Budget process.  Any changes to the tax law will require legislation, which may or may not incorporate provisions found in the budget proposal, to move through both houses of Congress before being signed into law by the President.



Additionally, the uncertainty of federal funding and the future of the Social Security Disability Insurance (“SSDI”) program can have a substantial impact on the entire group benefit market.  The SSDI program is currently projected to become insolvent by the end of2016 without federal budget changes.  SSDI benefits are a direct offset to the cost of group disability benefits.  Changes to SSDI eligibility requirements and benefit allowances could potentially increase the cost of group disability benefits.



Health Care Reform Legislation



In March 2010, the President signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,which was subsequently amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act.  This legislation, as well as subsequent state and federal laws and regulations, includes provisions that provide for additional taxes to help finance the cost of these reformsand substantive changes and additions to health care and related laws, which could potentially impact some of our lines of businesses.












Patriot Act



The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 includes anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws as well as various regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies.  Financial institutions are required to collect information regarding the identity of their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions.  As a result, we are required to maintain certain internal compliance practices, procedures and controls.



ERISA Considerations



ERISA is a comprehensive federal statute that applies to U.S. employee benefit plans sponsored by private employers and labor unions.  Plans subject to ERISA include pension and profit sharing plans and welfare plans, including health, life and disability plans.  ERISA provisions include reporting and disclosure rules, standards of conduct that apply to plan fiduciaries and prohibitions on transactions known as “prohibited transactions,” such as conflict-of-interest transactions and certain transactions between a benefit plan and a party in interest.  ERISA also provides for a scheme of civil and criminal penalties and enforcement.  Our insurance, asset management, plan administrative services and other businesses provide services to employee benefit plans subject to ERISA, including services where we may act as an ERISA fiduciary.  In addition to ERISA regulation of businesses providing products and services to ERISA plans, we become subject to ERISA’s prohibited transaction rules for transactions with those plans, which may affect our ability to enter transactions, or the terms on which transactions may be entered, with those plans, even in businesses unrelated to those giving rise to party in interest status.



Broker-Dealer and Securities Regulation



In addition to being registered under the Securities Act of 1933, some of our separate accounts as well as mutual funds that we sponsor are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and the shares of certain of these entities are qualified for sale in some or all states and the District of Columbia.  We also have several subsidiaries that are registered as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”) and are subject to federal and state regulation, including,but not limited to,the Financial Industry Regulation Authority’s (“FINRA”) net capital rules.  In addition, we have several subsidiaries that are investment advisors registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.  Agents and employees registered or associated with any of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the Exchange Act and to examination requirements and regulation by the SEC, FINRA and state securities commissioners.  Regulation also extends to various LNC entities that employ or control those individuals.  The SEC and other governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the U.S., have the power to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension and termination or limitation of the activities of the regulated entity or its employees.



Environmental Considerations



Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations apply to our ownership and operation of real property.  Inherent in owning and operating real property are the risksof hidden environmental liabilities and the costs of any required clean-up.  Under the laws of certain states, contamination of a property may give rise to a lien on the property to secure recovery of the costs of clean-up, which could adversely affect our commercial mortgage lending.  In several states, this lien has priority over the lien of an existing mortgage against such property.  In addition, in some states and under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”), we may be liable, as an “owner” or “operator,” for costs of cleaning-up releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at a property mortgaged to us.  We also risk environmental liability when we foreclose on a property mortgaged to us.  Federal legislation provides for a safe harbor from CERCLA liability for secured lenders that foreclose and sell the mortgaged real estate, provided that certain requirements are met.  However, there are circumstances in which actions taken could still expose us to CERCLA liability.  Application of various other federal and state environmental laws could also result in the imposition of liability on us for costs associated with environmental hazards.



We routinely conduct environmental assessments for real estate we acquire for investment and before taking title through foreclosure to real property collateralizing mortgages that we hold.  Although unexpected environmental liabilities can always arise, based on these environmental assessments and compliance with our internal procedures, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any clean-up of properties would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.



Intellectual Property



We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property.  We have implemented a patent strategy designed to protect innovative aspects of our products and processes which we believe distinguish us from competitors.  We currently own several issued U.S. patents and have additional patent applications pending in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.



We regard our patents as valuable assets and intend to protect them against infringement.  However, complex legal and factual determinations and changes in patent law make protection uncertain, and while we believe our patents provide us with a competitive advantage, we cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending patent applications or that any issued patents will








have sufficient breadth to offer meaningful protection.  In addition, our issued patents may be successfully challenged, invalidated, circumvented or found unenforceable so that our patent rights would not create an effective competitive barrier.



Finally, we have an extensive portfolio of trademarks and service marks that we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, including, among others, the trademarks of the Lincoln National and Lincoln Financial names, the Lincoln silhouette logo and the combination of these marks.  Trademark registrations may be renewed indefinitely subject to continued use and registration requirements.  We regard our trademarks as valuable assets in marketing our products and services and intend to protect them against infringement and dilution.



EMPLOYEES



As of December 31, 2014, we had a total of9,627employees.In addition, we had a total of1,419planners and agents who had active sales contracts with one of our insurance subsidiaries.  None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements.  We consider our employee relations to be good.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Exchange Act.  The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  Also, the SEC maintains awebsite that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, including LNC, that file electronically with the SEC.  The public can obtain any documents thatwe file with the SEC atwww.sec.gov.



We also make available, free of charge, on or through our website,www.lfg.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.



