10-K


y29219e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

10-K


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM

10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended
    November 24, 2006

Commission File Number:
    001-14965

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

(212) 902-1000

(Registrant’s telephone
number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act: None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer,
as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.

Yes

o

No

x

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of
Regulation

S-K

is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of the
Annual Report on
Form

10-K

or any
amendment to the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

x

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See
definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer” in
Rule

12b-2

of the
Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
filer

x

Accelerated
filer

o

Non-accelerated

filer

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
defined in
Rule

12b-2

of the
Exchange Act).

Yes

o

No

x

As of
May 26, 2006 the aggregate market value of the common stock
of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant was
approximately $63.3 billion.

As of
January 26, 2007 there were 411,359,918 shares of the
registrant’s common stock outstanding.

Documents
incorporated by reference:

Portions of The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc.’s Proxy Statement for its 2007 Annual Meeting
of Shareholders to be held on March 27, 2007 are
incorporated by reference in the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

in
response to Part III, Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON
FORM

10-K

FOR THE
FISCAL Year Ended NOVEMBER 24, 2006

INDEX


PART I

Item 1.

Business

Introduction

Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking, securities
and investment management firm that provides a wide range of
services worldwide to a substantial and diversified client base
that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments
and high-net-worth individuals. As of November 24, 2006, we
operated offices in over 25 countries and approximately 42%
of our 26,467 employees were based outside the United
States.

Goldman Sachs is the successor to a commercial paper business
founded in 1869 by Marcus Goldman. On May 7, 1999, we
converted from a partnership to a corporation and completed an
initial public offering of our common stock.

Our activities are divided into three segments:
(i) Investment Banking, (ii) Trading and Principal
Investments and (iii) Asset Management and Securities
Services.

All references to 2006, 2005 and 2004 refer to our fiscal years
ended, or the dates, as the context requires, November 24,
2006, November 25, 2005, and November 26, 2004,
respectively.

When we use the terms “Goldman Sachs,” “the
firm,” “we,” “us” and “our,”
we mean The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation,
and its consolidated subsidiaries. References herein to the
Annual Report on
Form

10-K

are to
our Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for the
fiscal year ended November 24, 2006.

Financial information concerning our business segments and
geographic regions for each of 2006, 2005 and 2004 is set forth
in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations,” and the consolidated
financial statements and the notes thereto, which are in
Part II, Items 7, 7A and 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

Our Internet address is

www.gs.com

and the investor
relations section of our web site is located at

www.gs.com/our_firm/investor_relations/.

We
make available free of charge, on or through the investor
relations section of our web site, annual reports on
Form

10-K,

quarterly reports on
Form

10-Q

and
current reports on
Form

8-K

and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Also posted on our web site, and available in print upon request
of any shareholder to our Investor Relations Department, are our
certificate of incorporation and by-laws, charters for our Audit
Committee, Compensation Committee, and Corporate Governance and
Nominating Committee, our Policy Regarding Director Independence
Determinations, our Policy on Reporting of Concerns Regarding
Accounting and Other Matters, our Corporate Governance
Guidelines and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing
our directors, officers and employees. Within the time period
required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, we will
post on our web site any amendment to the Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics and any waiver applicable to any executive
officer, director or senior financial officer (as defined in the
Code). In addition, our web site includes information concerning
purchases and sales of our equity securities by our executive
officers and directors, as well as disclosure relating to
certain non-GAAP financial measures (as defined in the
SEC’s Regulation G) that we may make public orally,
telephonically, by webcast, by broadcast or by similar means
from time to time.

Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., 85 Broad Street,
17th Floor, New York, New York 10004, Attn: Investor
Relations, telephone:

212-902-0300,

e-mail:

gs-investor-relations@gs.com.



Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995

We have included or incorporated by reference in the Annual
Report on
Form

10-K,

and
from time to time our management may make, statements that may
constitute “forward-looking statements” within the
meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are
not historical facts but instead represent only our beliefs
regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are
inherently uncertain and outside our control. These statements
include statements other than historical information or
statements of current condition and may relate to our future
plans and objectives and results, among other things, and may
also include our belief regarding the effect of various legal
proceedings, as set forth under “Legal Proceedings” in
Part I, Item 3 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K,

as well
as statements about the objectives and effectiveness of our
liquidity policies, statements about trends in or growth
opportunities for our businesses and statements about our
investment banking transaction backlog, in Part II,
Item 7 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

By
identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are
alerting you to the possibility that our actual results may
differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results
indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors
that could cause actual results to differ from those in the
forward-looking statements include, among others, those
discussed below and under “Risk Factors” in
Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

and
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II,
Item 7 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

In the case of statements about our investment banking
transaction backlog, such statements are subject to the risk
that the terms of these transactions may be modified or that
they may not be completed at all; therefore, the net revenues,
if any, that we actually earn from these transactions may
differ, possibly materially, from those currently expected.
Important factors that could result in a modification of the
terms of a transaction or a transaction not being completed
include, in the case of underwriting transactions, a decline in
general economic conditions, outbreak of hostilities, volatility
in the securities markets generally or an adverse development
with respect to the issuer of the securities and, in the case of
financial advisory transactions, a decline in the securities
markets, an adverse development with respect to a party to the
transaction or a failure to obtain a required regulatory
approval.



Segment Operating Results

(in millions)

(1)

Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, “Cost of power
    generation” in the consolidated statements of earnings was
    reclassified to operating expenses. “Cost of power
    generation” was previously reported as a reduction to
    revenues. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the
    current presentation, with no impact to our reported pre-tax
    earnings. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Results of Operations — Financial Overview —
    Operating Expenses — Operating Expenses and
    Employees” in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual
    Report on
    Form

10-K

for
    further discussion of the effect of this reclassification.

(2)

Includes the following expenses that have not been allocated to
    our segments: (i) net provisions for a number of litigation
    and regulatory proceedings of $45 million, $37 million
    and $103 million for the years ended November 2006,
    November 2005 and November 2004, respectively;
    (ii) $62 million in connection with the establishment
    of our joint venture in China for the year ended November 2004;
    and (iii) the amortization of employee initial public
    offering awards, net of forfeitures, of $19 million for the
    year ended November 2004.

(1)

Includes
    a net provision of $45 million for a number of litigation
    and regulatory proceedings, which has not been allocated to our
    segments.



Business Segments

The primary products and activities of our business segments are
set forth in the following chart:



Investment Banking

Investment Banking represented 15% of 2006 net revenues. We
provide a broad range of investment banking services to a
diverse group of corporations, financial institutions,
investment funds, governments and individuals and seek to
develop and maintain long-term relationships with these clients
as their lead investment bank.

Our current structure, which is organized by regional, industry
and product groups, seeks to combine client-focused investment
bankers with execution and industry expertise. We continually
assess and adapt our organization to meet the demands of our
clients in each geographic region. Through our commitment to
teamwork, we believe that we provide services in an integrated
fashion for the benefit of our clients.

Our goal is to make available to our clients the entire
resources of the firm in a seamless fashion, with investment
banking serving as “front of the house.” To accomplish
this objective, we focus on coordination among our equity and
debt underwriting businesses and our corporate risk and
liability management businesses. This coordination is intended
to assist our investment banking clients in managing their asset
and liability exposures.

Our Investment Banking segment is divided into two components:
Financial Advisory and Underwriting.

Financial Advisory

Financial Advisory includes advisory assignments with respect to
mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense
activities, restructurings and spin-offs. Our mergers and
acquisitions capabilities are evidenced by our significant share
of assignments in large, complex transactions for which we
provide multiple services, including “one-stop”
acquisition financing and cross-border structuring expertise, as
well as services in other areas of the firm, such as interest
rate and currency hedging.

Underwriting

Underwriting includes public offerings and private placements of
a wide range of securities and other financial instruments,
including common and preferred stock, convertible and
exchangeable securities, investment-grade debt, high-yield debt,
sovereign and emerging market debt, municipal debt, bank loans,
asset-backed securities and real estate-related securities, such
as mortgage-related securities and the securities of real estate
investment trusts.

Equity Underwriting.

Equity underwriting has been a
long-term core strength of Goldman Sachs. As with mergers and
acquisitions, we have been particularly successful in winning
mandates for large, complex transactions. We believe our
leadership in worldwide initial public offerings and



worldwide public common stock offerings reflects our expertise
in complex transactions, prior experience and distribution
capabilities.

Debt Underwriting.

We engage in the underwriting and
origination of various types of debt instruments, including
investment-grade debt securities, high-yield debt securities,
bank and bridge loans and emerging market debt securities, which
instruments may be issued by, among others, corporate, sovereign
and agency issuers. In addition, we underwrite and originate
structured securities, which include mortgage-related securities
and other asset-backed securities and collateralized debt
obligations.

Trading and Principal Investments

Trading and Principal Investments represented 68% of
2006 net revenues. Trading and Principal Investments
facilitates client transactions with a diverse group of
corporations, financial institutions, investment funds,
governments and individuals and takes proprietary positions
through market making in, trading of and investing in fixed
income and equity products, currencies, commodities and
derivatives on these products. In addition, we engage in
specialist and market-making activities on equities and options
exchanges, and we clear client transactions on major stock,
options and futures exchanges worldwide. In connection with our
merchant banking and other investing activities, we make
principal investments directly and through funds that we raise
and manage.

To meet the needs of our clients, Trading and Principal
Investments is diversified across a wide range of products. We
believe our willingness and ability to take risk to facilitate
client transactions distinguishes us from many of our
competitors and substantially enhances our client relationships.

Our Trading and Principal Investments segment is divided into
three components: Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities;
Equities; and Principal Investments.

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities and Equities

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC) and Equities
are large and diversified operations through which we engage in
a variety of customer-driven and proprietary trading and
investing activities.

In our customer-driven businesses, FICC and Equities strive to
deliver high-quality service by offering broad market-making and
market knowledge to our clients on a global basis. In addition,
we use our expertise to take positions in markets, by committing
capital and taking risk, to facilitate client transactions and
to provide liquidity. Our willingness to make markets, commit
capital and take risk in a broad range of fixed income,
currency, commodity and equity products and their derivatives is
crucial to our client relationships and to support our
underwriting business by providing secondary market liquidity.



A core activity in FICC and Equities is market making in a broad
array of securities and products. For example, we are a primary
dealer in many of the largest government bond markets around the
world, including the United States, Japan and the United
Kingdom. We are a member of the major futures exchanges, and
also have interbank dealer status in the currency markets in New
York, London, Tokyo and Hong Kong.

We generate trading net revenues from our customer-driven
businesses in three ways:

•

First, in large, highly liquid markets, we undertake a high
    volume of transactions for modest spreads and fees.

•

Second, by capitalizing on our strong relationships and capital
    position, we undertake transactions in less liquid markets where
    spreads and fees are generally larger.

•

Finally, we structure and execute transactions that address
    complex client needs.

Our FICC and Equities businesses operate in close coordination
to provide clients with services and cross-market knowledge and
expertise.

In our proprietary activities in both FICC and Equities, we
assume a variety of risks and devote resources to identify,
analyze and benefit from these exposures. We capitalize on our
analytical models to analyze information and make informed
trading judgments, and we seek to benefit from perceived
disparities in the value of assets in the trading markets and
from macroeconomic and issuer-specific trends.

FICC

Our FICC business makes markets in and trades interest rate and
credit products, mortgage-related securities and loan products
and other asset-backed instruments, currencies and commodities,
structures and enters into a wide variety of derivative
transactions, and engages in proprietary trading and investing.
FICC has five principal businesses: commodities; credit
products; currencies; interest rate products, including money
market instruments; and mortgage-related securities and loan
products and other asset-backed instruments.

Commodities.

We make markets in, and trade for our
clients and our own account, a wide variety of commodities and
commodity derivatives, including oil and oil products, metals,
natural gas and electricity, and forest products. We are also a
member of or have relationships with major commodities exchanges
worldwide.

As part of our commodities business, we acquire and dispose of
interests in, and engage in the development and operation of,
electric power generation facilities. As of January 15,
2007, we owned interests in 19 power generation facilities
located in the United States. Of these facilities, seven are
fueled by natural gas, eight by coal and four by waste coal.
Most of our power plants have contracted to sell their
electricity to utilities under long-term agreements. We seek to
generate attractive risk-adjusted returns from our portfolio of
power plants that have entered into these contracts by using our
commodities trading and capital markets expertise to selectively
restructure the underlying power sale contracts and to refinance
related project-level debt.

Credit Products.

We offer to and trade for our clients a
broad array of credit and credit-linked products all over the
world, including credit derivatives, investment-grade corporate
securities, high-yield securities, bank and secured loans
(origination and trading), municipal securities, and emerging
market and distressed debt. For example, we enter, as principal,
into complex structured transactions designed to meet client
needs.



In addition, we increasingly provide credit through bridge and
other loan facilities to a broad range of clients. Commitments
that are extended for contingent acquisition financing are often
short-term in nature, as borrowers often replace them with other
funding sources. As part of our ongoing credit origination
activities, we may seek to reduce our credit risk on commitments
by syndicating all or substantial portions of commitments to
other investors or, upon funding, by securitizing the positions
through investment vehicles sold to other investors. Revenues
from any syndications of these commitments are included in the
debt underwriting business in our Investment Banking segment.
See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual
Obligations and Commitments” in Part II, Item 7
of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for
additional information on our commitments.

Our credit products business includes making significant
long-term and short-term investments for our own account
(sometimes investing together with our merchant banking funds)
in a broad array of asset classes (including distressed debt)
globally. We opportunistically invest in debt and equity
securities and secured loans, and in private equity, real estate
and other assets.

Currencies.

We act as a dealer in foreign exchange and
trade for our clients and ourselves in most currencies on
exchanges and in cash and derivative markets globally.

Interest Rate Products.

We trade and make markets in a
variety of interest rate products, including interest rate
swaps, options and other derivatives, and government bonds, as
well as money market instruments, such as commercial paper,
treasury bills, repurchase agreements and other highly liquid
securities and instruments. This business includes our matched
book, which consists of short-term collateralized financing
transactions.

Mortgage Business.

We make markets in and trade for our
clients and ourselves commercial and residential
mortgage-related securities and loan products (including prime,
subprime and other nontraditional mortgages) and other
asset-backed instruments. We regularly acquire large proprietary
positions in these products with a view toward securitizing the
underlying positions. We also originate and service commercial
mortgages and service residential mortgages.

Equities

We make markets in, trade and act as a specialist for equities
and equity-related products, structure and enter into equity
derivative transactions, and engage in proprietary trading. In
addition, we engage in insurance activities. We generate
commissions from executing and clearing client transactions on
major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide through our
Equities customer franchise and clearing activities.

Equities includes three principal businesses: our customer
franchise business, principal strategies and specialist
activities.

Customer Franchise Business.

Our customer franchise
business includes primarily customer-driven activities in the
shares, convertible securities and equity derivatives markets.
These activities also include clearing client transactions on
major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide, as well as
our options specialist and market-making businesses. Our
customer franchise business increasingly involves providing our
clients with access to electronic “low-touch” equity
trading platforms, and electronic trades now account for the
majority of our customer trading activity in this business.
However, a majority of our net revenues in this business
continues to be derived from our traditional
“high-touch,” non-automated handling of more complex
trades. We expect both types of trading activities to remain
important components of our customer franchise business.



We trade equity securities and equity-related products,
including convertible securities, options, futures and

over-the

-counter
(OTC) derivative instruments, on a global basis as an
agent, as a market maker or otherwise as a principal. As a
principal, we facilitate client transactions, often by
committing capital and taking risk, to provide liquidity to
clients with large blocks of stocks or options. For example, we
are active in the execution of large block trades. We also
execute transactions as agent and offer clients direct
electronic access to trading markets.

We are a member of most of the world’s major stock, options
and futures exchanges and marketplaces, including those located
in New York, Chicago, London, Paris, Frankfurt, Tokyo and Hong
Kong.

In the options and futures markets, we structure, distribute and
execute derivatives on market indices, industry groups and
individual company stocks to facilitate client transactions and
our proprietary activities. We develop strategies and render
advice with respect to portfolio hedging and restructuring and
asset allocation transactions. We also create specially tailored
instruments to enable sophisticated investors to undertake
hedging strategies and to establish or liquidate investment
positions. We are one of the leading participants in the trading
and development of equity derivative instruments. We are an
active participant in the trading of futures and options on most
of the major exchanges in the United States, Europe and Asia. In
options, we are a specialist and market maker on the
International Securities Exchange, the Chicago Board Options
Exchange and NYSE Arca and a market maker on the Boston Options
Exchange, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange and the American Stock
Exchange.

Principal Strategies.

Our principal strategies business
is a multi-strategy proprietary investment business that invests
and trades for our own account. Principal strategies trades and
invests our capital across global markets employing strategies
that are primarily focused on public markets. Most strategies
involve fundamental equities and relative value trading (which
involves trading strategies designed to take advantage of
perceived discrepancies in the relative value of financial
instruments, including equity, equity-related and debt
instruments). Other strategies involve event-driven investments
(which focus on event-oriented special situations such as
corporate restructurings, bankruptcies, recapitalizations,
mergers and acquisitions, and legal and regulatory events) as
well as convertible bond trading, various types of volatility
trading and principal finance (which includes private structured
investments in public or private companies).

Specialist Activities.

Our specialist activities business
consists of our stock and exchange-traded funds
(ETF) specialist and market-making businesses. We engage in
specialist and market-making activities on equities exchanges.
In the United States, we are one of the leading stock
specialists on the NYSE. For ETFs, we are a specialist on the
NYSE, the American Stock Exchange and NYSE Arca.

Insurance Activities.

Through our insurance subsidiaries,
we own closed blocks of variable annuity and variable life
insurance contracts. In 2006, we began to participate
opportunistically in both the life and annuity reinsurance and
property catastrophe reinsurance businesses.

Principal Investments

Principal Investments primarily represents net revenues from
four primary sources: returns on corporate and real estate
investments, overrides on corporate and real estate investments,
our investment in the convertible preferred stock of Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (SMFG) and our investment in
the ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
Limited (ICBC).

Returns on Corporate and Real Estate Investments.

As of
November 2006, the aggregate carrying value of our principal
investments held directly or through our merchant banking funds,
excluding our investment in the convertible preferred stock of
SMFG and the ordinary shares of ICBC, was $4.26 billion,
comprised of corporate principal investments with an aggregate
carrying value of $3.68 billion and real estate investments
with an aggregate carrying value of $588 million.



In addition, as of November 2006, we had outstanding unfunded
equity capital commitments of up to $6.36 billion.

Overrides.

Consists of the increased share of the income
and gains derived from our merchant banking funds when the
return on a fund’s investments over the life of the fund
exceeds certain threshold returns (typically referred to as an
“override”). Overrides are recognized in net revenues
when all material contingencies have been resolved.

SMFG.

Our investment in the convertible preferred stock
of SMFG is generally nontransferable without the consent of SMFG
but is freely convertible into SMFG common stock. As of November
2006, we had hedged two-thirds of the common stock underlying
our investment in SMFG. Restrictions on our ability to hedge or
sell the remaining shares will lapse on
February 7, 2007. As of November 2006, the
carrying value of our investment in the SMFG preferred stock was
$4.51 billion. See Note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual
Report on
Form

10-K

for
further discussion of our investment in SMFG.

ICBC.

Our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC was
acquired on April 28, 2006. The ordinary shares acquired
from ICBC are subject to transfer restrictions that, among other
things, prohibit any sale, disposition or other transfer until
April 28, 2009. From April 28, 2009 to
October 20, 2009, we may transfer up to 50% of the
aggregate ordinary shares of ICBC that we owned as of
October 20, 2006. We may transfer the remaining shares
after October 20, 2009. As of November 2006, the carrying
value of our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC was
$5.19 billion. A portion of our interest is held by
investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs. For further
information regarding our investment in the ordinary shares of
ICBC, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Critical Accounting Policies — Fair Value —
Principal Investments” in Part II, Item 7 of the
Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

Asset Management and Securities Services

Asset Management and Securities Services represented 17% of
2006 net revenues. Our Asset Management business provides
investment advisory and financial planning services and offers
investment products (primarily through separate accounts and
funds) to a diverse group of institutions and individuals
worldwide and primarily generates revenues in the form of
management and incentive fees. Securities Services provides
prime brokerage services, financing services and securities
lending services to institutional clients, including hedge
funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to
high-net-worth individuals worldwide, and generates revenues
primarily in the form of interest rate spreads or fees.

Our Asset Management and Securities Services segment is divided
into two components: Asset Management and Securities Services.



Asset Management

We offer a broad array of investment strategies, advice and
planning. We provide asset management services and offer
investment products (primarily through separate accounts and
funds) across all major asset classes: money markets, fixed
income, equities and alternative investments (including hedge
funds, private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and
asset allocation strategies). Through our subsidiary, The Ayco
Company, L.P. (Ayco), we also provide fee-based financial
counseling and financial education in the United States.

Assets under management (AUM) typically generate fees as a
percentage of asset value. In certain circumstances, we are also
entitled to receive incentive fees based on a percentage of a
fund’s return or when the return on assets under management
exceeds specified benchmark returns or other performance
targets. Incentive fees are recognized when the performance
period ends and they are no longer subject to adjustment. We
have numerous incentive fee arrangements, many of which have
annual performance periods that end on December 31. For
that reason, incentive fees have been seasonally weighted to our
first quarter.

AUM includes our mutual funds, alternative investment funds and
separately managed accounts for institutional and individual
investors. Alternative investments include our merchant banking
funds, which generate revenues as described below under
“Management of Merchant Banking Funds.” AUM does not
include assets in brokerage accounts, which generate
commissions, mark-ups and spreads. Net revenues from brokerage
accounts are included in our Trading and Principal Investments
segment. Increasingly, many of our individual clients’
brokerage accounts pay fees based on the assets in their
accounts rather than commissions on transactional activity in
the accounts. AUM also does not include non-fee-paying assets,
including money market assets that were transferred to Goldman
Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank) during 2006.

The amount of AUM is set forth in the graph below. In the
following graph, as well as in the following tables,
substantially all assets under management are valued as of
November 30.

Assets Under Management

(in billions)



The following table sets forth AUM by asset class:

Assets Under Management by Asset
Class

(1)

(in billions)

(1)

In the first quarter of 2006, we changed the methodology for
    classifying certain non-money market assets. The changes were
    made primarily to reclassify certain assets allocated to
    external investment managers out of alternative investment
    assets and to reclassify currency funds into alternative
    investment assets. The changes did not impact total assets under
    management and prior periods have been reclassified to conform
    to the current presentation.

(2)

Primarily includes hedge funds, private equity, real estate,
    currencies, commodities and asset allocation strategies.

Clients.

Our clients are institutions and individuals,
including both high-net-worth and retail investors. We access
institutional and high-net-worth clients through both direct and
third-party channels and retail clients primarily through
third-party channels. Our institutional clients include pension
funds, governmental organizations, corporations, insurance
companies, banks, foundations and endowments. In third-party
distribution channels, we distribute our mutual funds,
alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts
through brokerage firms, banks, insurance companies and other
financial intermediaries. Our clients are located worldwide.

The table below sets forth the amount of AUM by distribution
channel and client category:

Assets Under Management by Distribution
Channel

(1)

(in billions)

(1)

The primary investment vehicles for these assets under
    management are separately managed accounts and commingled
    vehicles, such as mutual funds and private investment funds.

Management of Merchant Banking Funds.

Goldman Sachs
sponsors numerous corporate and real estate private investment
funds. Our strategy with respect to these funds generally is to
invest opportunistically to build a portfolio of investments
that is diversified by industry, product type, geographic
region, and transaction structure and type. Our corporate
investment funds pursue, on a



global basis, long-term investments in equity and debt
securities in privately negotiated transactions, leveraged
buyouts, acquisitions and investments in funds managed by
external parties. Our real estate investment funds invest in
real estate operating companies, debt and equity interests in
real estate assets, and other real estate-related investments.

Since inception, we have raised $70 billion of committed
equity capital in these funds, of which $51 billion relates
to our corporate funds and $19 billion relates to our real
estate funds. As of November 2006, $45 billion of the
committed equity capital was funded and the amount of AUM
remaining in these funds after distributions was
$44 billion.

Merchant banking activities generate three primary revenue
streams. First, we receive a management fee that is generally a
percentage of a fund’s committed capital, invested capital,
total gross acquisition cost or asset value. These annual
management fees are included in our Asset Management net
revenues. Second, Goldman Sachs, as a substantial investor in
some of these funds, is allocated its proportionate share of the
funds’ unrealized appreciation or depreciation arising from
changes in fair value as well as gains and losses upon
realization. Third, after a fund has achieved a minimum return
for fund investors, we receive an increased share of the
fund’s income and gains that is a percentage of the income
and gains from the fund’s investments. The second and third
of these revenue streams are included in Principal Investments
within our Trading and Principal Investments segment.

Securities Services

Securities Services provides prime brokerage services, financing
services and securities lending services to institutional
clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and
foundations, and to high-net-worth individuals worldwide.

Prime brokerage services.

We offer prime brokerage
services to our clients, allowing them the flexibility to trade
with most brokers while maintaining a single source for
financing and consolidated portfolio reports. Our prime
brokerage business provides clearing and custody in 45 markets
and provides consolidated multi-currency accounting and
reporting, offshore fund administration and other ancillary
services.

Financing services.

A central element of our prime
brokerage business involves providing financing to our clients
for their securities trading activities through margin and
securities loans that are collateralized by securities, cash or
other acceptable collateral.

Securities lending services.

Securities lending services
principally involve the borrowing and lending of securities to
cover clients’ and Goldman Sachs’ short sales and
otherwise to make deliveries into the market. In addition, we
are an active participant in the

broker-to

-broker
securities lending business and the third-party agency lending
business. Net revenues in securities lending services are, as a
general matter, weighted toward our second and third quarters
each year due to seasonally higher activity levels in Europe.

Global Investment Research

Global Investment Research provides fundamental research on
companies, industries, economies, currencies, commodities and
macro strategy research on a worldwide basis.

Global Investment Research employs a team approach that as of
November 2006 provided research coverage of approximately
2,750 companies worldwide and over 50 national economies.
This is accomplished by the following departments:

•

The Equity Research Departments provide fundamental analysis,
    earnings forecasts and investment opinions for equity securities;

•

The Credit Research Department provides fundamental analysis,
    forecasts and investment opinions as to investment-grade and
    high-yield corporate bonds and credit derivatives;



•

The Economic Research Department formulates macroeconomic
    forecasts for economic activity, foreign exchange and interest
    rates;

•

The Commodities Research Department provides research on the
    commodity markets; and

•

The Strategy Research Department provides equity market
    forecasts, opinions on both asset and industry sector
    allocation, equity trading strategies, credit trading strategies
    and options research.

Further information regarding research at Goldman Sachs is
provided below under “— Regulation —

Regulations Applicable in and Outside the United States”
and “Legal Proceedings — Research Independence
Matters” in Part I, Item 3 of the Annual Report
on Form

10-K.

Technology

Goldman Sachs is committed to the ongoing development,
maintenance and use of technology throughout the organization.
Our technology initiatives can be broadly categorized into four
efforts:

We have tailored our services to our clients by providing them
with electronic access to our products and services. In
particular, we provide global electronic trading and information
distribution capabilities covering many of our fixed income,
currency, commodity, equity and mutual fund products around the
world.

Electronic commerce and technology have changed and will
continue to change the ways that securities and other financial
products are traded, distributed and settled. This creates both
opportunities and challenges for our businesses. We remain
committed to being at the forefront of technological innovation
in the global capital markets.

Business Continuity and Information Security

Business continuity and information security are high priorities
for Goldman Sachs. Our Business Continuity Program has been
developed to provide reasonable assurance of business continuity
in the event of disruptions at the firm’s critical
facilities and to comply with NYSE and National Association of
Securities Dealers, Inc. regulatory requirements. The key
elements of the program are crisis management, business
recovery, systems and data recovery, people recovery facilities
and process improvement. In the area of information security, we
have developed and implemented a framework of principles,
policies and technology to protect the information assets of the
firm and our clients. Safeguards are applied to maintain the
confidentiality, integrity and availability of information
resources.

Employees

Management believes that a major strength and principal reason
for the success of Goldman Sachs is the quality and dedication
of our people and the shared sense of being part of a team. We
strive to maintain a work environment that fosters
professionalism, excellence, diversity, cooperation among our
employees worldwide and high standards of business ethics.

Instilling the Goldman Sachs culture in all employees is a
continuous process, in which training plays an important part.
All employees are offered the opportunity to participate in
education and



periodic seminars that we sponsor at various locations
throughout the world. Another important part of instilling the
Goldman Sachs culture is our employee review process. Employees
are reviewed by supervisors, co-workers and employees they
supervise in a 360-degree review process that is integral to our
team approach.

As of November 2006, we had 26,467 employees, including 1,326
employees of Goldman Sachs’ consolidated property
management and loan servicing subsidiaries and excluding 3,868
employees of certain consolidated entities that are held for
investment purposes only. Consolidated entities held for
investment purposes include entities that are held strictly for
capital appreciation, have a defined exit strategy and are
engaged in activities that are not closely related to our
principal businesses.

Competition

The financial services industry — and all of our
businesses — are intensely competitive, and we expect
them to remain so. Our competitors are other brokers and
dealers, investment banking firms, commercial banks, insurance
companies, investment advisers, mutual funds, hedge funds,
private equity funds and merchant banks. We compete with some of
our competitors globally and with others on a regional, product
or niche basis. Our competition is based on a number of factors,
including transaction execution, our products and services,
innovation, reputation and price.

We also face intense competition in attracting and retaining
qualified employees. Our ability to continue to compete
effectively in our businesses will depend upon our ability to
attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing
employees.

Over time, there has been substantial consolidation and
convergence among companies in the financial services industry,
due in part to U.S. federal legislation that has expanded
the activities permissible for firms affiliated with a
U.S. bank. In particular, a number of large commercial
banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial
services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or
have merged with other financial institutions. Many of these
firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from
loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage, asset
management and investment banking services, which may enhance
their competitive position. They also have the ability to
support investment banking and securities products with
commercial banking, insurance and other financial services
revenues in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted
in pricing pressure in certain of our businesses and could
result in pricing pressure in other of our businesses.

Moreover, we have faced, and expect to continue to face,
pressure to retain market share by committing capital to
businesses or transactions on terms that offer returns that may
not be commensurate with their risks. In particular, corporate
clients increasingly seek such commitments (such as agreements
to participate in their commercial paper backstop or other loan
facilities) from financial services firms in connection with
investment banking and other assignments. We provide these
commitments either through our William Street entities,
primarily for investment-grade clients, or through Goldman Sachs
Credit Partners L.P. or our other subsidiaries, primarily for
other clients. With respect to substantially all of the William
Street commitments, SMFG provides us with credit loss protection
that is generally limited to 95% of the first loss we realize on
approved loan commitments, up to a maximum of
$1.00 billion. In addition, subject to the satisfaction of
certain conditions, upon our request, SMFG will provide
protection for 70% of the second loss on such commitments, up to
a maximum of $1.13 billion. We also use other financial
instruments to mitigate credit risks related to certain William
Street commitments not covered by SMFG. See
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II,
Item 7 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

and
Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for more
information regarding the William Street entities and for a
description of the credit loss protection provided by SMFG. An
increasing number of our commitments in connection with
investment banking and other assignments do not meet the



criteria established for the William Street entities and do not
benefit from the SMFG loss protection. These commitments are
issued through Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. or our other
subsidiaries.

The trend toward consolidation and convergence has significantly
increased the capital base and geographic reach of some of our
competitors. This trend has also hastened the globalization of
the securities and other financial services markets. As a
result, we have had to commit capital to support our
international operations and to execute large global
transactions. To take advantage of some of our most significant
challenges and opportunities, we will have to compete
successfully with financial institutions that are larger and
better capitalized and that may have a stronger local presence
and longer operating history outside the United States.

We have experienced intense price competition in some of our
businesses in recent years. There has been considerable pressure
in the pricing of block trades. Also, equity and debt
underwriting discounts, as well as trading spreads, have been
under pressure for a number of years and the ability to execute
trades electronically, through the Internet and through other
alternative trading systems, has increased the pressure on
trading commissions. It appears that this trend toward
electronic and other “low-touch,” low-commission
trading will continue. We believe that we will continue to
experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the
future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by
reducing prices.

Regulation

Goldman Sachs, as a participant in the securities and commodity
futures and options industries, is subject to extensive
regulation in the United States and the other countries in which
we operate. As a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies
around the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of
the securities and other financial markets and with protecting
the interests of clients participating in those markets. They
are not, however, charged with protecting the interests of
Goldman Sachs’ shareholders or creditors.

Broker-dealers, in particular, are subject to regulations that
cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales
methods, trade practices, use and safekeeping of clients’
funds and securities, capital structure, recordkeeping, the
financing of clients’ purchases, and the conduct of
directors, officers and employees. A number of our affiliates
are regulated by investment advisory laws in the countries in
which we operate. See “Risk Factors — Our
businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and
pervasive regulation around the world” in Part I,
Item 1A of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for a
further discussion of the effect that regulation may have on our
businesses.

Regulation in the United States

In the United States, the SEC is the federal agency responsible
for the administration of the federal securities laws. The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is subject to regulation by the SEC as
a Consolidated Supervised Entity. As such, it is subject to
group-wide supervision and examination by the SEC and to minimum
capital requirements on a consolidated basis. As part of a
Consolidated Supervised Entity, Goldman, Sachs & Co.
(GS&Co.), our principal U.S. broker-dealer, is
permitted to calculate its regulatory capital requirements in
accordance with the market and credit risk standards of
Appendix E of
Rule

15c3-1

under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

GS&Co. is registered as a broker-dealer and as an investment
adviser with the SEC and as a broker-dealer in all
50 states and the District of Columbia. Self-regulatory
organizations, such as the NYSE and NASD, adopt rules that apply
to, and examine, broker-dealers such as GS&Co. In addition,
state securities and other regulators also have regulatory or
oversight authority over GS&Co. Similarly, our businesses
are also subject to regulation by various

non-U.S.

governmental
and regulatory bodies and self-regulatory authorities in
virtually all countries where we have offices. Goldman Sachs
Execution & Clearing, L.P. (GSEC) and two of its
subsidiaries are registered



U.S. broker-dealers and are regulated by the SEC and NYSE,
and GSEC is also regulated by the NASD. Goldman Sachs Financial
Markets, L.P. is registered with the SEC as an OTC derivatives
dealer and conducts certain OTC derivatives businesses.

The NYSE and the NASD, which have regulatory authority over a
large amount of our businesses and activities, have announced
that they intend to merge their regulatory operations into a
single regulatory body, expected to begin operations in the
second quarter of 2007.

The commodity futures and commodity options industry in the
United States is subject to regulation under the Commodity
Exchange Act. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is the
federal agency charged with the administration of the Commodity
Exchange Act. Several of Goldman Sachs’ subsidiaries,
including GS&Co. and GSEC, are registered with the CFTC and
act as futures commission merchants, commodity pool operators or
commodity trading advisors and are subject to the Commodity
Exchange Act. The rules and regulations of various
self-regulatory organizations, such as the Chicago Board of
Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, other futures
exchanges and the National Futures Association, also govern the
commodity futures and commodity options businesses of these
entities.

GS&Co. and GSEC are subject to
Rule

15c3-1

of the
SEC and Rule 1.17 of the CFTC, which specify uniform
minimum net capital requirements and also effectively require
that a significant part of the registrants’ assets be kept
in relatively liquid form. GS&Co. and GSEC have elected to
compute their minimum capital requirements in accordance with
the “Alternative Net Capital Requirement” as permitted
by Rule

15c3-1.

As
of November 2006, GS&Co. and GSEC had net capital in excess
of their minimum capital requirements. In addition to its
alternative minimum net capital requirements, GS&Co. is also
required to hold tentative net capital in excess of
$1 billion and net capital in excess of $500 million
in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of
Appendix E of
Rule

15c3-1.

GS&Co. is required to notify the SEC in the event that its
tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of
November 2006, GS&Co. had tentative net capital and net
capital in excess of both the minimum and the notification
requirements. These net capital requirements may have the effect
of prohibiting these entities from distributing or withdrawing
capital and may require prior notice to the SEC for certain
withdrawals of capital. See Note 15 to the consolidated
financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual
Report on
Form

10-K.

Goldman Sachs has established three limited purpose trust
companies under state or federal law. They are not permitted to
and do not accept deposits (other than as incidental to their
trust activities) or make loans and, as a result, are not
considered to be banks for purposes of the Bank Holding Company
Act, nor are they insured by the FDIC or subject to the
Community Reinvestment Act. These entities and their regulators
are: The Goldman Sachs Trust Company, N.A., a national bank that
is limited to having only trust powers, is regulated by the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and is a member bank
of the Federal Reserve System; The Goldman Sachs Trust Company,
a New York limited purpose trust company that is regulated by
the New York State Banking Department; and The Goldman Sachs
Trust Company of Delaware, a Delaware limited purpose trust
company that is regulated by the Office of the Delaware State
Bank Commissioner.

Goldman Sachs has established GS Bank, a wholly owned industrial
bank, to extend credit and to take deposits, other than demand
deposits. GS Bank is regulated by the FDIC and the State of Utah
Department of Financial Institutions and is subject to minimum
capital requirements. As of November 2006, GS Bank was in
compliance with all regulatory capital requirements. Because it
does not accept demand deposits, GS Bank is not considered to be
a bank for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act. The
deposits maintained at GS Bank are insured by the FDIC to the
extent provided by law.

J. Aron & Company is authorized by the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission to sell wholesale physical power at
market-based rates. As a FERC-authorized power marketer, J.
Aron & Company is subject to regulation under the
Federal Power Act and FERC regulations.



In addition, as a result of our interests in electric power
generation facilities, we are subject to extensive and evolving
energy, environmental and other governmental laws and
regulations, as discussed under “Risk Factors —
Our power generation interests subject us to the risks
associated with owning power generation facilities” in
Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to state
insurance regulation in the states in which they are domiciled
and in the other states in which they are licensed. A number of
our other businesses, including our lending and mortgage
businesses, require us to obtain licenses and adhere to
applicable regulations in the states in which we conduct these
businesses.

The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 contains anti-money laundering and
financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of
various new regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other
financial services companies, including standards for verifying
client identification at account opening, and obligations to
monitor client transactions and report suspicious activities.
Through these and other provisions, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001
seeks to promote the identification of parties that may be
involved in terrorism or money laundering. Anti-money laundering
laws outside the United States contain some similar provisions.
The obligation of financial institutions, including Goldman
Sachs, to identify their clients, to watch for and report
suspicious transactions, to respond to requests for information
by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and to
share information with other financial institutions, has
required the implementation and maintenance of internal
practices, procedures and controls that have increased, and may
continue to increase, our costs, and any failure with respect to
our programs in this area could subject us to substantial
liability and regulatory fines.

Regulation Outside the United States

Goldman Sachs provides investment services in and from the
United Kingdom under the regulation of the Financial Services
Authority (FSA). Goldman Sachs International (GSI), our
regulated U.K. broker-dealer, is subject to the capital
requirements of the FSA. As of November 2006, GSI was in
compliance with the FSA capital requirements. Other
subsidiaries, including Goldman Sachs International Bank, are
also regulated by the FSA.

Various Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the banking and
regulatory authorities of the other European countries in which
Goldman Sachs operates, including, among others, the Federal
Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) and the Bundesbank in
Germany, Banque de France and the Autorité des Marchés
Financiers in France, Banca d’Italia and the Commissione
Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa (CONSOB) in Italy,
the Federal Financial Markets Service in Russia and the Swiss
Federal Banking Commission. Goldman Sachs entities are also
regulated by the European securities, derivatives and
commodities exchanges of which they are members.

The investment services that are subject to oversight by the FSA
and other European regulators are regulated in accordance with
European Union directives requiring, among other things,
compliance with certain capital adequacy standards, customer
protection requirements and conduct of business rules. These
standards, requirements and rules are similarly implemented,
under the same directives, throughout the European Union and are
broadly comparable in scope and purpose to the regulatory
capital and customer protection requirements imposed under the
SEC and CFTC rules. Some European Union directives also permit
local regulation in each jurisdiction, including those in which
we operate, to be more restrictive than the requirements of such
directives and these local requirements can result in certain
competitive disadvantages to Goldman Sachs.

The European Union’s Markets in Financial Instruments
Directive (Directive 2004/39/EC) will affect several of our
subsidiaries by imposing detailed pan-European requirements in
areas such as internal organization (including conflict
management, outsourcing and recordkeeping), best execution,
real-time disclosure of completed transactions in shares,
quoting obligations for internalized client orders in shares,
transaction reporting to regulators, client classification and
documentation, and



regulation of investment services related to commodity
derivatives. European Union member states were required to adopt
national laws, regulations and administrative provisions
complying with the directive by January 31, 2007 and must
apply these laws, regulations and provisions by
November 1, 2007. The United Kingdom has met the
adopting deadline and is expected to meet the deadline for
applying the laws and regulations. Therefore, we anticipate that
we will be subject to substantial new requirements beginning
November 1, 2007, which could lead to business disruptions
or require us to change certain of our business practices.
Certain other member states have not yet adopted the required
laws and regulations and may not meet the November 1, 2007
deadline for applying them. While we are preparing for
compliance with the implementing laws and regulations, we remain
subject to continuing regulatory uncertainty concerning the
national implementing laws and regulations.

Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL), our regulated Japanese
broker-dealer, is subject to the capital requirements of
Japan’s Financial Services Agency. As of November 2006,
GSJCL was in compliance with its capital adequacy requirements.
GSJCL is also regulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka
Securities Exchange, the Tokyo Financial Exchange, the Japan
Securities Dealers Association, the Tokyo Commodity Exchange and
the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in Japan. Prior to
October 1, 2006, Goldman Sachs (Japan) Ltd., the
predecessor to GSJCL, was our primary regulated subsidiary based
in Japan.

Also in Asia, the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong
Kong, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the China Securities
Regulatory Commission and the Korean Financial Supervisory
Service, among others, regulate various of our subsidiaries and
also have capital standards and other requirements comparable to
the rules of the SEC.

Various Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the banking and
regulatory authorities of other

non-U.S.

countries
in which Goldman Sachs operates, including, among others,
Brazil, India and Dubai. In addition, certain of our insurance
subsidiaries are regulated by the Bermuda Registrar of Companies.

Regulations Applicable in and Outside the United States

The U.S. and

non-U.S.

government
agencies, regulatory bodies and self-regulatory organizations,
as well as state securities commissions in the United States,
are empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can
result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease and desist
orders, or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer or its
directors, officers or employees. From time to time, our
subsidiaries have been subject to investigations and
proceedings, and sanctions have been imposed for infractions of
various regulations relating to our activities, none of which
has had a material adverse effect on us or our businesses.

In 2004, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued the
Basel II capital standards, which are designed to promote
enhanced risk management practices among large, international
financial services firms by aligning regulatory capital
requirements more closely with the underlying risks faced by
these firms. Under the currently proposed time schedule, GSI, as
well as our other subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and
elsewhere in Europe, would become subject to the Basel II
requirements on January 1, 2008. The Consolidated
Supervised Entity rules described above under
“— Regulation in the United States,” which
provide for group-wide supervision, are consistent with
Basel II. Complying with these new standards has required
us to develop and apply new and sophisticated measurement
techniques to determine our regulatory capital adequacy. As an
increasing number of financial institutions become subject to
Basel II, new interpretations may arise, and harmonization
among regulators could then impact the regulatory capital
requirements under which we operate as a Consolidated Supervised
Entity, as well as the requirements for some of our regulated
subsidiaries.

Our specialist businesses are subject to extensive regulation by
a number of securities exchanges. The rules of these exchanges
generally require our specialists to maintain orderly



markets in the securities in which they are specialists. These
requirements, in turn, may require us to commit significant
amounts of capital to our specialist businesses.

The research areas of investment banks have been and remain the
subject of regulatory scrutiny. The SEC, NYSE and NASD have
adopted rules imposing restrictions on the interaction between
equity research analysts and investment banking personnel at
member securities firms. Various

non-U.S.

jurisdictions
have imposed both substantive and disclosure-based requirements
with respect to research and may impose additional regulations.
In 2003, GS&Co. agreed to a global settlement with certain
federal and state securities regulators and self-regulatory
organizations to resolve investigations into equity research
analysts’ alleged conflicts of interest. The global
settlement includes certain restrictions and undertakings that
have imposed additional costs and limitations on the conduct of
our businesses, including restrictions on the interaction
between research and investment banking departments.

In connection with the research settlement, we have also
subscribed to a voluntary initiative imposing restrictions on
the allocation of shares in initial public offerings to
executives and directors of public companies. The FSA in the
United Kingdom has imposed requirements on the conduct of the
allocation process in equity and fixed income securities
offerings (including initial public offerings and secondary
distributions). The SEC, NYSE and NASD have proposed rules that
would further affect the manner in which securities are
distributed and allocated in registered public offerings. We
cannot fully predict the practical effect that these proposed
requirements will have on our business, and the SEC, NYSE, NASD
and

non-U.S.

regulators,
such as the FSA, may adopt additional and more stringent rules
with respect to offering procedures and the management of
conflicts of interest in the future.

Our investment management businesses are subject to significant
regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world relating
to, among other things, the safeguarding of client assets and
our management of client funds.

As discussed above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to
regulatory capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the
world. Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulation may hold
capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency
requirements or internal policies, including policies concerning
the minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based
upon its underlying risk.

Certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with
regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments,
the European Union or other jurisdictions and/or enacted by
various regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to the
privacy of client information, and any failure to comply with
these regulations could expose us to liability and/or
reputational damage.

Item 1A.     Risk Factors

We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in
our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit,
operational, legal and regulatory risks. The following are some
of the more important factors that could affect our businesses.

Our businesses may be adversely affected by conditions in
    the global financial markets and economic conditions
    generally.

Our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable
earnings. While we have achieved record earnings per common
share in each of our last three fiscal years, reflecting a
favorable trading and investing environment and an increase in
investment banking activity, an adverse change in these market
conditions may adversely affect our results of operations.

Our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the
global financial markets and economic conditions generally, and
these conditions may change suddenly and dramatically. A
favorable business environment is generally characterized by,
among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth,
stable geopolitical conditions, transparent and efficient
capital markets, low



inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong
business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market
conditions, which can be caused by outbreaks of hostilities or
other geopolitical instability, declines in business confidence,
increases in inflation, corporate, political or other scandals
that reduce investor confidence in capital markets, natural
disasters or pandemics or a combination of these or other
factors, have adversely affected, and may in the future
adversely affect, our business and profitability in many ways,
including the following:



•

The volume of transactions that we execute for our clients and
    as a specialist or market maker may decline, which would reduce
    the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads. In
    addition, competitive pressures and other industry factors,
    including the increasing use by our clients of low-cost
    electronic trading, could cause a reduction in commissions and
    spreads. In our specialist businesses, we are obligated by stock
    exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by
    purchasing shares in a declining market. This may result in
    trading losses and an increased need for liquidity. Weakness in
    global equity markets and the trading of securities in multiple
    markets and on multiple exchanges could adversely impact our
    trading businesses and impair the value of our goodwill and
    identifiable intangible assets. In addition, competitive
    pressures have been particularly intense in the context of block
    trades.

•

The emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health
    emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an
    emergency, could create economic and financial disruptions in
    emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could
    lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations)
    that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around
    the world. In addition, unforeseen or catastrophic events,
    including health emergencies, terrorist attacks or natural
    disasters, could expose our insurance subsidiaries to
    significant losses.

We may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk
    management processes and strategies.

We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a
variety of separate but complementary financial, credit,
operational, compliance and legal reporting systems. Our trading
risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit
from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses.
While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring
and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the
judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate
every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing
of such outcomes. Thus, we may, in the course of our activities,
incur losses.

The models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures
reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack
thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market
indicators, and in times of market stress or other unforeseen
circumstances previously uncorrelated indicators may become
correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may
move in different directions. In the past, these types of market
movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging
strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and
they may do so in the future.

Market volatility has been relatively low in recent years. An
increase in volatility would increase our measured risk, which
might cause us to reduce our proprietary positions or to reduce
certain of our business activities. In such circumstances, we
may not be able to reduce our positions or our exposure in a
timely, cost-effective way or in a manner sufficient to offset
the increase in measured risk.

For a further discussion of our risk management policies and
procedures, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual
Report on
Form

10-K.

Our liquidity and businesses may be adversely affected by
    an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell
    assets, by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an inability
    of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. to access funds from its
    subsidiaries.

Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be
impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt
markets, an inability to sell assets or unforeseen outflows of
cash or collateral. This situation may arise due to
circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a
general market disruption or an operational problem that affects
third parties or us. The financial



instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a
party are increasingly complex, as we employ structured products
to benefit our clients and ourselves, and these complex
structured products often do not have readily available markets
to access in times of liquidity stress. Growth of our
proprietary investing activities may lead to situations where
the holdings from these activities represent a significant
portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for
our positions. Further, our ability to sell assets may be
impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell
similar assets at the same time.

Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction
in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and
competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our
access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under
certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and
collateralized financing contracts. Under these provisions,
counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with
Goldman Sachs or require us to post additional collateral.
Termination of our trading and collateralized financing
contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our
liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or
to make significant cash payments or securities movements.

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is a holding company and,
therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other
payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to
fund all payments on its obligations, including debt
obligations. Many of our subsidiaries, including GS&Co., are
subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or
reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. Regulatory action of that kind could impede
access to funds that The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. needs to make
payments on obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend
payments.

Our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be
    adversely affected by a deterioration in the credit quality of,
    or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or
    other assets.

We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money,
securities or other assets will not perform their obligations.
These parties may default on their obligations to us due to
bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other
reasons. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against
third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. In
addition, a deterioration in the credit quality of third parties
whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses
and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or
otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity
purposes. A significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our
counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results.
The amount and duration of our credit exposures have been
increasing over the past several years, as has the breadth of
the entities to which we have credit exposures. As a clearing
member firm, we finance our client positions, and we could be
held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients.
In addition, we have experienced, due to competitive factors,
pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not
always fully compensate us for the risks we take. In particular,
corporate clients sometimes seek to require credit commitments
from us in connection with investment banking and other
assignments. While our activities expose us to many different
industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high
volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial
services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial
banks, investment funds and other institutional clients,
resulting in significant credit concentration with respect to
this industry. In the ordinary course of business, we may also
be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular
counterparty, borrower or issuer.

Although we regularly review credit exposures to specific
clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries
and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default
risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult
to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or a default
by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity
problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in
turn could adversely affect Goldman Sachs.



We face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us
    to transact with a broader array of clients, with new asset
    classes and in new markets.

A number of our recent and planned business initiatives and
expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact,
directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are
not within our traditional client base and with new asset
classes and new markets. For example, we have begun providing
loans to small and mid-sized businesses, increased our exposure
to subprime mortgages and are transacting business and investing
in new emerging markets. In addition, we are increasingly
offering complex structured products and alternative investments
to a wider investor base, both directly and through third-party
distribution channels. Furthermore, a number of our businesses,
including our proprietary investing and merchant banking
activities, cause us to directly or indirectly own interests in,
or otherwise become affiliated with the ownership and operation
of, public services, such as airports, toll roads, shipping
ports and electric power generation facilities, both within and
outside the United States. These business activities expose us
to new and enhanced risks, including reputational concerns
arising from dealing with less sophisticated counterparties and
investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities,
increased credit-related and operational risks, risks arising
from accidents or acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns
with the manner in which these assets are being operated or held.

Derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk
    and potential losses.

We are party to a large number of derivative transactions,
including credit derivatives, that require that we deliver to
the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other
obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we
do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation
and may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the
underlying security, loan or other obligation through the
physical settlement of other transactions. As a result, we are
subject to the risk that we may not be able to obtain the
security, loan or other obligation within the required
contractual time frame for delivery. This could cause us to
forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result
in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational
risk as well as increased costs to the firm.

Derivative contracts and other transactions entered into with
third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties on
a timely basis. While the transaction remains unconfirmed, we
are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the
event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce the
contract.

A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or
    those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our
    businesses, damage our reputation and cause losses.

Shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or
systems could lead to impairment of our liquidity, financial
loss, disruption of our businesses, liability to clients,
regulatory intervention or reputational damage. Our businesses
are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily
basis, a large number of transactions, many of which are highly
complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies.
These transactions often must adhere to client-specific
guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. Our
financial, accounting, data processing or other operating
systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become
disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially
beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process
these transactions. The inability of our systems to accommodate
an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our
ability to expand our businesses.

We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of
any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other
financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities
transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients
grows, we will increasingly face the risk of operational failure
with respect to our clients’ systems. In recent years,
there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents,
exchanges and clearing houses, which has increased our



exposure to operational failure or termination of the particular
financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our
ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the
event of any such failure or termination. Any such failure or
termination could adversely affect our ability to effect
transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to
risk.

Despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place,
our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a
disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses
and the communities in which we are located. This may include a
disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation
or other services used by Goldman Sachs or third parties with
which we conduct business. These disruptions may occur, for
example, as a result of events that affect only the buildings of
Goldman Sachs or such third parties, or as a result of events
with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities
where those buildings are located. Nearly all of our employees
in our primary locations, including New York, London, Frankfurt,
Hong Kong, Tokyo and Bangalore, work in close proximity to one
another, in one or more buildings. If a disruption occurs in one
location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy
our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations,
our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer,
and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency
plans that depend on communication or travel.

Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and
transmission of confidential and other information in our
computer systems and networks. Although we take protective
measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant,
our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to
unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code
and other events that could have a security impact. If one or
more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our
or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and
other information processed and stored in, and transmitted
through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause
interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our
counterparties’ or third parties’ operations, which
could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We
may be required to expend significant additional resources to
modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate
vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to
litigation and financial losses that are either not insured
against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by
us.

We routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and
proprietary information by email and other electronic means. We
have discussed and worked with clients and counterparties to
develop secure transmission capabilities, but we do not have in
place secure capabilities for all of our clients and
counterparties. An interception or mishandling of personal,
confidential or proprietary information being sent to or
received from a client or counterparty could result in legal
liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. We are
exposed to similar risks arising from the interception of
personal, confidential or proprietary information sent to or
received from, or the misuse or mishandling of personal,
confidential or proprietary information by, vendors, service
providers and other third parties who may receive such
information from us, and our efforts to ensure that these third
parties have appropriate controls in place may not be successful.

Conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to
    appropriately deal with conflicts of interest could adversely
    affect our businesses.

Our reputation is one of our most important assets. As we have
expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we
increasingly have to address potential conflicts of interest,
including situations where our services to a particular client
or our own proprietary investments or other interests conflict,
or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another
client, as well as situations where one or more of our
businesses have access to material non-public information that
may not be shared with other businesses within the firm.

The SEC, the NASD, other federal and state regulators and
regulators outside the United States, including in the United
Kingdom and Japan, have announced their intention to increase
their



scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest, including through
detailed examinations of specific transactions. There have been
recent public reports that the Department of Justice is
conducting an investigation regarding joint participation by
certain private equity firms and other financial institutions in
certain leveraged buyouts, referred to as “club
deals.” In addition, certain complaints filed against firms
other than Goldman Sachs allege the violation of antitrust laws
arising from their “club deal” arrangements. A number
of class action complaints have also been filed in connection
with certain specific “club deal” transactions which
name the relevant “club deal” participants among the
defendants, including Goldman Sachs affiliates in several cases,
and generally allege that the transactions constitute a breach
of fiduciary duty by the target company and that the
“club” participants aided and abetted such breach. We
may become subject to further litigation or regulatory scrutiny
in the future in this regard.

We have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to
address conflicts of interest, including those designed to
prevent the improper sharing of information among our
businesses. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of
interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be
damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into
transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be
affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately
with conflicts of interest. In addition, potential or perceived
conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions.

Our businesses and those of our clients are subject to
    extensive and pervasive regulation around the world.

Goldman Sachs, as a participant in the financial services
industry, is subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions
around the world. We face the risk of significant intervention
by regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we
conduct our businesses. Among other things, we could be fined,
prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or
subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities.

New laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing
laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our
clients may also adversely affect our businesses. Regulatory
changes could lead to business disruptions, could require us to
change certain of our business practices and could expose us to
additional costs and liabilities as well as reputational harm.
For a discussion of the extensive regulation to which our
businesses are subject, see “Business —
Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 of the Annual
Report on
Form

10-K.

Firms in the financial services industry have been operating in
a difficult regulatory environment. The industry has experienced
increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, both within and
outside the United States. Penalties and fines sought by
regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the
last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely
in recent years to commence enforcement actions. For example,
regulators, both within and outside the United States, continue
to scrutinize complex, structured finance transactions and have
brought enforcement actions against a number of financial
institutions in connection with such transactions. We seek to
create innovative solutions to address our clients’ needs,
and we have entered into, and continue to enter into, structured
transactions with clients.

This environment has led some of our clients to be less willing
to engage in transactions that may carry a risk of increased
scrutiny by regulators and has created uncertainty with respect
to a number of transactions that had historically been entered
into by financial services firms, including our firm, and that
were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. This
environment also has led us and our competitors to modify
transaction structures and, in some cases, to limit or cease our
execution of some types of transactions. While we have policies
and procedures in place that are intended to ensure that the
transactions we enter into are appropriately reviewed and comply
with applicable laws and regulations, it is possible that
certain transactions could give rise to litigation or
enforcement actions or that the regulatory scrutiny of, and
litigation in connection with, transactions



will make our clients less willing to enter into these
transactions with us, and will adversely affect our business.

Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory
    action against Goldman Sachs could have material adverse
    financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to
    Goldman Sachs, which in turn could seriously harm our business
    prospects.

We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the
volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in
litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial
institutions remain high. See “Legal Proceedings” in
Part I, Item 3 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for a
discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved.

For example, federal and state authorities and other regulatory
entities, including the NASD, have made informational requests
regarding market timing, late trading and other activities
broadly across all of the major fund companies and
broker-dealers, including Goldman Sachs. While we believe that
we have in place reasonable measures to detect and deter
disruptive and abusive trading practices and comply with
applicable legal and regulatory requirements, we cannot predict
the course that these inquiries and areas of focus may take or
the impact that any new laws or regulations governing mutual
funds may have on our businesses.

Also, in March 2004, certain NYSE specialist firms, including
our specialist unit, agreed to a settlement with the SEC and
NYSE to resolve charges that the firms violated certain federal
securities laws and NYSE rules in connection with their
activities as NYSE specialists during the years 1999 through
2003. The settlement did not resolve the related civil actions
discussed under “Legal Proceedings — Specialist
Matters” in Part I, Item 3 of the Annual Report
on Form

10-K,

or
potential regulatory charges against individuals. In addition,
we have received requests for information from regional stock
exchanges and options exchanges regarding specialist activities.
As a result of the settlement and any related developments,
other investigations or any new laws or regulations governing
specialists, our specialist businesses may be adversely affected
and the value of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets
related to these businesses may be impaired.

There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving
fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services
industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee
misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or
prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to
prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all
cases.

The financial services industry is highly
    competitive.

The financial services industry — and all of our
businesses — are intensely competitive, and we expect
them to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of
factors, including transaction execution, our products and
services, innovation, reputation and price. We believe that we
will continue to experience pricing pressures in the future as
some of our competitors seek to increase market share by
reducing prices. Over time, there has been substantial
consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial
services industry. U.S. federal legislation, which
significantly expanded the activities permissible for firms
affiliated with a U.S. bank, has accelerated this
consolidation and further increased competition. This trend
toward consolidation and convergence has significantly increased
the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. This
trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and
other financial services markets. As a result, we have had to
commit capital to support our international operations and to
execute large global transactions. As our business expands into
new business areas and new geographical regions, we will face
competitors with more experience and more established
relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants
in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability
to expand.



The growth of electronic trading and the introduction of
    new technology may adversely affect our business and may
    increase competition.

Technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. The
growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new
technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with
new challenges. Securities, futures and options transactions are
increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems
and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears
that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue
and probably accelerate. Some of these alternative trading
systems compete with our trading businesses, including our
specialist businesses, and we may experience continued
competitive pressures in these and other areas. In addition, the
increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading
systems and direct electronic access to trading markets could
cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. The NYSE’s
adoption of its hybrid market for trading securities may
increase pressure on our Equities business as customers execute
more of their NYSE-related trades electronically. We have
invested significant resources into the development of
electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but
there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these
systems will yield an adequate return on our investment,
particularly given the relatively lower commissions arising from
electronic trades.

Our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable
    to hire and retain qualified employees.

Competition from within the financial services industry and from
businesses outside the financial services industry, such as
hedge funds, private equity funds and venture capital funds, for
qualified employees is intense, particularly in emerging
markets. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and
efforts of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued
ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand
into new business areas depends on our ability to attract new
employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. In
addition, current and future laws (including laws relating to
immigration and outsourcing) may restrict our ability to move
responsibilities or personnel from one jurisdiction to another.
This may impact our ability to take advantage of business
opportunities or potential efficiencies.

Our power generation interests subject us to the risks
    associated with owning power generation facilities.

The operation of our power generation facilities may be
disrupted for many reasons, many of which are outside our
control, including the breakdown or failure of power generation
equipment, transmission lines or other equipment or processes,
and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency.
In addition, these facilities could be adversely affected by the
failure of any of third-party suppliers or service providers to
perform their contractual obligations, including the failure to
obtain raw materials necessary for operation at reasonable
prices. Market conditions or other factors could cause a failure
to satisfy or obtain waivers under agreements with third
parties, including lenders and utilities, which impose
significant obligations on our subsidiaries that own such
facilities. The occurrence of any of such events may prevent the
affected facilities from performing under applicable power sales
agreements, may impair their operations or financial results and
may result in litigation or other reputational harm.

Our power generation facilities are subject to extensive and
evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental and
other governmental laws and regulations, including environmental
laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality,
water quality, waste management, natural resources, site
remediation and health and safety. In the past several years,
intensified scrutiny of the energy market by federal, state and
local authorities and the public has resulted in increased
regulatory and legal proceedings involving companies engaged in
electric power generation. In addition, we may incur substantial
costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations
relating to power generation, including having to commit
significant capital toward environmental monitoring,
installation of pollution control equipment, payment of emission
fees, and application for,



and holding of, permits and licenses at our power generation
facilities. In certain instances, compliance with applicable
laws and regulations may require us to cease or curtail
operations of one or more of our power generation facilities.
Our power generation facilities are also subject to the risk of
unforeseen or catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks,
natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. We
may not have insurance against these risks or other risks,
including environmental risks, that such facilities face, and,
in cases in which we do have insurance, the insurance proceeds
may be inadequate to cover our losses. Our overall businesses
and reputation may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory
proceedings, particularly those related to the environmental
matters, arising out of our power generation business, as well
as by the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events.

In conducting our businesses around the world, we are
    subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other
    risks that are inherent in operating in many countries.

In conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our
global operations, we are subject to risks of possible
nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital
controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental
actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. In many
countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities
and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving,
and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact
requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to
remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market
could have a significant and negative effect not only on our
businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally.
We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we
structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases.

Our businesses and operations are increasingly involved in
emerging markets throughout the world, and we expect this trend
to continue. In the last several years, various emerging market
countries have experienced severe economic and financial
disruptions, including significant devaluations of their
currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or
negative growth rates in their economies. The possible effects
of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our
businesses and increased volatility in financial markets
generally.

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

There are no material unresolved written comments that were
received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end
of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Item 2.

Properties

Our principal executive offices are located at 85 Broad Street,
New York, New York, and comprise approximately one million
rentable square feet of leased space, pursuant to a lease
agreement expiring in June 2008 (with options to renew for up to
20 additional years). We also occupy over
680,000 rentable square feet at One New York Plaza under
lease agreements expiring primarily in 2009 (with options to
renew for up to five additional years), and we lease space at
various other locations in the New York metropolitan area. In
total, we lease approximately 3.9 million rentable square
feet in the New York metropolitan area.

In August 2005, we leased from Battery Park City Authority a
parcel of land in lower Manhattan, pursuant to a ground lease.
We are currently constructing a 2.1 million
gross-square-foot office building on the site that will serve as
our world headquarters. Under the lease, Battery Park City
Authority holds title to all improvements, including the office
building, subject to Goldman Sachs’ right of exclusive
possession and use for the

64-year

duration of the
lease.

Under the terms of the ground lease, we are required to make a
lump-sum ground rent payment of $161 million by June 2007
and to make additional periodic payments during the term of the
lease. We are obligated under the ground lease to construct the
office building by 2011 (subject



to extensions in the case of force majeure) in accordance with
certain pre-approved design standards. Construction began on the
building in November 2005, and we expect initial occupancy of
the building by 2009. The building is projected to cost between
$2.3 billion and $2.5 billion, including acquisition,
development, fitout and furnishings, financing and other related
costs.

We are receiving a number of benefits from the City and State of
New York based on our agreement to construct our world
headquarters in lower Manhattan. These benefits are subject to
recoupment or recapture if we do not proceed in accordance with
our agreements with the City and State of New York.

We own an office building at 30 Hudson Street in Jersey City,
New Jersey, which includes approximately 1.6 million gross
square feet of office space, and we own over 300,000 square
feet of additional space spread among three locations in New
York and New Jersey. We have additional offices in the U.S. and
elsewhere in the Americas, which together comprise approximately
2.3 million rentable square feet of leased space.

In Europe, the Middle East and Africa, we have offices that
total approximately 2.0 million rentable square feet. Our
European headquarters is located in London at Peterborough
Court, pursuant to a lease expiring in 2026. In total, we lease
approximately 1.6 million rentable square feet in London
through various leases, relating to various properties.

In Asia, we have offices that total approximately
1.2 million rentable square feet. Our headquarters in this
region are in Tokyo, at the Roppongi Hills Mori Tower, and in
Hong Kong, at the Cheung Kong Center. In Tokyo, we currently
lease approximately 390,000 rentable square feet through a
lease that will expire in 2018. In Hong Kong, we currently lease
approximately 220,000 rentable square feet under lease
agreements, the majority of which will expire in fiscal 2012.

Our occupancy expenses include costs associated with office
space held in excess of our current requirements. This excess
space, the cost of which is charged to earnings as incurred, is
being held for potential growth or to replace currently occupied
space that we may exit in the future. We regularly evaluate our
current and future space capacity in relation to current and
projected staffing levels. We may incur exit costs in 2007 and
thereafter to the extent we (i) reduce our space capacity
or (ii) commit to, or occupy, new properties in the
locations in which we operate and, consequently, dispose of
existing space that had been held for potential growth. These
exit costs may be material to our results of operations in a
given period.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

We are involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and
arbitration proceedings (including those described below)
concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of our
businesses. We believe, based on currently available
information, that the results of such proceedings, in the
aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, but might be material to our operating
results for any particular period, depending, in part, upon the
operating results for such period. Given the range of litigation
and investigations presently under way, our litigation expenses
can be expected to remain high.

IPO Process Matters

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co.
are among the numerous financial services companies that have
been named as defendants in a variety of lawsuits alleging
improprieties in the process by which those companies
participated in the underwriting of public offerings in recent
years.

Certain purported class actions have been brought in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York,
beginning on November 3, 1998, by purchasers of securities
in public offerings as well as certain purported issuers of such
offerings, that allege that the defendants have conspired to fix
at 7% the discount that underwriting syndicates receive from
issuers of shares in certain



offerings in violation of federal antitrust laws. On
March 15, 1999, the purchaser plaintiffs filed a
consolidated amended complaint seeking treble damages as well as
injunctive relief. The defendants moved to dismiss the
consolidated amended complaint on April 29, 1999. On
February 9, 2001, the federal district court granted with
prejudice the defendants’ motion to dismiss the claims
asserted by the purchasers of securities on the ground that they
lacked antitrust standing. The plaintiffs in those actions
appealed, and by a decision dated December 13, 2002, the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit vacated the
dismissal on the ground that the lower court had engaged in
improper fact-finding on the motion and remanded for
consideration of other potential bases for dismissal. On
September 28, 2001, the defendants moved to dismiss the
complaints filed by the issuer plaintiffs on statute of
limitations grounds. On September 25, 2002, the federal
district court denied the underwriter defendants’ motion to
dismiss. On March 26, 2003, defendants moved to dismiss the
claims asserted by both the issuers and the purchasers of
securities on preemption grounds, but the motion was denied on
June 27, 2003. On June 24, 2003, defendants filed a
motion to dismiss the claims asserted by the purchasers of
securities on standing grounds, and on February 24, 2004,
the district court granted the motion to dismiss as to the
purchasers’ damages claims. Plaintiffs in both actions
moved for class certification on September 16, 2004 and for
summary judgment on November 16, 2005, and by a decision
dated April 18, 2006, the district court denied class
certification with respect to the damages claims asserted by the
issuers of securities. The issuer plaintiffs have petitioned the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit to review that
certification decision on an interlocutory basis, and the
petition was granted on August 1, 2006.

Goldman, Sachs & Co. is one of numerous financial
services firms that have been named as defendants in purported
class actions filed beginning on March 9, 2001 in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
by purchasers of securities in public offerings, who claim that
the defendants engaged in a conspiracy to “tie”
allocations in certain offerings to higher customer brokerage
commission rates as well as purchase orders in the aftermarket,
in violation of federal antitrust laws. The plaintiffs filed a
consolidated amended complaint on January 2, 2002 seeking
treble damages as well as injunctive relief. The defendants
moved to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint on
May 24, 2002, and the motion was granted by a decision
dated November 3, 2003. Plaintiffs appealed, and by a
decision dated September 28, 2005, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed and remanded the action.
On March 8, 2006, the underwriter defendants filed a
petition for

certiorari

with the U.S. Supreme Court
seeking review of the appellate decision, and the petition was
granted by order dated December 7, 2006. Goldman,
Sachs & Co. has also, together with other underwriters
in certain offerings as well as the issuers and certain of their
officers and directors, been named as a defendant in a number of
related lawsuits alleging, among other things, that the
prospectuses for the offerings violated the federal securities
laws by failing to disclose the existence of the alleged
“tying” arrangements and that the alleged arrangements
resulted in market manipulation. On July 1, 2002, the
underwriter defendants moved to dismiss those complaints. By an
opinion and order dated February 19, 2003, the federal
district court denied the motion to dismiss in all material
respects relating to the underwriter defendants. By a decision
dated October 13, 2004, the federal district court
generally granted plaintiffs’ motion for class
certification in six “focus cases.” The underwriter
defendants petitioned the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit to review that certification decision on an
interlocutory basis, and the appellate court agreed to review
the decision by order dated June 30, 2005. On
December 5, 2006, the Second Circuit reversed the district
court’s order granting class certification and remanded;
plaintiffs sought rehearing and rehearing en banc on
January 5, 2007. On June 10, 2004, plaintiffs
entered into a definitive settlement agreement with respect to
their claims against the issuer defendants and the issuers’
present or former officers and directors named in the lawsuits.
On June 14, 2004, those parties jointly moved for approval
of the proposed settlement, and the district court granted
preliminary approval by a decision dated February 15, 2005.
On April 20, 2006, plaintiffs announced that they had
entered into a definitive settlement agreement with respect to
their claims against J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. arising
from lawsuits alleging that (i) the prospectuses for
certain offerings violated the federal securities laws by
failing to disclose the



existence of alleged arrangements to “tie” allocations
to higher customer brokerage commission rates as well as
purchase orders in the aftermarket, and (ii) such alleged
underlying “tying” arrangements violated federal and
state antitrust laws. The settlement, pursuant to which
J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. will pay $425 million, is
subject to, among other things, documentation and court approval.

Goldman, Sachs & Co. has been named as a defendant in
an action commenced on May 15, 2002 in New York
Supreme Court, New York County, by an official committee of
unsecured creditors on behalf of eToys, Inc., alleging that the
firm intentionally underpriced eToys, Inc.’s initial public
offering. The action seeks, among other things, unspecified
compensatory damages resulting from the alleged lower amount of
offering proceeds. On August 1, 2002, Goldman,
Sachs & Co. moved to dismiss the complaint. On
May 2, 2003, the court granted Goldman, Sachs &
Co.’s motion to dismiss as to five of the claims; plaintiff
appealed from the dismissal of the five claims, and Goldman,
Sachs & Co. appealed from the denial of its motion as
to the remaining claim. By a decision dated May 20, 2004,
the New York Appellate Division, First Department affirmed in
part and reversed in part the lower court’s ruling on the
firm’s motion to dismiss, permitting all claims to proceed
except the claim for fraud, as to which the appellate court
granted leave to replead. The Appellate Division granted leave
to appeal, and by a decision dated June 7, 2005, the New
York Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed in part the
Appellate Division’s decision, dismissing claims for breach
of contract, professional malpractice and unjust enrichment, but
permitting claims for breach of fiduciary duty and fraud to
continue. On remand to the lower court, Goldman,
Sachs & Co. moved to dismiss the claims that survived
the appeal or, in the alternative, for summary judgment, but the
motion was denied by a decision dated March 21, 2006.

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and certain of its affiliates
have, together with various underwriters in certain offerings,
received subpoenas and requests for documents and information
from various governmental agencies and self-regulatory
organizations in connection with investigations relating to the
public offering process. Goldman Sachs has cooperated with the
investigations. On January 25, 2005, in connection with an
investigation by the SEC of certain allocation practices
employed by Goldman, Sachs & Co. and other firms, the
SEC announced a settlement pursuant to which Goldman,
Sachs & Co., without admitting or denying the
allegations, (i) consented to the entry of an order
permanently enjoining Goldman, Sachs & Co. from
violating Rule 101 of Regulation M of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, by inducing or attempting to induce
customers receiving IPO allocations to buy additional shares in
the aftermarket; and (ii) agreed to pay a penalty of
$40 million. In connection with effectuation of the
settlement, the SEC filed a civil action against Goldman,
Sachs & Co. in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York on January 25, 2005, and the
district court entered a final judgment on
February 7, 2005 approving the settlement and granting
the permanent injunctive relief.

Stock Options Litigation

Hull Trading Co. L.L.C. and Spear, Leeds & Kellogg,
L.P. (now known as Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing,
L.P.), affiliates of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., are among
the numerous market makers in listed equity options that have
been named as defendants, together with five national securities
exchanges, in a purported class action brought in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
on behalf of persons who purchased or sold listed equity
options. The consolidated class action complaint, filed on
October 4, 1999 (which consolidated certain previously
pending actions and added Hull Trading Co. L.L.C. and other
market makers as defendants), generally alleges that the
defendants engaged in a conspiracy to preclude the multiple
listing of certain equity options on the exchanges and seeks
treble damages under the antitrust laws as well as injunctive
relief. Certain of the parties, including Hull Trading Co.
L.L.C. and Spear, Leeds & Kellogg, L.P., have entered
into a stipulation of settlement, subject to court approval,
which originally required Hull Trading Co. L.L.C. to pay an
aggregate of $2.48 million and Spear, Leeds &
Kellogg, L.P. an aggregate of $19.59 million. On
February 14, 2001, the federal district court granted the



motion of certain non-settling defendants for summary judgment.
By a decision dated April 24, 2001, the district court
ruled that in light of that order granting summary judgment, the
court lacked jurisdiction to entertain the proposed settlement.
Plaintiffs appealed, and by a decision dated January 9,
2003, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
affirmed the grant of summary judgment, but held that the
decision did not divest the lower court of jurisdiction to
entertain the proposed settlement, and remanded for further
proceedings. By an Order dated March 17, 2003, the
U.S. Court of Appeals denied plaintiffs’ motion for
rehearing or rehearing en banc of the Court’s
January 9, 2003 decision. On October 26, 2005, certain
defendants, including Spear, Leeds & Kellogg, L.P. and
Hull Trading Co. L.L.C., reached an agreement to modify and
restate the original settlement agreement, reducing the overall
settlement payments by certain market maker defendants by
approximately 25% of the original amounts. By an order dated
February 8, 2006, the federal district court entered an
order that, among other things, preliminarily approved the
proposed modified settlement. The federal district court
approved the settlement by an Order dated
December 4, 2006.

Iridium Securities Litigation

Goldman, Sachs & Co. has been named as a defendant in
two purported class action lawsuits commenced, beginning on
May 26, 1999, in the U.S. District Court for the
District of Columbia brought on behalf of purchasers of
Class A common stock of Iridium World Communications, Ltd.
in a January 1999 underwritten secondary offering of
7,500,000 shares of Class A common stock at a price of
$33.50 per share, as well as in the secondary market.
Goldman, Sachs & Co. underwrote 996,500 shares of
common stock and Goldman Sachs International underwrote
320,625 shares of common stock for a total offering price
of approximately $44 million.

The defendants in the actions include Iridium, certain of its
officers and directors, Motorola, Inc. (an investor in Iridium)
and the lead underwriters in the offering, including Goldman,
Sachs & Co. The complaints in both actions allege
violations of the disclosure requirements of the federal
securities laws and seek compensatory and/or rescissory damages.
On May 13, 2002, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended
complaint alleging substantively identical claims as the
original complaints.

On July 15, 2002, the defendants moved to dismiss the
consolidated amended complaint, and by a decision dated
August 31, 2004, the motion was denied. On April 15,
2005, plaintiffs moved for class certification, and the district
court granted the motion, certifying two subclasses, by a
decision dated January 9, 2006. On September 30, 2005,
the underwriter defendants moved for summary judgment, and by a
decision dated September 15, 2006, the federal district
court denied the motion as to claims under Section 11 of
the Securities Act of 1933, but granted summary judgment
dismissing claims under Section 12(a)(2) of the Securities
Act against Goldman, Sachs & Co. and all but one of the
other underwriter defendants. On November 3, 2006, the
underwriter defendants entered into an agreement to settle all
claims against them for a settlement payment of
$8.25 million. The settlement is subject to, among other
things, documentation and court approval.

On August 13, 1999, Iridium World Communications, Ltd.
filed for protection under the U.S. bankruptcy laws.

World Online Litigation

Several lawsuits have been commenced in the Netherlands courts
based on alleged misstatements and omissions relating to the
initial public offering of World Online in March 2000. Goldman
Sachs and ABN AMRO Rothschild served as joint global
coordinators of the approximately

€

2.9 billion
offering. Goldman Sachs International
underwrote 20,268,846 shares and Goldman,
Sachs & Co. underwrote 6,756,282 shares for a
total offering price of approximately

€

1.16 billion.

On September 11, 2000, several Dutch World Online
shareholders as well as a Dutch entity purporting to represent
the interests of certain World Online shareholders commenced a
proceeding in Amsterdam District Court against “ABN AMRO
Bank N.V., also acting under the name of ABN AMRO
Rothschild,” alleging misrepresentations and omissions
relating to the initial public offering of



World Online. The lawsuit seeks, among other things, the return
of the purchase price of the shares purchased by the plaintiffs
or unspecified damages. By a decision dated
May 7, 2003, the court held that the claims failed and
dismissed the complaint. The plaintiffs appealed, and by a
decision dated October 7, 2004, the Amsterdam Court of
Appeal affirmed dismissal of the complaint.

In March 2001, a Dutch shareholders association initiated legal
proceedings in Amsterdam District Court in connection with the
World Online offering. Goldman Sachs International is named as a
defendant in the writ served on its Dutch attorneys on
March 14, 2001. The amount of damages sought is not
specified in the writ. Goldman Sachs International filed its
Statement of Defense on January 16, 2002 and a
rejoinder on January 14, 2003. By a decision dated
December 17, 2003, the court rejected the claims
against Goldman Sachs International, but found World Online
liable in an amount to be determined. On
March 12, 2004, the Dutch shareholders association
appealed from the dismissal of their claims against Goldman
Sachs International. Oral hearings took place on
November 13, 2006.

Owens Corning Bondholder Litigation

Goldman, Sachs & Co. has been named as a defendant in a
purported class action filed on April 27, 2001 in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts
arising from a 1998 offering by Owens Corning of two series of
its notes. The defendants include certain of Owens
Corning’s officers and directors and the underwriters for
the offering (including Goldman, Sachs & Co., which was
the lead manager in the offering). The offering included a total
of $550 million principal amount of notes, of which
Goldman, Sachs & Co. underwrote $275 million.

The lawsuit, brought by certain institutional purchasers of the
notes, alleges that the prospectus issued in connection with the
offering was false and misleading in violation of the disclosure
requirements of the federal securities laws. The plaintiffs are
seeking, among other things, unspecified damages. The
underwriter defendants moved to dismiss the complaint on
November 14, 2001. By a decision dated
August 26, 2002, the federal district court denied the
underwriter defendants’ motion to dismiss, and by a
decision dated March 9, 2004, granted plaintiffs’
motion for class certification. On November 4, 2005,
the underwriter defendants reached an agreement in principle to
settle all claims against them for an aggregate payment of
$8.25 million, of which Goldman, Sachs & Co. will
contribute approximately $2.5 million. Subsequently, on
September 22, 2006, the remaining defendants advised the
Court that they had entered into a separate settlement agreement
in principle. All settlements remain subject to, among other
things, documentation and court approval.

On October 5, 2000, Owens Corning filed for protection
under the U.S. bankruptcy laws.

Research Independence Matters

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its affiliates, together with
other financial services firms, have received requests for
information from various governmental agencies and
self-regulatory organizations in connection with their review of
research independence issues. Goldman Sachs has cooperated with
the requests. See “Business —
Regulation — Regulations Applicable in and Outside the
United States” in Part I, Item 1 of the Annual
Report on
Form

10-K

for a
discussion of our global research settlement.

Goldman, Sachs & Co. is one of several investment firms
that have been named as defendants in substantively identical
purported class actions filed in the U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York alleging violations of the
federal securities laws in connection with research coverage of
certain issuers and seeking compensatory damages. In one such
action, relating to coverage of RSL Communications, Inc.
commenced on July 5, 2003, Goldman, Sachs &
Co. moved to dismiss the complaint on
January 13, 2004, and the motion was denied by a
decision dated May 21, 2004. On
November 9, 2004, plaintiffs moved for class
certification, and the district court granted the motion by a
decision dated July 27, 2005. Defendants petitioned
the U.S. Court of



Appeals for the Second Circuit to review that certification
decision on an interlocutory basis. The appellate court, by an
order dated December 22, 2005, denied the petition in
part and otherwise held the petition in abeyance for
consideration by the panel assigned to review the certification
decision in the action described under “IPO Process
Matters” above, and, by an order dated January 26,
2007, granted the petition, vacated the district court’s
class certification and remanded for reconsideration in light of
the appellate court’s certification decision in such
action. Goldman, Sachs & Co. is also a defendant in
several actions relating to research coverage of Exodus
Communications, Inc. that commenced beginning in May 2003. The
actions were consolidated, and on March 15, 2004,
Goldman, Sachs & Co. moved to dismiss, and the motion
was granted with leave to replead on April 17, 2006.
Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint on
May 17, 2006. On July 7, 2006, defendants
moved to dismiss the second amended complaint.

A purported shareholder derivative action was filed in New York
Supreme Court, New York County on June 13, 2003
against The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its board of
directors, which, as amended, alleges that the directors
breached their fiduciary duties in connection with the
firm’s research as well as the firm’s IPO allocations
practices. An amended complaint was filed on
March 3, 2004, which was further amended on
June 14, 2005.

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and
Henry M. Paulson, Jr., the former Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., have been
named as defendants in a purported class action filed originally
on July 18, 2003 in the U.S. District Court for
the District of Nevada on behalf of purchasers of The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. stock from July 1, 1999 through
May 7, 2002. The complaint alleges that defendants
breached their fiduciary duties and violated the federal
securities laws in connection with the firm’s research
activities. The complaint seeks, among other things, unspecified
compensatory damages and/or rescission. The action was
transferred on consent to the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York, defendants moved to dismiss the
amended complaint on August 30, 2004, and the district
court granted the motion with leave to amend by order dated
February 17, 2005. Plaintiffs filed a second amended
complaint on February 25, 2005, and defendants filed a
motion to dismiss on March 24, 2005. In a decision
dated September 29, 2006, the federal district court
granted Mr. Paulson’s motion to dismiss with leave to
replead but otherwise denied the motion.

Enron Litigation Matters

Goldman Sachs affiliates are defendants in certain actions
arising relating to Enron Corp., which filed for protection
under the U.S. bankruptcy laws on
December 2, 2001.

Goldman, Sachs & Co. and

co-managing

underwriters have been named as defendants in certain purported
securities class and individual actions commenced beginning on
December 14, 2001 in the U.S. District Court for
the Southern District of Texas and California Superior Court
brought by purchasers of $222,500,000 of Exchangeable Notes of
Enron Corp. in August 1999. The notes were mandatorily
exchangeable in 2002 into shares of Enron Oil & Gas
Company held by Enron Corp. or their cash equivalent. The
complaints also name as defendants The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
as well as certain past and present officers and directors of
Enron Corp. and the company’s outside accounting firm. The
complaints generally allege violations of the disclosure
requirements of the federal securities laws and/or state law,
and seek compensatory damages. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
underwrote $111,250,000 principal amount of the notes. The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co.
moved to dismiss the class action complaint in the Texas federal
court on March 15, 2004, and by a decision dated
December 5, 2005, the motion was granted as to The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. but denied as to Goldman,
Sachs & Co. One of the plaintiffs moved for class
certification on August 11, 2006. Goldman, Sachs &
Co. moved for judgment on the pleadings against one plaintiff on
August 21, 2006, and against all plaintiffs on
October 11, 2006. Plaintiffs in various consolidated
actions relating to Enron entered into a



settlement with Banc of America Securities LLC on July 2,
2004 and with Citigroup, Inc. on June 10, 2005,
including with respect to claims relating to the Exchangeable
Notes offering, as to which affiliates of those settling
defendants were two of the three underwriters (together with
Goldman, Sachs & Co.). The settling parties have yet to
announce what portion of the settlement will apply to the
Exchangeable Notes offering.

Several funds which allegedly sustained investment losses of
approximately $125 million in connection with secondary
market purchases of the Exchangeable Notes as well as Zero
Coupon Convertible Notes of Enron Corp. commenced an action in
the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York on January 16, 2002. As amended, the lawsuit
names as defendants the underwriters of the August 1999 offering
and the company’s outside accounting firm, and alleges
violations of the disclosure requirements of the federal
securities laws, fraud and misrepresentation. By an Order dated
June 24, 2002, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
Litigation entered an order transferring that action to the
Texas federal district court for purposes of coordinated or
consolidated pretrial proceedings with other matters relating to
Enron Corp. On March 20, 2002, Goldman,
Sachs & Co. moved to dismiss the complaint. By a
decision dated December 10, 2003, the motion was
granted in part and denied in part. Goldman, Sachs &
Co. sought clarification and reconsideration of the decision,
and on June 13, 2005, the federal district court
granted Goldman, Sachs & Co.’s motion for
reconsideration and provided for further briefing on Goldman,
Sachs & Co.’s motion to dismiss. On
August 18, 2006, the funds moved for leave to file a second
amended complaint, and the district court granted the motion on
January 22, 2007.

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co.
have been named as defendants in two substantively identical
purported class actions filed on June 5, 2003 in
Oregon Circuit Court, Multnomah County, on behalf of former
shareholders of Portland General Corporation. The complaints
generally allege that defendants breached their fiduciary duties
in connection with Portland General’s 1997 merger with
Enron Corp., in respect of which Goldman, Sachs & Co.
acted as financial advisor to Portland General. The defendants
also include Arthur Andersen, LLP, Andersen-U.S., and certain
former officers and directors of Portland General. The
complaints seek unspecified compensatory damages. In
July 2003, defendants removed the actions to the
U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon, and the
actions were transferred by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
Litigation to the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of Texas for coordinated proceedings with other actions
relating to Enron Corp. On February 25, 2004, The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co.
moved to dismiss the action, and on August 5, 2004,
the federal district court granted the motion to dismiss and
denied plaintiffs’ motion to remand the actions to state
court. On October 14, 2004, plaintiffs moved for
reconsideration, and on November 10, 2004, the motion
was denied. On August 28, 2006, the other defendants
entered into a stipulation dismissing all remaining claims, but
judgment has yet to be entered.

Goldman, Sachs & Co. is among numerous defendants in
two substantively identical actions filed in the
U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York
beginning in November 2003 seeking to recover as fraudulent
transfers and/or preferences payments made by Enron Corp. in
repurchasing its commercial paper shortly before its bankruptcy
filing. Goldman, Sachs & Co., which had acted as a
commercial paper dealer for Enron Corp., resold to Enron Corp.
approximately $30 million of commercial paper as principal,
and as an agent facilitated Enron Corp.’s repurchase of
additional commercial paper from various customers who have also
been named as defendants. Goldman, Sachs & Co. moved to
dismiss the complaints on February 19, 2004, but the
bankruptcy court denied the motion as well as similar motions by
other defendants by a decision dated June 15, 2005. On
August 1, 2005, various defendants including Goldman,
Sachs & Co. petitioned to have the denial of their
motion to dismiss reviewed by the U.S. District Court for
the Southern District of New York.



Exodus Securities Litigation

By an amended complaint dated July 11, 2002, Goldman,
Sachs & Co. and the other lead underwriters for the
February 2001 offering of 13,000,000 shares of common stock
and $575,000,000 of


/


% convertible
subordinated notes of Exodus Communications, Inc. were added as
defendants in a purported class action pending in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
California. The complaint, which also names as defendants
certain officers and directors of Exodus Communications, Inc.,
alleges violations of the disclosure requirements of the federal
securities laws and seeks compensatory damages. On
October 23, 2002, the underwriter defendants moved to
dismiss the complaint. By a decision dated
August 19, 2003, the district court granted the
defendants’ motion to dismiss with leave to replead, and
the plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint on
January 15, 2004. On March 12, 2004, the
underwriter defendants moved to dismiss the third amended
complaint, and by a decision dated August 5, 2005, the
district court denied the motion. The underwriter defendants
moved for reconsideration and clarification on
August 30, 2005, but the motion was denied by an order
dated September 12, 2005. By a decision dated
June 2, 2006, the district court granted summary
judgment dismissing the complaint on the grounds that the
plaintiff’s purchases of Exodus securities were not
traceable. On May 5, 2006 and May 19, 2006,
two new putative plaintiffs filed motions to intervene,
respectively, those motions were denied by a decision dated
August 14, 2006, and a motion by the putative
intervenors to vacate the resulting judgment was denied by a
decision dated October 26, 2006. Plaintiffs filed an
appeal on November 27, 2006, and the underwriter
defendants

cross-appealed

on
December 11, 2006 to the extent that certain earlier
grounds for dismissal had been rejected by the district court.
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
underwrote 5,200,000 shares of common stock for a
total offering price of approximately $96,200,000, and
$230,000,000 principal amount of the notes.

On September 26, 2001, Exodus Communications, Inc.
filed for protection under the U.S. bankruptcy laws.

Montana Power Litigation

Goldman, Sachs & Co. and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
have been named as defendants in a purported class action
commenced originally on October 1, 2001 in Montana District
Court, Second Judicial District on behalf of former shareholders
of Montana Power Company. The complaint generally alleges that
Montana Power Company violated Montana law by failing to procure
shareholder approval of certain corporate strategies and
transactions, that the company’s board breached its
fiduciary duties in pursuing those strategies and transactions,
and that Goldman, Sachs & Co. aided and abetted the
board’s breaches and rendered negligent advice in its role
as financial advisor to the company. The complaint seeks, among
other things, compensatory damages. In addition to Goldman,
Sachs & Co. and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., the
defendants include Montana Power Company, certain of its
officers and directors, an outside law firm for the Montana
Power Company, and certain companies that purchased assets from
Montana Power Company and its affiliates. The Montana state
court denied motions to dismiss by a decision dated
August 1, 2002. On July 18, 2003, following
the bankruptcies of certain defendants in the action, defendants
removed the action to federal court, the U.S. District
Court for the District of Montana, Butte Division.

On October 26, 2004, a creditors committee of Touch
America Holdings, Inc. brought an action against Goldman,
Sachs & Co., The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and a
former outside law firm for Montana Power Company in Montana
District Court, Second Judicial District. The complaint asserts
that Touch America Holdings, Inc. is the successor to Montana
Power Corporation and alleges substantially the same claims as
in the purported class action. Defendants removed the action to
federal court on November 19, 2004. On
January 14, 2005, defendants moved to dismiss the
complaint, but the motion was denied by a decision dated
June 10, 2005.



Global Crossing and Asia Global Crossing Securities
    Litigation

Goldman, Sachs & Co. has been named as a defendant in a
consolidated class action lawsuit in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York relating to various
securities offerings by Global Crossing, Ltd. and Asia Global
Crossing Ltd. in which Goldman, Sachs & Co. acted as an
underwriter. The claims had originally been asserted in separate
actions, reflected in an amended complaint filed on
January 28, 2003 as to Global Crossing, Ltd. and in a
complaint filed on November 8, 2002 as to Asia Global
Crossing Ltd., but the claims were consolidated into a single
amended complaint on August 11, 2003, which was further
amended on March 22, 2004 (including to drop The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. as a defendant). The consolidated action
includes claims relating to Global Crossing, Ltd.’s
concurrent April 2000 offerings of 43 million shares of
common stock at $33 per share and 4.6 million shares
of


/


%
cumulative preferred stock at $250 per share, as well as
Asia Global Crossing Ltd.’s October 2000 initial public
offering of 68,500,000 shares of common stock at a price of
$7 per share. Goldman, Sachs & Co. acted as a
co-lead underwriter of both Global Crossing, Ltd. offerings,
underwriting 12.9 million shares of common stock and
1,840,000 shares of convertible preferred stock for a total
offering price of approximately $886 million. Goldman,
Sachs & Co. underwrote 20,670,000 shares of
common stock in the Asia Global Crossing Ltd. offering for a
total offering price of approximately $145 million. The
claims assert violations of the disclosure requirements of the
federal securities laws as to such offerings and seek
compensatory and/or rescissory damages. In addition to the lead
and other underwriters in the offerings, the defendants as to
such claims originally included certain officers and directors
of Global Crossing, Ltd. and Asia Global Crossing Ltd. as well
as the companies’ former outside auditors.

On April 21, 2003, the underwriter defendants as to the
Global Crossing, Ltd. offerings moved to dismiss the claims
relating to such offerings; the motion was denied in significant
part by a decision dated December 18, 2003. On
July 23, 2004, the underwriter defendants as to the Asia
Global Crossing Ltd. offering moved to dismiss the claims
relating to that offering. On March 1, 2005, plaintiffs
entered into a definitive settlement agreement with Citigroup,
Inc. and certain related parties, including as to claims
asserted against such parties in respect of the various
offerings in which Goldman, Sachs & Co. participated
for a total payment of $75 million. The various officer and
director defendants as well as the former auditors had
separately entered into settlement agreements earlier. On
March 23, 2006, the remaining underwriter defendants
(including Goldman, Sachs & Co.) agreed in principle to
settle all claims for a payment of $82.5 million (of which
Goldman, Sachs & Co. contributed approximately
one-half), those underwriter defendants entered into a
definitive settlement agreement on July 24, 2006, and that
settlement was approved by the federal district court on
October 27, 2006.

Global Crossing, Ltd. filed for protection under the
U.S. bankruptcy laws on January 28, 2002, and Asia
Global Crossing Ltd. filed for such protection on
November 17, 2002.

Adelphia Communications Fraudulent Conveyance Litigations

Goldman, Sachs & Co. is among numerous entities named
as defendants in two adversary proceedings commenced in the
U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New
York, one on July 6, 2003 by a creditors committee, and the
second on or about July 31, 2003 by an equity committee of
Adelphia Communications, Inc. The nearly identical complaints
seek, among other things, to recover, as fraudulent conveyances,
payments made allegedly by Adelphia Communications, Inc. and its
affiliates to certain brokerage firms, including approximately
$62.9 million allegedly paid to Goldman, Sachs &
Co., in respect of margin calls made in the ordinary course of
business on accounts owned by members of the family that
formerly controlled Adelphia Communications, Inc.



Specialist Matters

Spear, Leeds & Kellogg Specialists LLC (SLKS) and
certain affiliates have received requests for information from
various governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations
as part of an industry-wide investigation relating to activities
of floor specialists in recent years. Goldman Sachs has
cooperated with the requests.

On March 30, 2004, a final global settlement with the SEC
and the NYSE was announced covering certain activities during
the years 1999 through 2003 of certain specialist firms on the
NYSE, including SLKS. Without admitting or denying the
allegations, SLKS and the other specialist firms entered into
settlements to resolve these SEC and NYSE investigations of the
firms with respect to those activities. The SLKS settlement
involves, among other things, (i) findings by the SEC and
the NYSE that SLKS violated certain federal securities laws and
NYSE rules, and in some cases failed to supervise certain
individual specialists, in connection with trades that allegedly
disadvantaged customer orders, (ii) a cease and desist
order against SLKS, (iii) a censure of SLKS,
(iv) SLKS’ agreement to pay an aggregate of
$45.3 million in disgorgement and a penalty to be used to
compensate customers, (v) certain undertakings with respect
to SLKS’ systems and procedures, and (vi) SLKS’
retention of an independent consultant to review and evaluate
certain of SLKS’ compliance systems, policies and
procedures. Comparable findings were made and sanctions imposed
in the settlements with other specialist firms. The settlement
did not resolve the related private civil actions against SLKS
and other firms or regulatory investigations involving
individuals or conduct on other exchanges.

SLKS, Spear, Leeds & Kellogg, L.P. and The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. are among numerous defendants named in
purported class actions brought beginning in October 2003 on
behalf of investors in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York alleging violations of the federal
securities laws and state common law in connection with NYSE
floor specialist activities. The actions seek unspecified
compensatory damages, restitution and disgorgement on behalf of
purchasers and sellers of unspecified securities between
October 17, 1998 and October 15, 2003. Plaintiffs
filed a consolidated amended complaint on September 16,
2004, defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint on
November 16, 2004, and the motion was granted in part and
denied in part by a decision dated December 13, 2005.

Treasury Matters

On September 4, 2003, the SEC announced that Goldman,
Sachs & Co. had settled an administrative proceeding
arising from certain trading in U.S. Treasury bonds over an
approximately eight-minute period after Goldman,
Sachs & Co. received an October 31, 2001 telephone
call from a Washington, D.C.-based political consultant
concerning a forthcoming Treasury refunding announcement. The
administrative complaint alleged that Goldman, Sachs &
Co. (i) violated Section 15(c)(1) and
Rule

15c1-2

of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a result of the trading and
(ii) violated Section 15(f) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 by failing to maintain policies and procedures
specifically addressed to the possible misuse of information
obtained by consultants from confidential government sources.
Without admitting or denying the allegations, Goldman,
Sachs & Co. consented to the entry of an order that,
among other things, (i) censured Goldman, Sachs &
Co.; (ii) directed Goldman, Sachs & Co. to cease
and desist from committing or causing any violations of
Section 15(c)(1)(A) and (C) and 15(f) of, and
Rule

15c1-2

under,
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (iii) ordered Goldman,
Sachs & Co. to pay disgorgement and prejudgment
interest in the amount of $1,742,642, and a civil monetary
penalty of $5 million; and (iv) directed Goldman,
Sachs & Co. to conduct a review of its policies and
procedures and adopt, implement and maintain policies and
procedures consistent with the order and that review. Goldman,
Sachs & Co. also undertook to pay $2,562,740 in
disgorgement and interest relating to certain trading in
U.S. Treasury bond futures during the same eight-minute
period.



Goldman, Sachs & Co. has been named as a defendant in a
purported class action filed on March 10, 2004 in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois
on behalf of holders of short positions in

30-year

U.S. Treasury futures and options on the morning of
October 31, 2001. The complaint alleges that the firm
purchased

30-year

bonds
and futures prior to the Treasury’s refunding announcement
that morning based on non-public information about that
announcement, and that such purchases increased the costs of
covering such short positions. The complaint also names as
defendants the Washington, D.C.-based political consultant
who allegedly was the source of the information, a former
Goldman, Sachs & Co. economist who allegedly received
the information, and another company and one of its employees
who also allegedly received and traded on the information prior
to its public announcement. The complaint alleges violations of
the federal commodities and antitrust laws, as well as Illinois
statutory and common law, and seeks, among other things,
unspecified damages including treble damages under the antitrust
laws. On June 28, 2004, Goldman, Sachs & Co.
moved to dismiss the complaint, and by a decision dated
March 28, 2005, the district court dismissed the
antitrust and Illinois state law claims but permitted the
federal commodities law claims to proceed. On
December 20, 2006, plaintiff moved for class
certification.

Mutual Fund Matters

Goldman, Sachs & Co. and certain mutual fund affiliates
have received subpoenas and requests for information from
various governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations
including the SEC as part of the industry-wide investigation
relating to the practices of mutual funds and their customers.
Goldman, Sachs & Co. and its affiliates have cooperated
with such requests.

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and
various asset management affiliates and employees have been
named as defendants in several putative consolidated class and
derivative actions commenced in the U.S. District Court for
the Southern District of New York beginning in April 2004
by purported shareholders of certain Goldman Sachs mutual funds.
The consolidated complaint also names as nominal defendants
certain of the Goldman Sachs family of mutual funds. The cases
are brought on behalf of all persons or entities that held
shares in these mutual funds between April 2, 1999 and
January 9, 2004, and allege violations of the
Investment Company Act of 1940, the Investment Advisers Act of
1940 and common law breaches of fiduciary duty. The complaint
alleges, among other things, that Goldman Sachs charged the
mutual funds improper
Rule

12b-1

fees,
paid excessive brokerage commissions and made other undisclosed
payments to brokers in exchange for selling shares of the mutual
funds, and made untrue statements of material fact in
registration statements and reports filed pursuant to the
Investment Company Act. The complaint further alleges that the
funds’ trustees, officers and directors breached their
fiduciary duties by, among other things, failing to prevent such
violations. The complaint seeks compensatory and punitive
damages; rescission of the funds’ investment advisory
agreements with Goldman Sachs and recovery of fees paid; an
accounting of all fund-related fees, commissions and other
payments; restitution of all unlawfully or
discriminatorily-obtained fees and charges; and costs and
expenses incurred in connection with these lawsuits. Defendants
moved to dismiss the complaint on May 2, 2005, and the
motion was granted by a Memorandum and Order dated
January 13, 2006, and plaintiffs appealed on
February 22, 2006. On March 31, 2006,
plaintiffs withdrew their appeal from active consideration but
may reactivate the appeal within 15 days after entry of a
mandate in an appeal involving other parties but similar issues,
or not later than March 30, 2007.



Refco Securities Litigation

Goldman, Sachs & Co. and the other lead underwriters
for the August 2005 initial public offering of
26,500,000 shares of common stock of Refco Inc. are among
the defendants in various putative class actions filed in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
beginning in October 2005 by Refco Inc. investors in response to
certain publicly reported events that culminated in the
October 17, 2005 filing by Refco Inc. and certain
affiliates for protection under U.S. bankruptcy laws. The
actions, which have been consolidated, allege violations of the
disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws and seek
compensatory damages. In addition to the underwriters, the
consolidated complaint names as defendants Refco Inc. and
certain of its affiliates, certain officers and directors of
Refco Inc., Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. (which held a
majority of Refco Inc.’s equity through certain funds it
manages), Grant Thornton (Refco Inc.’s outside auditor),
and BAWAG P.S.K. Bank fur Arbeit und Wirtschaft und
Osterreichische Postsparkasse Aktiengesellschaft (BAWAG). On
September 8, 2006, lead plaintiffs filed a motion for
preliminary approval of a proposed settlement with BAWAG, and
various defendants (including the underwriters) have objected to
certain terms of the settlement. By a decision dated
January 9, 2007, the district court denied preliminary
approval of the settlement, based on such objection. Goldman,
Sachs & Co. underwrote 5,639,200 shares of
common stock at a price of $22 per share for a total
offering price of approximately $124 million.

A purported shareholder derivative action was filed in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
on November 2, 2005 on behalf of The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. against certain of its officers and directors. The
complaint alleges that the individual defendants breached their
fiduciary duties by failing to ensure that adequate due
diligence was conducted in connection with the Refco Inc.
initial public offering.

Goldman, Sachs & Co. has, together with other
underwriters of the Refco Inc. initial public offering, received
requests for information from various governmental agencies and
self-regulatory organizations. Goldman, Sachs & Co. is
cooperating with those requests.

Short-Selling Litigation

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and
Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing, L.P. are among the
numerous financial services firms that have been named as
defendants in a purported class action filed on April 12,
2006 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District
of New York by customers who engaged in short-selling
transactions in equity securities since April 12, 2000. The
amended complaint generally alleges that the customers were
charged fees in connection with the short sales but that the
applicable securities were not necessarily borrowed to effect
delivery, resulting in failed deliveries, and that the
defendants conspired to set a minimum threshold borrowing rate
for securities designated as hard to borrow. The complaint
asserts a claim under the federal antitrust laws, as well as
claims under the New York Business Law and common law, and seeks
treble damages as well as injunctive relief.



Fannie Mae Litigation

Goldman, Sachs & Co. was added as a defendant in an
amended complaint filed on August 14, 2006 in a purported
class action, and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and Goldman,
Sachs & Co. were added as defendants in an amended
complaint filed on September 1, 2006 in a separate
shareholder derivative action, both pending in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The
complaints’ allegations generally arise from allegations
concerning Fannie Mae’s accounting practices and, insofar
as they relate to the Goldman Sachs defendants, assert
violations of the federal securities laws and common law in
connection with certain Fannie Mae-sponsored REMIC transactions
that were allegedly arranged by Goldman, Sachs & Co.
The other defendants include Fannie Mae, certain of its past and
present officers and directors, accountants and other financial
services firms. On November 28, 2006, the plaintiffs in the
derivative action voluntarily dismissed the Goldman Sachs
defendants without prejudice, subject to an agreement to toll
the statute of limitations. Goldman, Sachs & Co. moved
to dismiss the class action claims on November 13, 2006.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders
during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended
November 24, 2006.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

Set forth below are the name, age, present title, principal
occupation and certain biographical information for our
executive officers as of February 1, 2007, all of whom have
been appointed by and serve at the pleasure of our board of
directors.

Lloyd C. Blankfein, 52

Mr. Blankfein has been our Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer since June 2006, and a director since April 2003.
Previously, he had been our President and Chief Operating
Officer since January 2004. Prior to that, from April 2002
until January 2004, he was a Vice Chairman of Goldman
Sachs, with management responsibility for Goldman Sachs’
Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Division (FICC) and
Equities Division. Prior to becoming a Vice Chairman, he had
served as

co-head

of
FICC since its formation in 1997. From 1994 to 1997, he headed
or

co-headed

the
Currency and Commodities Division. Mr. Blankfein is not on
the board of any public company other than Goldman Sachs. He is
affiliated with certain non-profit organizations, including as a
member of the Harvard University Committee on University
Resources, the Advisory Board of the Tsinghua University School
of Economics and Management and the Governing Board of the
Indian School of Business, an overseer of the Weill Medical
College of Cornell University, and a director of the Partnership
for New York City, Catalyst and The Robin Hood Foundation.

Alan M. Cohen, 56

Mr. Cohen has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
Sachs and our Global Head of Compliance since
February 2004. From 1991 until January 2004, he was a
partner in the law firm of O’Melveny & Myers LLP.
Mr. Cohen is also a board member of the Chelsea Piers
Scholarship Fund, a non-profit organization.

Gary D. Cohn, 46

Mr. Cohn has been our President and

Co-Chief

Operating
Officer and a director since June 2006. Previously, he had been
the

co-head

of Goldman
Sachs’ global securities businesses since January 2004. He
also had been the

co-head

of Equities
since 2003 and the

co-head

of FICC since
September 2002. From March 2002 to September 2002, he served as

co-chief

operating
officer of FICC. Prior to that, beginning in 1999, Mr. Cohn
managed the FICC macro businesses. From 1996 to 1999, he was the
global head of Goldman Sachs’ commodities business.
Mr. Cohn is not on the board of any public company other
than Goldman Sachs. He is affiliated with certain non-profit
organizations, including as a member of the Treasury Borrowing
Advisory Committee of the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association and as a trustee of the Gilmour Academy, the
NYU Child Study Center, the NYU Hospital, the NYU Medical
School, the Harlem Children’s Zone, Columbia Grammar and
Preparatory School and American University.

Edward C. Forst, 46

Mr. Forst has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
Sachs and our Chief Administrative Officer since
February 2004. Prior to that, he was our Chief of Staff for
FICC from November 2003 to February 2004 (after having served in
that position earlier from July 2000 to March 2002), our Chief
of Staff for the Equities Division from August 2003 to February
2004, and

co-head

of
Global Credit Markets in FICC from March 2002 to August 2003.
Prior to July 2000, Mr. Forst served as

co-head

of our Global
Bank Debt business. Mr. Forst serves as

Co-Chair

of the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. He also
serves as a trustee of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution,
a

non-profit

organization, and as

Co-Chair

of the Harvard
University Committee on Student Excellence and Opportunity.



Kevin W. Kennedy, 58

Mr. Kennedy has been our Executive Vice
President — Human Capital Management since December
2001. From 1999 until 2001, he served as a member of the
Executive Office. From 1994 to 1999, he served as head of the
Americas Group, in the Investment Banking Division, and, from
1988 to 1994, as head of Corporate Finance. Mr. Kennedy is
a life trustee and a former Chairman of the Board of Hamilton
College, a Managing Director and Secretary and Treasurer of the
Board of the Metropolitan Opera, a trustee of the New York
Public Library, a member of the Board of Directors of the
Wallace Foundation and an honorary trustee of the Chewonki
Foundation.

Gregory K. Palm, 58

Mr. Palm has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
Sachs since May 1999, and our General Counsel and head or

co-head

of the Legal
Department since May 1992.

Esta E. Stecher, 49

Ms. Stecher has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
Sachs and our General Counsel and

co-head

of the Legal
Department since December 2000. From 1994 to 2000, she was head
of the firm’s Tax Department, over which she continues to
have senior oversight responsibility. She is also a trustee of
Columbia University.

David A. Viniar, 51

Mr. Viniar has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
Sachs and our Chief Financial Officer since May 1999. He
has been the head of Operations, Technology, Finance and
Services Division since December 2002. He was head of the
Finance Division and

co-head

of Credit Risk
Management and Advisory and Firmwide Risk from
December 2001 to December 2002. Mr. Viniar was

co-head

of Operations,
Finance and Resources from March 1999 to
December 2001. He was Chief Financial Officer of The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. from March 1999 to May 1999.
From July 1998 until March 1999, he was Deputy Chief
Financial Officer and from 1994 until July 1998,
he was head of Finance, with responsibility for Controllers
and Treasury. From 1992 to 1994, he was head of Treasury and
prior to that was in the Structured Finance Department of
Investment Banking. He also serves on the Board of Trustees of
Union College.

John S. Weinberg, 49

Mr. Weinberg has been a Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs
since June 2006. He has been

co-head

of Goldman
Sachs’ Investment Banking Division since December 2002.
From January 2002 to December 2002, he was

co-head

of the
Investment Banking Division in the Americas. Prior to that, he
served as

co-head

of
the Investment Banking Services Department since 1997. He is
affiliated with certain non-profit organizations, including as a
board member at the New

York-Presbyterian

Hospital, The Steppingstone Foundation, the Greenwich Country
Day School and Community

Anti-Drug

Coalitions of
America.

Jon Winkelried, 47

Mr. Winkelried has been our President and

Co-Chief

Operating
Officer and a director since June 2006. Previously, he had been
the

co-head

of Goldman
Sachs’ Investment Banking Division since January 2005. From
2000 to 2005, he was

co-head

of FICC. From
1999 to 2000, he was head of FICC in Europe. From 1995 to 1999,
he was responsible for Goldman Sachs’ leveraged finance
business. Mr. Winkelried is not on the board of any public
company other than Goldman Sachs. He is also a trustee of the
University of Chicago.



PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related
    Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The principal market on which our common stock is traded is the
NYSE. Information relating to the high and low sales prices per
share of our common stock, as reported by the Consolidated Tape
Association, for each full quarterly period during fiscal 2005
and 2006 is set forth under the heading “Supplemental
Financial Information — Common Stock Price Range”
in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

As of
January 26, 2007, there were 6,804 holders of record of our
common stock.

During fiscal 2005 and 2006, dividends of $0.25 per share
of common stock were declared on December 15, 2004,
March 16, 2005, June 15, 2005,
September 19, 2005 and December 14, 2005,
and dividends of $0.35 per share of common stock were
declared on March 13, 2006, June 12, 2006
and September 11, 2006. The holders of our common
stock share proportionately on a per share basis in all
dividends and other distributions on common stock declared by
our board of directors.

The declaration of dividends by Goldman Sachs is subject to the
discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors
will take into account such matters as general business
conditions, our financial results, capital requirements,
contractual, legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of
dividends by us to our shareholders or by our subsidiaries to
us, the effect on our debt ratings and such other factors as our
board of directors may deem relevant. See
“Business — Regulation” in Part I,
Item 1 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for a
discussion of potential regulatory limitations on our receipt of
funds from our regulated subsidiaries.

The table below sets forth the information with respect to
purchases made by or on behalf of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
or any “affiliated purchaser” (as defined in
Rule

10b-18(a)(3)

under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), of our common stock
during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended
November 24, 2006.

Total Number of

Maximum Number

Total

Average

Shares Purchased

of Shares That May

Number

Price

as Part of Publicly

Yet Be Purchased

of Shares

Paid per

Announced Plans

Under the Plans or

Period

Purchased

(2)

Share

or Programs

(3)

Programs

(3)

Month #1

(August 26, 2006 to

September 29, 2006)

7,109,500

$

165.99

7,109,500

66,231,884

Month #2

(September 30, 2006 to

October 27, 2006)

11,668,000

$

179.68

11,668,000

54,563,884

Month #3

(October 28, 2006 to

November 24, 2006)

1,994,971

$

188.26

1,994,971

52,568,913

Total

(1)

20,772,471

$

175.82

20,772,471

(1)

Goldman Sachs generally does not repurchase shares of its common
    stock as part of the repurchase program during self-imposed
    “black-out” periods, which run from the last two weeks
    of a fiscal quarter through and including the date of the
    earnings release for such quarter.

(2)

No shares were purchased other than through our publicly
    announced repurchase program during the fourth quarter of our
    fiscal year ended November 24, 2006.

(3)

On March 21, 2000, we announced that our board of directors
    had approved a repurchase program, pursuant to which up to
    15 million shares of our common stock may be repurchased.
    This repurchase program was increased by an aggregate of
    220 million shares by resolutions of our board of directors
    adopted on June 18, 2001, March 18, 2002,
    November 20, 2002, January 30, 2004,
    January 25, 2005, September 16, 2005 and
    September 11, 2006. We use our repurchase program to
    help maintain the appropriate level of common equity and to
    substantially offset



increases in share count over
    time resulting from employee share-based compensation. The
    repurchase program is effected primarily through regular
    open-market purchases and is influenced by our overall capital
    position (the comparison of our capital requirements to our
    current level of available capital), general market conditions
    and the prevailing price and trading volumes of our common
    stock. The total remaining authorization under the repurchase
    program was 39,890,613 shares as of January 26, 2007. The
    repurchase program has no set expiration or termination date.

Information relating to compensation plans under which equity
securities of the Registrant are authorized for issuance is set
forth in Part III, Item 12 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

The Selected Financial Data table is set forth under
Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations

INDEX



Introduction

Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking, securities
and investment management firm that provides a wide range of
services worldwide to a substantial and diversified client base
that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments
and high-net-worth individuals.

Our activities are divided into three segments:

•

Investment Banking.

We provide a broad range of
    investment banking services to a diverse group of corporations,
    financial institutions, investment funds, governments and
    individuals.

•

Trading and Principal Investments.

We facilitate client
    transactions with a diverse group of corporations, financial
    institutions, investment funds, governments and individuals and
    take proprietary positions through market making in, trading of
    and investing in fixed income and equity products, currencies,
    commodities and derivatives on these products. In addition, we
    engage in specialist and market-making activities on equities
    and options exchanges and we clear client transactions on major
    stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide. In connection
    with our merchant banking and other investing activities, we
    make principal investments directly and through funds that we
    raise and manage.

•

Asset Management and Securities Services.

We provide
    investment advisory and financial planning services and offer
    investment products (primarily through separate accounts and
    funds) across all major asset classes to a diverse group of
    institutions and individuals worldwide and provide prime
    brokerage services, financing services and securities lending
    services to institutional clients, including hedge funds, mutual
    funds, pension funds and foundations, and to high-net-worth
    individuals worldwide.

Unless specifically stated otherwise, all references to 2006,
2005 and 2004 refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates, as
the context requires, November 24, 2006, November 25,
2005 and November 26, 2004, respectively.

When we use the terms “Goldman Sachs,” “we,”
“us” and “our,” we mean The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc. (Group Inc.), a Delaware corporation, and its
consolidated subsidiaries. References herein to the Annual
Report on
Form

10-K

are to
our Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for the
fiscal year ended November 24, 2006.

In this discussion, we have included statements that may
constitute “forward-looking statements” within the
meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are
not historical facts but instead represent only our beliefs
regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are
inherently uncertain and outside our control. These statements
may relate to our future plans and objectives, among other
things. By identifying these statements for you in this manner,
we are alerting you to the possibility that our actual results
may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results
indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors
that could cause our results to differ, possibly materially,
from those indicated in the forward-looking statements include,
among others, those discussed below under
“— Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our
Business” as well as “Risk Factors” in
Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

and
“Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995” in Part I, Item 1
of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.



Executive Overview

Our diluted earnings per common share were $19.69 for 2006,
compared with $11.21 for 2005. Return on average tangible common
shareholders’
equity

(1)

was 39.8% and return on average common shareholders’ equity
was 32.8%. Excluding non-cash expenses of $637 million
related to the accounting for certain share-based awards under
SFAS No.

123-R

(2)

,
diluted earnings per common share for the year were
$20.57

(2)

,
return on average tangible common shareholders’
equity

(1)

was
41.8%

(2)

and
return on average common shareholders’ equity was
34.4%

(2)

.

In 2006, we generated record diluted earnings per common share,
which exceeded the prior year record results by 76%. Each of our
three segments achieved record results. The increase in Trading
and Principal Investments reflected significantly higher net
revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC),
Equities and Principal Investments. The increase in FICC
reflected particularly strong performances across all major
businesses. During 2006, FICC operated in an environment
characterized by strong customer-driven activity and favorable
market opportunities. The increase in Equities primarily
reflected significantly higher net revenues in our customer
franchise business. During 2006, Equities operated in a
favorable environment characterized by strong customer-driven
activity, generally higher equity prices and favorable market
opportunities, although volatility levels were generally low. In
FICC and Equities, as a result of the favorable trading and
investing opportunities for our clients and ourselves, we
increased our market risk, particularly in equity products, to
capitalize on these opportunities. We grew our balance sheet as
needed to support these opportunities as well as to support
increased activity in Securities Services. The increase in
Principal Investments reflected a significant gain related to
our investment in the ordinary shares of Industrial and
Commercial Bank of China Limited (ICBC) and higher gains
and overrides from other principal investments, partially offset
by a smaller, but still significant, gain related to our
investment in the convertible preferred stock of Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group, Inc. (SMFG). The increase in Investment Banking
was due to significantly higher net revenues in Underwriting and
Financial Advisory, as we benefited from strong client activity
levels, reflecting favorable equity and financing markets,
strong CEO confidence and growth in financial sponsor activity.
The increase in Asset Management and Securities Services was
primarily due to higher assets under management and
significantly higher incentive fees, as well as significantly
higher global customer balances in Securities Services. Assets
under management increased $144 billion or 27% to a record
$676 billion, including net asset inflows of
$94 billion during 2006.

Looking forward to 2007, our investment banking backlog at the
end of 2006 was at its highest level since

(3)

.
In addition to potential growth in the businesses and geographic
areas in which we currently operate, the expansion of the
economies of China, India, Russia and Brazil, as well as those
of the Middle East offer new opportunities for us to increase
our presence in those markets. In Investment Banking, there is
growth potential to broaden our client base by providing
strategic and financing advice and capital to

middle-market

companies. We also see opportunities to advise governments and
investors on the sale and purchase of public infrastructure
assets. In addition, we are building a private banking
capability as part of our strategy to provide a

full-range

of services
to our private wealth management clients.

Though we generated record operating results in 2006, our
business, by its nature, does not produce predictable earnings.
Our results in any given period can be materially affected by
conditions in global financial markets and economic conditions
generally. For a further discussion of the factors that may
affect our future operating results, see
“— Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our
Business” below as well as “Risk Factors” in
Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

(1)

Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity is
    computed by dividing net earnings applicable to common
    shareholders by average monthly tangible common
    shareholders’ equity. See “— Results of
    Operations — Financial Overview” below for
    further information regarding our calculation of return on
    average tangible common shareholders’ equity.



(2)

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    (SFAS) No.

123-R,

“Share-Based Payment,” focuses primarily on accounting
    for transactions in which an entity obtains employee services in
    exchange for share-based payments. In the first quarter of 2006,
    we adopted
    SFAS No.

123-R,

which requires that share-based awards held by employees that
    were

retirement-eligible,

including those subject to non-compete agreements, be expensed
    in the year of grant. In addition to expensing current year
    awards, prior year awards must continue to be amortized over the
    relevant service period. Therefore, our compensation and
    benefits expenses in 2006 included (and, to a lesser extent,
    2007 and 2008 will include) both amortization of prior year
    share-based awards held by employees that were
    retirement-eligible on the date of adoption of
    SFAS No.

123-R

and new awards granted to those employees. We believe that
    presenting our results excluding the impact of the continued
    amortization of these prior year share-based awards increases
    the comparability of

period-to

-period
    operating results and allows for a more meaningful
    representation of the relationship of current period
    compensation to net revenues.

The following tables set forth a reconciliation of diluted
    earnings per common share, common shareholders’ equity and
    net earnings applicable to common shareholders, as reported, to
    these items excluding the impact of the continued amortization
    of these prior year share-based awards held by employees that
    were retirement-eligible on the date of adoption of
    SFAS No.

123-R:

Year Ended

November 2006

Diluted earnings per common share

$

19.69

Impact of the continued
    amortization of prior year share-based awards, net of tax

0.88

Diluted earnings per common share,
    excluding the impact of the continued amortization of prior year
    share-based awards

$

20.57

(3)

Our investment banking backlog represents an estimate of our
    future net revenues from investment banking transactions where
    we believe that future revenue realization is more likely than
    not.



Business Environment

As an investment banking, securities and investment management
firm, our businesses are materially affected by conditions in
the financial markets and economic conditions generally, both in
the United States and elsewhere around the world. A favorable
business environment is generally characterized by, among other
factors, high global gross domestic product growth, stable
geopolitical conditions, transparent and efficient capital
markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence
and strong business earnings. These factors provide a positive
climate for our investment banking activities, for many of our
trading businesses and for wealth creation, which contributes to
growth in our asset management business. Although global
short-term interest rates rose to modest levels and yield curves
continued to flatten in 2006, economic conditions remained
favorable, as global equity prices generally rose, core
inflation was broadly contained and corporate activity
strengthened. For a further discussion of how market conditions
can affect our businesses, see “— Certain Risk
Factors That May Affect Our Business” below as well as
“Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the
Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

A
further discussion of the business environment in 2006 is set
forth below.

Global.

After solid economic growth in 2005, the global
economy grew at a strong pace in 2006, particularly during the
first half of the year. However, during the second half of the
year, economic growth in the United States and Japan showed some
signs of deceleration, while the pace of growth in the Eurozone
economy appeared to strengthen. Corporate activity was very
strong, as mergers and acquisitions and equity and debt
underwriting volumes increased significantly compared with 2005.
The U.S. Federal Reserve continued to raise rates in the
first half of the year, increasing its federal funds target rate
by a total of 125 basis points. Despite the increase in
short-term rates, fixed income markets were favorable as
long-term bond yields remained low and the credit environment
remained strong. Oil prices remained high throughout the year,
despite declining during our fourth quarter, but this did not
appear to materially affect consumer spending or global growth.
In the currency markets, the U.S. dollar weakened against
most major currencies, as well as against such emerging market
currencies as the Brazilian real, Chinese yuan and Korean won.

United States.

The U.S. economy grew at a strong
pace during the year as financial conditions remained supportive
of economic activity. Real gross domestic product rose by 3.4%
in the 2006 calendar year, driven principally by strength in the
industrial sector, solid consumer expenditure growth and a
strong labor market. This growth occurred despite a decline in
the housing market and residential investment. After slowing
modestly in the beginning of 2006, the rate of inflation
increased, particularly in the second quarter, as energy prices
rose significantly. Measures of core inflation also accelerated,
although they eased towards the end of the calendar year. In
response to the strong economic growth and rising inflation, the
U.S. Federal Reserve raised its federal funds target rate
by 25 basis points in each of its meetings in 2006 through
June, bringing the rate to 5.25%. However, the Federal Reserve
kept rates unchanged for the remainder of the year as the pace
of growth moderated, reflecting a decline in the
U.S. housing market and the delayed effects of higher
interest rates and energy prices. Despite the rise in short-term
interest rates, the

10-year

U.S. Treasury note yield ended the year only 12 basis
points higher at 4.55%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average,
S&P 500 Index and NASDAQ Composite Index increased by 12%,
10% and 9%, respectively, during our fiscal year.

Europe.

The pace of economic growth in Europe accelerated
as real gross domestic product in the Eurozone economy grew by
approximately 2.7% in the 2006 calendar year. Despite a higher
Euro, economic conditions in the Eurozone countries improved
throughout the year, and consumer sentiment began to improve as
a result of lower unemployment levels and higher domestic
demand. After leaving rates unchanged for over two years, the
European Central Bank raised interest rates by a total of
125 basis points during our 2006 fiscal year, bringing its
policy rate to 3.25%. In the United Kingdom, real gross domestic
product growth accelerated to approximately 2.7% in the 2006
calendar year, primarily reflecting strong investment spending.
The Bank of England increased interest rates by 50 basis
points to 5.00%, after having reduced rates by 25 basis
points in 2005.



Long-term bond yields in both the Eurozone and the United
Kingdom ended our fiscal year modestly higher. Reflecting the
improvement in economic growth, European equity markets
increased significantly during our fiscal year.

Asia.

Japan’s economy grew at a relatively strong
pace for the second year in a row, with real gross domestic
product increasing by approximately 2.2% in the 2006 calendar
year. The recovery in private investment and domestic demand
continued to drive much of the improvement in the first part of
the year, while exports drove real gross domestic product growth
toward the end of the calendar year. The unemployment rate fell
to 4.2% in 2006 from 4.4% in calendar 2005. The Bank of Japan
ended its zero interest rate policy, which had been in place
since early 2001, and raised the target overnight call rate by
25 basis points during our fiscal year. The yield on

10-year

Japanese
government bonds increased slightly, ending our fiscal year up
17 basis points. Despite slightly higher

short-

and long-term
interest rates, financial conditions remained supportive of
economic activity. The yen appreciated slightly against the
U.S. dollar, but declined against most other major
currencies, while the Nikkei 225 Index increased 6% during our
fiscal year.

Elsewhere in Asia, China’s real gross domestic product
growth remained robust, with growth particularly reliant on net
exports, as demonstrated by China’s large current account
surplus. China continued to allow its currency to appreciate
modestly, with evidence of acceleration during the second half
of the calendar year, ending our fiscal year nearly 3% higher
against the U.S. dollar. Other currencies in the region
also strengthened against the U.S. dollar, including the
Korean won, Philippine peso and the Taiwan dollar. Growth in
India also remained strong, which, together with China,
supported growth throughout the region. Equity markets across
the region generally rose, with markets in China, India, Hong
Kong, South Korea and Taiwan all posting significant gains
during our fiscal year.

Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business

We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in
our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit,
operational, legal and regulatory risks. For a discussion of how
management seeks to manage some of these risks, see
“— Risk Management” below. A summary of the
more important factors that could affect our business follows
below. For a further discussion of these and other important
factors that could affect our business, see “Risk
Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report
on Form

10-K.

Market Conditions and Market Risk.

Our businesses are
materially affected by conditions in the global financial
markets and economic conditions generally, and these conditions
may change suddenly and dramatically. A favorable business
environment is generally characterized by, among other factors,
high global gross domestic product growth, stable geopolitical
conditions, transparent and efficient capital markets, low
inflation, high business and investor confidence and strong
business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market
conditions, which can be caused by outbreaks of hostilities or
other geopolitical instability, declines in business confidence,
increases in inflation, corporate, political or other scandals
that reduce investor confidence in capital markets, natural
disasters or pandemics or a combination of these or other
factors,

have adversely affected, and may in the future
adversely affect, our business and profitability in many ways,
including the following:

•

We have been operating in a low interest rate market for the
    past several years. Increasing or high interest rates and/or
    widening credit spreads, especially if such changes are rapid,
    may create a less favorable environment for certain of our
    businesses.

•

We have been committing increasing amounts of capital in many of
    our businesses and generally maintain large trading, specialist
    and investing positions. Market fluctuations and volatility may
    adversely affect the value of those positions, including, but
    not limited to, our interest rate and credit products, currency,
    commodity and equity positions and our merchant banking
    investments, or may reduce our willingness to enter into new
    transactions. From time





•

While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring
    and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the
    judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate
    every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing
    of such outcomes. Thus, we may, in the course of our activities,
    incur losses.

•

Market volatility has been relatively low in recent years. An
    increase in volatility would increase our measured risk, which
    might cause us to reduce our proprietary positions or to reduce
    certain of our business activities. In such circumstances, we
    may not be able to reduce our positions or our exposure in a
    timely, cost-effective way or in a manner sufficient to offset
    the increase in measured risk.

Liquidity Risk.

Liquidity is essential to our businesses.
Our liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access
secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access
funds from our subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or
unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. This situation may
arise due to circumstances that we are unable to control, such
as a general market disruption or an operational problem that
affects third parties or us. The financial instruments that we
hold and the contracts to which we are a party are increasingly
complex, as we employ structured products to benefit our clients
and ourselves, and these complex structured products often do
not have readily available markets to access in times of
liquidity stress. Growth of our proprietary investing activities
may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities
represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could
restrict liquidity for our positions. Further, our ability to
sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are
seeking to sell similar assets at the same time.

Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction
in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and
competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our
access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under
certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and
collateralized financing contracts. Under these provisions,
counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with
Goldman Sachs or require us to post additional collateral.
Termination of our trading and collateralized financing
contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our
liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or
to make significant cash payments or securities movements. For a
discussion of the potential impact on Goldman Sachs of a
reduction in our credit ratings, see “— Liquidity
and Funding Risk — Credit Ratings” below.

Credit Risk.

We are exposed to the risk that third
parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not
perform their obligations. These parties may default on their
obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity,
operational failure or other reasons. We are also subject to the
risk that our rights against third parties may not be
enforceable in all circumstances. In addition, a deterioration
in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or
obligations we hold could result in losses and/or adversely
affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those
securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A significant
downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also
have a negative impact on our results. The amount and duration
of our credit exposures have been increasing over the past
several years, as has the breadth of the entities to which we
have credit exposures. As a clearing member firm, we finance our
client positions, and we could be held responsible for the
defaults or misconduct of our clients. In addition, we have
experienced, due to competitive factors, pressure to extend and
price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us
for the risks we take. In particular, corporate clients
sometimes seek to require credit commitments from us in
connection with investment banking and other assignments.
Although we regularly review credit exposures to specific
clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries
and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default
risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult
to detect or foresee, particularly as new business initiatives
lead us to transact with a broader array of clients, with new
asset classes and in new markets. In addition, concerns about,
or a default by, one institution could lead to significant
liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions,
which in turn could adversely affect Goldman Sachs.



Operational Risk.

Shortcomings or failures in our
internal processes, people or systems, or external events could
lead to impairment of our liquidity, financial loss, disruption
of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention
or reputational damage. For example, our businesses are highly
dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large
number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in
many currencies. The transactions we process have become
increasingly complex and often must adhere to client-specific
guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. Despite
the contingency plans and facilities we have in place, our
ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a
disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses
and the communities in which we are located. This may include a
disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation
or other services used by Goldman Sachs or third parties with
which we conduct business.

Legal and Regulatory Risk.

We are subject to extensive
and evolving regulation in jurisdictions around the world.
Substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action
against Goldman Sachs could have material adverse financial
effects or cause significant reputational harm to Goldman Sachs,
which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. Firms
in the financial services industry have been operating in a
difficult regulatory environment. We face significant legal
risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of
damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory
proceedings against financial institutions remain high. For a
discussion of how we account for our legal and regulatory
exposures, see “— Use of Estimates” below.



Critical Accounting Policies

Fair Value

The use of fair value to measure our financial instruments, with
related unrealized gains or losses generally recognized
immediately in our results of operations, is fundamental to our
financial statements and is our most critical accounting policy.
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which
the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction
between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation
sale.

In determining fair value, we separate our financial instruments
into three categories — cash (i.e., nonderivative)
trading instruments, derivative contracts and principal
investments (included within the Principal Investments component
of our Trading and Principal Investments segment), as set forth
in the following table:

Financial Instruments by Category

(in millions)

As of November



Financial

Financial

Financial

Instruments Sold,

Financial

Instruments Sold,

Instruments

But Not Yet

Instruments

But Not Yet

Owned, At

Purchased, At

Owned, At

Purchased, At

Fair Value

Fair Value

Fair Value

Fair Value

Cash trading instruments

$

247,031

(1)

$

87,244

$

210,042

$

89,735

Derivative contracts

67,543

65,496

58,532

57,829

Principal investments

13,962

(2)

3,065

(3)

6,526

(2)

1,507

(3)

Total

$

328,536

$

155,805

$

275,100

$

149,071

(1)

Includes securities held by our bank and insurance subsidiaries,
    which are accounted for as “available-for-sale”
    (AFS) under SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for
    Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.” The
    following table sets forth the types of AFS securities and their
    maturity profile:

(2)

Excludes assets related to consolidated merchant banking funds
    of $6.03 billion and $1.93 billion as of
    November 2006 and November 2005, respectively, for which
    Goldman Sachs is not at risk.

(3)

Represents an economic hedge on the unrestricted shares of
    common stock underlying our investment in the convertible
    preferred stock of SMFG. For a further discussion of our
    investment in SMFG, see “— Principal
    Investments” below.



Cash Trading Instruments.

The following table sets forth
the valuation of our cash trading instruments by level of price
transparency:

Cash Trading Instruments by Price Transparency

(in millions)

As of November



Financial

Financial

Financial

Instruments Sold,

Financial

Instruments Sold,

Instruments

But Not Yet

Instruments

But Not Yet

Owned, At

Purchased, At

Owned, At

Purchased, At

Fair Value

Fair Value

Fair Value

Fair Value

Quoted prices or alternative
    pricing sources with reasonable price transparency

$

231,012

$

87,110

$

198,233

$

89,565

Little or no price transparency

16,019


11,809


Total

$

247,031

$

87,244

$

210,042

$

89,735

Fair values of our cash trading instruments are generally
obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, broker or
dealer price quotations, or alternative pricing sources with
reasonable levels of price transparency. The types of
instruments valued in this manner include U.S. government
and agency securities, other sovereign government obligations,
liquid mortgage products, investment-grade and high-yield
corporate bonds, listed equities, money market securities,
state, municipal and provincial obligations, and physical
commodities.

Certain cash trading instruments trade infrequently and have
little or no price transparency. Such instruments include
certain corporate bank loans, mortgage whole loans and
distressed debt. We value these instruments initially at cost
and generally do not adjust valuations unless there is
substantive evidence supporting a change in the value of the
underlying instrument or valuation assumptions (such as similar
market transactions, changes in financial ratios or changes in
the credit ratings of the underlying companies). Where there is
evidence supporting a change in the value, we use valuation
methodologies such as the present value of known or estimated
cash flows.

Cash trading instruments we own (long positions) are marked to
bid prices, and instruments we have sold but not yet purchased
(short positions) are marked to offer prices. In certain
circumstances, such as for positions that are illiquid or have
transfer restrictions, the fair value reflects liquidity
valuation adjustments based on market evidence or predetermined
policies. For certain highly illiquid positions,
management’s estimates are used to determine these
liquidity valuation adjustments. See “— Recent
Accounting Developments” below for a discussion of the
impact of SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value
Measurements” on the valuation of financial instruments.



Derivative Contracts.

Derivative contracts consist of
exchange-traded and

over-the

-counter
(OTC) derivatives. The following table sets forth the fair
value of our exchange-traded and OTC derivative assets and
liabilities:

Derivative Assets and Liabilities

(in millions)

As of November



Assets

Liabilities

Assets

Liabilities

Exchange-traded derivatives

$

14,407

$

13,851

$

10,869

$

9,083

OTC derivatives

53,136

51,645

47,663

48,746

Total

$

67,543

(1)

$

65,496

(2)

$

58,532

(1)

$

57,829

(2)

(1)

Net of cash received pursuant to credit support agreements of
    $24.06 billion and $22.61 billion as of
    November 2006 and November 2005, respectively.

(2)

Net of cash paid pursuant to credit support agreements of
    $16.00 billion and $16.10 billion as of November 2006
    and November 2005, respectively.

Fair values of our exchange-traded derivatives are generally
determined from quoted market prices. OTC derivatives are valued
using valuation models. We use a variety of valuation models
including the present value of known or estimated cash flows and
option-pricing models. The valuation models that we use to
derive the fair values of our OTC derivatives require inputs
including contractual terms, market prices, yield curves, credit
curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates and
correlations of such inputs. The selection of a model to value
an OTC derivative depends upon the contractual terms of, and
specific risks inherent in, the instrument as well as the
availability of pricing information in the market. We generally
use similar models to value similar instruments. Where possible,
we verify the values produced by our pricing models to market
transactions. For OTC derivatives that trade in liquid markets,
such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model selection
does not involve significant judgment because market prices are
readily available. For OTC derivatives that trade in less liquid
markets, model selection requires more judgment because such
instruments tend to be more complex and pricing information is
less available in these markets. Price transparency is
inherently more limited for more complex structures because they
often combine one or more product types, requiring additional
inputs such as correlations and volatilities. As markets
continue to develop and more pricing information becomes
available, we continue to review and refine the models that we
use.

At the inception of an OTC derivative contract (day one), we
value the contract at the model value if we can verify all of
the significant model inputs to observable market data and
verify the model to market transactions. When appropriate,
valuations are adjusted to reflect various factors such as
liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations. These
adjustments are generally based on market evidence or
predetermined policies. In certain circumstances, such as for
highly illiquid positions, management’s estimates are used
to determine these adjustments.

Where we cannot verify all of the significant model inputs to
observable market data and verify the model to market
transactions, we value the contract at the transaction price at
inception and, consequently, record no day one gain or loss in
accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue
No.

02-3,

“Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts
Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy
Trading and Risk Management Activities.”

Following day one, we adjust the inputs to our valuation models
only to the extent that changes in these inputs can be verified
by similar market transactions, third-party pricing services
and/or broker quotes, or can be derived from other substantive
evidence such as empirical market data. In circumstances where
we cannot verify the model to market transactions, it is
possible that a different valuation model could produce a
materially different estimate of fair value. See
“— Recent Accounting Developments” below for
a discussion of the impact of SFAS No. 157 on the
valuation of financial instruments.



The following tables set forth the fair values of our OTC
derivative assets and liabilities by product and by remaining
contractual maturity:

OTC Derivatives

(in millions)

As of November 2006

Assets

0 - 6

6 - 12

1 - 5

5 - 10

10 Years

Contract Type

Months

Months

Years

Years

or Greater

Total

Interest
    rates

(1)

$

2,432

$

1,706

$

5,617

$

5,217

$

6,201

$

21,173

Currencies

5,578


3,103

1,669


12,259

Commodities

3,892

1,215

5,836

1,258


12,432

Equities

1,430

1,134

1,329

2,144

1,235

7,272

Total

$

13,332

$

4,998

$

15,885

$

10,288

$

8,633

$

53,136

Liabilities

0 - 6

6 - 12

1 - 5

5 - 10

10 Years

Contract Type

Months

Months

Years

Years

or Greater

Total

Interest
    rates

(1)

$

2,807

$

1,242

$

6,064

$

3,582

$

5,138

$

18,833

Currencies

6,859

1,290

2,582



11,859

Commodities

3,078


4,253

1,643


9,905

Equities

3,235

1,682

2,615

3,239


11,048

Total

$

15,979

$

4,872

$

15,514

$

8,958

$

6,322

$

51,645

As of November 2005

Assets

0 - 6

6 - 12

1 - 5

5 - 10

10 Years

Contract Type

Months

Months

Years

Years

or Greater

Total

Interest
    rates

(1)

$

1,898

$


$

4,634

$

5,310

$

5,221

$

17,530

Currencies

5,825

1,031

1,843


1,046

10,664

Commodities

3,772

1,369

8,130

1,374


14,765

Equities

1,168

1,171


1,403


4,704

Total

$

12,663

$

4,038

$

15,439

$

9,006

$

6,517

$

47,663

Liabilities

0 - 6

6 - 12

1 - 5

5 - 10

10 Years

Contract Type

Months

Months

Years

Years

or Greater

Total

Interest
    rates

(1)

$

1,956

$


$

5,327

$

3,142

$

4,970

$

15,985

Currencies

6,295


3,978



12,208

Commodities

3,852

2,080

5,904

1,865


13,863

Equities

1,308

1,068

2,079

1,993


6,690

Total

$

13,411

$

4,313

$

17,288

$

7,436

$

6,298

$

48,746

(1)

Includes credit-related derivatives.

We enter into certain OTC option transactions that provide us or
our counterparties with the right to extend the maturity of the
underlying contract. The fair value of these option contracts is
not material to the aggregate fair value of our OTC derivative
portfolio. In the tables above, for option contracts that
require settlement by delivery of an underlying derivative
instrument, the remaining contractual maturity is generally
classified based upon the maturity date of the underlying
derivative instrument. In those instances where the underlying
instrument does not have a maturity date or either counterparty
has the right to settle in cash, the remaining contractual
maturity is generally based upon the option expiration date.



Principal Investments.

The following table sets forth the
carrying value of the investments included within the Principal
Investments component of our Trading and Principal Investments
segment. These investments consist of private investments,
investments in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG and the
ordinary shares of ICBC, and other public investments:

Principal Investments

(in millions)

As of November



Corporate

Real Estate

Total

Corporate

Real Estate

Total

Private

$

2,741

$


$

3,296

$

1,538

$


$

2,254

Public







Subtotal

(1)

3,675


4,263

1,723


2,468

SMFG convertible

preferred
    stock

(2)
    (3)

4,505

—

4,505

4,058

—

4,058

ICBC ordinary
    shares

(4)

5,194

—

5,194

—

—

—

Total

$

13,374

$


$

13,962

$

5,781

$


$

6,526

Our private principal investments, by their nature, have little
or no price transparency. Such investments are initially carried
at cost as an approximation of fair value. Adjustments to
carrying value are made if there are third-party transactions
evidencing a change in value. Downward adjustments are also
made, in the absence of third-party transactions, if we
determine that the expected realizable value of the investment
is less than the carrying value. In reaching that determination,
we consider many factors including, but not limited to, the
operating cash flows and financial performance of the companies
or properties relative to budgets or projections, trends within
sectors and/or regions, underlying business models, expected
exit timing and strategy, and any specific rights or terms
associated with the investment, such as conversion features and
liquidation preferences. See “— Recent Accounting
Developments” below for a discussion of the impact of
SFAS No. 157 on the valuation of financial instruments.

Our public principal investments, which tend to be large,
concentrated holdings that result from initial public offerings
or other corporate transactions, are valued using quoted market
prices less a liquidity valuation adjustment based on
predetermined written policies.



Our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG is
carried at fair value, which is derived from a model that
incorporates SMFG’s common stock price and credit spreads,
the impact of nontransferability and illiquidity, and downside
protection on the conversion strike price. The fair value of our
investment is particularly sensitive to movements in the SMFG
common stock price. As a result of downside protection on the
conversion strike price, the relationship between changes in the
fair value of our investment and changes in SMFG’s common
stock price would be nonlinear for a significant decline in the
SMFG common stock price. During the year, the fair value of our
investment (excluding the economic hedge on the unrestricted
shares of common stock) increased 8% (expressed in Japanese
yen), reflecting the impact of passage of time in respect of the
transfer restrictions on the underlying common stock.

Our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG is
generally nontransferable without the consent of SMFG, but is
freely convertible into SMFG common stock. As of November 2006,
we had hedged two-thirds of the common stock underlying our
investment in SMFG. Restrictions on our ability to hedge or sell
the remaining shares will lapse on February 7, 2007. As of
November 2006, the conversion price was ¥318,800, subject
to downward adjustment if the price of SMFG common stock at the
time of conversion is less than the conversion price (subject to
a floor of ¥105,100).

Our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC is carried at fair
value using quoted market prices less a liquidity valuation
adjustment. The ordinary shares acquired from ICBC are subject
to transfer restrictions that, among other things, prohibit any
sale, disposition or other transfer until April 28, 2009.
From April 28, 2009 to October 20, 2009, we may
transfer up to 50% of the aggregate ordinary shares of ICBC that
we owned as of October 20, 2006. We may transfer the
remaining shares after October 20, 2009. A portion of our
interest is held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs.

Controls Over Valuation of Financial Instruments.

A
control infrastructure, independent of the trading and investing
functions, is fundamental to ensuring that our financial
instruments are appropriately valued and that fair value
measurements are reliable. This is particularly important in
valuing instruments with lower levels of price transparency.

We employ an oversight structure that includes appropriate
segregation of duties. Senior management, independent of the
trading functions, is responsible for the oversight of control
and valuation policies and for reporting the results of these
policies to our Audit Committee. We seek to maintain the
necessary resources to ensure that control functions are
performed to the highest standards. We employ procedures for the
approval of new transaction types and markets, price
verification, review of daily profit and loss, and review of
valuation models by personnel with appropriate technical
knowledge of relevant products and markets. These procedures are
performed by personnel independent of the revenue-producing
units. For trading and principal investments with little or no
price transparency, we employ, where possible, procedures that
include comparisons with similar observable positions, analysis
of actual to projected cash flows, comparisons with subsequent
sales and discussions with senior business leaders. For a
further discussion of how we manage the risks inherent in our
trading and principal investing businesses, see
“— Risk Management” below.

Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets

As a result of our acquisitions, principally SLK LLC
(SLK) in 2000, The Ayco Company, L.P. (Ayco) in 2003,
Cogentrix Energy, Inc. (Cogentrix) in 2004, National
Energy & Gas Transmission, Inc. (NEGT) in 2005 and
the acquisition of the variable annuity and variable life
insurance business of The Hanover Insurance Group, Inc.
(formerly Allmerica Financial Corporation) in 2006, we have
acquired goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill
is the cost of acquired companies in excess of the fair value of
net assets, including identifiable intangible assets, at the
acquisition date.



Goodwill.

We test the goodwill in each of our operating
segments for impairment at least annually in accordance with
SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets,” by comparing the estimated fair value of each
operating segment with its estimated net book value. We derive
the fair value of each of our operating segments primarily based
on price-earnings multiples. We derive the net book value of our
operating segments by estimating the amount of
shareholders’ equity required to support the activities of
each operating segment. Our last annual impairment test was
performed during our 2006 fourth quarter and no impairment was
identified.

The following table sets forth the carrying value of our
goodwill by operating segment:

Goodwill by Operating Segment

(in millions)

(1)

Primarily related to SLK.

(2)

Primarily related to Ayco.

Identifiable Intangible Assets.

We amortize our
identifiable intangible assets over their estimated useful lives
in accordance with SFAS No. 142, and test for
potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
suggest that an asset’s or asset group’s carrying
value may not be fully recoverable in accordance with
SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” An impairment loss,
calculated as the difference between the estimated fair value
and the carrying value of an asset or asset group, is recognized
if the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows relating to
the asset or asset group is less than the corresponding carrying
value.



The following table sets forth the carrying value and range of
remaining useful lives of our identifiable intangible assets by
major asset class:

Identifiable Intangible Assets by Asset Class

($ in millions)

As of November



Range of Remaining

Carrying

Useful Lives

Carrying

Value

(in years)

Value

Customer
    lists

(1)

$


5 – 19

$


Power
    contracts

(2)


2 – 22


New York Stock Exchange
    (NYSE) specialist rights



(5)


Insurance-related
    assets

(3)



—

Exchange-traded fund
    (ETF) specialist rights




Other

(4)


1 – 7


Total

$

2,502

$

2,055

A prolonged period of weakness in global equity markets and the
trading of securities in multiple markets and on multiple
exchanges could adversely impact our businesses and impair the
value of our goodwill and/or identifiable intangible assets. In
addition, certain events could indicate a potential impairment
of our identifiable intangible assets, including
(i) changes in market structure that could adversely affect
our specialist businesses, (ii) an adverse action or
assessment by a regulator, (iii) a default event under a
power contract or physical damage or other adverse events
impacting the underlying power generation facilities, or
(iv) adverse actual experience on the contracts in our
variable annuity and variable life insurance business.



Use of Estimates

The use of generally accepted accounting principles requires
management to make certain estimates. In addition to the
estimates we make in connection with fair value measurements and
the accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets,
the use of estimates is also important in determining provisions
for potential losses that may arise from litigation and
regulatory proceedings and tax audits.

We estimate and provide for potential losses that may arise out
of litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax audits to the
extent that such losses are probable and can be estimated, in
accordance with SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for
Contingencies.” Significant judgment is required in making
these estimates and our final liabilities may ultimately be
materially different. Our total liability in respect of
litigation and regulatory proceedings is determined on a
case-by-case basis and represents an estimate of probable losses
after considering, among other factors, the progress of each
case or proceeding, our experience and the experience of others
in similar cases or proceedings, and the opinions and views of
legal counsel. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the
outcome of our litigation and regulatory matters, particularly
in cases or proceedings in which substantial or indeterminate
damages or fines are sought, we cannot estimate losses or ranges
of losses for cases or proceedings where there is only a
reasonable possibility that a loss may be incurred. See
“— Legal Proceedings” in Part I,
Item 3 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K,

for
information on our judicial, regulatory and arbitration
proceedings.

Results of Operations

The composition of our net revenues has varied over time as
financial markets and the scope of our operations have changed.
The composition of net revenues can also vary over the shorter
term due to fluctuations in U.S. and global economic and market
conditions. For a further discussion of the impact of economic
and market conditions on our results of operations, see
“— Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our
Business” above, and “Risk Factors” in
Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.



Financial Overview

The following table sets forth an overview of our financial
results:

Financial Overview

($ in millions, except per share amounts)

Year Ended November




Net
    revenues

(1)

$

37,665

$

25,238

$

20,951

Pre-tax earnings

14,560

8,273

6,676

Net earnings

9,537

5,626

4,553

Net earnings applicable to common
    shareholders

9,398

5,609

4,553

Diluted earnings per common share

19.69

11.21

8.92

Return on average common
    shareholders’
    equity

(2)

32.8

%

21.8

%

19.8

%

Return on average tangible common
    shareholders’
    equity

(3)

39.8

%

26.7

%

25.2

%

(1)

Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, “Cost of power
    generation” in the consolidated statements of earnings was
    reclassified to operating expenses. “Cost of power
    generation” was previously reported as a reduction to
    revenues. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the
    current presentation, with no impact to our reported net
    earnings.

(2)

Return on average common shareholders’ equity is computed
    by dividing net earnings applicable to common shareholders by
    average monthly common shareholders’ equity.

(3)

Tangible common shareholders’ equity equals total
    shareholders’ equity less preferred stock, goodwill and
    identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts. In
    2006, we amended our calculation of tangible common
    shareholders’ equity. We no longer deduct identifiable
    intangible assets associated with power contracts from total
    shareholders’ equity because, unlike other intangible
    assets, less than 50% of these assets are supported by common
    shareholders’ equity. Prior periods have been adjusted to
    conform to the current presentation.

We believe that return on average tangible common
    shareholders’ equity is meaningful because it measures the
    performance of businesses consistently, whether they were
    acquired or developed internally. Return on average tangible
    common shareholders’ equity is computed by dividing net
    earnings applicable to common shareholders by average monthly
    tangible common shareholders’ equity.

The following table sets forth a reconciliation of average total
    shareholders’ equity to average tangible common
    shareholders’ equity:



Net Revenues

2006 versus 2005.

Our net revenues were
$37.67 billion in 2006, an increase of 49% compared with
2005, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in Trading
and Principal Investments, Investment Banking, and Asset
Management and Securities Services. The increase in Trading and
Principal Investments reflected significantly higher net
revenues in FICC, Equities and Principal Investments. The
increase in FICC reflected particularly strong performances
across all major businesses. During 2006, FICC operated in an
environment characterized by strong customer-driven activity and
favorable market opportunities. In addition, corporate credit
spreads tightened, the yield curve flattened and volatility
levels were generally low in interest rate and currency markets.
The increase in Equities primarily reflected significantly
higher net revenues in our customer franchise business. During
2006, Equities operated in a favorable environment characterized
by strong customer-driven activity, generally higher equity
prices and favorable market opportunities, although volatility
levels were generally low. The increase in Principal Investments
reflected a significant gain related to our investment in the
ordinary shares of ICBC and higher gains and overrides from
other principal investments, partially offset by a smaller, but
still significant, gain related to our investment in the
convertible preferred stock of SMFG. The increase in Investment
Banking was due to significantly higher net revenues in
Underwriting and Financial Advisory, as we benefited from strong
client activity levels, reflecting favorable equity and
financing markets, strong CEO confidence and growth in financial
sponsor activity. The increase in Asset Management and
Securities Services was primarily due to higher assets under
management and significantly higher incentive fees, as well as
significantly higher global customer balances in Securities
Services. Assets under management increased $144 billion or
27% to a record $676 billion, including net asset inflows
of $94 billion during 2006.

2005 versus 2004.

Our net revenues were
$25.24 billion in 2005, an increase of 20% compared with
2004, reflecting strong growth in Trading and Principal
Investments and Asset Management and Securities Services as well
as higher net revenues in Investment Banking. The increase in
Trading and Principal Investments reflected significantly higher
net revenues in FICC, as all major businesses performed well.
During 2005, FICC operated in an environment generally
characterized by strong customer-driven activity, tight, but
volatile, credit spreads, higher energy prices and a flatter
yield curve. Net revenues in Equities also improved
significantly compared with the prior year, reflecting strong
performance across the business. Equities operated in an
environment characterized by generally higher equity prices,
improved customer-driven activity and continued low levels of
market volatility. Net revenues in our Principal Investments
business also increased significantly, primarily reflecting a
gain on our investment in the convertible preferred stock of
SMFG as well as gains from real estate principal investments.
The strong net revenue growth in Asset Management and Securities
Services primarily reflected higher assets under management and
higher customer balances in Securities Services. The increase in
Investment Banking net revenues was due to significantly higher
net revenues in debt underwriting and improved results in
Financial Advisory, primarily reflecting an increase in
industry-wide corporate activity, partially offset by lower net
revenues in equity underwriting.



Operating Expenses

Our operating expenses are primarily influenced by compensation,
headcount and levels of business activity. A substantial portion
of our compensation expense represents discretionary bonuses
which are significantly impacted by, among other factors, the
level of net revenues, prevailing labor markets, business mix
and the structure of our share-based compensation programs. For
2006, our ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues was
43.7%. Excluding non-cash expenses of $637 million related
to the continued amortization of prior year share-based awards
held by employees that were retirement-eligible on the date of
adoption of
SFAS No.

123-R,

our ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues was
42.0%

(1)

.

(1)

Our ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues,
    excluding the impact of the continued amortization of these
    share-based awards, is computed by dividing compensation and
    benefits, excluding the impact of the continued amortization of
    these prior year share-based awards held by employees that were
    retirement-eligible on the date of adoption of
    SFAS No.

123-R,

by net revenues. We believe that presenting the ratio of
    compensation and benefits to net revenues excluding the impact
    of the continued amortization of these awards enhances the
    comparability of

period-to

-period
    compensation and benefits and allows for a more meaningful
    representation of the relationship of current period
    compensation to net revenues. The following table sets forth the
    reconciliation of the ratio of compensation and benefits to net
    revenues, as reported, to the ratio of compensation and benefits
    to net revenues excluding the impact of the continued
    amortization of these prior year share-based awards:



The following table sets forth our operating expenses and number
of employees:

Operating Expenses and Employees

($ in millions)

(1)

Compensation and benefits includes $259 million,
    $137 million and $19 million for the years ended
    November 2006, November 2005 and November 2004, respectively,
    attributable to consolidated entities held for investment
    purposes. Consolidated entities held for investment purposes are
    entities that are held strictly for capital appreciation, have a
    defined exit strategy and are engaged in activities that are not
    closely related to our principal businesses.

(2)

Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, “Cost of power
    generation” in the consolidated statements of earnings was
    reclassified to operating expenses. “Cost of power
    generation” was previously reported as a reduction to
    revenues. Compensation and benefits includes direct employee
    costs associated with our consolidated power generation
    facilities and cost of power generation includes the other
    direct costs associated with these power generation facilities
    and related contractual assets. Prior periods have been
    reclassified to conform to the current presentation, with no
    impact to our reported net earnings. This reclassification
    increased operating expenses as follows:

(3)

Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, third party research
    and brokerage fees and asset management sales and distribution
    fees were reclassified from “Other expenses” to
    “Brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees”
    in the consolidated statements of earnings. Prior periods have
    been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.

(4)

Excludes 3,868, 7,382 and 485 employees as of November 2006,
    November 2005 and November 2004, respectively, of consolidated
    entities held for investment purposes (see footnote 1
    above).

(5)

Includes 1,326 employees as of November 2006 of Goldman
    Sachs’ consolidated property management and loan servicing
    subsidiaries. November 2005 and November 2004 have been adjusted
    to conform to the current presentation and include 1,198 and
    1,014 employees, respectively.



The following table sets forth non-compensation expenses of
consolidated entities held for investment purposes and our
remaining non-compensation expenses by line item:

Non-Compensation Expenses

(in millions)

(1)

Consolidated entities held for investment purposes are entities
    that are held strictly for capital appreciation, have a defined
    exit strategy and are engaged in activities that are not closely
    related to our principal businesses. For example, these
    investments include consolidated entities that hold real estate
    assets, such as golf courses and hotels in Asia, but exclude
    investments in entities that primarily hold financial assets. We
    believe that it is meaningful to review non-compensation
    expenses excluding expenses related to these consolidated
    entities in order to evaluate trends in non-compensation
    expenses related to our principal business activities. Revenues
    related to such entities are included in “Trading and
    principal investments” in the consolidated statements of
    earnings.

(2)

Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, third party research
    and brokerage fees and asset management sales and distribution
    fees were reclassified from “Other expenses” to
    “Brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees”
    in the consolidated statements of earnings. Prior periods have
    been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.

(3)

Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, “Cost of power
    generation” in the consolidated statements of earnings was
    reclassified to operating expenses. “Cost of power
    generation” was previously reported as a reduction to
    revenues. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the
    current presentation, with no impact to our reported net
    earnings.



2006 versus 2005.

Operating expenses were
$23.11 billion for 2006, 36% higher than 2005. Compensation
and benefits expenses of $16.46 billion increased 40%
compared with 2005, primarily reflecting increased discretionary
compensation due to higher net revenues, and increased levels of
employment. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net
revenues for 2006 was
43.7%

(1)

compared with
46.6%

(1)

for 2005. This lower ratio primarily reflected our strong net
revenues in 2006. Employment levels increased 12% compared with
November 2005.

In the first quarter of 2006, we adopted
SFAS No.

123-R,

which requires that share-based awards granted to
retirement-eligible employees be expensed in the year of grant.
In addition to expensing current year awards, prior year awards
must continue to be amortized over the relevant service period.
Therefore, our compensation and benefits in 2006 included (and,
to a lesser extent, 2007 and 2008 will include) both
amortization of prior year share-based awards held by employees
that were retirement-eligible on the date of adoption of
SFAS No.

123-R

and new awards granted to those employees.

Compensation and benefits expenses in 2006 included
$637 million in continued amortization of prior year awards
held by employees that were retirement-eligible on the date of
adoption of
SFAS No.

123-R.

This amount represents the majority of the expense to be
recognized with respect to these awards.

Non-compensation expenses of $6.65 billion for 2006
increased 28% compared with 2005. Excluding non-compensation
expenses related to consolidated entities held for investment
purposes, non-compensation expenses were 24% higher than 2005,
primarily due to higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and
distribution fees in Equities and FICC, and increased other
expenses, primarily due to costs related to our insurance
business, which was acquired in 2006. In addition, market
development costs and professional fees were higher, reflecting
increased levels of business activity, and occupancy expenses
increased, primarily reflecting new office space and higher
facility expenses.

2005 versus 2004.

Operating expenses were
$16.97 billion for 2005, 19% above 2004. Compensation and
benefits expenses of $11.76 billion increased 21% compared
with 2004, resulting from higher discretionary compensation,
reflecting higher net revenues, and increased levels of
employment. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net
revenues for 2005 was
46.6%

(1)

compared with
46.2%

(1)

for 2004. Employment levels increased 9% compared with November
2004.

Non-compensation expenses of $5.21 billion for 2005
increased 13% compared with 2004. Excluding non-compensation
expenses related to consolidated entities held for investment
purposes, non-compensation expenses were 8% higher than 2004,
primarily due to higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and
distribution fees, reflecting higher transaction volumes in FICC
and Equities, and increased professional fees, reflecting higher
legal and consulting fees.

Non-compensation expenses in 2005 included $37 million of
net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings
(included in other expenses) and $36 million of real estate
costs associated with the relocation of office space (included
in occupancy). Non-compensation expenses in 2004 included
$103 million of net provisions for litigation and
regulatory proceedings, $62 million in connection with the
establishment of our joint venture in China (included in market
development) and $41 million of real estate exit costs
associated with reductions in our office space (included in
occupancy and depreciation and amortization).

(1)

The effect of the cost of power generation reclassification on
    the ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues was to
    decrease the ratio by approximately 30 basis points,
    60 basis points and 50 basis points for 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively.



Provision for Taxes

The effective income tax rate was 34.5% for 2006, up from 32.0%
for 2005. The increase in the effective income tax rate for 2006
compared with 2005 was primarily related to a reduction in the
impact of permanent benefits due to higher levels of earnings in
2006 and audit settlements in 2005. The effective income tax
rate for 2005 was 32.0% compared with 31.8% for 2004. Excluding
the impact of audit settlements in 2005, the effective income
tax rate for 2005 would have been
33.3%

(1)

.
Excluding the impact of audit settlements, the increase in the
effective income tax rate for 2005 compared with 2004 was
primarily due to a lower benefit from tax credits in 2005.

Our effective income tax rate can vary from period to period
depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business
mix of our earnings, the level of our tax credits and the effect
of tax audits. Certain of these and other factors, including our
history of pre-tax earnings, are taken into account in assessing
our ability to realize our net deferred tax assets. See
Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for
further information regarding our provision for taxes.

(1)

The effective income tax rate excluding the impact of audit
    settlements is calculated by dividing the provision for taxes,
    adjusted to exclude the impact of audit settlements, by pre-tax
    earnings. The impact of audit settlements decreased the
    effective income tax rate by 1.3% for 2005. We believe that the
    effective income tax rate excluding the impact of audit
    settlements provides a meaningful basis for

period-to

-period
    comparisons of our effective income tax rates.



Segment Operating Results

The following table sets forth the net revenues, operating
expenses and pre-tax earnings of our segments:

Segment Operating Results

(in millions)

(1)

Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, “Cost of power
    generation” in the consolidated statements of earnings was
    reclassified to operating expenses. “Cost of power
    generation” was previously reported as a reduction to
    revenues. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the
    current presentation, with no impact to our reported pre-tax
    earnings.

(2)

Includes the following expenses that have not been allocated to
    our segments: (i) net provisions for a number of litigation
    and regulatory proceedings of $45 million, $37 million
    and $103 million for the years ended November 2006,
    November 2005 and November 2004, respectively;
    (ii) $62 million in connection with the establishment
    of our joint venture in China for the year ended November 2004;
    and (iii) the amortization of employee initial public
    offering awards, net of forfeitures, of $19 million for the
    year ended November 2004.

Net revenues in our segments include allocations of interest
income and interest expense to specific securities, commodities
and other positions in relation to the cash generated by, or
funding requirements of, such underlying positions. See
Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for
further information regarding our segments.

The cost drivers of Goldman Sachs taken as a whole —
compensation, headcount and levels of business
activity — are broadly similar in each of our business
segments. Compensation and benefits expenses within our segments
reflect, among other factors, the overall performance of Goldman
Sachs as well as the performance of individual business units.
Consequently, pre-tax margins in one segment of our business may
be significantly affected by the performance of our other
business segments. A discussion of segment operating results
follows.



Investment Banking

Our Investment Banking segment is divided into two components:

•

Financial Advisory.

Financial Advisory includes advisory
    assignments with respect to mergers and acquisitions,
    divestitures, corporate defense activities, restructurings and

spin-offs.

•

Underwriting.

Underwriting includes public offerings and
    private placements of a wide range of securities and other
    financial instruments.

The following table sets forth the operating results of our
Investment Banking segment:

Investment Banking Operating Results

(in millions)

The following table sets forth our financial advisory and
underwriting transaction volumes:

Goldman Sachs Global Investment Banking
Volumes

(1)

(in billions)

(1)

Source: Thomson Financial. Announced and completed mergers and
    acquisitions volumes are based on full credit to each of the
    advisors in a transaction. Equity and equity-related offerings
    and debt offerings are based on full credit for single book
    managers and equal credit for joint book managers. Transaction
    volumes may not be indicative of net revenues in a given period.

(2)

Includes public common stock offerings, convertible offerings,
    rights offerings and Rule 144A issues.

(3)

Includes non-convertible preferred stock, mortgage-backed
    securities, asset-backed securities and taxable municipal debt.
    Includes publicly registered and Rule 144A issues.

2006 versus 2005.

Net revenues in Investment Banking of
$5.63 billion for 2006 increased 53% compared with 2005.
Net revenues in Financial Advisory of $2.58 billion
increased 35% compared with 2005, primarily reflecting strong
growth in industry-wide completed mergers and acquisitions. Net
revenues in our Underwriting business of $3.05 billion
increased 73% compared with 2005. Net revenues were
significantly higher in equity underwriting, reflecting
increased client



activity. Net revenues were also significantly higher in debt
underwriting, primarily due to a significant increase in
leveraged finance activity and, to a lesser extent, an increase
in investment-grade activity. Our investment banking backlog at
the end of 2006 was at its highest level since
2000.

(1)

Operating expenses of $4.06 billion for 2006 increased 25%
compared with 2005, substantially all of which was due to
increased compensation and benefits expenses resulting from
higher levels of discretionary compensation. Pre-tax earnings
were $1.57 billion in 2006 compared with $413 million
in 2005.

2005 versus 2004.

Net revenues in Investment Banking of
$3.67 billion for 2005 increased 9% compared with 2004. Net
revenues in Financial Advisory of $1.91 billion increased
10% compared with 2004, primarily reflecting an increase in
industry-wide completed mergers and acquisitions. Net revenues
in our Underwriting business of $1.77 billion increased 8%
compared with 2004, reflecting higher net revenues in debt
underwriting, primarily due to an increase in leveraged finance
and mortgage activity, partially offset by lower net revenues in
equity underwriting. Our investment banking backlog at the end
of 2005 was significantly higher than at the end of
2004.

(1)

Operating expenses of $3.26 billion for 2005 increased 10%
compared with 2004, primarily due to increased compensation and
benefits expenses resulting from higher levels of discretionary
compensation and increased amortization expense related to prior
year equity awards. In addition, professional fees were higher,
principally due to increased legal and consulting fees. Pre-tax
earnings of $413 million in 2005 increased 3% compared with
2004.

Trading and Principal Investments

Our Trading and Principal Investments segment is divided into
three components:

•

FICC.

We make markets in and trade interest rate and
    credit products, mortgage-related securities and loan products,
    currencies and commodities, structure and enter into a wide
    variety of derivative transactions and engage in proprietary
    trading and investing.

•

Equities.

We make markets in, trade and act as a
    specialist for equities and equity-related products, structure
    and enter into equity derivative transactions and engage in
    proprietary trading and insurance activities. We also execute
    and clear client transactions on major stock, options and
    futures exchanges worldwide.

•

Principal Investments.

We make real estate and corporate
    principal investments, including our investments in the
    convertible preferred stock of SMFG and the ordinary shares of
    ICBC. We generate net revenues from returns on these investments
    and from the increased share of the income and gains derived
    from our merchant banking funds when the return on a fund’s
    investments, over the life of the fund, exceeds certain
    threshold returns (overrides).

Substantially all of our inventory is

marked-to

-market daily
and, therefore, its value and our net revenues are subject to
fluctuations based on market movements. In addition, net
revenues derived from our principal investments in privately
held concerns and in real estate may fluctuate significantly
depending on the revaluation or sale of these investments in any
given period. We also regularly enter into large transactions as
part of our trading businesses. The number and size of such
transactions may affect our results of operations in a given
period.

Net revenues from Principal Investments do not include
management fees generated from our merchant banking funds. These
management fees are included in the net revenues of the Asset
Management and Securities Services segment.

(1)

Our investment banking backlog represents an estimate of our
    future net revenues from investment banking transactions where
    we believe that future revenue realization is more likely than
    not.



The following table sets forth the operating results of our
Trading and Principal Investments segment:

Trading and Principal Investments Operating Results

(in millions)

(1)

Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, “Cost of power
    generation” in the consolidated statements of earnings was
    reclassified to operating expenses. “Cost of power
    generation” was previously reported as a reduction to
    revenues. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the
    current presentation, with no impact to our reported pre-tax
    earnings.

(2)

A substantial portion relates to interest expense on our
    principal investments.

2006 versus 2005.

Net revenues in Trading and Principal
Investments of $25.56 billion for 2006 increased 52%
compared with 2005. Net revenues in FICC of $14.26 billion
increased 60% compared with 2005, primarily due to significantly
higher net revenues in credit products (which includes
distressed investing) and commodities. In addition, net revenues
were higher in interest rate products, currencies and mortgages.
During 2006, the business operated in an environment
characterized by strong customer-driven activity and favorable
market opportunities. In addition, corporate credit spreads
tightened, the yield curve flattened and volatility levels were
generally low in interest rate and currency markets. Net
revenues in Equities of $8.48 billion increased 50%
compared with 2005, primarily reflecting significantly higher
net revenues in derivatives, across all regions, as well as
higher net revenues in shares. The increase also reflected the
contribution from our insurance business, which was acquired in
2006. In addition, principal strategies performed well, although
net revenues were lower than a particularly strong 2005. During
2006, Equities operated in a favorable environment characterized
by strong customer-driven activity, generally higher equity
prices and favorable market opportunities, although volatility
levels were generally low. Principal Investments recorded net
revenues of $2.82 billion, reflecting a $937 million
gain related to our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, a
$527 million gain related to our investment in the
convertible preferred stock of SMFG and $1.35 billion in
gains and overrides from other principal investments.



Operating expenses of $14.96 billion for 2006 increased 41%
compared with 2005, due to increased compensation and benefits
expenses, primarily resulting from higher levels of
discretionary compensation due to higher net revenues and
increased levels of employment, as well as higher
non-compensation expenses. Excluding non-compensation expenses
related to consolidated entities held for investment purposes,
the increase in non-compensation expenses was primarily due to
higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees, in
Equities and FICC, and increased other expenses, primarily due
to costs related to our insurance business, which was acquired
in 2006, and higher levels of business activity. In addition,
professional fees were higher, due to increased legal and
consulting fees. Pre-tax earnings of $10.60 billion in 2006
increased 70% compared with 2005.

2005 versus 2004.

Net revenues in Trading and Principal
Investments of $16.82 billion for 2005 increased 23%
compared with 2004. Net revenues in FICC of $8.94 billion
increased 16% compared with 2004, primarily reflecting
significantly higher net revenues in credit products (which
includes distressed investing) and, to a lesser extent, interest
rate products and currencies. Net revenues in commodities and
mortgages were strong, but essentially unchanged compared with
2004. During 2005, FICC operated in an environment generally
characterized by strong customer-driven activity, tight, but
volatile, credit spreads, higher energy prices and a flatter
yield curve. Net revenues in Equities of $5.65 billion
increased 21% compared with 2004, reflecting significantly
higher net revenues in our customer franchise and principal
strategies businesses. The increase in our customer franchise
business reflected improved results in derivatives and shares,
particularly in Europe and Asia, as well as in convertibles. In
addition, results in principal strategies reflected strength
across all regions. During 2005, Equities operated in an
environment characterized by generally higher equity prices,
improved customer-driven activity and continued low levels of
market volatility. Principal Investments recorded net revenues
of $2.23 billion, due to a $1.48 billion gain related
to our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG and
$753 million in gains and overrides from other corporate
and, to a lesser extent, real estate principal investments.

Operating expenses of $10.60 billion for 2005 increased 22%
compared with 2004, primarily due to increased compensation and
benefits expenses, reflecting higher discretionary compensation
and increased levels of employment and, to a lesser extent,
higher non-compensation expenses related to consolidated
entities held for investment purposes. Excluding
non-compensation expenses related to consolidated entities held
for investment purposes, the increase in non-compensation
expenses was primarily attributable to higher brokerage,
clearing, exchange and distribution fees, principally due to
increased transaction volumes in FICC and Equities, and higher
professional fees, due to increased legal and consulting fees.
Pre-tax earnings of $6.22 billion in 2005 increased 23%
compared with 2004.

Asset Management and Securities Services

Our Asset Management and Securities Services segment is divided
into two components:

•

Asset Management.

Asset Management provides investment
    advisory and financial planning services and offers investment
    products (primarily through separate accounts and funds) across
    all major asset classes to a diverse group of institutions and
    individuals worldwide and primarily generates revenues in the
    form of management and incentive fees.

•

Securities Services.

Securities Services provides prime
    brokerage services, financing services and securities lending
    services to institutional clients, including hedge funds, mutual
    funds, pension funds and foundations, and to high-net-worth
    individuals worldwide, and generates revenues primarily in the
    form of interest rate spreads or fees.



Assets under management typically generate fees as a percentage
of asset value. In certain circumstances, we are also entitled
to receive incentive fees based on a percentage of a fund’s
return or when the return on assets under management exceeds
specified benchmark returns or other performance targets.
Incentive fees are recognized when the performance period ends
and they are no longer subject to adjustment. We have numerous
incentive fee arrangements, many of which have annual
performance periods that end on December 31. For that
reason, incentive fees have been seasonally weighted to our
first quarter. Based on investment performance in calendar 2006,
our incentive fees will be significantly lower in fiscal 2007
than they were in fiscal 2006.

The following table sets forth the operating results of our
Asset Management and Securities Services segment:

Asset Management and Securities Services Operating Results

(in millions)

Year Ended November




Management and other fees

$

3,332

$

2,629

$

2,219

Incentive fees




Total Asset Management

4,294

2,956

2,553

Securities Services

2,180

1,793

1,296

Total net revenues

6,474

4,749

3,849

Operating expenses

4,036

3,070

2,430

Pre-tax earnings

$

2,438

$

1,679

$

1,419

Assets under management include our mutual funds, alternative
investment funds and separately managed accounts for
institutional and individual investors. Substantially all assets
under management are valued as of calendar month end.

The following table sets forth our assets under management by
asset class:

Assets Under Management by Asset
Class

(1)

(in billions)

As of November 30




Alternative
    investments

(2)

$


$


$


Equity




Fixed income




Total non-money market assets




Money markets




Total assets under management

$


$


$


(1)

In the first quarter of 2006, we changed the methodology for
    classifying certain non-money market assets. The changes were
    made primarily to reclassify certain assets allocated to
    external investment managers out of alternative investment
    assets and to reclassify currency funds into alternative
    investment assets. The changes did not impact total assets under
    management and prior periods have been reclassified to conform
    to the current presentation.

(2)

Primarily includes hedge funds, private equity, real estate,
    currencies, commodities and asset allocation strategies.



The following table sets forth a summary of the changes in our
assets under management:

Changes in Assets Under Management

(in billions)

(1)

Net of $8 billion transferred from assets under management
    to interest-bearing deposits at Goldman Sachs Bank USA, a wholly
    owned subsidiary of Group Inc. These deposits are not included
    in assets under management.

(2)

Includes $3 billion of net asset inflows in connection with
    our December 30, 2005 acquisition of the variable annuity
    and variable life insurance business of The Hanover Insurance
    Group, Inc.

2006 versus 2005.

Net revenues in Asset Management and
Securities Services of $6.47 billion for 2006 increased 36%
compared with 2005. Asset Management net revenues of
$4.29 billion increased 45% compared with 2005, reflecting
significantly higher management and other fees, principally due
to strong growth in assets under management, and significantly
higher incentive fees. During the year, assets under management
increased $144 billion or 27% to $676 billion,
reflecting non-money market net asset inflows of
$77 billion, spread across all asset classes, money market
net asset inflows of
$17 billion

(1)

,
and market appreciation of $50 billion, primarily in equity
and fixed income assets. Securities Services net revenues of
$2.18 billion increased 22% compared with 2005, as our
prime brokerage business continued to generate strong results,
primarily reflecting significantly higher global customer
balances in securities lending and margin lending.

Operating expenses of $4.04 billion for 2006 increased 31%
compared with 2005, primarily due to increased compensation and
benefits expenses, resulting from higher levels of discretionary
compensation due to higher net revenues, and increased levels of
employment. Non-compensation expenses also increased, primarily
due to higher distribution fees (included in brokerage,
clearing, exchange and distribution fees). In addition, market
development costs were higher, reflecting increased levels of
business activity. Pre-tax earnings of $2.44 billion
increased 45% compared with 2005.

(1)

Net of $8 billion transferred from assets under management
    to interest-bearing deposits at Goldman Sachs Bank USA, a wholly
    owned subsidiary of Group Inc. These deposits are not included
    in assets under management.



2005 versus 2004.

Net revenues in Asset Management and
Securities Services of $4.75 billion for 2005 increased 23%
compared with 2004. Asset Management net revenues of
$2.96 billion increased 16% compared with 2004, primarily
due to higher management fees, driven by growth in assets under
management. During 2005, assets under management increased 18%
to $532 billion, reflecting net asset inflows of
$63 billion across all asset classes as well as market
appreciation of $17 billion, primarily in equity assets.
Securities Services net revenues of $1.79 billion for 2005
increased 38% compared with 2004, primarily reflecting
significantly higher global customer balances in securities
lending and margin lending.

Operating expenses of $3.07 billion for 2005 increased 26%
compared with 2004, primarily due to increased compensation and
benefits expenses resulting from higher discretionary
compensation and increased levels of employment. Other expenses
also increased and professional fees were higher, principally
due to increased consulting and legal fees. Pre-tax earnings of
$1.68 billion increased 18% compared with 2004.

Geographic Data

For a summary of the net revenues and pre-tax earnings of
Goldman Sachs by geographic region, see Note 16 to the
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements

We have various types of off-balance-sheet arrangements that we
enter into in the ordinary course of business. Our involvement
in these arrangements can take many different forms, including
purchasing or retaining residual and other interests in
mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securitization vehicles;
holding senior and subordinated debt, interests in limited and
general partnerships, and preferred and common stock in other
nonconsolidated vehicles; entering into interest rate, foreign
currency, equity, commodity and credit derivatives, including
total return swaps; entering into operating leases; and
providing guarantees, indemnifications, loan commitments,
letters of credit, representations and warranties.

We enter into these arrangements for a variety of business
purposes, primarily related to the securitization of commercial
and residential mortgages, home equity and auto loans,
government and corporate bonds, and other types of financial
assets. Other reasons for entering into these arrangements
include underwriting client securitization transactions;
providing secondary market liquidity; making investments in
performing and nonperforming debt, equity, real estate and other
assets; providing investors with credit-linked and
asset-repackaged notes; and receiving or providing letters of
credit to satisfy margin requirements and to facilitate the
clearance and settlement process.

We engage in transactions with variable interest entities (VIEs)
and qualifying special-purpose entities (QSPEs). Such vehicles
are critical to the functioning of several significant investor
markets, including the mortgage-backed and other

asset-backed

securities
markets, since they provide market liquidity to financial assets
by offering investors access to specific cash flows and risks
created through the securitization process. Our financial
interests in, and derivative transactions with, such
nonconsolidated entities are accounted for at fair value, in the
same manner as our other financial instruments, except in cases
where we apply the equity method of accounting.



The following table sets forth where a discussion of these and
other off-balance-sheet arrangements may be found in
Part II, Items 7 and 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K:

In addition, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for a
discussion of our consolidation policies.

Equity Capital

The level and composition of our equity capital are principally
determined by our consolidated regulatory capital requirements,
subsidiary capital requirements and rating agency guidelines.
The equity capital we hold may also be influenced by the
business environment, conditions in the financial markets and an
assessment of potential future losses during an extremely
adverse business and market environment. As of November 2006,
our total shareholders’ equity was $35.79 billion
(consisting of common shareholders’ equity of
$32.69 billion and preferred stock of $3.10 billion)
compared with total shareholders’ equity of
$28.00 billion as of November 2005 (consisting of common
shareholders’ equity of $26.25 billion and preferred
stock of $1.75 billion). In addition to total
shareholders’ equity, we consider the $2.75 billion of
junior subordinated debt issued to a trust (see below) part of
our equity capital, as it qualifies as capital for regulatory
and certain rating agency purposes.

Consolidated Regulatory Capital Requirements

During 2005, Goldman Sachs became regulated by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as a
Consolidated Supervised Entity (CSE). As such, Goldman Sachs is
subject to group-wide supervision and examination by the SEC and
to minimum capital adequacy standards on a consolidated basis.
Minimum capital adequacy standards are principally driven by the
amount of our market risk, credit risk and operational risk as
calculated by methodologies approved by the SEC. Eligible
sources of regulatory capital include common equity and certain
types of preferred stock, debt and hybrid instruments, including
our junior subordinated debt issued to a trust. The recognition
of preferred stock, debt and hybrid instruments as regulatory
capital is subject to limitations. Goldman Sachs was in
compliance with the CSE capital adequacy standards as of
November 2006 and

November

.



Subsidiary Capital Requirements

Many of our principal subsidiaries are subject to separate
regulation and capital requirements in the United States and/or
elsewhere. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Goldman Sachs
Execution & Clearing, L.P. are registered
U.S. broker-dealers and futures commissions merchants, and
their primary regulators include the SEC, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, the Chicago Board of Trade, the NYSE, the
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and the
National Futures Association. Goldman Sachs International, our
regulated U.K. broker-dealer, is subject to regulation primarily
by the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority. Goldman Sachs
Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL), our regulated Japanese broker-dealer,
is subject to regulation by Japan’s Financial Services
Agency. Prior to October 1, 2006, Goldman Sachs (Japan)
Ltd. (GSJL), the predecessor to GSJCL, was our primary regulated
subsidiary based in Japan. Several other subsidiaries of Goldman
Sachs are regulated by securities, investment advisory, banking,
and other regulators and authorities around the world, such as
the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) and the
Bundesbank in Germany, Banque de France and the Autorité
des Marchés Financiers in France, Banca d’Italia and
the Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa
(CONSOB) in Italy, the Swiss Federal Banking Commission,
the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong, the Monetary
Authority of Singapore and the China Securities Regulatory
Commission. Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank), a wholly owned
industrial bank, is regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation and the State of Utah Department of Financial
Institutions and is subject to minimum capital requirements. As
of November 2006 and November 2005, these subsidiaries were in
compliance with their local capital requirements.

As discussed above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to
regulatory capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the
world. Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulation may hold
capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency
requirements or internal policies, including policies concerning
the minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based
upon its underlying risk. For a discussion of our potential
inability to access funds from our subsidiaries, see

“— Liquidity and Funding Risk —
Conservative Liability Structure” below.

Equity investments in subsidiaries are generally funded with
parent company equity capital. As of November 2006, Group
Inc.’s equity investment in subsidiaries was
$32.58 billion compared with its total shareholders’
equity of $35.79 billion.

Our capital invested in

non-U.S.

subsidiaries
is generally exposed to foreign exchange risk, substantially all
of which is managed primarily through the use of derivative
contracts. In addition, we generally manage the non-trading
exposure to foreign exchange risk that arises from transactions
denominated in currencies other than the transacting
entity’s functional currency.

See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for
further information regarding our regulated subsidiaries.



Rating Agency Guidelines

The credit rating agencies assign credit ratings to the
obligations of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., which directly
issues or guarantees substantially all of Goldman Sachs’
senior unsecured obligations. The level and composition of our
equity capital are among the many factors considered in
determining our credit ratings. Each agency has its own
definition of eligible capital and methodology for evaluating
capital adequacy, and assessments are generally based on a
combination of factors rather than a single calculation. See
“— Liquidity and Funding Risk — Credit
Ratings” below for further information regarding our credit
ratings.

Equity Capital Management

Our objective is to maintain a sufficient level and optimize the
composition of our equity capital. We manage our capital through
repurchases of our common stock and issuances of preferred
stock, junior subordinated debt issued to a trust and
subordinated debt.

Share Repurchase Program.

We use our share repurchase
program to help maintain the appropriate level of common equity
and to substantially offset increases in share count over time
resulting from employee share-based compensation. The repurchase
program is effected primarily through regular open-market
purchases and is influenced by our overall capital position (the
comparison of our capital requirements to our available
capital), general market conditions and the prevailing price and
trading volumes of our common stock.

The following table sets forth the level of share repurchases
for the years ended November 2006 and November 2005:

As of November



(in millions, except per

share amounts)

Number of shares repurchased

50.23

63.73

Total cost

$

7,817

$

7,108

Average cost per share

$

155.64

$

111.57

As of November 2006, we were authorized to repurchase up to
52.6 million additional shares of common stock pursuant to
our repurchase program. For additional information on our
repurchase program, see “— Market for
Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” in Part II,
Item 5 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.



Preferred Stock.

During 2006, Goldman Sachs issued
54,000 shares of perpetual Floating Rate Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series D. As of November 2006, Goldman
Sachs had 124,000 shares of perpetual non-cumulative
preferred stock outstanding in four series as set forth in the
following table:

Preferred Stock by Series

Shares

Shares

Earliest

Redemption Value

Series

Issued

Authorized

Dividend Rate

Redemption Date

(in millions)

A

30,000

50,000

3 month LIBOR + 0.75%,

with floor of 3.75% per annum

April 25, 2010

$


B

32,000

50,000

6.20% per annum

October 31, 2010


C

8,000

25,000

3 month LIBOR + 0.75%,

with floor of 4% per annum

October 31, 2010


D

54,000

60,000

3 month LIBOR + 0.67%,

with floor of 4% per annum

May 24, 2011

1,350

124,000

185,000

$

3,100

Each share of preferred stock has a par value of $0.01, has a
liquidation preference of $25,000, is represented by 1,000
depositary shares and is redeemable at our option at a
redemption price equal to $25,000 plus declared and unpaid
dividends. Dividends on each series of preferred stock, if
declared, are payable quarterly in arrears. Our ability to
declare or pay dividends on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise
acquire, our common stock is subject to certain restrictions in
the event that we fail to pay or set aside full dividends on our
preferred stock for the latest completed dividend period. All
preferred stock also has a preference over our common stock upon
liquidation.

Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to a Trust.

As of
November 2006, we had outstanding junior subordinated debt
issued to a trust of $2.75 billion, included in
“Unsecured long-term borrowings” on the consolidated
statements of financial condition. The inherent characteristics
of these securities, including the long-term nature of the
securities, our ability to defer coupon interest for up to ten
consecutive semiannual periods and the subordinated nature of
the obligations in our capital structure, are such that they
qualify as regulatory capital for CSE purposes, and thus, are
part of our equity capital.

Subordinated Debt.

Although not part of our
shareholders’ equity, subordinated debt may be used to meet
a portion of our consolidated minimum capital requirements as a
CSE. As of November 2006, we had outstanding subordinated debt
of $4.67 billion.



Capital Ratios and Metrics

The following table sets forth information on our assets,
shareholders’ equity, leverage ratios and book value per
common share:

(1)

Adjusted assets excludes (i) low-risk collateralized assets
    generally associated with our matched book and securities
    lending businesses (which we calculate by adding our securities
    borrowed and financial instruments purchased under agreements to
    resell, and then subtracting our nonderivative short positions),
    (ii) cash and securities we segregate for regulatory and
    other purposes and (iii) goodwill and identifiable
    intangible assets, excluding power contracts. In 2006, we
    amended our calculation of adjusted assets. We no longer deduct
    identifiable intangible assets associated with power contracts
    from total assets. We amended our calculation in order to be
    consistent with the calculation of tangible equity capital and
    the adjusted leverage ratio (see footnote 2 below). Prior
    periods have been adjusted to conform to the current
    presentation.

The following table sets forth a reconciliation of total assets
    to adjusted assets:

(2)

Tangible equity capital equals total shareholders’ equity
    and junior subordinated debt issued to a trust less goodwill and
    identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts. In
    2006, we amended our calculation of tangible equity capital. We
    no longer deduct identifiable intangible assets associated with
    power contracts from total shareholders’ equity because,
    unlike other intangible assets, less than 50% of these assets
    are supported by common shareholders’ equity. Prior periods
    have been adjusted to conform to the current presentation. We
    consider junior subordinated debt issued to a trust to be a
    component of our tangible equity capital base due to the
    inherent characteristics of these securities, including the
    long-term nature of the securities, our ability to defer coupon
    interest for up to ten consecutive semiannual periods and the
    subordinated nature of the obligations in our capital structure.



The following table sets forth the reconciliation of total
    shareholders’ equity to tangible equity capital:

(7)

Book value per common share is based on common shares
    outstanding, including restricted stock units granted to
    employees with no future service requirements, of
    450.1 million and 460.4 million as of November 2006
    and November 2005, respectively.

(8)

Tangible book value per common share is computed by dividing
    tangible common shareholders’ equity by the number of
    common shares outstanding, including restricted stock units
    granted to employees with no future service requirements.



Contractual Obligations and Commitments

Goldman Sachs has contractual obligations to make future
payments related to our unsecured long-term borrowings, secured
long-term financings, long-term noncancelable lease agreements
and purchase obligations and has commitments under a variety of
commercial arrangements.

The following table sets forth our contractual obligations by
fiscal maturity date as of November 2006:

Contractual Obligations

(in millions)

2008 -

2010 -

2012 -




Thereafter

Total

Unsecured long-term
    borrowings

(1)(2)(3)

$

—

$

33,262

$

20,043

$

69,537

$122,842

Secured long-term
    financings

(1)(2)(4)

—

6,412

6,999

12,723

26,134

Minimum rental payments




2,195

4,052

Purchase
    obligations

(5)

1,448




2,019

As of November 2006, our unsecured long-term borrowings were
$122.84 billion and consisted principally of senior
borrowings with maturities extending to 2036. See Note 5 to
the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for
further information regarding our unsecured long-term borrowings.

As of November 2006, our future minimum rental payments, net of
minimum sublease rentals, under noncancelable leases were
$4.05 billion. These lease commitments, principally for
office space, expire on various dates through 2069. Certain
agreements are subject to periodic escalation provisions for
increases in real estate taxes and other charges. See
Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for
further information regarding our leases.

Our occupancy expenses include costs associated with office
space held in excess of our current requirements. This excess
space, the cost of which is charged to earnings as incurred, is
being held for potential growth or to replace currently occupied
space that we may exit in the future. We regularly evaluate our
current and future space capacity in relation to current and
projected staffing levels. We may incur exit costs in 2007 and
thereafter to the extent we (i) reduce our space capacity
or (ii) commit to, or occupy, new properties in the
locations in which we operate and, consequently, dispose of
existing space that had been held for potential growth. These
exit costs may be material to our results of operations in a
given period.

As of November 2006 and November 2005, we had
construction-related obligations of $1.63 billion and
$579 million, respectively, including purchase obligations
of $1.07 billion and



$481 million, respectively, related to the development of
wind energy projects. Construction-related obligations also
include outstanding purchase obligations of $500 million
and $47 million as of November 2006 and November 2005,
respectively, related to our new world headquarters in New York
City, which is expected to cost between $2.3 billion and
$2.5 billion.

The following table sets forth our commitments as of November
2006:

Commitments

(in millions)

Our commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to
counterparties that have fixed termination dates and are
contingent on the satisfaction of all conditions to borrowing
set forth in the contract. In connection with our lending
activities, we had outstanding commitments to extend credit of
$100.48 billion as of November 2006 compared with
$61.12 billion as of November 2005. Since these commitments
may expire unused or be reduced or cancelled at the
counterparty’s request, the total commitment amount does
not necessarily reflect the actual future cash flow
requirements. Our commercial lending commitments outside the
William Street credit extension program are generally extended
in connection with contingent acquisition financing and other
types of corporate lending. We may seek to reduce our credit
risk on these commitments by syndicating all or substantial
portions of commitments to other investors. In addition,
commitments that are extended for contingent acquisition
financing are often short-term in nature, as borrowers often
replace them with other funding sources.

Substantially all of the commitments provided under the William
Street credit extension program are to investment-grade
corporate borrowers. Commitments under the program are primarily
extended by William Street Commitment Corporation (Commitment
Corp.), a consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Group Inc.
whose assets and liabilities are legally separated from other
assets



and liabilities of Goldman Sachs, and, to a lesser extent, by
William Street Credit Corporation, another consolidated wholly
owned subsidiary of Group Inc. A majority of the commitments
extended by Commitment Corp. are supported by funding raised by
William Street Funding Corporation (Funding Corp.), another
consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Group Inc. whose assets
and liabilities are also legally separated from other assets and
liabilities of Goldman Sachs. With respect to substantially all
of the William Street commitments, SMFG provides us with credit
loss protection that is generally limited to 95% of the first
loss we realize on approved loan commitments, up to a maximum of
$1.00 billion. In addition, subject to the satisfaction of
certain conditions, upon our request, SMFG will provide
protection for 70% of the second loss on such commitments, up to
a maximum of $1.13 billion. We also use other financial
instruments to mitigate credit risks related to certain William
Street commitments not covered by SMFG.

Our commitments to extend credit also include financing for the
warehousing of financial assets to be securitized, primarily in
connection with collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) and
mortgage securitizations, which are expected to be repaid from
the proceeds of the related securitizations for which we may or
may not act as underwriter. These arrangements are secured by
the warehoused assets, primarily consisting of mortgage-backed
and other asset-backed securities, residential and commercial
mortgages and corporate debt instruments.

See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for
further information regarding our commitments, contingencies and
guarantees.

Risk Management

Management believes that effective risk management is of primary
importance to the success of Goldman Sachs. Accordingly, we have
a comprehensive risk management process to monitor, evaluate and
manage the principal risks we assume in conducting our
activities. These risks include market, credit, liquidity,
operational, legal and reputational exposures.

Risk Management Structure

We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a
variety of separate but complementary financial, credit,
operational, compliance and legal reporting systems. In
addition, a number of committees are responsible for monitoring
risk exposures and for general oversight of our risk management
process, as described further below. These committees (including
their subcommittees), meet regularly and consist of senior
members of both our revenue-producing units and departments that
are independent of our revenue-producing units.

Segregation of duties and management oversight are fundamental
elements of our risk management process. In addition to the
committees described below, functions that are independent of
the revenue-producing units, such as Compliance, Finance, Legal,
Management Controls (Internal Audit) and Operations, perform
risk management functions, which include monitoring, analyzing
and evaluating risk.

Management Committee.

All risk control functions
ultimately report to our Management Committee. Through both
direct and delegated authority, the Management Committee
approves all of our operating activities, trading risk
parameters and customer review guidelines.

Risk Committees.

The Firmwide Risk Committee reviews the
activities of existing businesses, approves new businesses and
products, approves firmwide and divisional market risk limits,
reviews business unit market risk limits, approves market risk
limits for selected sovereign markets and business units,
approves sovereign credit risk limits and credit risk limits by
ratings group, and reviews scenario analyses based on abnormal
or “catastrophic” market movements.



The Divisional Risk Committee sets market risk limits for our
trading activities subject to overall firmwide risk limits,
based on a number of measures, including Value-at-Risk (VaR),
stress tests and scenario analyses. Several other committees
oversee various risk, valuation, operational, credit and
business practice issues related to our asset management
business.

Business unit risk limits are established by the various risk
committees and may be further allocated by the business unit
managers to individual trading desks. Trading desk managers have
the first line of responsibility for managing risk within
prescribed limits. These managers have in-depth knowledge of the
primary sources of risk in their respective markets and the
instruments available to hedge their exposures.

Market risk limits are monitored by the Finance Division and are
reviewed regularly by the appropriate risk committee. Limit
violations are reported to the appropriate risk committee and
business unit managers and addressed, as necessary. Credit risk
limits are also monitored by the Finance Division and reviewed
by the appropriate risk committee.

Business Practices Committee.

The Business Practices
Committee assists senior management in its oversight of
compliance, legal and operational risks and related reputational
concerns, such as potential conflicts of interest. The Business
Practices Committee also reviews Goldman Sachs’ business
practices, policies, and procedures for consistency with our
business principles. The Business Practices Committee reviews
these areas and makes recommendations for improvements as
necessary to mitigate potential risks and assist in achieving
adherence to our business principles.

Firmwide Capital Committee.

The Firmwide Capital
Committee reviews and approves transactions involving
commitments of our capital. Such capital commitments include,
but are not limited to, extensions of credit, alternative
liquidity commitments, certain bond underwritings and certain
distressed debt and principal finance activities. The Firmwide
Capital Committee is also responsible for establishing business
and reputational standards for capital commitments and ensuring
that they are maintained on a global basis.

Commitments Committee.

The Commitments Committee reviews
and approves underwriting and distribution activities, primarily
with respect to offerings of equity and equity-related
securities, and sets and maintains policies and procedures
designed to ensure that legal, reputational, regulatory and
business standards are maintained in conjunction with these
activities. In addition to reviewing specific transactions, the
Commitments Committee periodically conducts strategic reviews of
industry sectors and products and establishes policies in
connection with transaction practices.

Credit Policy Committee.

The Credit Policy Committee
establishes and reviews broad credit policies and parameters
that are implemented by the Credit Department.

Finance Committee.

The Finance Committee establishes and
oversees our liquidity policies, sets certain inventory position
limits and has oversight responsibility for liquidity risk, the
size and composition of our balance sheet and capital base, and
our credit ratings. The Finance Committee regularly reviews our
funding position and capitalization and makes adjustments in
light of current events, risks and exposures.

New Products Committee.

The New Products Committee, under
the oversight of the Firmwide Risk Committee, is responsible for
reviewing and approving new products and businesses globally.

Operational Risk Committee.

The Operational Risk
Committee provides oversight of the ongoing development and
implementation of our operational risk policies, framework and
methodologies, and monitors the effectiveness of operational
risk management.

Structured Products Committee.

The Structured Products
Committee reviews and approves structured product transactions
entered into with our clients that raise legal, regulatory, tax
or accounting issues or present reputational risk to Goldman
Sachs.



Market Risk

The potential for changes in the market value of our trading and
investing positions is referred to as market risk. Such
positions result from market-making, specialist, proprietary
trading and investing, and underwriting activities.

Categories of market risk include exposures to interest rates,
equity prices, currency rates and commodity prices. A
description of each market risk category is set forth below:

We seek to manage these risks by diversifying exposures,
controlling position sizes and establishing economic hedges in
related securities or derivatives. For example, we may hedge a
portfolio of common stocks by taking an offsetting position in a
related equity-index futures contract. The ability to manage an
exposure may, however, be limited by adverse changes in the
liquidity of the security or the related hedge instrument and in
the correlation of price movements between the security and
related hedge instrument.

In addition to applying business judgment, senior management
uses a number of quantitative tools to manage our exposure to
market risk for our long and short financial instruments. These
tools include:

•

risk limits based on a summary measure of market risk exposure
    referred to as VaR;

•

scenario analyses, stress tests and other analytical tools that
    measure the potential effects on our trading net revenues of
    various market events, including, but not limited to, a large
    widening of credit spreads, a substantial decline in equity
    markets and significant moves in selected emerging
    markets; and

•

inventory position limits for selected business units.

VaR

VaR is the potential loss in value of Goldman Sachs’
trading positions due to adverse market movements over a defined
time horizon with a specified confidence level.

For the VaR numbers reported below, a one-day time horizon and a
95% confidence level were used. This means that there is a 1 in
20 chance that daily trading net revenues will fall below the
expected daily trading net revenues by an amount at least as
large as the reported VaR. Thus, shortfalls from expected
trading net revenues on a single trading day greater than the
reported VaR would be anticipated to occur, on average, about
once a month. Shortfalls on a single day can exceed reported VaR
by significant amounts. Shortfalls can also accumulate over a
longer time horizon such as a number of consecutive trading days.

The modeling of the risk characteristics of our trading
positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations.
While management believes that these assumptions and
approximations are reasonable, there is no standard methodology
for estimating VaR, and different assumptions and/or
approximations could produce materially different VaR estimates.



We use historical data to estimate our VaR and, to better
reflect current asset volatilities, we generally weight
historical data to give greater importance to more recent
observations. Given its reliance on historical data, VaR is most
effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there
are no sudden fundamental changes or shifts in market
conditions. An inherent limitation of VaR is that the
distribution of past changes in market risk factors may not
produce accurate predictions of future market risk. Different
VaR methodologies and distributional assumptions could produce a
materially different VaR. Moreover, VaR calculated for a one-day
time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions
that cannot be liquidated or offset with hedges within one day.
Changes in VaR between reporting periods are generally due to
changes in levels of exposure, volatilities and/or correlations
among asset classes.

The following tables set forth the daily VaR:

Average Daily
VaR

(1)

(in millions)

Year Ended November

Risk Categories




Interest rates

$


$


$


Equity prices




Currency rates




Commodity prices




Diversification
    effect

(2)

(71

)

(44

)

(41

)

Total

$


$


$


(1)

Beginning in the first quarter of 2006, we excluded from our
    calculation of VaR certain equity positions generally due to
    their transfer restrictions or illiquidity. The effect of
    excluding these positions was not material to prior periods and,
    accordingly, such periods have not been adjusted. For a further
    discussion of the market risk associated with these positions,
    see “— Other Market Risk Measures” below.

(2)

Equals the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs
    for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the
    four market risk categories are not perfectly correlated.

Our average daily VaR increased to $101 million in 2006
from $70 million in 2005. We increased our level of
exposure across all risk categories, particularly equity prices
and interest rates.

Our average daily VaR increased to $70 million in 2005 from
$67 million in 2004. The increase was primarily due to
higher levels of exposure to commodity prices, equity prices and
interest rates, partially offset by reduced exposures to
currency rates, as well as reduced volatilities, particularly in
interest rate and equity assets.



Daily
VaR

(1)

(in millions)

Year Ended

As of November

November 2006

Risk Categories



High

Low

Interest rates

$


$


$


$


Equity prices





Currency rates





Commodity prices





Diversification
    effect

(2)

(52

)

(44

)

Total

$


$


$


$


(1)

Beginning in the first quarter of 2006, we excluded from our
    calculation of VaR certain equity positions generally due to
    their transfer restrictions or illiquidity. The effect of
    excluding these positions was not material to prior periods and,
    accordingly, such periods have not been adjusted. For a further
    discussion of the market risk associated with these positions,
    see “— Other Market Risk Measures” below.

(2)

Equals the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs
    for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the
    four market risk categories are not perfectly correlated.

Our daily VaR increased to $119 million as of
November 2006 from $83 million as of
November 2005. We increased our level of exposure across
all risk categories, particularly equity prices.

The following chart presents our daily VaR during 2006:



Trading Net Revenues Distribution

Substantially all of our inventory positions are

marked-to-market

on a
daily basis and changes are recorded in net revenues. The
following chart sets forth the frequency distribution of our
daily trading net revenues for substantially all inventory
positions included in VaR for the year ended November 2006:

(1)

Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, we excluded daily net
    revenues from our insurance business and our power generation
    facilities from this chart. Amounts for the full year have been
    adjusted accordingly.

As part of our overall risk control process, daily trading net
revenues are compared with VaR calculated as of the end of the
prior business day. Trading losses incurred on a single day
exceeded our 95%

one-day

VaR on three
occasions during 2006.

Other Market Risk Measures

Certain portfolios and individual positions are not included in
VaR, where VaR is not the most appropriate measure of risk
(e.g., due to transfer restrictions and/or illiquidity). The
market risk related to our investments in the convertible
preferred stock of SMFG and the ordinary shares of ICBC is
measured by estimating the potential reduction in net revenues
associated with a 10% decline in the SMFG common stock price and
a 10% decline in the ICBC ordinary share price, respectively.
The market risk related to the remaining positions is measured
by estimating the potential reduction in net revenues associated
with a 10% decline in asset values.

The sensitivity analyses for equity and debt positions in our
trading portfolio and equity, debt (primarily mezzanine
instruments) and real estate positions in our

non-trading

portfolio
are measured by the impact of a decline in the asset values
(including the impact of leverage in the underlying investments
for real estate positions in our

non-trading

portfolio)
of such positions. The fair values of the underlying positions
may be sensitive to changes in a number of factors, including,
but not limited to, the financial performance of the companies
or properties relative to budgets or projections, the projected
timing and amount of future cash flows, discount rates, trends
within sectors and/or regions, underlying business models and
equity prices.



The sensitivity analysis of our investment in the convertible
preferred stock of SMFG, net of the economic hedge on the
unrestricted shares of common stock underlying a portion of our
investment, is measured by the impact of a decline in the SMFG
common stock price. This sensitivity should not be extrapolated
to a significant decline in the SMFG common stock price, as the
relationship between the fair value of our investment and the
SMFG common stock price would be nonlinear due to downside
protection on the conversion stock price.

The sensitivity analysis of our investment in the ordinary
shares of ICBC excludes interests held by investment funds
managed by Goldman Sachs.

The following table sets forth market risk for positions not
included in VaR. These measures do not reflect diversification
benefits across asset categories and, given the differing
likelihood of such events occurring, these measures have not
been aggregated:

(1)

Beginning in the first quarter of 2006, we excluded from our
    calculation of VaR certain equity positions generally due to
    their transfer restrictions or illiquidity. The effect of
    excluding these positions from VaR was not material to prior
    periods and, accordingly, VaR for such periods has not been
    adjusted. We have calculated the 10% sensitivity measure for
    these equity positions (i.e., Trading Risk— Equity) as of
    November 2005 to provide a

period-to-period

comparison. To the extent that other market risk measures in the
    above table were affected, such measures have been adjusted to
    conform to the current presentation.

(2)

In addition to the positions in these portfolios, which are
    accounted for at fair value, we make investments accounted for
    under the equity method and we also make direct investments in
    real estate, both of which are included in “Other
    assets” in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition. Direct investments in real estate are accounted for
    at cost less accumulated depreciation. See Note 10 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for information on “Other
    assets.”

(3)

Relates to interests in our real estate investment funds.

During 2006, the market risk for equity positions in our trading
portfolio increased due to new investments as well as an
increase in the fair value of the portfolio. The increase in
market risk in 2006 for debt positions in our trading portfolio
and debt, real estate and other equity positions in our

non-trading

portfolio
was primarily due to new investments.

The decrease in market risk in 2006 for SMFG was primarily due
to the impact of additional hedging with respect to the second

one-third

installment
of unrestricted shares underlying our investment, partially
offset by the increase in the fair value of our investment due
to the passage of time in respect of the transfer restrictions
on the underlying common stock.

Credit Risk

Credit risk represents the loss that we would incur if a
counterparty or an issuer of securities or other instruments we
hold fails to perform under its contractual obligations to us,
or upon a deterioration in the credit quality of third parties
whose securities or other instruments, including OTC



derivatives, we hold. Our exposure to credit risk principally
arises through our trading, investing and financing activities.
To reduce our credit exposures, we seek to enter into netting
agreements with counterparties that permit us to offset
receivables and payables with such counterparties. In addition,
we attempt to further reduce credit risk with certain
counterparties by (i) entering into agreements that enable
us to obtain collateral from a counterparty on an upfront or
contingent basis, (ii) seeking

third-party

guarantees
of the counterparty’s obligations, and/or
(iii) transferring our credit risk to third parties using
credit derivatives and/or other structures and techniques.

To measure and manage our credit exposures, we use a variety of
tools, including credit limits referenced to both current
exposure and potential exposure. Potential exposure is generally
based on projected

worst-case

market
movements over the life of a transaction. In addition, as part
of our market risk management process, for positions measured by
changes in credit spreads, we use VaR and other sensitivity
measures. To supplement our primary credit exposure measures, we
also use scenario analyses, such as credit spread widening
scenarios, stress tests and other quantitative tools.

Our global credit management systems monitor credit exposure to
individual counterparties and on an aggregate basis to
counterparties and their affiliates. These systems also provide
management, including the Firmwide Risk and Credit Policy
Committees, with information regarding credit risk by product,
industry sector, country and region.

While our activities expose us to many different industries and
counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of
transactions with counterparties in the financial services
industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks,
investment funds and other institutional clients, resulting in
significant credit concentration with respect to this industry.
In the ordinary course of business, we may also be subject to a
concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty,
borrower or issuer.

As of both November 2006 and November 2005, we held
U.S. government and federal agency obligations that
represented 6% and 7% of our total assets, respectively. In
addition, most of our financial instruments purchased under
agreements to resell as well as some derivatives are
collateralized by U.S. government, federal agency and other
sovereign obligations. As of November 2006 and November
2005, we did not have credit exposure to any other counterparty
that exceeded 5% of our total assets. However, over the past
several years, the amount and duration of our credit exposures
have been increasing, due to, among other factors, the growth of
our lending and OTC derivative activities and market evolution
towards longer dated transactions. A further discussion of our
derivative activities follows below.

Credit Risk on Derivatives

Derivative contracts are instruments, such as futures, forwards,
swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from
underlying assets, indices, reference rates or a combination of
these factors. Derivative instruments may be privately
negotiated contracts, which are often referred to as OTC
derivatives, or they may be listed and traded on an exchange.

Substantially all of our derivative transactions are entered
into to facilitate client transactions, to take proprietary
positions or as a means of risk management. In addition to
derivative transactions entered into for trading purposes, we
enter into derivative contracts to manage currency exposure on
our net investment in

non-U.S.

operations
and to manage the interest rate and currency exposure on our

long-term

borrowings
and certain

short-term

borrowings.

Derivatives are used in many of our businesses, and we believe
that the associated market risk can only be understood relative
to all of the underlying assets or risks being hedged, or as
part of a broader trading strategy. Accordingly, the market risk
of derivative positions is managed together with our
nonderivative positions.

Fair values of our derivative contracts are reflected net of
cash paid or received pursuant to credit support agreements and
are reported on a

net-by-counterparty

basis in our consolidated



statements of financial condition when management believes a
legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable netting
agreement. For an OTC derivative, our credit exposure is
directly with our counterparty and continues until the maturity
or termination of such contract.

The following table sets forth the distribution, by credit
rating, of substantially all of our exposure with respect to OTC
derivatives as of November 2006 and November 2005,
after taking into consideration the effect of netting
agreements. The categories shown reflect our internally
determined public rating agency equivalents:

Over-the-Counter

Derivative Credit Exposure

($ in millions)

As of

As of November 2006

November 2005

Exposure

Percentage of

Percentage of

Collateral

Net of

Total Exposure

Total Exposure

Credit Rating Equivalent

Exposure

(1)

Held

Collateral

Net of Collateral

Net of Collateral

AAA/Aaa

$

5,185

$


$

4,671


%


%

AA/Aa2

12,499

1,447

11,052



A/A2

16,039

4,810

11,229



BBB/Baa2

8,616

2,964

5,652



BB/Ba2 or lower

8,906

3,760

5,146



Unrated

1,891





Total

$

53,136

$

14,449

$

38,687


%


%

(1)

Net of cash received pursuant to credit support agreements of
    $24.06 billion.

The following tables set forth our OTC derivative credit
exposure, net of collateral, by remaining contractual maturity:

Exposure Net of Collateral

(in millions)

0 - 6

6 - 12

1 - 5

5 - 10

10 Years

Credit Rating Equivalent

Months

Months

Years

Years

or Greater

Total

(1)

AAA/Aaa

$

1,011

$


$

1,263

$

1,002

$

1,279

$

4,671

AA/Aa2

2,204

1,496

2,521

2,834

1,997

11,052

A/A2

3,850

1,304

3,094

1,867

1,114

11,229

BBB/Baa2

1,480


2,478



5,652

BB/Ba2 or lower

1,729


1,550



5,146

Unrated







Total

$

10,751

$

4,375

$

10,911

$

6,583

$

6,067

$

38,687

0 - 6

6 - 12

1 - 5

5 - 10

10 Years

Contract Type

Months

Months

Years

Years

or Greater

Total

(1)

Interest
    rates

(2)

$

2,300

$

1,524

$

3,720

$

3,802

$

3,753

$

15,099

Currencies

4,418


2,521

1,186


9,953

Commodities

3,469


3,898



9,175

Equities




1,010

1,137

4,460

Total

$

10,751

$

4,375

$

10,911

$

6,583

$

6,067

$

38,687

(1)

Where we have obtained collateral from a counterparty under a
    master trading agreement that covers multiple products and
    transactions, we have allocated the collateral ratably based on
    exposure before giving effect to such collateral.

(2)

Includes

credit-related

derivatives.



Derivative transactions may also involve legal risks including
the risk that they are not authorized or appropriate for a
counterparty, that documentation has not been properly executed
or that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the
counterparty. We attempt to minimize these risks by obtaining
advice of counsel on the enforceability of agreements as well as
on the authority of a counterparty to effect the derivative
transaction. In addition, certain derivative transactions (e.g.,
credit derivative contracts) involve the risk that we may have
difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying
security or obligation in order to satisfy any physical
settlement requirement.

Liquidity and Funding Risk

Liquidity is of critical importance to companies in the
financial services sector. Most failures of financial
institutions have occurred in large part due to insufficient
liquidity resulting from adverse circumstances. Accordingly,
Goldman Sachs has in place a comprehensive set of liquidity and
funding policies that are intended to maintain significant
flexibility to address both Goldman

Sachs-specific

and
broader industry or market liquidity events. Our principal
objective is to be able to fund Goldman Sachs and to enable our
core businesses to continue to generate revenue even under
adverse circumstances.

Management has implemented a number of policies according to the
following liquidity risk management framework:

Excess Liquidity

Our most important liquidity policy is to

pre-fund

what we
estimate will be our likely cash needs during a liquidity crisis
and hold such excess liquidity in the form of unencumbered,
highly liquid securities that may be sold or pledged to provide

same-day

liquidity.
This “Global Core Excess” liquidity is intended to
allow us to meet immediate obligations without needing to sell
other assets or depend on additional funding from

credit-sensitive

markets. We believe that this pool of excess liquidity provides
us with a resilient source of funds and gives us significant
flexibility in managing through a difficult funding environment.
Our Global Core Excess reflects the following principles:

•

The first days or weeks of a liquidity crisis are the most
    critical to a company’s survival.

•

Focus must be maintained on all potential cash and collateral
    outflows, not just disruptions to financing flows. Goldman
    Sachs’ businesses are diverse, and its cash needs are
    driven by many factors, including market movements, collateral
    requirements and client commitments, all of which can change
    dramatically in a difficult funding environment.

•

During a liquidity crisis,

credit-sensitive

funding, including unsecured debt and some types of secured
    financing agreements, may be unavailable and the terms or
    availability of other types of secured financing may change.



•

As a result of our policy to

pre-fund

liquidity that
    we estimate may be needed in a crisis, we hold more unencumbered
    securities and have larger unsecured debt balances than our
    businesses would otherwise require. We believe that our
    liquidity is stronger with greater balances of highly liquid
    unencumbered securities, even though it increases our unsecured
    liabilities.

The size of our Global Core Excess is based on an internal
liquidity model together with a qualitative assessment of the
condition of the financial markets and of Goldman Sachs. Our
liquidity model identifies and estimates cash and collateral
outflows over a

short-term

horizon in a
liquidity crisis, including, but not limited to:

The following table sets forth the average loan value (the
estimated amount of cash that would be advanced by
counterparties against these securities) of our Global Core
Excess:

Year Ended November



(in millions)

U.S. dollar-denominated

$

40,862

$

35,310

Non-U.S. dollar-denominated

10,202

11,029

Total Global Core Excess

$

51,064

$

46,339

The
U.S.

dollar-denominated

excess is comprised of only unencumbered U.S. government
and agency securities and highly liquid mortgage securities, all
of which are Federal Reserve

repo-eligible,

as well
as overnight cash deposits. Our

non-U.S.

dollar-denominated

excess is comprised of only unencumbered French, German, United
Kingdom and Japanese government bonds and euro, British pound
and Japanese yen overnight cash deposits. We strictly limit our
Global Core Excess to this narrowly defined list of securities
and cash that we believe are highly liquid, even in a difficult
funding environment.

The majority of our Global Core Excess is structured such that
it is available to meet the liquidity requirements of our parent
company, Group Inc., and all of its subsidiaries. The remainder
is primarily held to better match the currency and timing
requirements for potential liquidity obligations of our
principal

non-U.S.

operating
entities.

(1)

The Global Core Excess excludes liquid assets of
    $6.93 billion held separately by William Street Funding
    Corporation. See “— Contractual Obligations and
    Commitments” above for a further discussion of the William
    Street credit extension program.



In addition to our Global Core Excess, we have a significant
amount of other unencumbered securities as a result of our
business activities. These assets, which are located in the
United States, Europe and Asia, include other government bonds,

high-grade

money market
securities, corporate bonds and marginable equities. We do not
include these securities in our Global Core Excess.

We maintain Global Core Excess and other unencumbered assets in
an amount that, if pledged or sold, would provide the funds
necessary to replace at least 110% of our unsecured obligations
that are scheduled to mature (or where holders have the option
to redeem) within the next 12 months. We assume
conservative loan values that are based on

stress-scenario

borrowing capacity and we regularly review these assumptions
asset class by asset class.

Asset-Liability

Management

We seek to maintain a highly liquid balance sheet and
substantially all of our inventory is

marked-to-market

daily.
We utilize aged inventory limits for certain financial
instruments as a disincentive to our businesses to hold
inventory over longer periods of time. We believe that these
limits provide a complementary mechanism for ensuring
appropriate balance sheet liquidity in addition to our standard
position limits. Although our balance sheet fluctuates due to
seasonal activity, market conventions and periodic market
opportunities in certain of our businesses, our total assets and
adjusted assets at financial statement dates are not materially
different than those occurring within our reporting periods.

We seek to manage the maturity profile of our funding base such
that we should be able to liquidate our assets prior to our
liabilities coming due, even in times of prolonged or severe
liquidity stress. We do not rely on immediate sales of assets
(other than our Global Core Excess) to maintain liquidity in a
distressed environment, although we recognize orderly asset
sales may be prudent and necessary in a persistent liquidity
crisis.

In order to avoid reliance on asset sales, our goal is to ensure
that we have sufficient total capital (unsecured

long-term

borrowings
plus total shareholders’ equity) to fund our balance sheet
for at least one year. The amount of our total capital is based
on an internal liquidity model, which incorporates, among other
things, the following

long-term

financing
requirements:



Certain financial instruments may be more difficult to fund on a
secured basis during times of market stress. Accordingly, we
generally hold higher levels of total capital for these assets
than more liquid types of financial instruments. The table below
sets forth our aggregate holdings in these categories of
financial instruments:

A large portion of these assets are funded through secured
funding markets or nonrecourse financing. We focus on
demonstrating a consistent ability to fund these assets on a
secured basis for extended periods of time to reduce refinancing
risk and to help ensure that they have an established amount of
loan value in order that they can be funded in periods of market
stress.

See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for
further information regarding the financial instruments we hold.

Conservative Liability
Structure

We seek to structure our liabilities conservatively to reduce
refinancing risk and the risk that we may redeem or repurchase
certain of our borrowings prior to their contractual maturity.
Our conservative liability structure reflects the following
policies:

•

We fund a substantial portion of our inventory on a secured
    basis. We believe secured financing provides Goldman Sachs with
    a more stable source of liquidity than unsecured financing, as
    it is less sensitive to changes in our credit due to underlying
    collateral.

•

Our liquidity depends to an important degree on the stability of
    our

short-term

unsecured financing base. Accordingly, we prefer the use of
    promissory notes (in which Goldman Sachs does not make a market)
    over commercial paper, which we may repurchase prior to maturity
    through the ordinary course of business as a market maker. As of
    November 2006 and November 2005, our unsecured

short-term

borrowings,
    including the current portion of unsecured

long-term

borrowings
    was $47.9 billion and $47.2 billion, respectively. See
    Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
    Form

10-K

for
    further information regarding our unsecured

short-term

borrowings.



•

We recognize that secured funding transactions have greater
    refinancing risk when the underlying collateral is more
    difficult to fund. Consequently, we seek longer maturities for
    secured funding transactions collateralized by these assets. In
    some cases, we use extendible maturity features to obtain a
    rolling minimum term to the funding.

•

We issue substantially all of our unsecured debt without
    provisions that would, based solely upon an adverse change in
    our credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, cash flows or
    stock price, trigger a requirement for an early payment,
    collateral support, change in terms, acceleration of maturity or
    the creation of an additional financial obligation.

We seek to maintain broad and diversified funding sources
globally for both secured and unsecured funding. We make
extensive use of the repurchase agreement and securities lending
markets, as well as other secured funding markets. In addition,
we issue debt through syndicated U.S. registered offerings,
U.S. registered and 144A medium-term note programs,
offshore medium-term note offerings and other bond offerings,
U.S. and

non-U.S.

commercial
paper and promissory note issuances, and other methods. We also
arrange for letters of credit to be issued on our behalf.

We benefit from distributing our debt issuances through our own
sales force to a large, diverse global creditor base and we
believe that our relationships with our creditors are critical
to our liquidity. Our creditors include banks, governments,
securities lenders, pension funds, insurance companies and
mutual funds. We access funding in a variety of markets in the
United States, Europe and Asia. We have imposed various internal
guidelines on investor concentration, including the amount of
our commercial paper that can be owned and letters of credit
that can be issued by any single investor or group of investors.

To mitigate refinancing risk, we have created internal
guidelines on the principal amount of debt maturing on any one
day or during any week or year. The following table sets forth
our quarterly unsecured long-term borrowings maturity profile
through 2012:

(1)

Our unsecured long-term borrowings include extendible debt if
    the earliest maturity is one year or greater from our financial
    statement date. Extendible debt is categorized in the maturity
    profile at the earliest possible maturity even though the debt
    can be, and in the past generally has been, extended.



The weighted average maturity of our unsecured long-term
borrowings as of November 2006 was approximately eight years. We
swap a substantial portion of our long-term borrowings into
U.S. dollar obligations with short-term floating interest
rates in order to minimize our exposure to interest rates and
foreign exchange movements.

For a discussion of factors that could impair our ability to
access the capital markets, see “— Certain Risk
Factors That May Affect Our Business” above as well as
“Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the
Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

Subsidiary Funding Policies.

Substantially all of our
unsecured funding is raised by our parent company, Group Inc.
The parent company then lends the necessary funds to its
subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their asset
financing and capital requirements. In addition, the parent
company provides its regulated subsidiaries with the necessary
capital to meet their regulatory requirements. The benefits of
this approach to subsidiary funding include enhanced control and
greater flexibility to meet the funding requirements of our
subsidiaries.

Our intercompany funding policies are predicated on an
assumption that, unless legally provided for, funds or
securities are not freely available from a subsidiary to its
parent company or other subsidiaries. In particular, many of our
subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory
bodies to block or limit the flow of funds from those
subsidiaries to Group Inc. Regulatory action of that kind could
impede access to funds that Group Inc. needs to make payments on
obligations, including debt obligations. As such, we assume that
capital or other financing provided to our regulated
subsidiaries is not available to our parent company or other
subsidiaries. In addition, we assume that the Global Core Excess
held in our principal

non-U.S.

operating
entities will not be available to our parent company or other
subsidiaries and therefore is available only to meet the
potential liquidity requirements of those entities.

We also manage our liquidity risk by requiring senior and
subordinated intercompany loans to have maturities equal to or
shorter than the maturities of the aggregate borrowings of the
parent company. This policy ensures that the subsidiaries’
obligations to the parent company will generally mature in
advance of the parent company’s third-party borrowings. In
addition, many of our subsidiaries and affiliates pledge
collateral to the parent company to cover their intercompany
borrowings (other than subordinated debt) in order to mitigate
parent company liquidity risk.

Group Inc. has provided substantial amounts of equity and
subordinated indebtedness, directly or indirectly, to its
regulated subsidiaries; for example, as of November 2006, Group
Inc. had $17.32 billion of such equity and subordinated
indebtedness invested in Goldman, Sachs & Co., its
principal U.S. registered broker-dealer;
$23.87 billion invested in Goldman Sachs International, a
regulated U.K. broker-dealer; $2.50 billion invested in
Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing, L.P., a
U.S. registered broker-dealer; and $2.79 billion
invested in Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL) a
regulated Japanese broker-dealer. Group Inc. also had
$46.25 billion of unsubordinated loans to these entities as
of November 2006, as well as significant amounts of capital
invested in and loans to its other regulated subsidiaries.

Crisis Planning

In order to be prepared for a liquidity event, or a period of
market stress, we base our liquidity risk management framework
and our resulting funding and liquidity policies on conservative
stress-scenario assumptions. Our planning incorporates several
market-based and operational stress scenarios. We also
periodically conduct liquidity crisis drills to test our lines
of communication and backup funding procedures.

In addition, we maintain a liquidity crisis plan that specifies
an approach for analyzing and responding to a

liquidity-threatening

event. The plan provides the framework to estimate the likely
impact of a liquidity event on Goldman Sachs based on some of
the risks identified above and outlines which and to what extent
liquidity maintenance activities should be implemented based on



the severity of the event. It also lists the crisis management
team and internal and external parties to be contacted to ensure
effective distribution of information.

Credit Ratings

We rely upon the short-term and

long-term

debt capital
markets to fund a significant portion of our

day-to-day

operations.
The cost and availability of debt financing is influenced by our
credit ratings. Credit ratings are important when we are
competing in certain markets and when we seek to engage in
longer term transactions, including OTC derivatives. We believe
our credit ratings are primarily based on the credit rating
agencies’ assessment of our liquidity, market, credit and
operational risk management practices, the level and variability
of our earnings, our capital base, our franchise, reputation and
management, our corporate governance and the external operating
environment. See “— Certain Risk Factors That May
Affect Our Business” above for a discussion of the risks
associated with a reduction in our credit ratings.

The following table sets forth our unsecured credit ratings as
of November 2006:

Short-Term Debt

Long-Term Debt

Subordinated Debt

(1)

Preferred Stock

Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited

R-1 (middle)

AA (low)

Not applicable

Not applicable

Fitch, Inc.

F1+

AA-

A+

A+

Moody’s Investors Service

P1

Aa3

A1

A2

Standard &
    Poor’s

(2)

A-1+

AA-

A+

A

(1)

During 2006, we issued $4.46 billion of subordinated debt.
    See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
    Form

10-K

for
    further information regarding our subordinated debt.

(2)

During the fourth quarter of 2006, Standard &
    Poor’s raised our

short-term

debt rating
    from

A-1

to

A-1+,

our

long-term

debt rating
    from A+ to AA-, our subordinated debt from A to A+ and our
    preferred stock from A- to A.

As of November 2006, collateral or termination payments pursuant
to bilateral agreements with certain counterparties of
approximately $595 million would have been required in the
event of a

one-notch

reduction in our

long-term

credit
ratings. In evaluating our liquidity requirements, we consider
additional collateral or termination payments that would be
required in the event of a

two-notch

downgrade in
our long-term credit ratings, as well as collateral that has not
been called by counterparties, but is available to them.

Cash Flows

As a global financial institution, our cash flows are complex
and interrelated and bear little relation to our net earnings
and net assets and, consequently, we believe that traditional
cash flow analysis is less meaningful in evaluating our
liquidity position than the excess liquidity and

asset-liability

management policies described above. Cash flow analysis may,
however, be helpful in highlighting certain macro trends and
strategic initiatives in our business.

Year Ended November 2006.

Our cash and cash equivalents
decreased by $3.97 billion to $6.29 billion at the end
of 2006. We raised $53.40 billion in net cash from
financing activities, primarily in

long-term

borrowings as
well as through secured financings, partially offset by common
stock repurchases. We used net cash of $57.37 billion in
our operating and investing activities, primarily to capitalize
on trading and investing opportunities for our clients and
ourselves.

Year Ended November 2005.

Our cash and cash equivalents
increased by $5.90 billion to $10.26 billion at the
end of 2005. We raised $19.37 billion in net cash from
financing activities, primarily in long-term borrowings, in
light of the favorable debt financing environment, as well as
through secured financings, partially offset by common stock
repurchases. We used net cash of $13.48 billion in our
operating and investing activities, primarily to capitalize on
trading and investing opportunities for our clients and
ourselves.



Year Ended November 2004.

Our cash and cash equivalents
decreased by $2.72 billion to $4.37 billion at the end
of 2004. We raised $31.75 billion in net cash from
financing activities, primarily in

long-term

borrowings,
in light of the favorable debt financing environment, as well as
through secured financings. We used net cash of
$34.48 billion in our operating and investing activities,
primarily to capitalize on trading and investing opportunities
for our clients and ourselves, to meet additional collateral
requirements at securities exchanges and clearing organizations
and to provide additional funding support for our William Street
loan commitments program.

Operational Risk

Operational risk relates to the risk of loss arising from
shortcomings or failures in internal processes, people or
systems, and from external events. Operational risk can arise
from many factors ranging from routine processing errors to
potentially costly incidents arising, for example, from major
systems failures. Operational risk may also cause reputational
harm. Thus, efforts to identify, manage and mitigate operational
risk must be equally sensitive to the risk of reputational
damage as well as the risk of financial loss.

We manage operational risk through the application of

long-standing,

but
continuously evolving, firmwide control standards: the training,
supervision and development of our people; the active
participation and commitment of senior management in a
continuous process of identifying and mitigating key operational
risks across Goldman Sachs; and a framework of strong and
independent control departments that monitor operational risk on
a daily basis. Together, these elements form a strong firmwide
control culture that serves as the foundation of our efforts to
minimize events that create operational risk and the damage they
can cause.

The Operational Risk Department, an independent risk management
function, is responsible for developing and implementing a
standardized framework to identify, measure, monitor and manage
operational risk across Goldman Sachs. This framework, which
evolves with the changing needs of our businesses and regulatory
guidance, takes into account internal and external operational
risk events, business environment and internal control factors,
the ongoing analysis of

business-specific

risk
metrics and the use of scenario analysis. While individual
business units have direct responsibility for the control and
mitigation of operational risk, this framework provides a
consistent methodology for identifying and monitoring
operational risk factors at the business unit and firmwide
level. For a further discussion of operational risk see
“— Risk Factors” in Part I,
Item 1A of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

Recent Accounting Developments

SFAS No.

123-R.

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued
SFAS No.

123-R,

“Share-Based Payment,” which is a revision to
SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.”
SFAS No.

123-R

focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which an
entity obtains employee services in exchange for share-based
payments. Under
SFAS No.

123-R,

the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award
of equity instruments is generally measured based on the
grant-date fair value of the award. Under
SFAS No.

123-R,

share-based awards that do not require future service (i.e.,
vested awards) are expensed immediately. Share-based employee
awards that require future service are amortized over the
relevant service period. We adopted
SFAS No.

123-R

under the modified prospective adoption method. Under that
method of adoption, the provisions of
SFAS No.

123-R

are generally applied only to share-based awards granted
subsequent to adoption. The accounting treatment of share-based
awards granted to retirement-eligible employees prior to our
adoption of
SFAS No.

123-R

has not changed and financial statements for periods prior to
adoption are not restated for the effects of adopting
SFAS No.

123-R.

SFAS No.

123-R

requires the immediate expensing of share-based awards granted
to retirement-eligible employees, including awards subject to
non-compete agreements. Share-based awards held by employees
that were retirement-eligible on the date of adoption of
SFAS No.

123-R

must continue to be amortized over the stated service period of
the award (and accelerated if the



employee actually retires). Consequently, our compensation and
benefits expenses in 2006 included (and, to a lesser extent,
2007 and 2008 will include) both the amortization of awards held
by employees that were retirement-eligible on the date of
adoption of
SFAS No.

123-R

as well as the full grant-date fair value of new awards granted
to such employees under
SFAS No.

123-R.

If we had amortized share-based compensation prior to the
adoption of
SFAS No.

123-R

over a period beginning on the date of grant and ending on the
earlier of the vesting date or the date of retirement
eligibility, compensation and benefits expenses would have been
$637 million lower in 2006, approximately $350 million
higher in 2005 and approximately $375 million higher in
2004.

SFAS No.

123-R

requires expected forfeitures to be included in determining
share-based employee compensation expense. Prior to the adoption
of
SFAS No.

123-R,

forfeiture benefits were recorded as a reduction to compensation
and benefits expense when an employee left Goldman Sachs and
forfeited the award. In the first quarter of 2006, we recorded a
benefit for expected forfeitures on all outstanding share-based
awards. The transition impact of adopting
SFAS No.

123-R

as of the first day of our 2006 fiscal year, including the
effect of accruing for expected forfeitures on outstanding
share-based awards, was not material to our results of
operations.

EITF Issue
No.

04-5.

In
June 2005, the EITF reached consensus on Issue
No.

04-5,

“Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General
Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar
Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights,”
which requires general partners to consolidate their
partnerships or to provide limited partners with rights to
remove the general partner or to terminate the partnership.
Goldman Sachs, as the general partner of numerous merchant
banking and asset management partnerships, was required to adopt
the provisions of EITF Issue
No.

04-5

(i) immediately for partnerships formed or modified after
June 29, 2005 and (ii) in the first quarter of
2007 for partnerships formed on or before June 29, 2005
that have not been modified. We have generally provided limited
partners in these funds with rights to remove Goldman Sachs as
the general partner or to terminate the partnerships. Therefore,
the adoption of EITF Issue
No.

04-5

did not
have a material effect on our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows in 2006 for partnerships formed or
modified after June 29, 2005 and is not expected to have a
material effect in 2007.

SFAS No. 155.

In February 2006, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 155, “Accounting for Certain Hybrid
Financial Instruments — an amendment of FASB
Statements No. 133 and 140.” SFAS No. 155
permits an entity to measure at fair value any hybrid financial
instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise
would require bifurcation. As permitted, we early adopted
SFAS No. 155 in the first quarter of 2006. Adoption
did not have a material effect on our financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

SFAS No. 156.

Effective for the first quarter
of 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 156, “Accounting for
Servicing of Financial Assets — an amendment of FASB
Statement No. 140,” which permits entities to elect to
measure servicing assets and servicing liabilities at fair value
and report changes in fair value in earnings. Goldman Sachs
acquires residential mortgage servicing rights in connection
with its mortgage securitization activities and has elected
under SFAS No. 156 to account for these servicing
rights at fair value. Adoption did not have a material effect on
our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

FIN No.

46-R-6.

In April 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
(FSP) FIN No.

46-R-6,

“Determining the Variability to Be Considered in Applying
FASB Interpretation
No.

46-R.”

This FSP addresses how a reporting enterprise should determine
the variability to be considered in applying
FIN No.

46-R

by requiring an analysis of the purpose for which an entity was
created and the variability that the entity was designed to
create. This FSP must be applied prospectively to all entities
with which a reporting enterprise first becomes involved and to
all entities previously required to be analyzed under
FIN No.

46-R

when
a reconsideration event has occurred. As permitted, we early
adopted FSP
FIN No.

46-R-6

in the third quarter of 2006. Adoption did not have a material
effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows.



FIN No. 48.

In June 2006, the FASB issued
FIN No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes — an Interpretation of FASB Statement
No. 109.” FIN No. 48 requires that
management determine whether a tax position is more likely than
not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of
any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the
technical merits of the position. Once it is determined that a
position meets this recognition threshold, the position is
measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in
the financial statements. We expect to adopt the provisions of
FIN No. 48 beginning in the first quarter of 2008. We
are currently evaluating the impact of adopting
FIN No. 48 on our financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows.

SFAS No. 157.

In September 2006, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value
Measurements.” SFAS No. 157 clarifies that fair
value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be
exchanged to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants. SFAS No. 157
nullifies the consensus reached in EITF Issue
No.

02-3

prohibiting the recognition of day one gain or loss on
derivative contracts (and hybrid instruments measured at fair
value under SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as modified
by SFAS No. 155) where we cannot verify all of the
significant model inputs to observable market data and verify
the model to market transactions. However,
SFAS No. 157 requires that a fair value measurement
technique include an adjustment for risks inherent in a
particular valuation technique (such as a pricing model) and/or
the risks inherent in the inputs to the model, if market
participants would also include such an adjustment. In addition,
SFAS No. 157 prohibits the recognition of “block
discounts” for large holdings of unrestricted financial
instruments where quoted prices are readily and regularly
available in an active market. The provisions of
SFAS No. 157 are to be applied prospectively, except
for changes in fair value measurements that result from the
initial application of SFAS No. 157 to existing
derivative financial instruments measured under EITF Issue
No.

02-3,

existing
hybrid instruments measured at fair value and block discounts,
which are to be recorded as an adjustment to opening retained
earnings in the year of adoption.

We intend to adopt SFAS No. 157 in the first quarter
of 2007. To determine the transition adjustment to opening
retained earnings, we have performed an analysis of existing
derivative instruments measured under EITF
Issue

02-3,

hybrid
financial instruments and block discounts. To determine the
prospective transition adjustment that will be recorded in net
revenues in the first quarter of 2007, we will perform an
analysis of all other positions. With respect to principal
investments, the prospective transition adjustment may include
positive changes to investment valuations based on available
market evidence even if there have been no third-party
transactions in the capital structure of the underlying
investee. The transition adjustment to opening retained earnings
will not have a material effect on our financial condition. We
are currently evaluating the impact of SFAS No. 157 on
our results of operations for the first quarter of 2007.

SFAS No. 158.

In September 2006, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and
132-R.” SFAS No. 158 requires an entity to
recognize in its statement of financial condition the funded
status of its defined benefit pension and postretirement plans,
measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan
assets and the benefit obligation. SFAS No. 158 also
requires an entity to recognize changes in the funded status of
a defined benefit pension and postretirement plan within
accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, to the
extent such changes are not recognized in earnings as components
of periodic net benefit cost. SFAS No. 158 is
effective as of the end of the fiscal year ending after
December 15, 2006. We will adopt SFAS No. 158 as
of the end of 2007. We do not expect that the adoption of
SFAS No. 158 will have a material effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set
forth under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk
Management” in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual
Report on
Form

10-K.



Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

INDEX



Management’s Report on Internal Control over

Financial Reporting

Management of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., together with its
consolidated subsidiaries (the firm), is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting. The firm’s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision
of the firm’s principal executive and principal financial
officers to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the
firm’s financial statements for external reporting purposes
in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.

As of the end of the firm’s 2006 fiscal year, management
conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of the firm’s
internal control over financial reporting based on the framework
established in

Internal Control — Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this
assessment, management has determined that the firm’s
internal control over financial reporting as of
November 24, 2006 was effective.

Our internal control over financial reporting includes policies
and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that,
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions
and dispositions of assets; provide reasonable assurances that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and the directors of the firm; and
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the
firm’s assets that could have a material effect on our
financial statements.

Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the
firm’s internal control over financial reporting as of
November 24, 2006 has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm, as stated in their report appearing on
pages 109 and 110, which expresses unqualified opinions on
management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of the
firm’s internal control over financial reporting as of
November 24, 2006.



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and the Shareholders of

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.:

We have completed integrated audits of The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc.’s consolidated financial statements and of its
internal control over financial reporting as of
November 24, 2006, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our
opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.

Consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its
subsidiaries (the Company) at November 24, 2006 and
November 25, 2005, and the results of its operations and
its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period
ended November 24, 2006 in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule
listed in the accompanying index presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read
in conjunction with the related consolidated financial
statements. These financial statements and financial statement
schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on
our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

Internal control over financial reporting

Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment, included in
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting appearing on page 108, that the Company
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting
as of November 24, 2006 based on criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects,
based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of November 24, 2006,
based on criteria established in

Internal Control —
Integrated Framework

issued by the COSO. The Company’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express opinions on management’s
assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We
conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An
audit of internal control over financial reporting includes
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control, and performing such other procedures as we consider
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.



A company’s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions
of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention
or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/

PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP

New York, New York

January 31, 2007



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’
EQUITY

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:

Cash payments for interest, net of capitalized interest, were
$30.98 billion, $17.49 billion and $8.55 billion
for the years ended November 2006, November 2005 and
November 2004, respectively.

Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, were
$4.56 billion, $2.47 billion and $1.02 billion
for the years ended November 2006, November 2005 and
November 2004, respectively.

Non-cash activities:

The firm assumed $498 million, $1.15 billion and $1.63
billion of debt in connection with business acquisitions for the
years ended November 2006, November 2005 and November 2004,
respectively.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1.

Description of Business

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.), a Delaware
corporation, together with its consolidated subsidiaries
(collectively, the firm), is a leading global investment
banking, securities and investment management firm that provides
a wide range of services worldwide to a substantial and
diversified client base that includes corporations, financial
institutions, governments and high-net-worth individuals.

The firm’s activities are divided into three segments:

•

Investment Banking.

The firm provides a broad range of
    investment banking services to a diverse group of corporations,
    financial institutions, investment funds, governments and
    individuals.

•

Trading and Principal Investments.

The firm facilitates
    client transactions with a diverse group of corporations,
    financial institutions, investment funds, governments and
    individuals and takes proprietary positions through market
    making in, trading of and investing in fixed income and equity
    products, currencies, commodities and derivatives on these
    products. In addition, the firm engages in specialist and
    market-making activities on equities and options exchanges and
    clears client transactions on major stock, options and futures
    exchanges worldwide. In connection with the firm’s merchant
    banking and other investing activities, the firm makes principal
    investments directly and through funds that the firm raises and
    manages.

•

Asset Management and Securities Services.

The firm
    provides investment advisory and financial planning services and
    offers investment products (primarily through separate accounts
    and funds) across all major asset classes to a diverse group of
    institutions and individuals worldwide and provides prime
    brokerage services, financing services and securities lending
    services to institutional clients, including hedge funds, mutual
    funds, pension funds and foundations, and to high-net-worth
    individuals worldwide.

Note 2.

Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation

These consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
Group Inc. and all other entities in which the firm has a
controlling financial interest. All material intercompany
transactions and balances have been eliminated.

The firm determines whether it has a controlling financial
interest in an entity by first evaluating whether the entity is
a voting interest entity, a variable interest entity
(VIE) or a qualifying special-purpose entity
(QSPE) under generally accepted accounting principles.

•

Voting Interest Entities.

Voting interest entities are
    entities in which (i) the total equity investment at risk
    is sufficient to enable the entity to finance its activities
    independently and (ii) the equity holders have the
    obligation to absorb losses, the right to receive residual
    returns and the right to make decisions about the entity’s
    activities. Voting interest entities are consolidated in
    accordance with Accounting Research Bulletin
    (ARB) No. 51, “Consolidated Financial
    Statements,” as amended. ARB No. 51 states that
    the usual condition for a controlling financial interest in an
    entity is ownership of a majority voting interest. Accordingly,
    the firm consolidates voting interest entities in which it has a
    majority voting interest.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Unless otherwise stated herein, all references to November 2006,
November 2005 and November 2004 refer to the firm’s fiscal
years ended, or the dates, as the context requires,
November 24, 2006, November 25, 2005 and
November 26, 2004, respectively. Certain reclassifications
have been made to previously reported amounts to conform to the
current presentation.

Use of Estimates

These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that
require management to make certain estimates and assumptions.
The most important of these estimates and assumptions relate to
fair value measurements, the accounting for goodwill and
identifiable intangible assets and the provision for potential
losses that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings
and tax audits. Although these and other estimates and
assumptions are based on the best available information, actual
results could be materially different from these estimates.

Revenue Recognition

Investment Banking.

Underwriting revenues and fees from
mergers and acquisitions and other financial advisory
assignments are recognized in the consolidated statements of
earnings when the services related to the underlying transaction
are completed under the terms of the engagement. Expenses
associated with such transactions are deferred until the related
revenue is recognized or the engagement is otherwise concluded.
Underwriting revenues are presented net of related expenses.
Expenses associated with financial advisory transactions are
recorded as non-compensation expenses, net of client
reimbursements.

Financial Instruments.

“Total financial instruments
owned, at fair value” and “Financial instruments sold,
but not yet purchased, at fair value” are reflected in the
consolidated statements of financial condition on a trade-date
basis and consist of financial instruments carried at fair value
or amounts that approximate fair value, with related unrealized
gains or losses generally recognized in “Trading and
principal investments” in the consolidated statements of
earnings. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount
at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current
transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or
liquidation sale.

In determining fair value, the firm separates its financial
instruments into three categories — cash (i.e.,
nonderivative) trading instruments, derivative contracts and
principal investments.

•

Cash Trading Instruments.

Fair values of the firm’s
    cash trading instruments are generally obtained from quoted
    market prices in active markets, broker or dealer price
    quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable
    levels of price transparency. The types of instruments valued in
    this manner include U.S. government and agency securities,
    other sovereign government obligations, liquid mortgage
    products, investment-grade and high-yield corporate bonds,
    listed equities, money market securities, state, municipal and
    provincial obligations, and physical commodities.

Certain cash trading instruments trade infrequently and have
    little or no price transparency. Such instruments include
    certain corporate bank loans, mortgage whole loans and
    distressed debt. The firm values these instruments initially at
    cost and generally does not adjust valuations unless there is
    substantive evidence supporting a change in the value of the
    underlying instrument or valuation assumptions (such as similar
    market transactions, changes in financial ratios or changes in
    the credit ratings of the underlying companies). Where there is
    evidence supporting a change in the value, the firm uses
    valuation methodologies such as the present value of known or
    estimated cash flows.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Transfers of Financial Assets.

In general, transfers of
financial assets are accounted for as sales under
SFAS No. 140 when the firm has relinquished control
over the transferred assets. For transfers accounted for as
sales, any related gains or losses are recognized in net
revenues. Transfers that are not accounted for as sales are
accounted for as collateralized financings, with the related
interest expense recognized in net revenues over the lives of
the transactions.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Collateralized Agreements and Financings.

Collateralized
agreements consist of resale agreements and securities borrowed.
Collateralized financings consist of repurchase agreements,
securities loaned and other secured financings. Interest income
or expense on collateralized agreements and collateralized
financings is recognized in net revenues over the life of the
transaction.

•

Resale and Repurchase Agreements.

Financial instruments
    purchased under agreements to resell and financial instruments
    sold under agreements to repurchase, principally
    U.S. government, federal agency and investment-grade
    sovereign obligations, represent short-term collateralized
    financing transactions and are carried in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition at their contractual amounts
    plus accrued interest. These amounts are presented on a
    net-by-counterparty basis when the requirements of
    FIN No. 41, “Offsetting of Amounts Related to
    Certain Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements,” or
    FIN No. 39, “Offsetting of Amounts Related to
    Certain Contracts,” are satisfied. The firm receives
    financial instruments purchased under agreements to resell,
    makes delivery of financial instruments sold under agreements to
    repurchase, monitors the market value of these financial
    instruments on a daily basis and delivers or obtains additional
    collateral as appropriate.

•

Securities Borrowed and Loaned.

Securities borrowed and
    loaned are recorded based on the amount of cash collateral
    advanced or received. These transactions are generally
    collateralized by cash, securities or letters of credit. The
    firm receives securities borrowed, makes delivery of securities
    loaned, monitors the market value of securities borrowed and
    loaned, and delivers or obtains additional collateral as
    appropriate.

•

Other Secured Financings.

In addition to repurchase
    agreements and securities loaned, the firm funds assets through
    the use of other secured financing arrangements and pledges
    financial instruments and other assets as collateral in these
    transactions. The firm records these financings based on the
    amount of cash received. See Note 3 for further information
    regarding these arrangements.

Power Generation.

Power generation revenues associated
with the firm’s consolidated power generation facilities
are included in “Trading and principal investments” in
the consolidated statements of earnings when power is delivered.
These revenues were $553 million, $496 million and
$488 million for the years ended November 2006, November
2005 and November 2004, respectively.

Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, “Cost of power
generation” in the consolidated statements of earnings was
reclassified to operating expenses. “Cost of power
generation” was previously reported as a reduction to
revenues. “Compensation and benefits” includes direct
employee costs associated with the firm’s consolidated
power generation facilities and “Cost of power
generation” includes the other direct costs associated with
these power generation facilities and related contractual
assets. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the
current presentation, with no impact to our reported net
earnings. This reclassification increased operating expenses as
follows:



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Commissions.

Commission revenues from executing and
clearing client transactions on stock, options and futures
markets worldwide are recognized in “Trading and principal
investments” in the consolidated statements of earnings on
a trade-date basis.

Insurance Activities.

Revenues from variable annuity and
variable life insurance contracts, and from providing
reinsurance of such contracts, generally consist of fees
assessed on contract holder account balances for mortality
charges, policy administration and surrender charges. These fees
are recognized within “Trading and principal
investments” in the consolidated statements of earnings in
the period that services are provided.

Interest credited to variable annuity and life insurance account
balances and changes in reserves are recognized in “Other
expenses” in the consolidated statements of earnings.

Premiums earned for providing property catastrophe reinsurance
are recognized within “Trading and principal
investments” in the consolidated statements of earnings
over the coverage period, net of premiums ceded for the cost of
reinsurance. Expenses for liabilities related to property
catastrophe reinsurance claims, including estimates of claims
that have been incurred but not reported, are recognized within
“Other expenses” in the consolidated statements of
earnings.

Merchant Banking Overrides.

The firm is entitled to
receive merchant banking overrides (i.e., an increased share of
a fund’s income and gains) when the return on the
funds’ investments exceeds certain threshold returns.
Overrides are based on investment performance over the life of
each merchant banking fund, and future investment
underperformance may require amounts of override previously
distributed to the firm to be returned to the funds.
Accordingly, overrides are recognized in the consolidated
statements of earnings only when all material contingencies have
been resolved. Overrides are included in “Trading and
principal investments” in the consolidated statements of
earnings.

Asset Management.

Management fees are recognized over the
period that the related service is provided based upon average
net asset values. In certain circumstances, the firm is also
entitled to receive incentive fees based on a percentage of a
fund’s return or when the return on assets under management
exceeds specified benchmark returns or other performance
targets. Incentive fees are generally based on investment
performance over a

12-month

period and are
subject to adjustment prior to the end of the measurement
period. Accordingly, incentive fees are recognized in the
consolidated statements of earnings when the measurement period
ends. Asset management fees and incentive fees are included in
“Asset management and securities services” in the
consolidated statements of earnings.

Share-Based Compensation

In the first quarter of 2006, the firm adopted
SFAS No.

123-R,

“Share-Based Payment,” which is a revision to
SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.”
SFAS No.

123-R

focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which an
entity obtains employee services in exchange for share-based
payments. Under
SFAS No.

123-R,

the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award
of equity instruments is generally measured based on the
grant-date fair value of the award. Under
SFAS No.

123-R,

share-based awards that do not require future service (i.e.,
vested awards) are expensed immediately. Share-based employee
awards that require future service are amortized over the
relevant service period. The firm adopted
SFAS No.

123-R

under the modified prospective adoption method. Under that
method of adoption, the provisions of
SFAS No.

123-R

are generally applied only to share-based awards granted
subsequent to adoption. The accounting treatment of share-based
awards granted to retirement-eligible employees prior to the
firm’s adoption of
SFAS No.

123-R

has not changed and financial statements for periods prior to
adoption are not restated for the effects of adopting
SFAS No.

123-R.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

SFAS No.

123-R

requires the immediate expensing of share-based awards granted
to retirement-eligible employees, including awards subject to
non-compete agreements. Share-based awards held by employees
that were retirement-eligible on the date of adoption of
SFAS No.

123-R

must continue to be amortized over the stated service period of
the award (and accelerated if the employee actually retires).
Consequently, the firm’s compensation and benefits expenses
in 2006 included (and, to a lesser extent, 2007 and 2008 will
include) both the amortization of awards held by employees that
were retirement-eligible on the date of adoption of
SFAS No.

123-R

as well as the full grant-date fair value of new awards granted
to such employees under
SFAS No.

123-R.

If the firm had amortized share-based compensation prior to the
adoption of
SFAS No.

123-R

over a period beginning on the date of grant and ending on the
earlier of the vesting date or the date of retirement
eligibility, compensation and benefits expenses would have been
$637 million lower in 2006, approximately $350 million
higher in 2005 and approximately $375 million higher in
2004.

SFAS No.

123-R

requires expected forfeitures to be included in determining
share-based employee compensation expense. Prior to the adoption
of
SFAS No.

123-R,

forfeiture benefits were recorded as a reduction to compensation
and benefits expense when an employee left the firm and
forfeited the award. In the first quarter of 2006, the firm
recorded a benefit for expected forfeitures on all outstanding
share-based awards. The transition impact of adopting
SFAS No.

123-R

as of the first day of the firm’s 2006 fiscal year,
including the effect of accruing for expected forfeitures on
outstanding share-based awards, was not material to the
firm’s results of operations.

The firm began to account for share-based awards in accordance
with the fair value method prescribed by SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” as amended
by SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based

Compensation —
Transition

and Disclosure,” in 2003. Share-based
employee awards granted for the year ended November 29,
2002 and prior years were accounted for under the
intrinsic-value-based method prescribed by APB Opinion
No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,” as permitted by SFAS No. 123.
Therefore, no compensation expense was recognized for unmodified
stock options issued for years prior to fiscal 2003 that
had no intrinsic value on the date of grant.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

If the firm were to recognize compensation expense over the
relevant service period, generally three years, under the fair
value method per SFAS No. 123 with respect to stock
options granted for the year ended November 29, 2002 and
prior years, net earnings would have decreased, resulting in pro
forma net earnings and earnings per common share (EPS) as
set forth below:

The firm pays cash dividend equivalents on outstanding
restricted stock units. Dividend equivalents paid on restricted
stock units accounted for under SFAS No. 123 and
SFAS No.

123-R

are charged to retained earnings when paid.
SFAS No.

123-R

requires dividend equivalents paid on restricted stock units
expected to be forfeited to be included in compensation expense.
Prior to the adoption of
SFAS No.

123-R,

dividend equivalents paid on restricted stock units that were
later forfeited by employees were reclassified to compensation
expense from retained earnings. Dividend equivalents paid on
restricted stock units granted prior to 2003 were accounted for
under APB Opinion No. 25 and charged to compensation
expense. The tax benefit related to dividend equivalents paid on
restricted stock units is accounted for as a reduction of income
tax expense.

Prior to the adoption of
SFAS No.

123-R,

the firm presented all tax benefits resulting from share-based
compensation as cash flows from operating activities in the
consolidated statements of cash flows.
SFAS No.

123-R

requires cash flows resulting from tax deductions in excess of
the grant-date fair value of share-based awards to be included
in cash flows from financing activities.

In certain cases, primarily related to the death of an employee
or conflicted employment (as outlined in the applicable award
agreements), the firm may cash settle share-based compensation
awards. “Additional paid-in capital” is adjusted to
the extent of the difference between the current value of the
award and the grant-date value of the award.

Goodwill

Goodwill is the cost of acquired companies in excess of the fair
value of identifiable net assets at acquisition date. In
accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,” goodwill is tested at least annually
for impairment. An impairment loss is triggered if the estimated
fair value of an operating segment is less than its estimated
net book value. Such loss is calculated as the difference
between the estimated fair value of goodwill and its carrying
value.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Identifiable Intangible Assets

Identifiable intangible assets, which consist primarily of
customer lists, above-market power contracts, specialist rights
and the value of business acquired (VOBA) and deferred
acquisition costs (DAC) in the firm’s insurance
subsidiaries, are amortized over their estimated useful lives.
Identifiable intangible assets are tested for potential
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest
that an asset’s or asset group’s carrying value may
not be fully recoverable in accordance with
SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” An impairment loss,
calculated as the difference between the estimated fair value
and the carrying value of an asset or asset group, is recognized
if the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows relating to
the asset or asset group is less than the corresponding carrying
value.

Property, Leasehold Improvements and Equipment

Property, leasehold improvements and equipment, net of
accumulated depreciation and amortization, are included in
“Other assets” in the consolidated statements of
financial condition.

Property and equipment placed in service prior to
December 1, 2001 are depreciated under the accelerated cost
recovery method. Property and equipment placed in service on or
after December 1, 2001 are depreciated on a straight-line
basis over the useful life of the asset. Leasehold improvements
for which the useful life of the improvement is shorter than the
term of the lease are amortized under the accelerated cost
recovery method if placed in service prior to December 1,
2001. All other leasehold improvements are amortized on a
straight-line basis over the useful life of the improvement or
the term of the lease, whichever is shorter. Certain costs of
software developed or obtained for internal use are capitalized
and amortized on a straight-line basis over the useful life of
the software.

Property, leasehold improvements and equipment are tested for
potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
suggest that an asset’s or asset group’s carrying
value may not be fully recoverable in accordance with
SFAS No. 144. An impairment loss, calculated as the
difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying
value of an asset or asset group, is recognized if the sum of
the expected undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset or
asset group is less than the corresponding carrying value.

The firm’s operating leases include space held in excess of
current requirements. Rent expense relating to space held for
growth is included in “Occupancy” in the consolidated
statements of earnings. In accordance with
SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated
with Exit or Disposal Activities,” the firm records a
liability, based on the remaining lease rentals reduced by any
potential or existing sublease rentals, for leases where the
firm has ceased using the space and management has concluded
that the firm will not derive any future economic benefits.
Costs to terminate a lease before the end of its term are
recognized and measured at fair value upon termination.

Foreign Currency Translation

Assets and liabilities denominated in

non-U.S.

currencies
are translated at rates of exchange prevailing on the date of
the consolidated statement of financial condition, and revenues
and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange for the
year. Gains or losses on translation of the financial statements
of a

non-U.S.

operation,
when the functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar,
are included, net of hedges and taxes, on the consolidated
statements of comprehensive income. The firm seeks to reduce its
net investment exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange
rates through the use of foreign currency forward contracts and
foreign currency-denominated debt. For foreign currency forward
contracts, hedge effectiveness is assessed based on changes in



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

forward exchange rates; accordingly, forward points are
reflected as a component of the currency translation adjustment
in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. For
foreign currency-denominated debt, hedge effectiveness is
assessed based on changes in spot rates. Foreign currency
remeasurement gains or losses on transactions in nonfunctional
currencies are included in the consolidated statements of
earnings.

Income Taxes

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for temporary
differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of the
firm’s assets and liabilities. Valuation allowances are
established to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that
more likely than not will be realized. The firm’s tax
assets and liabilities are presented as a component of
“Other assets” and “Other liabilities and accrued
expenses,” respectively, in the consolidated statements of
financial condition. Tax provisions are computed in accordance
with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income
Taxes.” Contingent liabilities related to income taxes are
recorded when the criteria for loss recognition under
SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies,”
as amended, have been met (see “— Recent
Accounting Developments” below for a discussion of the
impact of FIN No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty
in Income Taxes — an Interpretation of FASB Statement
No. 109,” on SFAS No. 109).

Earnings Per Common Share

Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net earnings applicable to
common shareholders by the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding. Common shares outstanding includes common
stock and restricted stock units for which no future service is
required as a condition to the delivery of the underlying common
stock. Diluted EPS includes the determinants of basic EPS and,
in addition, reflects the dilutive effect of the common stock
deliverable pursuant to stock options and to restricted stock
units for which future service is required as a condition to the
delivery of the underlying common stock.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

The firm defines cash equivalents as highly liquid overnight
deposits held in the ordinary course of business.

Recent Accounting Developments

EITF Issue
No.

04-5.

In
June 2005, the EITF reached consensus on Issue
No.

04-5,

“Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General
Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar
Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights,”
which requires general partners to consolidate their
partnerships or to provide limited partners with rights to
remove the general partner or to terminate the partnership. The
firm, as the general partner of numerous merchant banking and
asset management partnerships, was required to adopt the
provisions of EITF Issue
No.

04-5

(i) immediately for partnerships formed or modified after
June 29, 2005 and (ii) in the first quarter of 2007
for partnerships formed on or before June 29, 2005 that
have not been modified. The firm has generally provided limited
partners in these funds with rights to remove the firm as the
general partner or to terminate the partnerships. Therefore, the
adoption of EITF Issue
No.

04-5

did not
have a material effect on the firm’s financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows in 2006 for partnerships
formed or modified after June 29, 2005 and is not expected
to have a material effect in 2007.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

SFAS No. 155.

In February 2006, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 155, “Accounting for Certain Hybrid
Financial

Instruments —
an

amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and
140.” SFAS No. 155 permits an entity to measure
at fair value any hybrid financial instrument that contains an
embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation. As
permitted, the firm early adopted SFAS No. 155 in the
first quarter of 2006. Adoption did not have a material effect
on the firm’s financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows.

SFAS No. 156.

Effective for the first quarter
of 2006, the firm adopted SFAS No. 156,
“Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets —
an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140,” which permits
entities to elect to measure servicing assets and servicing
liabilities at fair value and report changes in fair value in
earnings. The firm acquires residential mortgage servicing
rights in connection with its mortgage securitization activities
and has elected under SFAS No. 156 to account for
these servicing rights at fair value. Adoption did not have a
material effect on the firm’s financial condition, results
of operations or cash flows.

FIN No.

46-R

-6.

In April 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
(FSP) FIN No.

46-R

-6,
“Determining the Variability to Be Considered in Applying
FASB Interpretation
No.

46-R.”

This FSP addresses how a reporting enterprise should determine
the variability to be considered in applying
FIN No.

46-R

by requiring an analysis of the purpose for which an entity was
created and the variability that the entity was designed to
create. This FSP must be applied prospectively to all entities
with which a reporting enterprise first becomes involved and to
all entities previously required to be analyzed under
FIN No.

46-R

when a reconsideration event has occurred. As permitted, the
firm early adopted FSP
FIN No.

46-R

-6
in the third quarter of 2006. Adoption did not have a material
effect on the firm’s financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.

FIN No. 48.

In June 2006, the FASB issued
FIN No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes — an Interpretation of FASB Statement
No. 109.” FIN No. 48 requires that the firm
determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be
sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related
appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits
of the position. Once it is determined that a position meets
this recognition threshold, the position is measured to
determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the
financial statements. The firm expects to adopt the provisions
of FIN No. 48 beginning in the first quarter of 2008.
The firm is currently evaluating the impact of adopting
FIN No. 48 on its financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows.

SFAS No. 157.

In September 2006, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value
Measurements.” SFAS No. 157 clarifies that fair
value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be
exchanged to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants. SFAS No. 157
nullifies the consensus reached in EITF Issue
No.

02-3

prohibiting the recognition of day one gain or loss on
derivative contracts (and hybrid instruments measured at fair
value under SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as modified
by SFAS No. 155) where the firm cannot verify all of
the significant model inputs to observable market data and
verify the model to market transactions. However,
SFAS No. 157 requires that a fair value measurement
technique include an adjustment for risks inherent in a
particular valuation technique (such as a pricing model) and/or
the risks inherent in the inputs to the model, if market
participants would also include such an adjustment. In addition,
SFAS No. 157 prohibits the recognition of “block
discounts” for large holdings of unrestricted financial
instruments where quoted prices are readily and regularly
available in an active market. The provisions of
SFAS No. 157 are to be applied prospectively, except
for changes in fair value measurements that result from the
initial application of SFAS No. 157 to existing
derivative financial instruments measured under EITF Issue
No.

02-3,

existing
hybrid instruments measured at fair value and block discounts,
which are to be recorded as an adjustment to opening retained
earnings in the year of adoption.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The firm intends to adopt SFAS No. 157 in the first
quarter of 2007. To determine the transition adjustment to
opening retained earnings, the firm has performed an analysis of
existing derivative instruments measured under EITF
Issue

02-3,

hybrid
financial instruments and block discounts. To determine the
prospective transition adjustment that will be recorded in net
revenues in the first quarter of 2007, the firm will perform an
analysis of all other positions. With respect to principal
investments, the prospective transition adjustment may include
positive changes to investment valuations based on available
market evidence even if there have been no third-party
transactions in the capital structure of the underlying
investee. The transition adjustment to opening retained earnings
will not have a material effect on the firm’s financial
condition. The firm is currently evaluating the impact of
SFAS No. 157 on its results of operations for the
first quarter of 2007.

SFAS No. 158.

In September 2006, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and

132-R.”

SFAS No. 158 requires an entity to recognize in its
statement of financial condition the funded status of its
defined benefit pension and postretirement plans, measured as
the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the
benefit obligation. SFAS No. 158 also requires an
entity to recognize changes in the funded status of a defined
benefit pension and postretirement plan within accumulated other
comprehensive income, net of tax, to the extent such changes are
not recognized in earnings as components of periodic net benefit
cost. SFAS No. 158 is effective as of the end of the
fiscal year ending after December 15, 2006. The firm will
adopt SFAS No. 158 as of the end of 2007. The firm
does not expect that the adoption of SFAS No. 158 will
have a material effect on its financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 3.

Financial Instruments

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The following table sets forth the firm’s financial
instruments owned, at fair value, including those pledged as
collateral, and financial instruments sold, but not yet
purchased, at fair value:



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Credit Concentrations

Credit concentrations may arise from trading, investing and
financing activities and may be impacted by changes in economic,
industry or political factors. The firm seeks to mitigate credit
risk by actively monitoring exposures and obtaining collateral
as deemed appropriate. While the firm’s activities expose
it to many different industries and counterparties, the firm
routinely executes a high volume of transactions with
counterparties in the financial services industry, including
brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment funds and
other institutional clients, resulting in significant credit
concentration with respect to this industry. In the ordinary
course of business, the firm may also be subject to a
concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty,
borrower or issuer.

As of both November 2006 and November 2005, the firm held
U.S. government and federal agency obligations that
represented 6% and 7% of the firm’s total assets,
respectively. In addition, most of the firm’s financial
instruments purchased under agreements to resell are
collateralized by U.S. government, federal agency and other
sovereign obligations. As of November 2006 and November 2005,
the firm did not have credit exposure to any other counterparty
that exceeded 5% of the firm’s total assets.

Derivative Activities

Derivative contracts are instruments, such as futures, forwards,
swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from
underlying assets, indices, reference rates or a combination of
these factors. Derivative instruments may be privately
negotiated contracts, which are often referred to as OTC
derivatives, or they may be listed and traded on an exchange.
Derivatives may involve future commitments to purchase or sell
financial instruments or commodities, or to exchange currency or
interest payment streams. The amounts exchanged are based on the
specific terms of the contract with reference to specified
rates, securities, commodities, currencies or indices.

Certain cash instruments, such as mortgage-backed securities,
interest-only and principal-only obligations, and indexed debt
instruments, are not considered derivatives even though their
values or contractually required cash flows are derived from the
price of some other security or index. However, certain
commodity-related contracts are included in the firm’s
derivatives disclosure, as these contracts may be settled in
cash or the assets to be delivered under the contract are
readily convertible into cash.

The firm enters into derivative transactions, to facilitate
client transactions, to take proprietary positions and as a
means of risk management. Risk exposures are managed through
diversification, by controlling position sizes and by entering
into offsetting positions. For example, the firm may manage the
risk related to a portfolio of common stock by entering into an
offsetting position in a related equity-index futures contract.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The firm applies hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133
to certain derivative contracts. The firm uses these derivatives
to manage certain interest rate and currency exposures,
including the firm’s net investment in

non-U.S.

operations.
The firm designates certain interest rate swap contracts as fair
value hedges. These interest rate swap contracts hedge changes
in the relevant benchmark interest rate (e.g., London Interbank
Offered Rate (LIBOR)), effectively converting a substantial
portion of the firm’s unsecured

long-term

and certain
unsecured short-term borrowings into floating rate obligations.
In addition, the firm applies cash flow hedge accounting to a
limited number of foreign currency forward contracts that hedge
currency exposure on certain forecasted transactions in its
consolidated power generation facilities. See Note 2 for
information regarding the firm’s policy on foreign currency
forward contracts used to hedge its net investment in

non-U.S.

operations.

The firm applies a long-haul method to substantially all of its
hedge accounting relationships to perform an ongoing assessment
of the effectiveness of these relationships in achieving
offsetting changes in fair value or offsetting cash flows
attributable to the risk being hedged. The firm utilizes a
dollar-offset method, which compares the change in the fair
value of the hedging instrument to the change in the fair value
of the hedged item, excluding the effect of the passage of time,
to prospectively and retrospectively assess hedge effectiveness.
The firm’s prospective dollar-offset assessment utilizes
scenario analyses to test hedge effectiveness via simulations of
numerous parallel and slope shifts of the relevant yield curve.
Parallel shifts change the interest rate of all maturities by
identical amounts. Slope shifts change the curvature of the
yield curve. For both the prospective assessment, in response to
each of the simulated yield curve shifts, and the retrospective
assessment, a hedging relationship is deemed to be effective if
the fair values of the hedging instrument and the hedged item
change inversely within a range of 80% to 125%.

For fair value hedges, gains or losses on derivative
transactions are recognized in “Interest expense” in
the consolidated statements of earnings. The change in fair
value of the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged
is reported as an adjustment to its carrying value and is
subsequently amortized into interest expense over its remaining
life. For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of gains or
losses on derivative transactions is reported as a component of
“Other comprehensive income.” Gains or losses related
to hedge ineffectiveness for all hedges are generally included
in “Interest expense.” These gains or losses and the
component of gains or losses on derivative transactions excluded
from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (e.g., the effect of
the passage of time on fair value hedges of the firm’s
borrowings) were not material to the firm’s results of
operations for the years ended November 2006, November 2005 and
November 2004. Gains and losses on derivatives used for
trading purposes are included in “Trading and principal
investments” in the consolidated statements of earnings.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Fair values of the firm’s derivative contracts are
reflected net of cash paid or received pursuant to credit
support agreements and are reported on a net-by-counterparty
basis in the firm’s consolidated statements of financial
condition when management believes a legal right of setoff
exists under an enforceable netting agreement. The fair value of
derivative financial instruments, computed in accordance with
the firm’s netting policy, is set forth below:

As of November



Assets

Liabilities

Assets

Liabilities

(in millions)

Forward settlement contracts

$

11,751

$

14,335

$

13,921

$

15,345

Swap agreements

28,012

22,471

25,865

22,001

Option contracts

27,780

28,690

18,746

20,483

Total

$

67,543

$

65,496

$

58,532

$

57,829

The fair values of derivatives accounted for as qualifying
hedges under SFAS No. 133 consisted of
$2.66 billion and $2.10 billion in assets as of
November 2006 and November 2005, respectively, and
$551 million and $443 million in liabilities as of
November 2006 and November 2005, respectively.

The firm also has embedded derivatives that have been bifurcated
from related borrowings under SFAS No. 133. Such
derivatives, which are classified in unsecured

short-term

and
unsecured

long-term

borrowings, had a carrying value of $1.13 billion and
$607 million (excluding the debt host contract) as of
November 2006 and November 2005, respectively. See Notes 4
and 5 for further information regarding the firm’s
unsecured borrowings.

Securitization Activities

The firm securitizes commercial and residential mortgages, home
equity and auto loans, government and corporate bonds and other
types of financial assets. The firm acts as underwriter of the
beneficial interests that are sold to investors. The firm
derecognizes financial assets transferred in securitizations
provided it has relinquished control over such assets.
Transferred assets are accounted for at fair value prior to
securitization. Net revenues related to these underwriting
activities are recognized in connection with the sales of the
underlying beneficial interests to investors.

The firm may retain interests in securitized financial assets,
primarily in the form of senior or subordinated securities,
including residual interests. Retained interests are accounted
for at fair value and are included in “Total financial
instruments owned, at fair value” in the consolidated
statements of financial condition.

During the years ended November 2006 and November 2005, the firm
securitized $103.92 billion and $92.00 billion,
respectively, of financial assets, including $67.73 billion
and $65.18 billion, respectively, of residential mortgage
loans and securities. Cash flows received on retained interests
were approximately $801 million and $908 million for
the years ended November 2006 and November 2005,
respectively.

As of November 2006 and November 2005, the firm held
$7.08 billion and $6.07 billion of retained interests,
respectively, including $5.18 billion and
$5.62 billion, respectively, held in QSPEs.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table sets forth the weighted average key economic
assumptions used in measuring the fair values of the firm’s
retained interests and the sensitivity of those fair values to
immediate adverse changes of 10% and 20% in those
assumptions

(1)

:

The preceding table does not give effect to the offsetting
benefit of other financial instruments that are held to mitigate
risks inherent in these retained interests. Changes in fair
value based on an adverse variation in assumptions generally
cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in
assumptions to the change in fair value is not usually linear.
In addition, the impact of a change in a particular assumption
is calculated independently of changes in any other assumption.
In practice, simultaneous changes in assumptions might magnify
or counteract the sensitivities disclosed above.

In addition to the retained interests described above, the firm
also held interests in residential mortgage QSPEs purchased in
connection with secondary

market-making

activities. These purchased interests approximated
$8 billion and $5 billion as of November 2006 and
November 2005, respectively.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Variable Interest Entities (VIEs)

The firm, in the ordinary course of business, retains interests
in VIEs in connection with its securitization activities. The
firm also purchases and sells variable interests in VIEs, which
primarily issue

mortgage-backed

and
other

asset-backed

securities and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), in
connection with its

market-making

activities and makes investments in and loans to VIEs that hold
performing and nonperforming debt, equity, real estate,
power-related and other assets. In addition, the firm utilizes
VIEs to provide investors with

principal-protected

notes,

credit-linked

notes and asset-repackaged notes designed to meet their
objectives.

VIEs generally purchase assets by issuing debt and equity
instruments. In certain instances, the firm provides guarantees
to VIEs or holders of variable interests in VIEs. In such cases,
the maximum exposure to loss included in the tables set forth
below is the notional amount of such guarantees. Such amounts do
not represent anticipated losses in connection with these
guarantees.

The firm’s variable interests in VIEs include senior and
subordinated debt; loan commitments; limited and general
partnership interests; preferred and common stock; interest
rate, foreign currency, equity, commodity and credit
derivatives; guarantees; and residual interests in

mortgage-backed

and
asset-backed securitization vehicles and CDOs. The firm’s
exposure to the obligations of VIEs is generally limited to its
interests in these entities.

The following tables set forth total assets in nonconsolidated
VIEs in which the firm holds significant variable interests and
the firm’s maximum exposure to loss associated with these
interests. The firm has aggregated nonconsolidated VIEs based on
principal business activity, as reflected in the first column.
The nature of the firm’s variable interests can take
different forms, as described in the columns under maximum
exposure to loss.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

(1)

Derivatives related to CDOs consist of total return swaps on
    investment-grade securities issued by VIEs and

out-of

-the-money
    written put options on investment-grade collateral held by VIEs.
    Derivatives related to principal-protected notes consist of

out-of

-the-money
    written put options that provide principal protection to clients
    invested in various fund products, with risk to the firm
    mitigated through portfolio rebalancing. Derivatives related to
    asset repackagings and credit-linked notes consist of interest
    rate swaps, equity swaps, commodity swaps and purchased credit
    default protection, through which the firm creates structured
    notes designed for specific needs of investors. The derivative
    transactions included in the above table do not expose the firm
    to a majority of the VIE’s expected losses or expected
    residual returns and, consequently, the firm is not the primary
    beneficiary of the VIE. In certain cases, the firm is the
    primary beneficiary in these types of transactions (see table of
    consolidated VIEs below).

(2)

The firm obtains interests in these VIEs in connection with
    making proprietary investments in real estate, distressed loans
    and other types of debt, mezzanine instruments and equities. The
    transactions included in the above table do not expose the firm
    to a majority of the VIE’s expected losses or expected
    residual returns and, consequently, the firm is not the primary
    beneficiary of the VIE. In certain cases, the firm is the
    primary beneficiary in these types of transactions (see table of
    consolidated VIEs below).



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table sets forth the firm’s total assets and
maximum exposure to loss associated with its significant
variable interests in consolidated VIEs where the firm does not
hold a majority voting interest. The firm has aggregated
consolidated VIEs based on principal business activity, as
reflected in the first column.

As of November 2006

As of November 2005

Maximum

Maximum

Exposure

Exposure

VIE Assets

(1)

to Loss

VIE Assets

(1)

to Loss

(in millions)

Real estate, credit-related and
    other investing

$

3,077

$

1,368

$

2,999

$

1,268

Municipal bond securitizations

2,715

2,715

1,587

1,587

Mortgage-backed and other
    asset-backed

1,537




Foreign exchange and commodities





Principal-protected notes





Asset repackagings and
    credit-linked notes





Total

$

9,044

$

5,253

$

6,624

$

3,944

(1)

Consolidated VIE assets include assets financed on a nonrecourse
    basis.

Collateralized Transactions

The firm receives financial instruments as collateral, primarily
in connection with resale agreements, securities borrowed,
derivative transactions and customer margin loans. Such
financial instruments may include obligations of the
U.S. government, federal agencies, sovereigns and
corporations, as well as equities and convertibles.

In many cases, the firm is permitted to deliver or repledge
these financial instruments in connection with entering into
repurchase agreements, securities lending agreements and other
secured financings, collateralizing derivative transactions and
meeting firm or customer settlement requirements. As of November
2006 and November 2005, the fair value of financial instruments
received as collateral by the firm that it was permitted to
deliver or repledge was $746.08 billion and
$629.94 billion, respectively, of which the firm delivered
or repledged $639.87 billion and $550.76 billion,
respectively.

The firm also pledges assets that it owns to counterparties who
may or may not have the right to deliver or repledge them.
Financial instruments owned and pledged to counterparties that
have the right to deliver or repledge are reported as
“Financial instruments owned and pledged as collateral, at
fair value” in the consolidated statements of financial
condition and were $36.00 billion and $38.98 billion
as of November 2006 and November 2005, respectively. Financial
instruments owned and pledged in connection with repurchase
agreements, securities lending agreements and other secured
financings to counterparties that did not have the right to sell
or repledge are included in “Financial instruments owned,
at fair value” in the consolidated statements of financial
condition and were $134.31 billion and $116.27 billion
as of November 2006 and November 2005, respectively. Other
assets (primarily real estate, power generation facilities and
related assets, and



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

cash) owned and pledged in connection with other secured
financings to counterparties that did not have the right to sell
or repledge were $5.34 billion and $5.04 billion as of
November 2006 and November 2005, respectively.

In addition to repurchase agreements and securities lending
agreements, the firm obtains secured funding through the use of
other arrangements. Other secured financings include
arrangements that are nonrecourse, that is, only the subsidiary
that executed the arrangement or a subsidiary guaranteeing the
arrangement is obligated to repay the financing. Other secured
financings consist of liabilities related to the firm’s
William Street program, consolidated variable interest entities,
collateralized central bank financings, transfers of financial
assets that are accounted for as financings rather than sales
(primarily pledged bank loans and mortgage whole loans),
consolidated power generation facilities and other structured
financing arrangements.

Other secured financings are set forth in the table below:

(1)

As of November 2006, consists of
    U.S. dollar-denominated financings of $14.28 billion
    with a weighted average interest rate of 5.22% and
    non-U.S. dollar-denominated financings of
    $10.01 billion with a weighted average interest rate of
    2.00%. As of November 2005, consists of
    U.S. dollar-denominated financings of $5.01 billion
    with a weighted average interest rate of 4.16% and
    non-U.S. dollar-denominated financings of
    $2.96 billion with a weighted average interest rate of
    3.25%.

(2)

Includes $3.30 billion of hybrid financial instruments
    accounted for at fair value under SFAS No. 155 as of
    November 2006.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 4.

Unsecured Short-Term Borrowings

The firm obtains unsecured short-term borrowings primarily
through the issuance of promissory notes, commercial paper and
hybrid debt instruments. As of November 2006 and November 2005,
these borrowings were $47.90 billion and
$47.25 billion, respectively. Such amounts include the
portion of unsecured long-term borrowings maturing within one
year of the financial statement date and unsecured long-term
borrowings that are redeemable within one year of the financial
statement date at the option of the holder. The carrying value
of these short-term obligations approximates fair value due to
their short-term nature.

Unsecured short-term borrowings are set forth below:

As of November



(in millions)

Promissory notes

$

13,811

$

17,339

Commercial paper

1,489

5,154

Current portion of unsecured
    long-term borrowings

14,115

15,819

Hybrid debt
    instruments

(1)

14,060

3,901

Other short-term borrowings

4,429

5,034

Total

(2)

$

47,904

$

47,247

(1)

Hybrid debt instruments are financial instruments that contain
    bifurcatable embedded derivatives, $10.22 billion of which
    were accounted for at fair value under SFAS No. 155 as
    of November 2006.

(2)

The weighted average interest rates for these borrowings were
    5.13% and 4.01% as of November 2006 and November 2005,
    respectively. The weighted average interest rates, after giving
    effect to hedging activities, were 5.16% and 3.99% as of
    November 2006 and November 2005, respectively. The weighted
    average interest rates as of November 2006 excluded hybrid debt
    instruments accounted for at fair value under
    SFAS No. 155.

Note 5.

Unsecured Long-Term Borrowings

The firm obtains unsecured long-term borrowings that consist
principally of senior borrowings with maturities extending to
2036. As of November 2006 and November 2005, these borrowings
were $122.84 billion and $84.34 billion, respectively.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Unsecured long-term borrowings are set forth below:

As of November



(in millions)

Fixed rate
    obligations

(1)

U.S. dollar

$

41,719

$

34,792

Non-U.S. dollar

22,854

16,079

Floating rate
    obligations

(2)

U.S. dollar

38,342

23,041

Non-U.S. dollar

19,927

10,426

Total

(3)

$

122,842

$

84,338

(1)

As of both November 2006 and November 2005, interest rates on
    U.S. dollar fixed rate obligations ranged from 3.88% to
    12.00%. As of November 2006 and November 2005, interest rates on

non-U.S.

dollar
    fixed rate obligations ranged from 0.31% to 8.88% and from 0.67%
    to 8.88%, respectively.

(2)

Floating interest rates generally are based on LIBOR or the
    federal funds rate. Certain equity-linked and indexed
    instruments are included in floating rate obligations.

(3)

Includes $7.25 billion of hybrid financial instruments
    accounted for at fair value under SFAS No. 155 as of
    November 2006.

Unsecured long-term borrowings by maturity date are set forth
below:

As of November


(1)(2)


(1)(2)

U.S.

Non-U.S.

U.S.

Non-U.S.

Dollar

Dollar

Total

Dollar

Dollar

Total

(in millions)


$

—

$

—

$

—

$

11,597

$


$

12,363


14,848

3,038

17,886

5,662

2,725

8,387


12,398

2,978

15,376

6,123

2,793

8,916


5,034

4,945

9,979

5,163

5,595

10,758


5,675

4,389

10,064

4,434

1,024

5,458

2012-thereafter

42,106

27,431

69,537

24,854

13,602

38,456

Total

$

80,061

$

42,781

$

122,842

$

57,833

$

26,505

$

84,338

(1)

Unsecured long-term borrowings maturing within one year of the
    financial statement date and certain unsecured long-term
    borrowings that are redeemable within one year of the financial
    statement date at the option of the holder are included as
    unsecured short-term borrowings in the consolidated statements
    of financial condition.

(2)

Unsecured long-term borrowings that are repayable prior to
    maturity at the option of the firm are reflected at their
    contractual maturity dates. Unsecured long-term borrowings that
    are redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the holder are
    reflected at the dates such options become exercisable.

The firm enters into derivative contracts, such as interest rate
futures contracts, interest rate swap agreements, currency swap
agreements, and equity-linked and indexed contracts, to
effectively convert a substantial portion of its unsecured
long-term borrowings into U.S. dollar-based floating rate
obligations. Accordingly, the carrying value of unsecured
long-term borrowings approximated fair value as of November 2006
and November 2005.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The effective weighted average interest rates for unsecured
long-term borrowings are set forth below:

As of November



Amount

Rate

Amount

Rate

($ in millions)

Fixed rate obligations

$

1,997

6.13

%

$

2,289

6.05

%

Floating rate
    obligations

(1)

120,845

5.75

82,049

4.42

Total

$

122,842

5.75

$

84,338

4.46

(1)

Includes fixed rate obligations that have been converted into
    floating rate obligations through derivative contracts.

Subordinated Borrowings

Unsecured long-term borrowings include $7.51 billion and
$2.99 billion of subordinated borrowings as of November
2006 and November 2005, respectively, as set forth below.

Subordinated Notes.

As of November 2006, the firm had
$4.67 billion of subordinated notes outstanding with
maturities ranging from 2007 to 2036. The effective weighted
average interest rate on these subordinated notes was 6.24%,
after giving effect to derivative contracts used to convert
fixed rate obligations into floating rate obligations. As of
November 2005, the firm had $150 million of subordinated
notes outstanding with maturities ranging from 2006 to 2019 and
with an effective weighted average interest rate of 6.39%. These
notes are junior in right of payment to all of the firm’s
senior indebtedness.

Junior Subordinated Debentures.

The firm issued
$2.84 billion of junior subordinated debentures in its
first quarter of 2004 to Goldman Sachs Capital Trust I (the
Trust), a Delaware statutory trust created for the exclusive
purposes of (i) issuing $2.75 billion of guaranteed
preferred beneficial interests and $85 million of common
beneficial interests in the Trust, (ii) investing the
proceeds from the sale to purchase junior subordinated
debentures issued by the firm and (iii) engaging in only
those other activities necessary or incidental to these
purposes. The preferred beneficial interests were purchased by
third parties, and, as of November 2006 and November 2005, the
firm held all the common beneficial interests. The Trust is a
wholly owned finance subsidiary of the firm for regulatory and
legal purposes but is not consolidated for accounting purposes.

The firm pays interest semiannually on these debentures at an
annual rate of 6.345% and the debentures mature on
February 15, 2034. The coupon rate and the payment dates
applicable to the beneficial interests are the same as the
interest rate and payment dates applicable to the debentures.
The firm has the right, from time to time, to defer payment of
interest on the debentures, and, therefore, cause payment on the
Trust’s preferred beneficial interests to be deferred, in
each case up to ten consecutive semiannual periods. During any
such extension period, the firm will not be permitted to, among
other things, pay dividends on or make certain repurchases of
its common stock. The Trust is not permitted to pay any
distributions on the common beneficial interests held by the
firm unless all dividends payable on the preferred beneficial
interests have been paid in full. These notes are junior in
right of payment to all of the firm’s senior indebtedness
and all of the firm’s subordinated notes (described above).
See Note 6 for information regarding the firm’s
guarantee of the preferred beneficial interests issued by the
Trust.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 6.

Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees

Commitments

Forward Starting Collateralized Agreements and
Financings.

The firm had forward starting resale agreements
and securities borrowing agreements of $18.29 billion and
$20.83 billion as of November 2006 and November 2005,
respectively. The firm had forward starting repurchase
agreements and securities lending agreements of
$17.15 billion and $29.10 billion as of
November 2006 and November 2005, respectively.

Commitments to Extend Credit.

In connection with its
lending activities, the firm had outstanding commitments to
extend credit of $100.48 billion and $61.12 billion as
of November 2006 and November 2005, respectively. The
firm’s commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend
to counterparties that have fixed termination dates and are
contingent on the satisfaction of all conditions to borrowing
set forth in the contract. Since these commitments may expire
unused or be reduced or cancelled at the counterparty’s
request, the total commitment amount does not necessarily
reflect the actual future cash flow requirements. The firm
accounts for these commitments at fair value.

The following table summarizes the firm’s commitments to
extend credit at November 2006 and November 2005:

Commitments to Extend Credit

Year Ended November



(in millions)

William Street program

$

18,831

$

14,505

Other commercial lending commitments

Investment-grade

7,604

17,592

Non-investment-grade

57,017

18,536

Warehouse financing

17,026

10,489

Total commitments to extend credit

$

100,478

$

61,122

•

William Street program.

Substantially all of the
    commitments provided under the William Street credit extension
    program are to investment-grade corporate borrowers. Commitments
    under the program are primarily extended by William Street
    Commitment Corporation (Commitment Corp.), a consolidated wholly
    owned subsidiary of Group Inc. whose assets and liabilities are
    legally separated from other assets and liabilities of the firm,
    and, to a lesser extent, by William Street Credit Corporation,
    another consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Group Inc. A
    majority of the commitments extended by Commitment Corp. are
    supported by funding raised by William Street Funding
    Corporation (Funding Corp.), another consolidated wholly owned
    subsidiary of Group Inc. whose assets and liabilities are also
    legally separated from other assets and liabilities of the firm.
    The assets of Commitment Corp. and of Funding Corp. will not be
    available to their respective shareholders until the claims of
    their respective creditors have been paid. In addition, no
    affiliate of either Commitment Corp. or Funding Corp., except in
    limited cases as expressly agreed in writing, is responsible for
    any obligation of either entity. With respect to substantially
    all of the William Street commitments, SMFG provides the firm
    with credit loss protection that is generally limited to 95% of
    the first loss the firm realizes on approved loan commitments,
    up to a maximum of $1.00 billion. In addition, subject to
    the satisfaction of certain conditions, upon the firm’s
    request, SMFG will provide protection for 70% of the second loss
    on such



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

commitments, up to a maximum of $1.13 billion. The firm
    also uses other financial instruments to mitigate credit risks
    related to certain William Street commitments not covered by
    SMFG.

•

Other commercial lending commitments.

In addition to the
    commitments issued under the William Street credit extension
    program, the firm extends other credit commitments, primarily in
    connection with contingent acquisition financing and other types
    of corporate lending. The total commitment amount does not
    necessarily reflect the actual future cash flow requirements, as
    the firm often syndicates all or substantial portions of these
    commitments, the commitments may expire unused, or the
    commitments may be cancelled or reduced at the request of the
    counterparty. In addition, commitments that are extended for
    contingent acquisition financing are often short-term in nature,
    as borrowers often replace them with other funding sources.

•

Warehouse financing.

The firm provides financing for the
    warehousing of financial assets to be securitized, primarily in
    connection with CDOs and mortgage securitizations. These
    financings are expected to be repaid from the proceeds of the
    related securitizations for which the firm may or may not act as
    underwriter. These arrangements are secured by the warehoused
    assets, primarily consisting of mortgage-backed and other
    asset-backed securities, residential and commercial mortgages
    and corporate debt instruments.

Letters of Credit.

The firm provides letters of credit
issued by various banks to counterparties in lieu of securities
or cash to satisfy various collateral and margin deposit
requirements. Letters of credit outstanding were
$5.73 billion and $9.23 billion as of November 2006
and November 2005, respectively.

Merchant Banking Commitments.

The firm acts as an
investor in merchant banking transactions, which includes making
long-term investments in equity and debt instruments in
privately negotiated transactions, corporate acquisitions and
real estate transactions. In connection with these activities,
the firm had commitments to invest up to $6.36 billion and
$3.54 billion in corporate and real estate investment funds
as of November 2006 and November 2005, respectively.

Construction-Related Commitments.

As of November 2006 and
November 2005, the firm had construction-related commitments of
$1.63 billion and $579 million, respectively,
including commitments of $1.07 billion and
$481 million, respectively, related to the development of
wind energy projects. Construction-related commitments also
include outstanding commitments of $500 million and
$47 million as of November 2006 and November 2005,
respectively, related to the firm’s new world headquarters
in New York City, which is expected to cost between
$2.3 billion and $2.5 billion.

Underwriting Commitments.

As of November 2006, the firm
had commitments to purchase $2.62 billion of securities in
connection with its underwriting activities. As of November
2005, the firm had no such commitments.

Other.

The firm had other purchase commitments of
$393 million and $563 million as of November 2006 and
November 2005, respectively. In addition, the firm had other
investment commitments of $1.88 billion and
$81 million as of November 2006 and November 2005,
respectively.

Leases.

The firm has contractual obligations under
long-term noncancelable lease agreements, principally for office
space, expiring on various dates through 2069. Certain
agreements are subject to periodic escalation provisions for
increases in real estate taxes and other charges.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Future minimum rental payments, net of minimum sublease rentals,
and rent charged to operating expense for the last three years
are set forth below:

Contingencies

The firm is involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and
arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising in connection
with the conduct of its businesses. Management believes, based
on currently available information, that the results of such
proceedings, in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse
effect on the firm’s financial condition, but may be
material to the firm’s operating results for any particular
period, depending, in part, upon the operating results for such
period. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome
of the firm’s litigation and regulatory matters,
particularly in cases or proceedings in which substantial or
indeterminate damages or fines are sought, the firm cannot
estimate losses or ranges of losses for cases or proceedings
where there is only a reasonable possibility that a loss may be
incurred.

In connection with its insurance business, the firm is
contingently liable to provide guaranteed minimum death benefits
to certain contract holders. The total account balances of
contract holders to whom the firm has provided such guaranteed
minimum death benefits was $8.04 billion as of November
2006, and the weighted average attained age of these contract
holders was 70 years. The net amount at risk, representing
guaranteed minimum death benefits in excess of contract holder
account balances, was $1.27 billion as of November 2006.
The firm has established a reserve for its liability related to
guaranteed minimum death benefits (see Note 10 for more
information on the firm’s insurance liabilities).

Guarantees

The firm enters into various derivative contracts that meet the
definition of a guarantee under FIN No. 45,
“Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
Others.” Such derivative contracts include credit default
and total return swaps, written equity and commodity put
options, written currency contracts and interest rate caps,
floors and swaptions. FIN No. 45 does not require
disclosures about derivative contracts if such contracts may be
cash settled and the firm has no basis to conclude it is
probable that the counterparties held, at inception, the
underlying instruments related to the derivative contracts. The
firm has concluded that these conditions have been met for
certain large, internationally active commercial and investment
bank end users and certain other users. Accordingly, the firm
has not included such contracts in the tables below.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The firm, in its capacity as an agency lender, indemnifies most
of its securities lending customers against losses incurred in
the event that borrowers do not return securities and the
collateral held is insufficient to cover the market value of the
securities borrowed.

In connection with the firm’s establishment of the Trust,
Group Inc. effectively provided for the full and unconditional
guarantee of the beneficial interests in the Trust held by third
parties. Timely payment by Group Inc. of interest on the junior
subordinated debentures and other amounts due and performance of
its other obligations under the transaction documents will be
sufficient to cover payments due by the Trust on its beneficial
interests. As a result, management believes that it is unlikely
the firm will have to make payments related to the Trust other
than those required under the junior subordinated debentures and
in connection with certain expenses incurred by the Trust.

In the ordinary course of business, the firm provides other
financial guarantees of the obligations of third parties (e.g.,
standby letters of credit and other guarantees to enable clients
to complete transactions and merchant banking fund-related
guarantees). These guarantees represent obligations to make
payments to beneficiaries if the guaranteed party fails to
fulfill its obligation under a contractual arrangement with that
beneficiary.

The following tables set forth certain information about the
firm’s derivative contracts that meet the definition of a
guarantee and certain other guarantees as of November 2006 and
November 2005:

As of November 2006

Maximum Payout/Notional Amount by Period of Expiration

(5)

2008-

2010-

2012-




Thereafter

Total

(in millions)

Derivatives

(1)

$

379,256

$

428,258

$

460,088

$

399,449

$

1,667,051

Securities lending
    indemnifications

(2)

19,023

—

—

—

19,023

Guarantees of trust preferred

beneficial
    interest

(3)




6,676

7,548

Other financial
    guarantees

(4)






As of November 2005

Maximum Payout/Notional Amount by Period of Expiration

(5)

2007-

2009-

2011-




Thereafter

Total

(in millions)

Derivatives

(1)

$

356,131

$

244,163

$

259,332

$

289,459

$

1,149,085

Securities lending
    indemnifications

(2)

16,324

—

—

—

16,324

Guarantees of trust preferred

beneficial
    interest

(3)




6,851

7,723

Other financial
    guarantees

(4)





1,067



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

In the ordinary course of business, the firm indemnifies and
guarantees certain service providers, such as clearing and
custody agents, trustees and administrators, against specified
potential losses in connection with their acting as an agent of,
or providing services to, the firm or its affiliates. The firm
also indemnifies some clients against potential losses incurred
in the event specified third-party service providers, including
sub-custodians and third-party brokers, improperly execute
transactions. In addition, the firm is a member of payment,
clearing and settlement networks as well as securities exchanges
around the world that may require the firm to meet the
obligations of such networks and exchanges in the event of
member defaults. In connection with its prime brokerage and
clearing businesses, the firm agrees to clear and settle on
behalf of its clients the transactions entered into by them with
other brokerage firms. The firm’s obligations in respect of
such transactions are secured by the assets in the client’s
account as well as any proceeds received from the transactions
cleared and settled by the firm on behalf of the client. In
connection with joint venture investments, the firm may issue
loan guarantees under which it may be liable in the event of
fraud, misappropriation, environmental liabilities and certain
other matters involving the borrower. The firm is unable to
develop an estimate of the maximum payout under these guarantees
and indemnifications. However, management believes that it is
unlikely the firm will have to make any material payments under
these arrangements, and no liabilities related to these
guarantees and indemnifications have been recognized in the
consolidated statements of financial condition as of November
2006 and November 2005.

The firm provides representations and warranties to
counterparties in connection with a variety of commercial
transactions and occasionally indemnifies them against potential
losses caused by the breach of those representations and
warranties. The firm may also provide indemnifications
protecting against changes in or adverse application of certain
U.S. tax laws in connection with ordinary-course
transactions such as securities issuances, borrowings or
derivatives. In addition, the firm may provide indemnifications
to some counterparties to protect them in the event additional
taxes are owed or payments are withheld, due either to a change
in or an adverse application of certain

non-U.S.

tax laws.
These indemnifications generally are standard contractual terms
and are entered into in the ordinary course of business.
Generally, there are no stated or notional amounts included in
these indemnifications, and the contingencies triggering the
obligation to indemnify are not expected to occur. The firm is
unable to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under these
guarantees and indemnifications. However, management believes
that it is unlikely the firm will have to make any material
payments under these arrangements, and no liabilities related to
these arrangements have been recognized in the consolidated
statements of financial condition as of November 2006 and
November 2005.

Note 7.

Shareholders’ Equity

Dividends declared per common share were $1.30 in 2006, $1.00 in
2005, and $1.00 in 2004. On December 11, 2006, the Board of
Directors of Group Inc. (the Board) declared a dividend of
$0.35 per common share to be paid on February 22,
2007, to common shareholders of record on January 23, 2007.

During 2006, the firm repurchased 50.2 million shares of
its common stock at a total cost of $7.82 billion, and
during 2005, the firm repurchased 63.7 million shares of
its common stock at a total cost of $7.11 billion. The
average price paid per share for repurchased shares was $155.64
and $111.57 for the years ended November 2006 and November 2005,
respectively. In addition, to satisfy minimum statutory employee
tax withholding requirements related to the delivery of common
stock underlying restricted stock units, the firm cancelled
3.0 million restricted stock units with a total value of
$375 million in 2006, and it canceled 1.6 million
restricted stock units with a total value of $163 million
in 2005.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

During 2006, the firm issued 54,000 shares of perpetual
Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D. As
of November 2006, the firm had 124,000 shares of perpetual

non-cumulative

preferred stock outstanding in four series as set forth in the
following table:

Preferred Stock by Series

Shares

Shares

Earliest

Redemption Value

Series

Issued

Authorized

Dividend Rate

Redemption Date

(in millions)

A

30,000

50,000

3 month LIBOR + 0.75%,

with floor of 3.75% per annum

April 25, 2010

$


B

32,000

50,000

6.20% per annum

October 31, 2010


C

8,000

25,000

3 month LIBOR + 0.75%,

with floor of 4% per annum

October 31, 2010


D

54,000

60,000

3 month LIBOR + 0.67%,

with floor of 4% per annum

May 24, 2011

1,350

124,000

185,000

$

3,100

Each share of preferred stock has a par value of $0.01, has a
liquidation preference of $25,000, is represented by 1,000
depositary shares and is redeemable at the firm’s option at
a redemption price equal to $25,000 plus declared and unpaid
dividends. Dividends on each series of preferred stock, if
declared, are payable quarterly in arrears. The firm’s
ability to declare or pay dividends on, or purchase, redeem or
otherwise acquire, its common stock is subject to certain
restrictions in the event that the firm fails to pay or set
aside full dividends on the preferred stock for the latest
completed dividend period. All preferred stock also has a
preference over the firm’s common stock upon liquidation.

Dividends declared per preferred share were $1,434.79,
$1,593.06, $1,465.19 and $709.10 for Series A,
Series B, Series C and Series D preferred stock,
respectively, in 2006. Dividends declared per share of
Series A preferred stock were $578.72 in 2005. On
December 11, 2006, the Board declared a dividend per
preferred share of $391.28, $387.50, $391.28 and $386.17 for
Series A, Series B, Series C and Series D
preferred stock, respectively, to be paid on February 10,
2007 to preferred shareholders of record on January 26,
2007.

The following table sets forth the firm’s accumulated other
comprehensive income by type:

As of

November



(in millions)

Currency translation adjustment,
    net of tax

$


$

(16

)

Minimum pension liability
    adjustment, net of tax

(38

)

(11

)

Net gains/(losses) on cash flow
    hedges, net of tax



Net unrealized gains on
    available-for-sale securities, net of tax


(1)


Total accumulated other
    comprehensive income, net of tax

$


$

—

(1)

Consists of net unrealized gains of $10 million on
    available-for-sale securities held by the firm’s bank and
    insurance subsidiaries and net unrealized gains of
    $18 million on available-for-sale securities held by
    investees accounted for under the equity method.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Note 8.

Earnings Per Common Share

The computations of basic and diluted earnings per common share
are set forth below:

(1)

The diluted EPS computations do not include the antidilutive
    effect of the following options:

Year Ended November




(in millions)

Number of antidilutive options, end
    of period

—



Note 9.

Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets

Goodwill

The following table sets forth the carrying value of the
firm’s goodwill by operating segment, which is included in
“Other assets” in the consolidated statements of
financial condition:

(1)

Primarily related to SLK LLC (SLK).

(2)

Primarily related to The Ayco Company, L.P. (Ayco).



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Identifiable Intangible Assets

The following table sets forth the gross carrying amount,
accumulated amortization and net carrying amount of identifiable
intangible assets:



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Substantially all of the firm’s identifiable intangible
assets are considered to have finite lives and are amortized
over their estimated useful lives. The weighted average
remaining life of the firm’s identifiable intangibles is
approximately 12 years.

Amortization expense associated with identifiable intangible
assets was $246 million, $165 million and
$125 million for the years ended November 2006, November
2005 and November 2004, respectively. Amortization expense
associated with the firm’s consolidated power generation
facilities is reported within “Cost of power
generation” in the consolidated statements of earnings.

The estimated future amortization for existing identifiable
intangible assets through 2011 is set forth below:

(in millions)


$










Note 10.

Other Assets and Other Liabilities

Other Assets

Other assets are generally less liquid, nonfinancial assets. The
following table sets forth the firm’s other assets by type:

As of November



(in millions)

Goodwill and identifiable
    intangible
    assets

(1)

$

5,686

$

5,203

Property, leasehold improvements
    and
    equipment

(2)

6,990

5,097

Equity-method investments

2,764

2,965

Income tax-related assets

3,427

1,304

Miscellaneous receivables and other

3,009

2,743

Total

$

21,876

$

17,312

(1)

See Note 9 for further information regarding the
    firm’s goodwill and identifiable intangible assets.

(2)

Net of accumulated depreciation and amortization of
    $5.06 billion and $4.62 billion for November 2006 and
    November 2005, respectively.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Other Liabilities

Other liabilities and accrued expenses primarily includes

insurance-related

liabilities, compensation and benefits, minority interest in
consolidated entities, litigation and regulatory liabilities,

tax-related

payables,
deferred revenue and other payables. The following table sets
forth the firm’s other liabilities and accrued expenses by
type:

As of November



(in millions)

Insurance-related
    liabilities

(1)

$

11,471

$

—

Compensation and benefits

9,165

6,598

Minority
    interest

(2)

4,759

3,164

Income tax-related liabilities

2,639


Accrued expenses and other payables

3,832

3,200

Total

$

31,866

$

13,830

(1)

Insurance-related liabilities are set forth in the table below:

Separate account liabilities are offset by separate account
    assets, representing segregated contract holder funds under
    variable annuity and variable life insurance contracts. Separate
    account assets are included in “Cash and securities
    segregated for regulatory and other purposes” in the
    consolidated statements of financial condition.

Liabilities for future benefits and unpaid claims include
    liabilities arising from reinsurance provided by the firm to
    other insurers. The firm has a receivable for $1.33 billion
    related to such reinsurance contracts, which is reported in
    “Receivables from customers and counterparties” in the
    consolidated statements of financial condition. In addition, the
    firm has ceded risks to reinsurers related to certain of its
    liabilities for future benefits and unpaid claims and has a
    receivable of $786 million related to such reinsurance
    contracts, which is reported in “Receivables from customers
    and counterparties” in the consolidated statements of
    financial condition. Contracts to cede risks to reinsurers do
    not relieve the firm from its obligations to contract holders.

Reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits
    represent a liability for the expected value of guaranteed
    benefits in excess of projected annuity account balances. These
    reserves are computed in accordance with AICPA Statement of
    Position

03-1,

“Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for
    Certain Nontraditional

Long-Duration

Contracts
    and for Separate Accounts,” and are based on total payments
    expected to be made less total fees expected to be assessed over
    the life of the contract.

(2)

Includes $3.31 billion and $2.04 billion related to
    consolidated merchant banking funds as of November 2006 and
    November 2005, respectively.

Note 11.

Employee Benefit Plans

The firm sponsors various pension plans and certain other
postretirement benefit plans, primarily healthcare and life
insurance. The firm also provides certain benefits to former or
inactive employees prior to retirement.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Defined Benefit Pension Plans and Postretirement
    Plans

Employees of certain

non-U.S.

subsidiaries
participate in various defined benefit pension plans. These
plans generally provide benefits based on years of credited
service and a percentage of the employee’s eligible
compensation. The firm also maintains a defined benefit pension
plan for substantially all U.S. employees hired prior to
November 1, 2003. As of November 2004, this plan
has been closed to new participants and no further benefits will
be accrued to existing participants. In addition, the firm has
unfunded postretirement benefit plans that provide medical and
life insurance for eligible retirees and their dependents
covered under these programs.

The following table provides a summary of the changes in the
plans’ benefit obligations and the fair value of assets for
November 2006 and November 2005 and a statement of the
funded status of the plans as of November 2006 and
November 2005:

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit
pension plans was $944 million and $795 million as of
November 2006 and November 2005, respectively.

For plans in which the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded
plan assets, the aggregate projected benefit obligation and
accumulated benefit obligation was $771 million and
$647 million, respectively, as of November 2006, and
$135 million and $126 million, respectively, as of
November 2005. The fair value of plan assets for each of
these plans was $583 million and $64 million as of
November 2006 and November 2005, respectively.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The components of pension expense/(income) and postretirement
expense are set forth below:

(1)

Represents a benefit as a result of the termination of a
    Japanese pension plan.

The weighted average assumptions used to develop the actuarial
present value of the projected benefit obligation and net
periodic pension cost are set forth below. These assumptions
represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the
U.S. and

non-U.S.

plans and
are based on the economic environment of each applicable country.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Generally, the firm determined the discount rates for its
defined benefit plans by referencing indices for long-term,
high-quality bonds and ensuring that the discount rate does not
exceed the yield reported for those indices after adjustment for
the duration of the plans’ liabilities.

The firm’s approach in determining the long-term rate of
return for plan assets is based upon historical financial market
relationships that have existed over time with the presumption
that this trend will generally remain constant in the future.

For measurement purposes, an annual growth rate in the per
capita cost of covered healthcare benefits of 10.74% was assumed
for the year ending November 2007. The rate was assumed to
decrease ratably to 5.00% for the year ending November 2015
and remain at that level thereafter.

The assumed cost of healthcare has an effect on the amounts
reported for the firm’s postretirement plans. A 1% change
in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would have the
following effects:

1% Increase

1% Decrease





(in millions)

Cost

$


$


$

(7

)

$

(5

)

Obligation



(62

)

(37

)

The following table sets forth the composition of plan assets
for the U.S. and

non-U.S.

defined
benefit pension plans by asset category:

As of November



U.S.

Non-U.S.

U.S.

Non-U.S.

Pension

Pension

Pension

Pension

Equity securities


%


%


%


%

Debt securities





Other





Total


%


%


%


%

The investment approach of the firm’s U.S. and major

non-U.S.

defined
benefit pension plans involves employing a sufficient level of
flexibility to capture investment opportunities as they occur,
while maintaining reasonable parameters to ensure that prudence
and care are exercised in the execution of the investment
programs. The plans employ a total return on investment
approach, whereby a mix, which is broadly similar to the actual
asset allocation as of November 2006, of equity securities, debt
securities and other assets, is targeted to maximize the
long-term return on assets for a given level of risk. Investment
risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis by the
firm’s Retirement Committee through periodic portfolio
reviews, meetings with investment managers and annual liability
measurements.

The firm will contribute a minimum of $30 million to its
pension plans and $9 million to its postretirement plans in
2007.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The following table sets forth benefits projected to be paid
from the firm’s U.S. and

non-U.S.

defined
benefit pension and postretirement plans (net of Medicare
subsidy receipts) and reflects expected future service, where
appropriate:

U.S.

Non-U.S.

Post-

Pension

Pension

retirement

(in millions)


$


$


$


















2012-2016




Defined Contribution Plans

The firm contributes to employer-sponsored U.S. and

non-U.S.

defined
contribution plans. The firm’s contribution to these plans
was $230 million, $305 million and $189 million
for the years ended November 2006, November 2005 and
November 2004, respectively.

Note 12.

Employee Incentive Plans

Stock Incentive Plan

The firm sponsors a stock incentive plan, The Goldman Sachs
Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the Amended SIP),
which provides for grants of incentive stock options,
nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, dividend
equivalent rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and
other

share-based

awards. In the second quarter of 2003, the Amended SIP was
approved by the firm’s shareholders, effective for grants
after April 1, 2003, and no further awards were or
will be made under the original plan after that date, although
awards granted under the original plan prior to that date remain
outstanding.

The total number of shares of common stock that may be issued
under the Amended SIP through 2008 may not exceed
250 million shares and, in each year thereafter, may not
exceed 5% of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock,
determined as of the last day of the immediately preceding year,
increased by the number of shares available for awards in
previous years but not covered by awards granted in such years.
As of November 2006 and November 2005,
180.0 million and 196.6 million shares, respectively,
were available for grant under the Amended SIP, after taking
into account

stock-based

compensation awards that were issued subsequent to year end, as
part of

year-end

compensation.

Other Compensation Arrangements

In November 2004, the firm adopted new deferred compensation
plans for eligible employees. In general, under the plans,
participants are able to defer payment of a portion of their
cash

year-end

compensation. During the deferral period, participants are able
to nominally invest their deferrals in certain alternatives
available under the plans. Generally, under current tax law,
participants are not subject to income tax on amounts deferred
or on any notional investment earnings until the returns are
distributed, and the firm is not entitled to a corresponding tax
deduction until the amounts are distributed. The firm has
recognized compensation expense for the amounts deferred under
these plans. As of November 2006 and November 2005,
$245 million and $134 million, respectively, related
to these plans was included in “Other liabilities and
accrued expenses” in the consolidated statements of
financial condition.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

In November 2004, the firm adopted a discount stock program
through which eligible senior executives may acquire restricted
stock units in 2006 and 2005 under the firm’s Amended SIP
at an effective 25% discount. The 25% discount is effected by an
additional grant of restricted stock units equal to

one-third

of the number
of restricted stock units purchased by qualifying participants.
The purchased restricted stock units are 100% vested when
granted, but the shares underlying them are not able to be sold
or transferred (other than to satisfy tax obligations) before
the third anniversary of the grant date. The shares underlying
the restricted stock units that are granted in order to effect
the 25% discount will generally vest in equal installments on
the second and third anniversaries following the grant date and
will not be transferable before the third anniversary of the
grant date. Compensation expense related to these restricted
stock units is recognized over the vesting period. The total
value of restricted stock units granted in 2006 and 2005 in
order to effect the 25% discount was $72 million and
$79 million, respectively.

Restricted Stock Units

The firm issued restricted stock units to employees under the
Amended SIP, primarily in connection with

year-end

compensation
and acquisitions.

Year-end

restricted
stock units generally vest as outlined in the applicable
restricted stock unit agreements and deliver shortly after the
third anniversary of the grant date. All employee restricted
stock unit agreements provide that vesting is accelerated in
certain circumstances, such as upon retirement, death and
extended absence. Of the total restricted stock units
outstanding as of November 2006 and November 2005,
(i) 26.4 million units and 30.1 million units,
respectively, required future service as a condition to the
delivery of the underlying shares of common stock and
(ii) 38.9 million units and 25.0 million units,
respectively, did not require future service. In all cases,
delivery of the underlying shares of common stock is conditioned
on the grantees satisfying certain vesting and other
requirements outlined in the award agreements. When delivering
the underlying shares to employees, the firm generally issues
new shares of common stock, as opposed to reissuing treasury
shares. The activity related to these restricted stock units is
set forth below:

Weighted Average Grant-Date

Restricted Stock

Fair Value of Restricted

Units Outstanding

Stock Units Outstanding

Future

No Future

Future

No Future

Service

Service

Service

Service

Required

Required

Required

Required

Outstanding, November 2005

(1)

30,117,820

24,993,866

$

112.01

$

107.18

Granted

(2)(3)(4)

7,499,157

12,217,441

191.08

200.62

Forfeited

(940,930

)

(189,715

)

109.85

98.95

Delivered

(5)

—

(8,399,126

)

—

92.00

Vested

(4)

(10,295,675

)

10,295,675

101.08

101.08

Outstanding, November 2006

26,380,372

38,918,141

$

138.83

$

138.22



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Stock Options

Stock options granted to employees generally vest as outlined in
the applicable stock option agreement and first become
exercisable on or after the third anniversary of the grant date.

Year-end

stock options
for 2006 and 2005 become exercisable in January 2010 and
January 2009, respectively, and expire on
November 25, 2016 and November 27, 2015,
respectively. Shares received on exercise prior to
January 2011 for

year-end

2006 options
and January 2010 for

year-end

2005 options
can not be sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of until
January 2011 and January 2010, respectively. All
employee stock option agreements provide that vesting is
accelerated in certain circumstances, such as upon retirement,
death and extended absence. In general, all stock options expire
on the tenth anniversary of the grant date, although they may be
subject to earlier termination or cancellation under certain
circumstances in accordance with the terms of the Amended SIP
and the applicable stock option agreement. The dilutive effect
of the firm’s outstanding stock options is included in
“Average common shares
outstanding — Diluted” on the consolidated
statements of earnings.

The activity related to these stock options is set forth below:

Weighted

Aggregate

Weighted Average

Options

Average

Intrinsic Value

Remaining

Outstanding

Exercise Price

(in millions)

Life (years)

Outstanding,
    November 2005

(1)

64,237,687

$

83.24

Granted

(2)

2,937,772

199.84

Exercised

(3)

(21,323,726

)

78.09

Forfeited

(204,637

)

90.27

Outstanding, November 2006

45,647,096

$

93.12

$

4,952

5.31

Exercisable, November 2006

38,781,928

81.87

4,643

4.62

(1)

Includes stock options granted to employees during the year
    ended November 2006 as part of compensation for 2005.

(2)

Includes stock options granted to employees subsequent to
    November 2006 as part of compensation for 2006.

(3)

Includes stock options that were cash settled.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years
ended November 2006, November 2005 and
November 2004 was $1.52 billion, $766 million and
$363 million, respectively.

The options outstanding as of November 2006 are set forth
below:



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The weighted average fair value of options granted for 2006,
2005 and 2004 was $49.96 per option, $32.91 per option
and $32.22 per option, respectively. Fair value was
estimated as of the grant date based on a

Black-Scholes

option-pricing

model

using the following weighted average assumptions:

Year Ended November




Risk-free interest rate

4.6

%

4.5

%

3.4

%

Expected volatility

27.5

30.0

35.0

Dividend yield

0.7

0.9

1.0

Expected life

7.5  years

7.5  years

5  years

The fair value of options granted in 2006 and 2005 reflects an
additional discount for sales restrictions on the shares of
common stock underlying such options that apply until
January 2011 and January 2010, respectively. The
expected life of the options granted in 2006 and 2005 has been
extended to 7.5 years to reflect the estimated impact of
the sales restrictions on the expected life of the awards.

The following table sets forth share-based compensation and the
related tax benefit:

Year Ended November




(in millions)

Share-based compensation

$

3,669

$

1,758

$

1,225

Excess tax benefit related to
    options exercised




Excess tax benefit related to
    share-based
    compensation

(1)




(1)

Represents the tax benefit, recognized in additional

paid-in

capital, on
    stock options exercised and the delivery of common stock
    underlying restricted stock units.

As of November 2006, there was $2.51 billion of total
unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested

share-based

compensation arrangements. This cost is expected to be
recognized over a weighted average period of 2.15 years.

The firm’s stock repurchase program is intended to maintain
its total shareholders’ equity at appropriate levels and to
substantially offset increases in share count over time
resulting from employee

share-based

compensation. The repurchase program has been effected primarily
through regular

open-market

purchases
and is influenced by, among other factors, the level of the
firm’s common shareholders’ equity, its overall
capital position,

share-based

awards and
exercises of employee stock options, the prevailing market price
of its common stock and general market conditions.

Note 13.

Transactions with Affiliated Funds

The firm has formed numerous nonconsolidated investment funds
with

third-party

investors. The firm generally acts as the investment manager for
these funds and, as such, is entitled to receive management fees
and, in certain cases, advisory fees, incentive fees or
overrides from these funds. These fees amounted to
$3.37 billion, $2.08 billion and $1.72 billion
for the years ended November 2006, November 2005 and
November 2004, respectively. As of November 2006 and
November 2005, the fees receivable from these funds were
$362 million and $388 million, respectively.
Additionally, the firm may invest alongside the

third-party

investors in certain funds. The aggregate carrying value of the
firm’s interests in these funds was $3.94 billion and
$2.17 billion as of November 2006 and
November 2005, respectively. In the ordinary course of
business, the firm



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

may also engage in other activities with these funds, including,
among others, securities lending, trade execution, trading and
custody. See Note 6 for the firm’s commitments related
to these funds.

Note 14.

Income Taxes

The components of the net tax expense reflected in the
consolidated statements of earnings are set forth below:

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary
differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
assets and liabilities. These temporary differences result in
taxable or deductible amounts in future years and are measured
using the tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such
differences are expected to reverse.

Significant components of the firm’s deferred tax assets
and liabilities are set forth below:

(1)

Relates primarily to the ability to utilize losses in various
    tax jurisdictions.

The firm permanently reinvests eligible earnings of certain
foreign subsidiaries and, accordingly, does not accrue any
U.S. income taxes that would arise if such earnings were
repatriated. As of



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

November 2006, this policy resulted in an unrecognized net
deferred tax liability of $210 million attributable to
reinvested earnings of $2.90 billion.

During 2006, the valuation allowance was increased by
$75 million, primarily due to the acquisition of deferred
tax assets considered more likely than not to expire unused. Net
operating loss carryforwards were $1.78 billion and
$352 million as of November 2006 and
November 2005, respectively.

The firm had federal net operating loss carryforwards, primarily
resulting from acquisitions, of $203 million and
$24 million as of November 2006 and
November 2005, respectively. The firm recorded a related
net deferred income tax asset of $69 million and
$8 million as of November 2006 and November 2005,
respectively. These carryforwards are subject to annual
limitations on utilization and will begin to expire in 2010.
Acquired alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of
$7 million as of November 2005 were fully utilized in
2006.

The firm had state and local net operating loss carryforwards,
primarily resulting from acquisitions, of $1.52 billion and
$328 million as of November 2006 and
November 2005, respectively. The firm recorded a related
net deferred income tax asset of $31 million and
$24 million as of November 2006 and
November 2005, respectively. These carryforwards are
subject to annual limitations on utilization and will begin to
expire in 2007.

The firm had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of
$50 million as of November 2006 and recorded a related
net deferred income tax asset of $13 million. These
carryforwards are subject to limitation on utilization and can
be carried forward indefinitely.

The firm is subject to examination by the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing authorities in certain
countries, such as Japan, the United Kingdom, Korea and
U.S. states in which the firm has significant business
operations, such as New York. The IRS is currently examining the
firm’s 2003 and 2004 fiscal years. During fiscal 2006, the
Japanese taxing authority concluded their examination of the tax
years 2000 through 2004. During fiscal 2005, the IRS concluded
its examination of fiscal years 1999 through 2002, and New York
State and City substantially concluded their examinations
covering periods through fiscal year 2003. The firm regularly
assesses the likelihood of additional assessments by each
jurisdiction to which the firm pays taxes resulting from the
impact of current and future examinations. Tax reserves have
been established, which the firm believes are adequate in
relation to the potential for additional assessments. The
resolution of tax matters is not expected to have a material
effect on the firm’s financial condition but may be
material to the firm’s operating results for a particular
period, depending, in part, upon the operating results for that
period and the firm’s effective tax rate for that period.

A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax
rate to the firm’s effective income tax rate is set forth
below:

Year Ended November




U.S. federal statutory income
    tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

Increase related to state and local
    taxes, net of U.S. income tax effects

1.6

1.6

1.4

Tax credits

(0.6

)

(1.6

)

(3.6

)

Foreign operations

(1.3

)

(1.2

)

(1.2

)

Tax-exempt income, including
    dividends

(0.4

)

(0.6

)

(0.7

)

Other

0.2

(1.2

)

(1)

0.9

Effective income tax rate

34.5

%

32.0

%

31.8

%

(1)

Primarily includes the effect of audit settlements.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Tax benefits of approximately $653 million in November
2006, $272 million in November 2005 and $330 million
in November 2004, related to the delivery of common stock
underlying restricted stock units and the exercise of options,
were credited directly to “Additional paid-in capital”
in the consolidated statements of financial condition and
changes in shareholders’ equity.

Note 15.

Regulation

The firm is regulated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) as a Consolidated Supervised Entity (CSE).
As such, it is subject to group-wide supervision and examination
by the SEC and to minimum capital requirements on a consolidated
basis. As of November 2006 and November 2005, the firm was in
compliance with the CSE capital requirements.

The firm’s principal U.S. regulated subsidiaries
include Goldman, Sachs & Co. (GS&Co.) and Goldman
Sachs Execution & Clearing, L.P. (GSEC). GS&Co. and
GSEC are registered U.S. broker-dealers and futures
commission merchants subject to
Rule

15c3-1

of the
SEC and Rule 1.17 of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, which specify uniform minimum net capital
requirements, as defined, for their registrants, and also
require that a significant part of the registrants’ assets
be kept in relatively liquid form. GS&Co. and GSEC have
elected to compute their minimum capital requirements in
accordance with the “Alternative Net Capital
Requirement” as permitted by
Rule

15c3-1.

As of
November 2006 and November 2005, GS&Co. and GSEC had net
capital in excess of their minimum capital requirements. In
addition to its alternative minimum net capital requirements,
GS&Co. is also required to hold tentative net capital in
excess of $1 billion and net capital in excess of
$500 million in accordance with the market and credit risk
standards of Appendix E of
Rule

15c3-1.

GS&Co. is also required to notify the SEC in the event that
its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of
November 2006 and November 2005, GS&Co. had tentative net
capital and net capital in excess of both the minimum and the
notification requirements.

Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank), a wholly owned industrial
bank, is regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
and the State of Utah Department of Financial Institutions and
is subject to minimum capital requirements. As of November 2006,
GS Bank was in compliance with all regulatory capital
requirements. GS Bank had approximately $10.59 billion of
interest-bearing deposits as of November 2006, which are
included in “Payables to customers and counterparties”
in the consolidated statements of financial condition.

The firm has U.S. insurance subsidiaries that are subject
to state insurance regulation in the states in which they are
domiciled and in the other states in which they are licensed. In
addition, certain of the firm’s insurance subsidiaries are
regulated by the Bermuda Registrar of Companies. The firm’s
insurance subsidiaries were in compliance with all regulatory
capital requirements as of November 2006 and November 2005.

The firm’s principal

non-U.S.

regulated
subsidiaries include Goldman Sachs International (GSI) and
Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL). GSI, the firm’s
regulated U.K. broker-dealer, is subject to the capital
requirements of the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority.
GSJCL, the firm’s regulated Japanese broker-dealer, is
subject to the capital requirements of Japan’s Financial
Services Agency. Prior to October 1, 2006, Goldman Sachs
(Japan) Ltd. (GSJL), the predecessor to GSJCL, was the primary
regulated subsidiary based in Japan. As of November 2006 and
November 2005, GSI, GSJCL and GSJL were in compliance with
their local capital adequacy requirements. Certain other

non-U.S.

subsidiaries
of the firm are also subject to capital adequacy requirements
promulgated by authorities of the countries in which they
operate. As of November 2006 and November 2005, these
subsidiaries were in compliance with their local capital
adequacy requirements.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

The regulatory requirements referred to above restrict Group
Inc.’s ability to withdraw capital from its regulated
subsidiaries. As of November 2006, approximately
$14.15 billion of net assets of regulated subsidiaries were
restricted as to the payment of dividends to Group Inc.

Note 16.

Business Segments

In reporting to management, the firm’s operating results
are categorized into the following three segments: Investment
Banking, Trading and Principal Investments, and Asset Management
and Securities Services.

Basis of Presentation

In reporting segments, certain of the firm’s business lines
have been aggregated where they have similar economic
characteristics and are similar in each of the following areas:
(i) the nature of the services they provide,
(ii) their methods of distribution, (iii) the types of
clients they serve and (iv) the regulatory environments in
which they operate.

The cost drivers of the firm taken as a whole —
compensation, headcount and levels of business
activity — are broadly similar in each of the
firm’s business segments. Compensation and benefits
expenses within the firm’s segments reflect, among other
factors, the overall performance of the firm as well as the
performance of individual business units. Consequently, pre-tax
margins in one segment of the firm’s business may be
significantly affected by the performance of the firm’s
other business segments.

The firm allocates revenues and expenses among the three
segments. Due to the integrated nature of the business segments,
estimates and judgments have been made in allocating certain
revenue and expense items. Transactions between segments are
based on specific criteria or approximate third-party rates.
Total operating expenses include corporate items that have not
been allocated to individual business segments. The allocation
process is based on the manner in which management views the
business of the firm.

The segment information presented in the table below is prepared
according to the following methodologies:

•

Revenues and expenses directly associated with each segment are
    included in determining pre-tax earnings.

•

Net revenues in the firm’s segments include allocations of
    interest income and interest expense to specific securities,
    commodities and other positions in relation to the cash
    generated by, or funding requirements of, such underlying
    positions. Net interest is included within segment net revenues
    as it is consistent with the way in which management assesses
    segment performance.

•

Overhead expenses not directly allocable to specific segments
    are allocated ratably based on direct segment expenses.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Segment Operating Results

Management believes that the following information provides a
reasonable representation of each segment’s contribution to
consolidated pre-tax earnings and total assets:

(1)

Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, “Cost of power
    generation” in the consolidated statements of earnings was
    reclassified to operating expenses. “Cost of power
    generation” was previously reported as a reduction to
    revenues. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the
    current presentation, with no impact to the firm’s reported
    pre-tax earnings.

(2)

Net revenues include net interest as set forth in the table
    below:

(3)

Includes the following expenses that have not been allocated to
    the firm’s segments: (i) net provisions for a number
    of litigation and regulatory proceedings of $45 million,
    $37 million and $103 million for the years ended
    November 2006, November 2005 and November 2004,
    respectively; (ii) $62 million in connection with the
    establishment of the firm’s joint venture in China for the
    year ended November 2004; and (iii) the amortization of
    employee initial public offering awards, net of forfeitures, of
    $19 million for the year ended November 2004.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

(4)

Pre-tax earnings include total depreciation and amortization as
    set forth in the table below:

(5)

Includes deferred tax assets relating to the firm’s
    conversion to corporate form and certain assets that management
    believes are not allocable to a particular segment for the year
    ended November 2004.

Geographic Information

Due to the highly integrated nature of international financial
markets, the firm manages its businesses based on the
profitability of the enterprise as a whole. Accordingly,
management believes that profitability by geographic region is
not necessarily meaningful. In addition, as a significant
portion of the firm’s activities require cross-border
coordination in order to facilitate the needs of the firm’s
clients, the methodology for allocating the firm’s
profitability to geographic regions is dependent on the judgment
of management. During 2006, the firm amended its methodology for
allocating profitability by geographic region. Prior periods
have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.

Geographic results are generally allocated as follows:

The following table sets forth the total net revenues and
pre-tax earnings of the firm and its consolidated subsidiaries
by geographic region allocated on the methodology described
above:

(1)

Substantially all relates to U.S. results.

(2)

EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa).

(3)

Includes the following expenses that have not been allocated to
    the firm’s segments: (i) net provisions for a number
    of litigation and regulatory proceedings of $45 million,
    $37 million and $103 million for the years ended
    November 2006, November 2005 and November 2004,
    respectively; (ii) $62 million in connection with the
    establishment of the firm’s joint venture in China for the
    year ended November 2004; and (iii) the amortization of
    employee initial public offering awards, net of forfeitures, of
    $19 million for the year ended November 2004.



SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Quarterly Results (unaudited)

The following represents the firm’s unaudited quarterly
results for 2006 and 2005. These quarterly results were prepared
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
reflect all adjustments that are, in the opinion of management,
necessary for a fair statement of the results. These adjustments
are of a normal recurring nature.

(1)

Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, “Cost of power
    generation” in the consolidated statements of earnings was
    reclassified to operating expenses. “Cost of power
    generation” was previously reported as a reduction to
    revenues. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the
    current presentation, with no impact to the firm’s reported
    net earnings.

(2)

The timing and magnitude of changes in the firm’s bonus
    accruals can have a significant effect on results in a given
    quarter.



SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Common Stock Price Range

The following table sets forth, for the quarters indicated, the
high and low sales prices per share of the firm’s common
stock as reported by the Consolidated Tape Association.

Sales Price




High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

First quarter

$

146.35

$

124.23

$

113.93

$

101.79

$

108.00

$

95.73

Second quarter

169.31

139.18

114.25

95.16

109.29

90.08

Third quarter

157.00

136.79

114.87

94.75

95.15

83.29

Fourth quarter

203.35

145.66

134.99

108.86

105.40

88.46

As of January 26, 2007, there were 6,804 holders of record
of the firm’s common stock.

On January 26, 2007, the last reported sales price for the
firm’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was
$213.50 per share.



SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Selected Financial Data



Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
    and Financial Disclosure

There were no changes in or disagreements with accountants on
accounting and financial disclosure during the last two fiscal
years.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

As of the end of the period covered by this report, an
evaluation was carried out by Goldman Sachs’ management,
with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in
Rule

13a-15(e)

under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based upon that
evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures
were effective as of the end of the period covered by this
report. In addition, no change in our internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in
Rule

13a-15(f)

under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) occurred during the
fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended November 24, 2006
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting and the Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm thereon are set forth in Part II,
Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

Item 9B.

Other Information

Not applicable.



PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information relating to the Registrant’s executive officers
is included on pages 43 to 44 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

Information relating to directors of the Registrant, including
its audit committee and audit committee financial experts, and
its executive officers will be in the Registrant’s
definitive Proxy Statement for its 2007 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on March 27, 2007, which will be
filed within 120 days of the end of our fiscal year ended
November 24, 2006 (the 2007 Proxy Statement) and is
incorporated herein by reference. Information relating to the
Registrant’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that
applies to its senior financial officers, as defined in the
Code, is included in Part I, Item 1 of the Annual
Report on
Form

10-K.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

Information relating to the Registrant’s executive officer
and director compensation will be in the 2007 Proxy Statement
and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial
owners of the Registrant’s common stock and information
relating to the security ownership of the Registrant’s
management will be in the 2007 Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.

The following table provides information generally as of
November 24, 2006, the last day of fiscal 2006 (but taking
into consideration equity-based awards granted on
December 15, 2006 in respect of fiscal 2006 performance),
regarding securities to be issued on exercise of stock options,
and securities remaining available for issuance under our equity
compensation plans that were in effect during fiscal 2006.

Number of Securities

Number of

Remaining Available

Securities to be

for Future Issuance

Issued Upon

Weighted-Average

Under Equity

Exercise of

Exercise Price of

Compensation Plans

Outstanding

Outstanding

(Excluding Securities

Options, Warrants

Options, Warrants

Reflected in the

Plan Category

and Rights

and Rights

Second Column)

Equity compensation plans approved
    by security holders

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan

(1)

45,647,096

(2)

$

93.1232

(2)

240,201,596

(3)

Equity compensation plans not
    approved by security holders

None

—

—

—

Total

45,647,096

(2)

240,201,596

(3)(4)

(1)

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the
    SIP) was approved by the shareholders of Goldman Sachs at our
    2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is a successor plan to
    The Goldman Sachs 1999 Stock Incentive Plan (the 1999 Plan),
    which was approved by our shareholders immediately prior to our
    initial public offering in May 1999 and under which no
    additional awards have been granted since approval of the SIP.

(2)

Includes options that are subject to vesting and other
    conditions.

(3)

Of these shares, 65,070,431 shares may be issued pursuant
    to outstanding restricted stock units, including
    64,615,717 shares granted under the SIP and
    454,714 shares granted under the 1999 Plan.



(4)

Represents shares remaining to be issued under the SIP
    (239,746,882 shares) and the 1999 Plan
    (454,714 shares). The total number of shares of common
    stock that may be delivered pursuant to awards granted under the
    SIP initially may not exceed 250,000,000 shares. Beginning
    November 29, 2008 and each fiscal year thereafter, the
    number of shares of common stock that may be delivered pursuant
    to awards granted after April 1, 2003 under the SIP may not
    exceed 5% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock,
    determined as of the last day of the immediately preceding
    fiscal year, increased by the number of shares that were
    available for awards in previous fiscal years but were not, at
    the date of determination, covered by awards granted in previous
    years.

Item 13.                   Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions

Information regarding certain relationships and related
transactions will be in the 2007 Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.                   Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services

Information regarding principal accountant fees and services
will be in the 2007 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein
by reference.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

(a)

Documents filed as part of this Report:

1.     Consolidated Financial Statements

The consolidated financial statements required to be filed in
    the Annual Report on
    Form

10-K

are
    listed on page

F-1

hereof and in Part II, Item 8 hereof.

2.     Financial Statement Schedule

The financial statement schedule required in the Annual Report
    on Form

10-K

is
    listed on page

F-1

hereof. The required schedule appears on
    pages

F-2

through

F-11

hereof.

3.     Exhibits







†

This exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or
    arrangement.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULE

ITEMS 15(a)(1) AND 15(a)(2)

Schedules not listed are omitted because of the absence of the
conditions under which they are required or because the
information is in the consolidated financial statements and
notes thereto.

F-1


SCHEDULE I

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

(PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed
nonconsolidated financial statements.

F-2


SCHEDULE I

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

(PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed
nonconsolidated financial statements.

F-3


SCHEDULE I

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

(PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:

Cash payments for third-party interest, net of capitalized
interest, were $6.11 billion, $3.69 billion and
$1.70 billion for the years ended November 2006, November
2005 and November 2004, respectively.

Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, were
$2.86 billion, $1.52 billion and $284 million for
the years ended November 2006, November 2005 and November 2004,
respectively.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed
nonconsolidated financial statements.

F-4


SCHEDULE I

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

(PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

NOTES TO CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1.

Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation

The condensed nonconsolidated financial statements of The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the parent company), a Delaware
corporation, should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
financial statements of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and
subsidiaries (the firm) and notes thereto (the consolidated
financial statements), which are included in Part II,
Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

These
condensed nonconsolidated financial statements reflect the
results of operations, financial condition and cash flows for
the parent company only. Investments in subsidiaries are
accounted for using the equity method of accounting prescribed
by Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 18,
“The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common
Stock.”

Unless otherwise stated herein, all references to
November 2006, November 2005 and November 2004
refer to the parent company’s fiscal years ended, or the
dates, as the context requires, November 24, 2006,
November 25, 2005 and November 26, 2004,
respectively. Certain reclassifications have been made to
previously reported amounts to conform to the current
presentation.

The parent company’s significant accounting policies are
identical to those used by the firm, to the extent applicable to
the parent company’s activities. For further information
regarding the firm’s significant accounting policies, refer
to Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

Use of Estimates

These condensed nonconsolidated financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles that require management to make certain estimates and
assumptions. The most important of these estimates and
assumptions relate to fair value measurements, the accounting
for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets and the
provision for potential losses that may arise from litigation
and regulatory proceedings and tax audits. Although these and
other estimates and assumptions are based on the best available
information, actual results could be materially different from
these estimates.

Equity Method Investments

Substantially all of the firm’s unsecured funding is raised
by the parent company. The parent company then lends the
necessary funds to its subsidiaries, some of which are
regulated, to meet their asset financing and capital
requirements. In addition, the parent company provides its
regulated subsidiaries with the necessary capital to meet their
regulatory requirements. Such funding is included in “Loans
to subsidiaries” and “Subordinated loans to
subsidiaries” in the condensed nonconsolidated statements
of financial condition. Intercompany exposure is managed by
requiring senior and subordinated intercompany loans to have
maturities equal to or shorter than the maturities of the
aggregate borrowings of the parent company. This policy ensures
that the subsidiaries’ obligations to the parent company
will generally mature in advance of the parent company’s

third-party

borrowings.
In addition, many of the subsidiaries pledge collateral at loan
value to cover their intercompany borrowings (other than
subordinated debt) in order to mitigate parent company liquidity
risk. Equity investments in subsidiaries are generally funded
with equity

F-5


THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

(PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

NOTES TO CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

capital and included in “Investments in subsidiaries”
in the condensed nonconsolidated statements of financial
condition.

The parent company enters into derivative contracts with
subsidiaries to hedge its net investment in

non-U.S.

operations
and to manage the interest rate and currency exposure on its
unsecured

long-term

borrowings and certain unsecured

short-term

borrowings.
To manage exposure on its borrowings, the parent company uses
derivatives to effectively convert a substantial portion of its
unsecured

long-term

borrowings into
U.S.

dollar-based

floating rate obligations. The parent company applies fair value
hedge accounting to derivative contracts that hedge the
benchmark interest rate (i.e., London Interbank Offered Rate
(LIBOR)) on its fixed rate unsecured

long-term

borrowings.
Derivative balances with subsidiaries, included in
“Financial instruments owned, at fair value” and
“Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair
value” in the condensed nonconsolidated statements of
financial condition, were $6.16 billion and
$347 million, and $2.79 billion and $464 million,
as of November 2006 and November 2005, respectively.

Interest income is largely generated from loans made to
subsidiaries.

The parent company also allocates substantially all rental and
other costs relating to properties occupied by certain
subsidiaries. The parent company additionally allocates the cost
of

share-based

compensation programs to subsidiaries relating to costs
associated with employees of those subsidiaries.

Note 2.

Unsecured

Short-Term

Borrowings

The parent company obtains

third-party

unsecured

short-term

borrowings
primarily through the issuance of promissory notes, commercial
paper and hybrid debt instruments. As of November 2006 and
November 2005, these borrowings were $32.63 billion
and $39.98 billion, respectively. Such amounts include the
portion of

third-party

unsecured

long-term

borrowings maturing within one year of the financial statement
date and

third-party

unsecured

long-term

borrowings that are redeemable within one year of the financial
statement date at the option of the holder. The carrying value
of these

short-term

obligations approximates fair value due to their

short-term

nature.

Unsecured

short-term

borrowings with third parties are set forth below:

As of November



(in millions)

Promissory notes

$

13,811

$

17,339

Commercial paper


5,098

Current portion of unsecured
    long-term borrowings

13,755

13,905

Hybrid debt
    instruments

(1)

2,275


Other short-term borrowings

1,848

3,590

Total

(2)

$

32,632

$

39,976

(1)

Hybrid debt instruments are financial instruments that contain
    bifurcatable embedded derivatives, $1.17 billion of which
    were accounted for at fair value under Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 155, “Accounting
    for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments — an
    amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140,” as of
    November 2006.

(2)

The weighted average interest rates for these borrowings were
    5.33% and 4.17% as of November 2006 and November 2005,
    respectively. The weighted average interest rates, after giving
    effect to hedging activities, were 5.36% and 4.16% as of
    November 2006 and November 2005, respectively. The
    weighted average interest rates as of November 2006 excluded
    hybrid debt instruments accounted for at fair value under
    SFAS No. 155.

F-6


THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

(PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

NOTES TO CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

In addition, the parent company may borrow overnight funds from
certain subsidiaries on an unsecured basis. As of
November 2006 and November 2005, such amounts were
$1.54 billion and $1.44 billion, respectively, and
included in “Unsecured

short-term

borrowings — With subsidiaries” in the
condensed nonconsolidated statements of financial condition.

Note 3.

Unsecured

Long-Term

Borrowings

The parent company obtains

third-party

unsecured

long-term

borrowings
that consist principally of senior borrowings with maturities
extending to 2036. As of November 2006 and
November 2005, these borrowings were $119.04 billion
and $79.76 billion, respectively.

Unsecured

long-term

borrowings with third parties are set forth below:

As of November



(in millions)

Fixed rate
    obligations

(1)

U.S. dollar

$

40,008

$

33,053

Non-U.S. dollar

22,739

15,739

Floating rate
    obligations

(2)

U.S. dollar

36,472

22,065

Non-U.S. dollar

19,824

8,899

Total

(3)

$

119,043

$

79,756

(1)

As of both November 2006 and November 2005, interest
    rates on U.S. dollar fixed rate obligations ranged from
    3.88% to 12.00%. As of both November 2006 and
    November 2005, interest rates on

non-U.S.

dollar
    fixed rate obligations ranged from 0.67% to 8.88%.

(2)

Floating interest rates generally are based on LIBOR or the
    federal funds rate. Certain

equity-linked

and
    indexed instruments are included in floating rate obligations.

(3)

Includes $1.98 billion of hybrid financial instruments
    accounted for at fair value under SFAS No. 155 as of
    November 2006.

F-7


THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

(PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

NOTES TO CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Unsecured

long-term

borrowings with third parties by maturity date are set forth
below:

As of November


(1)(2)


(1)(2)

U.S.

Non-U.S.

U.S.

Non-U.S.

Dollar

Dollar

Total

Dollar

Dollar

Total

(in millions)


$

—

$

—

$

—

$

11,193

$


$

11,961


14,645

2,742

17,387

4,705

2,286

6,991


12,435

2,914

15,349

6,091

2,610

8,701


5,064

4,843

9,907

5,192

4,388

9,580


5,703

4,420

10,123

4,431

1,051

5,482

2012-thereafter

38,633

27,644

66,277

23,506

13,535

37,041

Total

$

76,480

$

42,563

$

119,043

$

55,118

$

24,638

$

79,756

(1)

Unsecured

long-term

borrowings maturing within one year of the financial statement
    date and certain unsecured

long-term

borrowings
    that are redeemable within one year of the financial statement
    date at the option of the holder are included as unsecured

short-term

borrowings
    in the condensed nonconsolidated statements of financial
    condition.

(2)

Unsecured

long-term

borrowings that are repayable prior to maturity at the option of
    the parent company are reflected at their contractual maturity
    dates. Unsecured

long-term

borrowings
    that are redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the
    holder are reflected at the dates such options become
    exercisable.

The parent company enters into derivative contracts with
subsidiaries, such as interest rate futures contracts, interest
rate swap agreements, currency swap agreements, and

equity-linked

and
indexed contracts, to effectively convert a substantial portion
of its

third-party

unsecured

long-term

borrowings into
U.S.

dollar-based

floating rate obligations. Accordingly, the carrying value of
these unsecured

long-term

borrowings
approximated fair value as of November 2006 and
November 2005.

The effective weighted average interest rates for unsecured

long-term

borrowings
with third parties are set forth below:

As of November



Amount

Rate

Amount

Rate

($ in millions)

Fixed rate obligations

$


8.98

%

$


6.76

%

Floating rate
    obligations

(1)

118,906

5.73

79,419

4.49

Total

$

119,043

5.73

$

79,756

4.50

(1)

Includes fixed rate obligations that have been converted into
    floating rate obligations through derivative contracts.

F-8


THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

(PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

NOTES TO CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Unsecured

long-term

borrowings with subsidiaries are set forth below:

As of November



(in millions)

Fixed rate
    obligations

(1)

U.S. dollar

$


$


Non-U.S. dollar



Floating rate
    obligations

(2)

U.S. dollar

1,500

1,797

Non-U.S. dollar



Total

$

3,275

$

3,470

(1)

As of both November 2006 and November 2005, interest
    rates on U.S. dollar fixed rate obligations ranged from
    4.68% to 5.78%. As of both November 2006 and
    November 2005, interest rates on

non-U.S.

dollar
    fixed rate obligations ranged from 5.44% to 6.00%.

(2)

Floating interest rates generally are based on LIBOR or the
    federal funds rate.

Unsecured

long-term

borrowings with subsidiaries by maturity date are set forth
below:

As of November


(1)


(1)

U.S.

Non-U.S.

U.S.

Non-U.S.

Dollar

Dollar

Total

Dollar

Dollar

Total

(in millions)


$

—

$

—

$

—

$


$


$



—



—




—



—











2,182

—

2,182

2,182

—

2,182

2012-thereafter

—

—

—

—

—

—

Total

$

2,235

$

1,040

$

3,275

$

2,532

$


$

3,470

(1)

Unsecured

long-term

borrowings maturing within one year of the financial statement
    date and certain unsecured

long-term

borrowings
    that are redeemable within one year of the financial statement
    date at the option of the holder are included as unsecured

short-term

borrowings
    in the condensed nonconsolidated statements of financial
    condition.

Subordinated Borrowings

Unsecured long-term borrowings with third parties include
$7.34 billion and $2.88 billion of subordinated
borrowings as of November 2006 and November 2005, respectively,
as set forth below.

Subordinated Notes.

As of November 2006, the parent
company had $4.50 billion of subordinated notes outstanding
with maturities ranging from 2008 to 2036. The effective
weighted average interest rate on these subordinated notes was
5.45%, after giving effect to derivative contracts used to
convert fixed rate obligations into floating rate obligations.
As of November 2005, the parent company had $40 million of
subordinated notes outstanding maturing in 2008 with an interest
rate of 12.00%. These notes are junior in right of payment to
all of the parent company’s senior indebtedness.

F-9


THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

(PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

NOTES TO CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Refer to Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for
information on junior subordinated debentures issued by the
parent company to Goldman Sachs Capital Trust I (the Trust).

Note 4.

Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees

Commitments

Letters of Credit.

The parent company provides letters of
credit issued by various banks to counterparties in lieu of
securities or cash to satisfy various collateral requirements.
Letters of credit outstanding were $171 million and
$25 million as of November 2006 and
November 2005, respectively.

Merchant Banking Commitments.

The parent company acts as
an investor in merchant banking transactions, which includes
making

long-term

investments in equity and debt instruments in privately
negotiated transactions, corporate acquisitions and real estate
transactions. In connection with these activities, the parent
company had commitments to invest up to $6.34 billion and
$3.49 billion in corporate and real estate investment funds
as of November 2006 and November 2005, respectively.

Construction-Related

Commitments.

As of November 2006 and
November 2005, the parent company had

construction-related

commitments of $2 million and $19 million,
respectively.

Other.

The parent company had other commitments of
$2 million and $305 million as of November 2006
and November 2005, respectively.

Leases.

The parent company has contractual obligations
under

long-term

noncancelable lease agreements, principally for office space,
expiring on various dates through 2029. Certain agreements are
subject to periodic escalation provisions for increases in real
estate taxes and other charges. Future minimum rental payments,
net of minimum sublease rentals, which are generally reimbursed
by subsidiaries, are set forth below:

Contingencies

Refer to Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for
information on contingencies.

F-10


THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

(PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

NOTES TO CONDENSED NONCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS (Continued)

Guarantees

The parent company has guaranteed the payment obligations of
Goldman, Sachs & Co., its principal
U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary (other than nonrecourse
payment obligations). In addition, the parent company guarantees
many of the obligations of its other consolidated subsidiaries
on a

transaction-by-transaction

basis, as negotiated with the counterparty. The parent company
is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under its
subsidiary guarantees; however, because these guaranteed
obligations are also obligations of consolidated subsidiaries
and included in the consolidated statements of financial
condition or disclosed in Note 6 to the consolidated
financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual
Report on
Form

10-K,

the
parent company’s liabilities as guarantor are not
separately disclosed herein.

The following tables set forth certain information about the
parent company’s guarantees as of November 2006 and
November 2005:

As of November 2006

Maximum Payout/Notional Amount by Period of Expiration

(3)

2008 -

2010 -

2012 -




Thereafter

Total

(in millions)

Guarantees of trust preferred

beneficial
    interest

(1)

$174

$349

$349

$6,676

$7,548

Other financial
    guarantees

(2)






As of November 2005

Maximum Payout/Notional Amount by Period of Expiration

(3)

2007 -

2009 -

2011 -




Thereafter

Total

(in millions)

Guarantees of trust preferred

beneficial
    interest

(1)

$174

$349

$349

$6,851

$

7,723

Other financial
    guarantees

(2)






(1)

Includes the guarantee of all payments scheduled to be made over
    the life of the Trust, which could be shortened in the event the
    parent company redeems the junior subordinated debentures issued
    to fund the Trust. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
    Form

10-K

for
    further information regarding the Trust.

(2)

The carrying value of these guarantees was a liability of
    $4 million as of both November 2006 and
    November 2005.

(3)

Such amounts do not represent the anticipated losses in
    connection with these contracts.

Refer to Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

for
further information regarding the parent company’s
guarantees.

F-11


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

By:

/s/

David A. Viniar

Name: David A. Viniar

Title: Chief Financial Officer

Date: February 5, 2007

II-1


POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose
signature appears below constitutes and appoints Lloyd C.
Blankfein, Gary D. Cohn, Jon Winkelried, David A. Viniar,
Gregory K. Palm and Esta E. Stecher, and each of them severally,
his or her true and lawful

attorney-in

-fact with
power of substitution and resubstitution to sign in his or her
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to do any and
all things and execute any and all instruments that such
attorney may deem necessary or advisable under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules, regulations and requirements
of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in
connection with the Annual Report on
Form

10-K

and any
and all amendments hereto, as fully for all intents and purposes
as he or she might or could do in person, and hereby ratifies
and confirms all said

attorneys-in

-fact and
agents, each acting alone, and his or her substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

II-2


II-3