10-K405


y57552e10-k405.htm

FORM 10-K405: THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

FORM 10-K405: THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.


________________________________________________________________________________

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2001

Commission File Number: 001-14965

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Delaware

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

85 Broad Street

New York, N.Y.

(Address of principal executive offices)

13-4019460

(I.R.S. employer

identification no.)


(Zip Code)

(212) 902-1000

(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days: Yes

x

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or
any amendment to this
Form 10-K:

x

As
of February 4, 2002, there were 475,010,197 shares of the
registrant’s common stock outstanding.

As
of February 4, 2002, the aggregate market value of the
common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the
registrant was approximately $35.94 billion.

Documents
incorporated by reference:

Portions of The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc.’s 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders are
incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response to
Part II, Items 5, 6, 7, 7A and 8, and Part IV,
Item 14. Portions of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.’s
Proxy Statement dated February 21, 2002, for its 2002
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 5, 2002,
are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response
to Part III, Items 10, 11, 12 and 13.



The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended
November 30, 2001



PART I

Item 1.

Business

Overview

Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment
banking and securities firm that provides a wide range of
services worldwide to a substantial and diversified client base.
As of November 30, 2001, we operated offices in over 20
countries and approximately 36% of our 22,677 employees were
based outside the United States.

Goldman Sachs is the successor to a commercial
paper business founded in 1869 by Marcus Goldman. On May 7,
1999, we converted from a partnership to a corporation and
completed an initial public offering of our common stock.

All references to 2001, 2000 and 1999 refer to
our fiscal year ended, or the date, as the context requires,
November 30, 2001, November 24, 2000 and
November 26, 1999, respectively.

When we use the terms “Goldman Sachs,”
“we,” “us” and “our,” we mean,
after our conversion to corporate form, The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries
and, prior to our conversion to corporate form, The Goldman
Sachs Group, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and its
consolidated subsidiaries.

Financial information concerning our business
segments and geographic regions for each of 2001, 2000 and 1999
is set forth in “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis,” and the consolidated financial statements and
the notes thereto, in our 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders,
which are incorporated by reference in Part II, Items 5, 6, 7,
7A and 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Business Segments

Our activities are divided into two segments:

•

Global Capital Markets; and

•

Asset Management and Securities Services.



These segments consist of various product and
service offerings that are set forth in the following chart:

Primary Products and Activities by Business
Segment

Global Capital Markets

The Global Capital Markets segment, which
represented 64% of 2001 net revenues, consists of the following:

•

Investment Banking.

Investment Banking consists of our Financial Advisory and
	Underwriting businesses; and

•

Trading and Principal
	Investments.

Trading and Principal
	Investments consists of our Fixed Income, Currency and
	Commodities (“FICC”), Equities and Principal
	Investments businesses.

Investment
Banking

Investment Banking represented 24% of 2001 net
revenues. We provide a broad range of investment banking
services to a diverse group of corporations, financial
institutions, governments and individuals and seek to develop
and maintain long-term relationships with these clients as their
lead investment bank.

Our current structure, which is organized along
regional, product and industry groups, seeks to combine
client-focused investment bankers with execution and industry
expertise. Because our businesses are global, we have adapted
our organization to meet the demands of our clients in each
geographic region. Through our commitment to teamwork, we
believe that we provide services in an integrated fashion for
the benefit of our clients.

Our investment banking activities are divided
into two categories:

•

Financial Advisory.

Financial Advisory includes advisory assignments with respect to
	mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense
	activities, restructurings and spin-offs; and



•

Underwriting.

Underwriting includes public offerings and private placements of
	equity and debt securities.

Financial
Advisory.

Goldman Sachs is a
leading investment bank in worldwide mergers and acquisitions.
Our mergers and acquisitions capabilities are evidenced by our
significant share of assignments in large, complex transactions
for which we provide multiple services, including
“one-stop” acquisition financing, currency hedging and
cross-border structuring expertise.

Underwriting.

We underwrite a wide range of securities and other instruments,
including common and preferred stock, convertible and
exchangeable securities, investment-grade debt, high-yield debt,
sovereign and emerging markets debt, municipal debt, bank loans,
asset-backed securities and real estate-related securities, such
as mortgage-backed securities and the securities of real estate
investment trusts.

Equity Underwriting.

Equity underwriting has been a long-term core strength of
Goldman Sachs. As with mergers and acquisitions, we have been
particularly successful in winning mandates for large, complex
equity underwritings. We believe our leadership in worldwide
initial public offerings and worldwide public common stock
offerings reflects our expertise in complex transactions,
research strength, track record and distribution capabilities.

We believe that a key factor in our equity
underwriting success is the close working relationship among the
investment bankers, sales force and others as coordinated by our
Equity Capital Markets group. With institutional sales
professionals and high-net-worth relationship managers located
in every major market around the world, Goldman Sachs has
relationships with a large and diverse group of investors.

Debt Underwriting.

We engage in the underwriting and origination of various types
of debt instruments that we broadly categorize as follows:

We have employed a focused approach in debt
underwriting, emphasizing high value-added areas in servicing
our clients.

Trading and
Principal Investments

Trading and Principal Investments represented 40%
of 2001 net revenues. Our Trading and Principal Investments
business facilitates transactions with a diverse group of
corporations, financial institutions, governments and
individuals and takes proprietary positions through market
making in, and trading of, fixed income and equity products,
currencies, commodities, and swaps and other derivatives. In
addition, we engage in floor-based and electronic market making
as a specialist on U.S. equities and options exchanges. In
order to meet the needs of our clients, our Trading and
Principal Investments business is diversified across a wide
range of products. For example, we make markets in traditional
investment-grade debt securities, structure complex derivatives
and securitize financial assets. We believe our willingness and
ability to take risk distinguishes us from our competitors and
substantially enhances our client relationships.

Trading and Principal Investments is divided into
three categories:

•

Fixed Income, Currency and
	Commodities.

We make markets in and
	trade fixed income products, currencies and commodities,
	structure and enter into a wide variety of derivative
	transactions, and engage in proprietary trading and arbitrage
	activities;



•

Equities.

We make
	markets in, act as a specialist for, and trade equities and
	equity-related products, structure and enter into equity
	derivative transactions, and engage in proprietary trading and
	equity arbitrage; and

•

Principal
	Investments.

Principal Investments
	primarily represents net revenues from our merchant banking
	investments.

Fixed Income, Currency and
Commodities.

FICC is a large and
diversified operation through which we engage in a variety of
customer-driven market making and proprietary trading and
arbitrage activities. FICC’s principal products are:

We generate trading net revenues from our
customer-driven business in three ways. First, in large, highly
liquid markets, we undertake a high volume of transactions for
modest spreads. Second, by capitalizing on our strong market
relationships and capital position, we also undertake
transactions in less liquid markets where spreads are generally
larger. Finally, we generate net revenues from structuring and
executing transactions that address complex client needs.

In its customer-driven business, FICC strives to
deliver high-quality service by offering broad market-making,
research and market knowledge to our clients on a global basis
and by creating innovative solutions to complex client problems
by drawing upon our structuring and trading expertise. In
addition, we use our expertise to take positions in markets to
facilitate customer transactions when we believe the return is
at least commensurate with the risk.

In our proprietary activities, we assume a
variety of risks and devote substantial resources to identify,
analyze and benefit from these exposures. We leverage our strong
research capabilities and capitalize on our proprietary
analytical models to analyze information and make informed
trading judgments. We seek to benefit from perceived disparities
in the value of assets in the trading markets and from
macroeconomic and company-specific trends.

A core activity in FICC is market making in a
broad array of securities and products. For example, we are a
primary dealer in many of the largest government bond markets
around the world, including the United States, Japan and the
United Kingdom. We are a member of the major futures exchanges,
and also have interbank dealer status in the currency markets in
New York, London, Tokyo and Hong Kong. Our willingness to make
markets in a broad range of fixed income, currency and commodity
products and their derivatives is crucial both to our client
relationships and to support our underwriting business by
providing secondary market liquidity. Our research capabilities
include quantitative and qualitative analyses of global economic,



currency and financial market trends, as well as
credit analyses of corporate and sovereign fixed income
securities.

Equities.

Goldman Sachs engages in a variety of market-making, proprietary
trading and arbitrage activities in equity securities and
equity-related products (such as convertible securities and
equity derivative instruments) on a global basis. Goldman Sachs
makes markets and positions blocks of stock to facilitate
customers’ transactions and to provide liquidity in the
marketplace. Goldman Sachs is a member of most of the major
stock exchanges, including New York, London, Frankfurt, Tokyo
and Hong Kong.

We execute transactions in equity securities and
derivatives for institutional and individual customers that
generate commission revenues. Commissions earned on these
transactions are recorded in Asset Management and Securities
Services.

In equity trading, as in FICC, we generate net
revenues from our customer-driven business in three ways. First,
in large, highly liquid principal markets, we undertake a high
volume of transactions for modest spreads. Second, by
capitalizing on our strong market relationships and capital
position, we also undertake large transactions, such as block
trades and positions in securities, in which we benefit from
spreads that are generally larger. Finally, we also benefit from
structuring complex transactions.

Goldman Sachs is active in the execution of large
block trades (trades of 50,000 or more shares). Block
transactions, however, expose us to significant risks, including
those arising from holding large and concentrated positions. We
are also facing continued pressures on spreads for these trades.

We are active in the listed options and futures
markets, and we structure, distribute and execute
over-the-counter derivatives on market indices, industry groups
and individual company stocks to facilitate customer
transactions and our proprietary activities. We develop
quantitative strategies and render advice with respect to
portfolio hedging and restructuring and asset allocation
transactions. We also create specially tailored instruments to
enable sophisticated investors to undertake hedging strategies
and establish or liquidate investment positions. We are one of
the leading participants in the trading and development of
equity derivative instruments. We are an active participant in
the trading of futures and options on most of the major
exchanges in the United States, Europe and Asia.

Our equity arbitrage trading businesses include
risk arbitrage (which focuses on event-oriented special
situations such as mergers and acquisitions, corporate
restructurings, recapitalizations, and legal and regulatory
events) and statistical arbitrage (which involves trading
strategies based on analyses of historical price relationships
among sectors of the equity markets).

Trading Risk
Management.

We believe that our
trading and market-making capabilities are key ingredients to
our success. While these businesses have generally earned
attractive returns, we have in the past incurred significant
trading losses in periods of market turbulence, such as in 1994
and the second half of 1998.

Our trading risk management process seeks to
balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our
exposure to potential losses. Risk management includes input
from all levels of Goldman Sachs, from the trading desks to the
Firmwide Risk Committee. For a further discussion of our risk
management policies and procedures, see “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis — Risk Management” in the
2001 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated by
reference in Part II, Items 7 and 7A of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

Principal
Investments.

In connection with
our merchant banking activities, we invest by making principal
investments directly and through funds that we raise and manage.
As of November 2001, we managed merchant banking funds with
total equity capital commitments from



our clients and from Goldman Sachs of
$35.16 billion, including funded amounts. Goldman Sachs had
outstanding commitments to invest up to $1.63 billion. The
funds’ investments generate capital appreciation or
depreciation and, upon disposition, realized gains or losses.
See “— Asset Management and Securities
Services — Asset Management — Merchant
Banking” for a discussion of our merchant banking funds. As
of November 2001, the aggregate carrying value of our
principal investments held directly or through our merchant
banking funds was approximately $2.85 billion, which
consisted of corporate principal investments with an aggregate
carrying value of approximately $1.85 billion and real
estate investments with an aggregate carrying value of
approximately $1 billion.

Asset Management and Securities
Services

The components of the Asset Management and
Securities Services segment, which represented 36% of 2001 net
revenues, are set forth below:

•

Asset Management.

Asset Management generates management fees by providing
	investment advisory services to a diverse client base of
	institutions and individuals;

•

Securities Services.

Securities Services includes prime brokerage, financing services
	and securities lending, and our matched book businesses, all of
	which generate revenue primarily in the form of fees or interest
	rate spreads; and

•

Commissions.

Commissions include fees from executing and clearing client
	transactions on major stock, options and futures markets
	worldwide. Commissions also include revenues from the increased
	share of the income and gains derived from our merchant banking
	funds. For a discussion regarding our increased share of the
	income and gains from our merchant banking funds, see
	“— Asset Management — Merchant
	Banking” below.

In January 2002, we began to implement a new
	fee-based pricing structure in our Nasdaq trading business.
	Previously we did not charge explicit fees in this business but
	rather earned market-making revenues based generally on the
	difference between bid and ask prices. Such market-making net
	revenues are reported in our Equities trading results. As a
	result of the change to the fee-based pricing structure, a
	substantial portion of our Nasdaq net revenues will be reported
	in Commissions beginning in the first quarter of 2002.

Asset
Management

We offer a broad array of investment strategies
and advice across all major asset classes: global equity; fixed
income, including money markets; currency; and alternative
investment products (

i.e.

, investment vehicles with
non-traditional investment objectives and/or strategies). We
have devoted, and continue to devote, significant resources to
our asset management business.

Assets under supervision consist of assets under
management and other client assets. Assets under management
typically generate fees based on a percentage of their value and
include our mutual funds, separate accounts managed for
institutional and individual investors, our merchant banking
funds and other alternative investment funds. Other client
assets consist of assets in brokerage accounts of primarily
high-net-worth individuals, for which we earn trading
commissions. Substantially all assets under supervision are
valued as of calendar month-end.



Our growth in assets under supervision is set
forth in the graph below:

Assets Under Supervision

(in billions)

The following table sets forth the amount of
assets under management by asset class:

Assets Under Management by Asset
Class

(in billions)

(1)

Includes merchant banking, quantitative asset
	allocation and other similar funds that we manage.

Clients.

Our
primary clients are institutions, high-net-worth individuals and
retail investors. We access clients through both direct and
third-party channels. Our institutional clients include
corporations, insurance companies, pension funds, foundations
and endowments. In the third-party distribution channel, we
distribute our mutual funds on a worldwide basis through banks,
brokerage firms, insurance companies and other financial
intermediaries.



The table below sets forth the amount of assets
under supervision by distribution channel and client category as
of November 30, 2001:

Assets Under Supervision by Distribution
Channel

(in billions)

(1)

Excludes $22.12 billion in our merchant banking
	funds.

Merchant Banking.

Goldman Sachs has also established
a successful record in the corporate and real estate merchant
banking business, sponsoring private investment funds with
$35.16 billion of committed capital as of
November 2001, of which $22.38 billion has been
funded. We have provided a portion of those amounts, as we
describe above under “— Global Capital
Markets — Trading and Principal
Investments — Principal Investments.” Our
clients, including pension plans, endowments, charitable
institutions and high-net-worth individuals, have provided the
remainder.

Our strategy with respect to our merchant banking
funds generally is to invest opportunistically to build a
portfolio of investments that is diversified by industry,
product type, geographic region and transaction structure and
type. Some of these investment funds pursue, on a global basis,
long-term investments in equity and debt securities in privately
negotiated transactions, leveraged buyouts and acquisitions. As
of November 2001, our corporate merchant banking funds had
total committed capital of $23.26 billion. Other funds, with
total committed capital of $11.90 billion as of November 2001,
invest in real estate operating companies, debt and equity
interests in real estate assets, and other real estate-related
investments.

Merchant banking activities generate three
revenue streams. First, we receive a management fee that is
generally a percentage of a fund’s committed capital,
invested capital, total gross acquisition cost or asset value.
These annual management fees are included in our Asset
Management revenues. Second, Goldman Sachs, as a substantial
investor in these funds, is allocated its proportionate share of
the funds’ unrealized appreciation or depreciation arising
from changes in fair value as well as gains and losses upon
realization. These items are included in the Trading and
Principal Investments component of Global Capital Markets.
Finally, after the fund has achieved a minimum return for fund
investors, we receive an increased share of the fund’s
income and gains that is a percentage, typically 20%, of the
income and gains from the fund’s investments. Revenues from
the increased share of the funds’ income and gains are
included in Commissions.

Securities
Services

Securities Services activities include prime
brokerage, financing services and securities lending. We provide
these services to a diversified U.S. and international customer
base,



including hedge funds, pension funds, mutual
funds, foundations, endowments and high-net-worth individuals.
Securities Services also includes our matched book businesses.

We offer prime brokerage services to our clients,
allowing them the flexibility to trade with most brokers while
maintaining a single source for financing and consolidated
portfolio reports. Our prime brokerage activities provide
clearing and custody in 50 markets, consolidated multi-currency
accounting and reporting and offshore fund administration.
Additionally, we provide financing to our clients for their
securities trading activities through margin and securities
loans that are collateralized by securities, cash or other
acceptable collateral held in the client’s account.

Securities lending activities principally involve
the borrowing and lending of equity securities to cover customer
and Goldman Sachs’ short sales, to make deliveries into the
market and to finance Goldman Sachs’ long positions. In
addition, we are an active participant in the broker-to-broker
securities lending business and the third-party agency lending
business.

Commissions

Goldman Sachs generates commissions from
executing and clearing client transactions on major stock,
options and futures markets worldwide. As discussed above,
commissions also include the increased share of the income and
gains derived from our merchant banking funds.

Global Investment Research

Our Global Investment Research Department
provides fundamental research on economies, debt and equity
markets, commodities markets, industries and companies on a
worldwide basis.

Global Investment Research employs a team
approach that as of November 2001 provided research coverage of
approximately 2,300 companies worldwide, over 50 economies and
25 stock markets. This is accomplished by four groups:

Technology and Internet Strategy

Technology, in general, and the Internet, in
particular, are fundamental to our overall business strategy.
Goldman Sachs is committed to the ongoing development,
maintenance and use of technology throughout the organization.
We have developed significant software and systems over the past
several years. Our technology initiatives can be broadly
categorized into four efforts:

•

enhancing client service through increased
	connectivity and the provision of value-added, tailored services;

•

improving our trading, execution and clearing
	capabilities;



•

risk management; and

•

overall efficiency, productivity and control.

We have tailored our services to our clients by
providing them with electronic access to our products and
services. In particular, we are extending our global electronic
trading and information distribution capabilities to our clients
via the Internet and other forms of electronic connectivity.
These capabilities cover many of our fixed income, currency,
commodity, equity and mutual fund products around the world. We
are also using the Internet to improve the ease and quality of
communication with our institutional and high-net-worth clients.

We believe that Internet technology and
electronic commerce will, over time, change the ways that
securities and other financial products are traded, distributed
and settled, which will create both opportunities and challenges
for our businesses. We remain committed to being at the
forefront of technological innovation in the global capital
markets.

•

In October 2000, we combined with SLK. The
	SLK transaction has extended our leadership in the development
	and application of sophisticated trading, execution and clearing
	technology. For example, SLK is a leading handler of electronic
	order flow on the New York Stock Exchange and a leader in
	developing advanced trading technology, such as its proprietary
	suite of REDI® products. The REDI products give clients
	real-time electronic access to equity and options market centers.

•

We have developed Goldman Sachs
	PrimeAccess™, a proprietary service that delivers Goldman
	Sachs investment research, products and execution services to
	leading brokerage firms in Europe and North America. We
	commenced this service in Europe in September 2000 and North
	America in May 2001.

•

In July 2001, we acquired Epoch Partners,
	Inc. Through this acquisition, we obtained the exclusive right
	to distribute equity offerings, including initial public
	offerings, to Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.’s and TD
	Waterhouse Group, Inc.’s customers.

We have also developed software that enables us
to monitor and analyze our market and credit risks. This risk
management software not only analyzes market risk on firmwide,
divisional and trading desk levels, but also breaks down our
risk into its underlying exposures, permitting management to
evaluate exposures on the basis of specific interest rate,
currency exchange rate, equity price or commodity price changes.
To assist further in the management of our credit exposures,
data from many sources are aggregated daily into credit
management systems that give senior management and professionals
in the Credit and Controllers departments the ability to receive
timely information with respect to credit exposures worldwide,
including netting information, and the ability to analyze
complex risk situations effectively. Our software accesses this
data, allows for quick analysis at the level of individual
trades, and interacts with other Goldman Sachs systems.

Technology has also been a significant factor in
improving the overall efficiency of many areas of Goldman Sachs.
By automating many trading procedures and operational and
accounting processes, we have substantially increased our
efficiency and accuracy.

Employees

Management believes that one of the strengths and
principal reasons for the success of Goldman Sachs is the
quality and dedication of its people and the shared sense of
being part of a team. We strive to maintain a work environment
that fosters professionalism, excellence, diversity and
cooperation among our employees worldwide.

Instilling the Goldman Sachs culture in all
employees is a continuous process, in which training plays an
important part. All employees are offered the opportunity to
participate in education and periodic seminars that we sponsor
at various locations throughout the world.



Another important part of instilling the Goldman
Sachs culture is our employee review process. Employees are
reviewed by supervisors, co-workers and employees they supervise
in a 360-degree review process that is integral to our team
approach.

As of November 2001, we had 22,677
employees, which excludes employees of Goldman Sachs’
property management subsidiaries. Substantially all of the costs
of these property management employees are reimbursed to Goldman
Sachs by the real estate investment funds to which these
subsidiaries provide property management services.

Competition

The financial services industry — and
all of our businesses — are intensely competitive, and
we expect them to remain so. Our competitors are other brokers
and dealers, investment banking firms, insurance companies,
investment advisors, mutual funds, hedge funds, commercial banks
and merchant banks. We compete with some of our competitors
globally and with others on a regional, product or niche basis.
Our competition is based on a number of factors, including
transaction execution, our products and services, innovation,
reputation and price.

We also face intense competition in attracting
and retaining qualified employees. Our ability to continue to
compete effectively in our businesses will depend upon our
ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our
existing employees.

In recent years, there has been substantial
consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial
services industry, due in part to U.S. federal financial
modernization legislation which has expanded the activities
permissible for firms affiliated with a U.S. bank. In
particular, a number of large commercial banks, insurance
companies and other broad-based financial services firms have
established or acquired broker-dealers or have merged with other
financial institutions. Many of these firms have the ability to
offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and
insurance to brokerage, asset management and investment banking
services, which may enhance their competitive position. They
also have the ability to support investment banking and
securities products with commercial banking, insurance and other
financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share,
which could result in pricing pressure in our businesses.
Moreover, we have faced, and expect to continue to face,
pressure to retain market share by committing capital to
businesses or transactions on terms that offer returns that may
not be commensurate with their risks.

The trend toward consolidation and convergence
has significantly increased the capital base and geographic
reach of our competitors. This trend has also hastened the
globalization of the securities and other financial services
markets. As a result, we have had to commit capital to support
our international operations and to execute large global
transactions. In order to take advantage of some of our most
significant challenges and opportunities, we will have to
compete successfully with financial institutions that are larger
and better-capitalized and that may have a stronger local
presence and longer operating history outside the United States.

We have experienced intense price competition in
some of our businesses in recent years. For example, equity and
debt underwriting discounts have been under pressure for a
number of years and the ability to execute trades
electronically, through the Internet and through other
alternative trading systems, may increase the pressure on
trading commissions. It appears that this trend toward
alternative trading systems will continue. Moreover, the
introduction of decimalization has affected spreads in our
market-making business. We believe that we may experience
competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as
some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing
prices.

Recent federal legislation authorizes the trading
of securities futures products, including futures on single
stocks and narrow-based indices and provides additional legal
certainty for over-the-counter derivatives. It is unclear what
the exact impact of the introduction of single



stock futures contracts will be on the businesses
of Goldman Sachs. While commissions and clearing fees may
increase, other aspects of our business may be adversely
affected.

Regulation

Goldman Sachs, as a participant in the securities
and commodity futures and options industries, is subject to
extensive regulation in the United States and elsewhere. As a
matter of public policy, regulatory bodies in the United States
and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the
integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with
protecting the interests of customers participating in those
markets. They are not, however, charged with protecting the
interests of Goldman Sachs’ shareholders or creditors.

In the United States, the SEC is the federal
agency responsible for the administration of the federal
securities laws. Our principal broker-dealer in the United
States is Goldman, Sachs & Co., which is registered as a
broker-dealer and as an investment adviser with the SEC and as a
broker-dealer in all 50 states and the District of Columbia.
Self-regulatory organizations, such as the NYSE and the NASD,
adopt rules and examine broker-dealers such as Goldman, Sachs
& Co. In addition, state securities and other regulators
also have regulatory or oversight authority over Goldman, Sachs
& Co. Similarly, our businesses are also subject to
regulation by various non-U.S. governmental and regulatory
bodies and self-regulatory authorities in virtually all
countries where we have offices. Spear, Leeds & Kellogg,
L.P. and certain of its affiliates are registered U.S.
broker-dealers and are regulated by the SEC, the NYSE and the
NASD. Goldman Sachs Financial Markets, L.P. is registered with
the SEC as an over-the-counter derivatives dealer and conducts
certain over-the-counter derivatives businesses previously
conducted by other affiliates.

Broker-dealers are subject to regulations that
cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales
methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and
safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital
structure, record-keeping, the financing of customers’
purchases, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.
Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by
self-regulatory organizations, or changes in the interpretation
or enforcement of existing laws and rules, either in the United
States or elsewhere, may directly affect the mode of operation
and profitability of Goldman Sachs.

The U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies,
regulatory bodies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as
state securities commissions in the United States, are empowered
to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in
censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, or the
suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer or its directors,
officers or employees. Occasionally, our subsidiaries have been
subject to investigations and proceedings, and sanctions have
been imposed for infractions of various regulations relating to
our activities, none of which has had a material adverse effect
on us or our businesses.

The commodity futures and commodity options
industry in the United States is subject to regulation under the
Commodity Exchange Act, as amended. The Commodity Futures
Trading Commission is the federal agency charged with the
administration of the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations
thereunder. Several of Goldman Sachs’ subsidiaries,
including Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Spear, Leeds &
Kellogg, L.P., are registered with the CFTC and act as futures
commission merchants, commodity pool operators or commodity
trading advisors and are subject to the Commodity Exchange Act
and the regulations thereunder. The rules and regulations of
various self-regulatory organizations, such as the Chicago Board
of Trade, other futures exchanges and the National Futures
Association, also govern the commodity futures and commodity
options businesses of these entities.

As a registered broker-dealer and member of
various self-regulatory organizations, Goldman, Sachs & Co.
is subject to the SEC’s uniform net capital rule,
Rule 15c3-1. This rule specifies the minimum level of net
capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a
significant



part of its assets be kept in relatively liquid
form. Goldman, Sachs & Co. is also subject to the net
capital requirements of the CFTC and various securities and
commodity exchanges. See Note 13 to the consolidated
financial statements incorporated by reference in Part II,
Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The SEC and various self-regulatory organizations
impose rules that require notification when net capital falls
below certain predefined criteria, limit the ratio of
subordinated debt to equity in the regulatory capital
composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a
broker-dealer to expand its business under certain
circumstances. Additionally, the SEC’s uniform net capital
rule imposes certain requirements that may have the effect of
prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing
capital and requiring prior notice to the SEC for certain
withdrawals of capital.

Our specialist businesses are subject to
extensive regulation by a number of securities exchanges. The
rules of these exchanges generally require our specialists to
maintain orderly markets in the securities in which they are
specialists. These requirements, in turn, may require us to
commit significant amounts of capital to our specialist
businesses.

Goldman Sachs has established The Goldman Sachs
Trust Company, N.A., a national bank limited to fiduciary
activities, in order to provide personal trust and estate
administration and related services to its high-net-worth
clients on a nationwide basis. GSTC maintains collective
investment funds for eligible pension and profit sharing plan
clients. As a national bank, GSTC is subject to regulation by
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and is a member
bank of the Federal Reserve System. GSTC will not accept
deposits or make loans and, as a result, it is not considered to
be a bank for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act. It also
does not carry FDIC insurance and is not subject to the
requirements of the Community Reinvestment Act. GSTC opened for
business on October 1, 2001.

Goldman Sachs is an active participant in the
international fixed income and equity markets. Many of our
affiliates that participate in those markets are subject to
comprehensive regulations that include some form of capital
adequacy rule and other customer protection rules. Goldman Sachs
provides investment services in and from the United Kingdom
under the regulation of The Financial Services Authority.
Various Goldman Sachs entities operating in Europe are also
regulated by, among others, the Bundesbank and other regulatory
authorities in Germany, by French and Swiss banking authorities,
by the London Stock Exchange and by other securities,
derivatives and commodities exchanges of which they are members.
The investment services that are subject to oversight by the FSA
and other European regulators are regulated in accordance with
European Union directives requiring, among other things,
compliance with certain capital adequacy standards, customer
protection requirements and conduct of business rules. These
standards, requirements and rules are similarly implemented,
under the same directives, throughout the European Union and are
broadly comparable in scope and purpose to the regulatory
capital and customer protection requirements imposed under the
SEC and CFTC rules. European Union directives also permit local
regulation in each jurisdiction, including those in which we
operate, to be more restrictive than the requirements of such
directives and these local requirements can result in certain
competitive disadvantages to Goldman Sachs.

In addition, the Financial Services Agency, the
Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities Exchange, the Tokyo
International Financial Futures Exchange and the Japan
Securities Dealers Association in Japan, the Securities and
Futures Commission in Hong Kong, and the Monetary Authority of
Singapore in Singapore, among others, regulate various of our
subsidiaries in Asia and also have capital standards and other
requirements comparable to the rules of the SEC.

Compliance with net capital requirements of these
and other regulators could limit those operations of our
subsidiaries that require the intensive use of capital, such as
underwriting and trading activities, specialist activities and
the financing of customer account balances, and also



could restrict our ability to withdraw capital
from our regulated subsidiaries, which in turn could limit our
ability to repay debt or pay dividends on our common stock.

Certain Factors That May Affect Our
Business

As an investment banking and securities firm, our
businesses are materially affected by conditions in the
financial markets and economic conditions generally, both in the
United States and elsewhere around the world. In recent years,
the financial markets in the United States and elsewhere have
been volatile and a number of financial indices have declined
substantially. The terrorist attack of September 11, 2001
and related developments have created further uncertainty in the
financial markets and have negatively impacted the U.S. economy.

Uncertain or unfavorable economic and market
conditions may adversely affect our business and profitability
in many ways, including the following:

In addition to the foregoing, we face a number of
other risks that may adversely affect our business, financial
condition and results.

For example, if any of the variety of instruments
and strategies we utilize to hedge or otherwise manage our
exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may
incur losses. Our hedging strategies and other risk management
techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk
exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk.

Liquidity,

i.e.

, ready access to funds, is
essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be impaired by
an inability to access the long-term or short-term debt markets,
an inability to access the repurchase and securities lending
markets, or an inability to sell assets. This situation may
arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control,
such as a general market disruption, perceptions about our
creditworthiness or an operational problem that affects third
parties or us. Further, our ability to sell assets may be
impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell
similar assets at the same time.

Our credit ratings are important to our
liquidity. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely
affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our
borrowing costs or trigger our



obligations under certain bilateral provisions in
some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts.
Under such provisions, counterparties could be permitted to
terminate such contracts with Goldman Sachs or require us to
post additional collateral. Termination of our trading and
collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain
losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to make
significant cash payments.

We are exposed to the risk that third parties
that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform
their obligations. These parties may default on their
obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity,
operational failure or other reasons. The amount and duration of
our credit exposures have been increasing over the past several
years. In addition, we have also experienced, due to competitive
factors, pressure to extend credit against less liquid
collateral and price more aggressively the credit risks we take.
In particular, as a clearing member firm, we finance our
customer positions and we could be held responsible for the
defaults or misconduct of our customers. Although we regularly
review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties
and to specific industries, countries and regions that we
believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from
events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee.
In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution
could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults
by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect
Goldman Sachs.

Our businesses are highly dependent on our
ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of
transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many
currencies, and the transactions we process have become
increasingly complex. If any of our financial, accounting or
other data processing systems do not operate properly or are
disabled, we could suffer an impairment to our liquidity,
financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to
clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. These
systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a
result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our
control, including a disruption of electrical or communications
services or our inability to occupy one or more of our
buildings. The inability of our systems to accommodate an
increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our
ability to expand our businesses.

Our ability to conduct business may be adversely
impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our
businesses and the communities in which they are located. This
may include a disruption involving electrical, communications,
transportation or other services used by Goldman Sachs or third
parties with which we conduct business. These disruptions may
occur, for example, as a result of events that affect only the
buildings of Goldman Sachs or such third parties, or as a result
of events with a broader impact on the cities where those
buildings are located. Nearly all of our employees in our
primary locations, including New York, London, Frankfurt, Hong
Kong and Tokyo, work in close proximity to each other, in one or
more buildings. If a disruption occurs in one location and our
employees in that location are unable to communicate with or
travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact
with our clients may suffer and we may not be able to
successfully implement contingency plans that depend on
communication or travel.

Substantial legal liability or a significant
regulatory action against Goldman Sachs could have a material
adverse financial effect or cause significant reputational harm
to Goldman Sachs, which in turn could seriously harm our
business prospects. We face significant legal risks in our
businesses and the volume and amount of damages claimed in
litigation against financial intermediaries are increasing. In
addition, we would expect legal claims by customers and clients
to increase in a market downturn.

Goldman Sachs, as a participant in the financial
services industry, is subject to extensive regulation in
jurisdictions around the world. We face the risk of significant
intervention by regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in
which we conduct business. Among other things, we could be fined
or prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities.
New laws or



regulations or changes in enforcement of existing
laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely
affect our businesses.

There have been a number of highly publicized
cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the
financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk
that employee misconduct could occur. It is not always possible
to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to
prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all
cases.

The financial services industry — and
all of our businesses — are intensely competitive, and
we expect them to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number
of factors, including transaction execution, our products and
services, innovation, reputation and price. We believe that we
may experience pricing pressures in the future as some of our
competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. In
recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and
convergence among companies in the financial services industry.
U.S. federal financial modernization legislation, which
significantly expands the activities permissible for firms
affiliated with a U.S. bank, may accelerate this consolidation
and further increase competition. This trend toward
consolidation and convergence has significantly increased the
capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. This trend
has also hastened the globalization of the securities and other
financial services markets. As a result, we have had to commit
capital to support our international operations and to execute
large global transactions.

Technology is fundamental to our overall business
strategy. The growth of the Internet and e-commerce, and the
introduction of new technologies, is changing our business and
presenting us with new challenges. Securities and futures
transactions are now being conducted through the Internet and
other alternative, non-traditional trading systems, and it
appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will
continue and probably accelerate. Some of these alternative
trading systems compete with our trading businesses, including
our specialist businesses. A dramatic increase in electronic
trading may adversely affect our commission and trading
revenues, including our market-making revenues, reduce our
participation in the trading markets and associated access to
market information and lead to the creation of new and stronger
competitors. These developments may also require us to make
additional investments in technology or trading systems.

Our performance is largely dependent on the
talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Competition
in the financial services industry for qualified employees is
intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively in our
businesses depends on our ability to attract new employees and
to retain and motivate our existing employees. The steps we have
taken to encourage the continued service of employees may not be
effective.

We expect to achieve growth in our core
businesses principally through internal expansion and also
through acquisitions. To the extent we make acquisitions or
enter into combinations, such as our combination with SLK, we
face numerous risks and uncertainties combining the businesses
and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data
processing systems and management controls and to integrate
relationships with customers and business partners. We may not
be able to meet these operational and business challenges.

Because The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is a
holding company, it depends on dividends, distributions and
other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments
and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt
obligations. Many of our subsidiaries, including Goldman, Sachs
& Co., our principal U.S. subsidiary, are subject to laws
that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of
funds from those subsidiaries to The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. needs to make dividend payments or
payments on obligations, including debt obligations.



In conducting our businesses in major markets
around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal,
operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in
many countries, including risks of possible nationalization,
expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange
controls and other restrictive governmental actions. In many
countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities
and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving,
and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact
requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to
remain in compliance with local laws in a particular foreign
market could have a significant and negative effect not only on
our businesses in that market but also on our reputation
generally. We are also subject to the risk that transactions we
structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases.

In the last several years, various emerging
market countries have experienced severe economic and financial
disruptions, including significant devaluations of their
currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or
negative growth rates in their economies. The possible effects
of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses
and increased volatility in financial markets generally.

A significant amount of our outstanding shares of
common stock are held by our former limited partners. While
these shares are subject to restrictions on transfer, our board
of directors and/or the shareholders’ committee under our
shareholders’ agreement have in the past waived, and may in
the future from time to time waive, these transfer restrictions.
Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the
perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the
prevailing market price of our common stock.

Cautionary Statement Pursuant to The Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995

We have included or incorporated by reference in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and from time to time our
management may make, statements that may constitute
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the
safe harbor provisions of The Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not
historical facts but instead represent only our belief regarding
future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently
uncertain and outside of our control. These statements include
statements other than historical information or statements of
current condition and may relate to our future plans and
objectives and results, among other things, and may also include
our belief regarding the effect of various legal proceedings, as
set forth under “Legal Proceedings” in Part I,
Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and
statements about our investment banking transaction backlog
incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 7 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. It is possible that our actual
results may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated
results indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important
factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in
the forward-looking statements include, among others, those
discussed below and under “— Certain Factors That
May Affect Our Business.”

In the case of statements about our investment
banking transaction backlog, such statements are subject to the
risk that the terms of these transactions may be modified or
that they may not be completed at all; therefore, the net
revenues that we expect to earn from these transactions may
differ, possibly materially, from those currently expected.
Important factors that could result in a modification of the
terms of a transaction or a transaction not being completed
include, in the case of underwriting transactions, a decline in
general economic conditions, volatility in the securities
markets generally or an adverse development with respect to the
issuer of the securities and, in the case of financial advisory
transactions, a decline in the securities markets, an adverse
development with respect to a party to the transaction or a
failure to obtain a required regulatory approval.



Item 2.

Properties

Our principal executive offices are located at
85 Broad Street, New York, New York, and comprise
approximately 969,000 square feet of leased space, pursuant to a
lease agreement expiring in June 2008 (with options to
renew for up to 20 additional years). We also occupy over
680,000 square feet at One New York Plaza under lease agreements
expiring primarily in September 2004 (with options to renew
for up to ten additional years), and we lease space at various
other locations in the New York metropolitan area. In total, we
lease over 5.1 million square feet in the New York
metropolitan area. We have additional offices in the United
States and elsewhere in the Americas. Together, these offices
comprise approximately 1.7 million square feet of leased
space.

We own approximately four acres of land in Jersey
City, New Jersey that we are using for the construction of an
office complex. This project is being developed to complement
our offices in lower Manhattan. The initial phase of development
is expected to include approximately 2.1 million square
feet of office space, with occupancy planned in phases beginning
in 2004.

We also have offices in Europe, Asia, Africa and
Australia. In Europe, we have offices that total approximately
1.8 million square feet. Our European headquarters is
located in London at Peterborough Court, pursuant to a lease
which expires in 2016. In total, we lease approximately
1.4 million square feet in London through various leases,
relating to various properties.

In Asia and Australia, we have offices that total
approximately 1 million square feet. Our headquarters in
this region are in Tokyo, at the ARK Mori Building, and in Hong
Kong, at the Cheung Kong Center. In Tokyo we currently lease
approximately 380,000 square feet under renewable leases with
current terms extending, in some cases, to June 2005. In
Hong Kong, we currently lease approximately 300,000 square feet
under lease agreements, the majority of which expire in fiscal
2012.

Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

We are involved in a number of judicial,
regulatory and arbitration proceedings (including those
described below) concerning matters arising in connection with
the conduct of our businesses. We believe, based on currently
available information, that the results of such proceedings, in
the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, but might be material to our operating
results for any particular period, depending, in part, upon the
operating results for such period.

IPO Process
Matters

Goldman, Sachs & Co. is one of numerous
financial services companies that have been named as defendants
in certain purported class actions brought in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York by purchasers of
securities in public offerings, who claim that the defendants
engaged in conspiracies in violation of federal antitrust laws
in connection with these offerings. The plaintiffs in each
instance seek treble damages as well as injunctive relief. One
of the actions, which was commenced on August 21, 1998,
alleges that the defendants have conspired to discourage or
restrict the resale of securities for a period after the
offerings, including by imposing “penalty bids”.
Defendants moved to dismiss the complaint in November 1998.
The plaintiffs amended their complaint in February 1999,
modifying their claims in various ways, including limiting the
proposed class to retail purchasers of public offerings. The
defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint on May 7,
1999, the motion was granted by a decision dated
December 7, 2000, and the plaintiffs’ motion for
reconsideration of that decision was denied by an order dated
January 22, 2001. Plaintiffs have appealed to the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit from the dismissal of
their complaint.



Several other actions were commenced, beginning
on November 3, 1998 by purchasers of securities in public
offerings as well as certain purported issuers of such
offerings, that allege that the defendants, many of whom are
also named in the other action discussed above, have conspired
to fix at 7% the discount that underwriting syndicates receive
from issuers of shares in certain offerings. On March 15,
1999, the purchaser plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended
complaint. The defendants moved to dismiss the consolidated
amended complaint on April 29, 1999. On February 14,
2001, the federal district court granted with prejudice the
defendants’ motion to dismiss the claims asserted by the
purchasers of securities, and the plaintiffs in those actions
have appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit from the dismissal. On September 28, 2001, the
defendants moved to dismiss the complaints filed by the issuer
plaintiffs.

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is one of numerous
financial services firms that have been named as defendants in
purported class actions filed beginning on March 9, 2001 in
the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York by
purchasers of securities in public offerings, who claim that the
defendants engaged in a conspiracy to “tie”
allocations in certain offerings to higher customer brokerage
commission rates as well as purchase orders in the aftermarket,
in violation of federal antitrust laws. The plaintiffs filed a
consolidated amended complaint on January 2, 2002. The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. has also, together with other
underwriters in certain offerings as well as the issuers and
certain of their officers and directors, been named as a
defendant in a number of related lawsuits alleging, among other
things, that the prospectuses for the offerings violated the
federal securities laws by failing to disclose the existence of
the alleged “tying” arrangements. In addition, The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. has, together with other underwriters
in certain offerings, received subpoenas for documents and
information from various governmental agencies in connection
with an investigation relating to allocations in public
offerings. Goldman Sachs is cooperating with the investigation.

Stock Options
Antitrust Litigation

Hull Trading Co. L.L.C. and Spear, Leeds &
Kellogg, L.P., affiliates of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., are
among the numerous market makers in listed equity options which
have been named as defendants, together with five national
securities exchanges, in a purported class action brought in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on
behalf of persons who purchased or sold listed equity options.
The consolidated class action complaint, filed on
October 4, 1999 (which consolidated certain previously
pending actions and added Hull Trading Co. L.L.C. and other
market makers as defendants), generally alleges that the
defendants engaged in a conspiracy to preclude the multiple
listing of certain equity options on the exchanges and seeks
treble damages under the antitrust laws as well as injunctive
relief. Certain of the parties, including Hull Trading Co.
L.L.C. and Spear, Leeds & Kellogg, L.P., have entered into a
stipulation of settlement, subject to court approval, pursuant
to which Hull Trading Co. L.L.C. will be required to pay an
aggregate of $2.48 million and Spear, Leeds & Kellogg,
L.P. an aggregate of $19.59 million. On February 14,
2001, the Court granted the motion of certain non-settling
defendants for summary judgment. By a decision dated
April 24, 2001, the district court ruled that in light of
that order granting summary judgment, the court lacked
jurisdiction to entertain the proposed settlement. Plaintiffs
have appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.

Rockefeller
Center Properties, Inc. Litigation

Several former shareholders of Rockefeller Center
Properties, Inc. brought purported class actions in the U.S.
District Court for the District of Delaware and the Delaware
Court of Chancery arising from the acquisition of Rockefeller
Center Properties, Inc. by an investor group in July 1996.
The defendants in the actions include, among others, Goldman,
Sachs & Co., Whitehall Real Estate Partnership V, a merchant
banking fund advised by Goldman, Sachs & Co., a



Goldman, Sachs & Co. managing director and
other members of the investor group. The federal court actions,
which have since been consolidated, were filed beginning on
November 15, 1996, and the state court action was filed on
May 29, 1998.

The complaints generally allege that the proxy
statement disseminated to former Rockefeller Center Properties,
Inc. stockholders in connection with the transaction was
deficient, in violation of the disclosure requirements of the
federal securities laws. The plaintiffs are seeking, among other
things, unspecified damages, rescission of the acquisition,
and/or disgorgement.

In a series of decisions, the federal district
court granted summary judgment dismissing all the claims in the
federal action. The plaintiffs appealed those rulings. On
July 19, 1999, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit rendered its decision affirming in part and vacating in
part the lower court’s entry of summary judgment dismissing
the action. With respect to the claim as to which summary
judgment was vacated, the appellate court held that the district
court had committed a procedural error in converting the
defendants’ motion to dismiss into a motion for summary
judgment and remanded for the district court to reconsider that
claim under appropriate standards applicable to motions to
dismiss. Plaintiffs subsequently amended their complaint as to
the remanded claim, defendants renewed their motion to dismiss
with respect to the amended complaint, and the motion was
granted by the federal district court on March 12, 2001.
Plaintiffs have appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Third Circuit from the dismissal order.

The state action has been stayed pending
disposition of the federal action.

AMF
Securities Litigation

The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P., Goldman, Sachs
& Co. and a Goldman, Sachs & Co. managing director have
been named as defendants in several purported class action
lawsuits beginning on April 27, 1999 in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York brought on behalf of
purchasers of stock of AMF Bowling, Inc. in an underwritten
initial public offering of 15,525,000 shares of common stock in
November 1997 at a price of $19.50 per share. Defendants
are AMF Bowling, Inc., certain officers and directors of AMF
Bowling, Inc. (including the Goldman, Sachs & Co. managing
director), and the lead underwriters of the offering (including
Goldman, Sachs & Co.). The consolidated amended complaint
alleges violations of the disclosure requirements of the federal
securities laws and seeks compensatory damages and/or
rescission. The complaint also asserts that The Goldman Sachs
Group, L.P. and the Goldman, Sachs & Co. managing director
are liable as controlling persons of AMF Bowling, Inc. under the
federal securities laws because certain merchant banking funds
managed by Goldman Sachs owned a majority of the outstanding
common stock of AMF Bowling, Inc. and the managing director
served as its chairman at the time of the offering. On
December 22, 1999, the defendants moved to dismiss the
complaint. By a decision dated March 22, 2001, the federal
district court denied the motion. On July 30, 2001, AMF
Bowling, Inc. filed for protection under the U.S. bankruptcy
laws.

Iridium
Securities Litigation

Goldman, Sachs & Co. has been named as a
defendant in two purported class action lawsuits commenced,
beginning on May 26, 1999, in the U.S. District Court for
the District of Columbia brought on behalf of purchasers of
Class A common stock of Iridium World Communications, Ltd.
in a January 1999 underwritten secondary offering of
7,500,000 shares of Class A common stock at a price of
$33.40 per share, as well as in the secondary market. The
defendants in the actions include Iridium, certain of its
officers and directors, Motorola, Inc. (an investor in Iridium)
and the lead underwriters in the offering, including Goldman,
Sachs & Co.

The complaints in both actions allege violations
of the disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws
and seek compensatory and/or rescissory damages. Goldman, Sachs
& Co.



underwrote 996,500 shares of common stock and
Goldman Sachs International underwrote 320,625 shares of common
stock for a total offering price of approximately
$44 million.

On August 13, 1999, Iridium World
Communications, Ltd. filed for protection under the U.S.
bankruptcy laws.

Laidlaw
Bondholders Litigation

Goldman, Sachs & Co. has been named as a
defendant in a purported class action filed on
September 22, 2000 in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York arising from certain offerings of
debentures by Laidlaw, Inc. from 1997 to 1999. The defendants
include Laidlaw, certain of its officers and directors, the lead
underwriters for the offerings (including Goldman, Sachs &
Co., which was lead manager in the offerings), and
Laidlaw’s outside auditors. The offerings included a total
of $1.125 billion principal amount of debentures, of which
Goldman, Sachs & Co. underwrote $286.25 million. On
June 28, 2001, Laidlaw, Inc. filed for bankruptcy
protection.

The lawsuit, brought by certain institutional
purchasers of the debentures, alleges that the prospectuses
issued in connection with the offerings were false and
misleading in violation of the disclosure requirements of the
federal securities laws. The plaintiffs are seeking, among other
things, unspecified damages. By an order of the Judicial Panel
on Multi-District Litigation filed on April 19, 2001, the
lawsuit was transferred to the U.S. District Court for the
District of South Carolina for purposes of consolidated or
coordinated pretrial proceedings with related actions in that
court pertaining to Safety Kleen Corporation and Laidlaw, Inc.
On January 8, 2002, the parties entered into a Preliminary
Memorandum of Understanding with respect to a settlement of the
lawsuit pursuant to which Goldman, Sachs & Co. would
contribute approximately $2.5 million toward a settlement
fund. The settlement is subject to, among other things, the
execution of a definitive settlement agreement, various court
approvals and the confirmation of a satisfactory plan of
reorganization of Laidlaw, Inc.

World Online
Litigation

Several lawsuits have been commenced in the
Netherlands courts based on alleged misstatements and omissions
relating to the initial public offering of World Online in
March 2000. Goldman Sachs and ABN AMRO Rothschild served as
joint global coordinators of the offering, which raised
approximately

€

2.9 billion.
Goldman Sachs International underwrote 20,268,846 shares and
Goldman, Sachs & Co. underwrote 6,756,282 shares for a total
offering price of approximately

€

1.16 billion.

On September 11, 2000, several Dutch World
Online shareholders as well as a Dutch entity purporting to
represent the interests of certain World Online shareholders
commenced a proceeding in Amsterdam District Court against
“ABN AMRO Bank N.V., also acting under the name of ABN AMRO
Rothschild”, alleging misrepresentations and omissions
relating to the initial public offering of World Online. The
lawsuit seeks, among other things, the return of the purchase
price of the shares purchased by the plaintiffs or unspecified
damages.

In March 2001, a Dutch shareholders
association initiated legal proceedings in Amsterdam District
Court in connection with the World Online offering. Goldman
Sachs International is named as a defendant in the writ served
on its Dutch attorneys on March 14, 2001. The amount of
damages sought is not specified in the writ. Goldman Sachs
International filed its Statement of Defense on January 16,
2002.

Owens
Corning, Inc. Bondholder Litigation

Goldman, Sachs & Co. has been named as a
defendant in a purported class action filed on April 27,
2001 in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Massachusetts arising from a 1998



offering by Owens Corning, Inc. of two series of
its notes. The defendants include certain of Owens
Corning’s officers and directors and the underwriters for
the offering (including Goldman, Sachs & Co., which was the
lead manager in the offering). The offering included a total of
$550 million principal amount of notes, of which Goldman,
Sachs & Co. underwrote $275 million.

The lawsuit, brought by certain institutional
purchasers of the notes, alleges that the prospectus issued in
connection with the offering was false and misleading in
violation of the disclosure requirements of the federal
securities laws. The plaintiffs are seeking, among other things,
unspecified damages. The underwriter defendants moved to dismiss
the complaint on November 14, 2001.

Research
Independence Matters

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its affiliates,
together with other financial services firms, have received
requests for information from various governmental agencies in
connection with their review of research independence issues.
Goldman Sachs is cooperating with their requests. The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. is among several financial services firms that
have been named as defendants in a purported class action filed
in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
on August 2, 2001 on behalf of purchasers on and after
August 1, 1998 of securities of Internet and information
technology companies for which the defendants issued research
reports. The complaint alleges that the defendants violated the
disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws by
failing to disclose that (i) they caused their analysts to
issue recommendations in order to obtain investment banking
business, (ii) they and their employees bought recommended
shares at low prices before they were sold to the public, and
(iii) they purposely failed to maintain proper compliance
procedures to prevent misleading research recommendations. The
complaint also contends that defendants’ alleged conduct
constituted a breach of fiduciary duty and violated unspecified
state laws. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages.

Enron
Exchangeable Notes Litigation

Goldman, Sachs & Co. has been named as a
defendant in a purported securities class action commenced on
December 14, 2001 in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of Texas brought on behalf of purchasers of
$222,500,000 of Exchangeable Notes of Enron Corp. in
August 1999. The notes are mandatorily exchangeable in 2002
into shares of Enron Oil & Gas Company held by Enron Corp.
or their cash equivalent. The complaint names as defendants
certain past and present officers and directors of Enron Corp.,
the company’s outside accounting firm, and the three
underwriters of the August 1999 offering (including
Goldman, Sachs & Co.). The complaint generally alleges
violations of the disclosure requirements of the federal
securities laws and seeks compensatory damages. Goldman, Sachs
& Co. underwrote $111,250,000 principal amount of the notes.

Several funds which allegedly sustained
investment losses of approximately $125 million in
connection with secondary market purchases of the notes as well
as Zero Coupon Convertible Notes of Enron Corp. commenced an
action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
New York on January 16, 2002. The lawsuit names as
defendants the underwriters of the August 1999 offering as
well as the company’s outside accounting firm, and alleges
violations of the disclosure requirements of the federal
securities laws, fraud and misrepresentation.

On December 2, 2001, Enron Corp. filed for
protection under the U.S. bankruptcy laws.

Item 4.

Matters
Submitted to a Vote of Security Holders

There were no matters submitted to a vote of
security holders during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year
ended November 30, 2001.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP,
INC.

Set forth below are the name, age, present title,
principal occupation, and certain biographical information for
the past five years for our executive officers as of
February 1, 2002, all of whom have been appointed by and
serve at the pleasure of our board of directors.

Henry
M. Paulson, Jr., 55

Mr. Paulson has been Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. since
May 1999, and has been a director since August 1998.
He was Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or Co-Chief
Executive Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. from
June 1998 to May 1999 and served as Chief Operating
Officer from December 1994 to June 1998.
Mr. Paulson is a member of the Board of Directors of the
NYSE, a director and a member of the Executive Committee of the
New York City Investment Fund and a member of the Board of
Directors of the Peregrine Fund, Inc. He is also Co-Chairman of
the Asia/ Pacific Council of The Nature Conservancy.
Mr. Paulson serves on the Advisory Board of the
J.L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern
University and on the Board of Directors of the Associates of
Harvard Business School and is Chairman of the Advisory Board of
the Tsinghua University School of Economics and Management. In
addition, he is a member of the Governing Board of the Indian
School of Business.

Robert
J. Hurst, 56

Mr. Hurst has been Vice Chairman of The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. since May 1999, and has been a
director since August 1998. In December 2001, Mr.
Hurst was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the 9/11 United
Services Group, an umbrella group of leading non-profit
organizations and human services agencies formed to coordinate
and speed assistance to all those affected in New York City by
the events of September 11, 2001. He was Vice Chairman of
The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. from February 1997 to
May 1999 and served as Head or Co-Head of Investment
Banking from December 1990 to November 1999.
Mr. Hurst is a director of VF Corporation, IDB Holding
Corporation Ltd. and AirClic Inc. and is on the Board of
Overseers of the Wharton School. He is also a member of the
Council on Foreign Relations, the Committee for Economic
Development and the Manhattan Institute. He is Chairman of the
Board of the Jewish Museum, a trustee and Vice Chairman of the
Board of the Whitney Museum of American Art, a member of the
Trustees’ Council of the National Gallery of Art and a
director of the National Foundation for Teaching
Entrepreneurship.

John
A. Thain, 46

Mr. Thain has been President and Co-Chief
Operating Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. since
May 1999, and has been a director since August 1998.
He was President of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. from
March 1999 to May 1999 and Co-Chief Operating Officer
from January 1999 to May 1999. From December 1994 to
March 1999, he served as Chief Financial Officer and Head
of Operations, Technology and Finance. From July 1995 to
September 1997, he was also Co-Chief Executive Officer for
European Operations. Mr. Thain is a member of The MIT
Corporation, the Dean’s Advisory Council — MIT/
Sloan School of Management, INSEAD — U.S. National
Advisory Board, the James Madison Council of the Library of
Congress and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s
International Capital Markets Advisory Committee. He is also a
member of the French-American Foundation, the Board of Trustees
of the National Urban League and The Trilateral Commission, as
well as a governor of the New York-Presbyterian Foundation,
Inc., a trustee of New York-Presbyterian Hospital and a General
Trustee of Howard University.



John
L. Thornton, 48

Mr. Thornton has been President and Co-Chief
Operating Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. since
May 1999, and has been a director since August 1998. He was
President of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. from March 1999
to May 1999 and Co-Chief Operating Officer from
January 1999 to May 1999. From August 1998 until
January 1999, he had oversight responsibility for
International Operations. From September 1996 until August
1998, he was Chairman, Goldman Sachs — Asia, in
addition to his senior strategic responsibilities in Europe.
From July 1995 to September 1997, he was Co-Chief
Executive Officer for European Operations. Mr. Thornton is
also a director of Ford Motor Company, BSkyB PLC, Laura Ashley
Holdings plc and Pacific Century Group, Inc. In addition, he is
a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a director or
trustee of several organizations, including the Asia Society,
The Brookings Institution, The Goldman Sachs Foundation, the
Hotchkiss School, Morehouse College, the Tsinghua University
School of Economics and Management and the Yale School of
Management.

Kevin
W. Kennedy, 53

Mr. Kennedy has been Executive Vice
President-Human Capital Management of The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. since December 2001. From 1999 until his recent
appointment, he served as a member of the Executive Office to
strengthen the effort to develop the future leadership of
Goldman Sachs. Mr. Kennedy served as Head of Corporate
Finance from 1988 to 1994 and as Head of the Americas Group, a
combination of Corporate Finance, Investment Banking Services
and Structured Finance for the United States, Canada and Latin
America, from 1994 to 1999. He is Chairman of the Board of
Trustees of Hamilton College, a Managing Director of the
Metropolitan Opera and a trustee of the Chewonki Foundation.

Steven
T. Mnuchin, 39

Mr. Mnuchin has been Chief Information
Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. since
December 2001, Executive Vice President since
February 2001 and was Co-Chief Information Officer from
February 2001 to December 2001. He was a member of the
Executive Office and Co-Head of the firm’s Technology
Operating Committee from December 1999 to
February 2001. Mr. Mnuchin was responsible for
overseeing Mortgages, U.S. Governments, Money Markets, and
Municipals in the Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities
Division from December 1998 to November 1999. From
November 1994 to December 1998, he was Head of the
Mortgage Securities Department. He is a member of the Yale
Development Board, Riverdale Country School Board, Junior
Achievement National Board and Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden Board.

Gregory
K. Palm, 53

Mr. Palm has been General Counsel, an
Executive Vice President and Head or Co-Head of the Legal
Department of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., since May 1999. He
was General Counsel of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. and Co-Head
of the Legal Department from 1992 to May 1999. He also has
senior oversight responsibility for the firm’s Compliance,
Management Controls and Tax Departments and is Co-Chairman of
the Global Compliance and Control Committee. Mr. Palm is a
member of the American Law Institute and of the Board of
Trustees of the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture. From
1982 to 1992, Mr. Palm was a partner in the law firm of
Sullivan & Cromwell.

Esta
E. Stecher, 44

Ms. Stecher has been General Counsel, an
Executive Vice President and Co-Head of the Legal Department of
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. since December 2000. She also has
senior



oversight responsibility for the firm’s
Compliance, Management Controls and Tax Departments. She was
Head of the Tax Department of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. from
July 1994 to May 1999 and of The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. from May 1999 to December 2000. Ms. Stecher
is also a trustee of The Goldman Sachs Foundation. From 1990 to
1994, Ms. Stecher was a partner in the law firm of Sullivan
& Cromwell.

David
A. Viniar, 46

Mr. Viniar has been Chief Financial Officer
and an Executive Vice President of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
since May 1999. He has been Head of the Finance Division
and Co-Head of Credit Risk Management and Advisory and Firmwide
Risk since December 2001. He was Co-Head of Operations,
Finance and Resources from March 1999 to
December 2001. He was Chief Financial Officer of The
Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. from March 1999 to May 1999.
From July 1998 until March 1999, he was Deputy Chief
Financial Officer and from 1994 until July 1998, he was
Head of Finance, with responsibility for Controllers and
Treasury. From 1992 to 1994, Mr. Viniar was Head of
Treasury and prior to that was in the Structured Finance
Department of Investment Banking. Mr. Viniar is a member of
the Board of Trustees of Children’s Aid and Family
Services, serves on the Board of Trustees of Union College and
is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Financial Accounting
Foundation.

Barry
L. Zubrow, 48

Mr. Zubrow has been Chief Administrative
Officer and an Executive Vice President of The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc. since May 1999 and has been Head of the
Operations and Administration Division since December 2001.
He was Co-Head of Operations, Finance and Resources from
March 1999 to December 2001. He was Chief
Administrative Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. from
March 1999 to May 1999. From 1994 until then, he was
chief credit officer and Head of the Credit Department. From
1992 to 1994, Mr. Zubrow was Head of the Midwest Group in
the Corporate Finance Department of Investment Banking.
Mr. Zubrow is Chairman of the Board of Managers of
Haverford College, a member of the Board of Directors of the
Juvenile Law Center and a member of the Board of Trustees of
Liberty Science Center.



PART II

Item 5.

Market
for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters

Information relating to the principal market in
which our common stock is traded and the high and low sales
prices per share for each full quarterly period since the common
stock commenced trading on the New York Stock Exchange on
May 4, 1999 is set forth under the caption
“Supplemental Financial Information — Common
Stock Price Range” on page 74 of the 2001 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference. As of
February 4, 2002, there were 3,432 holders of record of our
common stock.

During fiscal 2000 and 2001, dividends of $0.12
per share of common stock (and nonvoting common stock with
respect to dividends declared prior to August 2000, when the
nonvoting stock was converted into voting common stock) were
declared on December 20, 1999, March 20, 2000,
June 19, 2000, September 18, 2000, December 18,
2000, March 19, 2001, June 18, 2001 and
September 25, 2001. The holders of our common stock and,
prior to August 2000, nonvoting common stock share
proportionately on a per share basis in all dividends and other
distributions declared by our board of directors.

The declaration of dividends by Goldman Sachs is
subject to the discretion of our board of directors. Our board
of directors will take into account such matters as general
business conditions, our financial results, capital
requirements, contractual, legal and regulatory restrictions on
the payment of dividends by us to our shareholders or by our
subsidiaries to us, the effect on our debt ratings and such
other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. See
“Business — Regulation” in Item 1 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of potential
regulatory limitations on our receipt of funds from our
regulated subsidiaries.

On June 18, 2001, our board of directors
authorized the repurchase of additional shares of The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc.’s common stock pursuant to our existing
share repurchase program. The repurchase program is being
effected from time to time, depending on market conditions and
other factors, through open market purchases and privately
negotiated transactions. The total remaining authorization under
the repurchase program was 4.6 million shares as of
February 4, 2002.

Item 6.

Selected
Financial Data

The Selected Financial Data table is set forth on
page 75 of the 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders and is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations is set forth under
the caption “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis” on pages 26 to 45 of the 2001 Annual Report
to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. All of
such information should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, which
are incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

Item 7A.

Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Quantitative and qualitative disclosure about
market risk is set forth on pages 38 to 44 of the 2001
Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Risk
Management” and on pages 56 to 57 of such Annual
Report in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements,
and is incorporated herein by reference.



Item 8.

Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

The consolidated financial statements of the
Registrant and its subsidiaries, together with the notes thereto
and the Report of Independent Accountants thereon, are contained
in the 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders on pages 46 to
72, and are incorporated herein by reference. In addition, the
information on page 73 of the 2001 Annual Report to
Shareholders under the caption “Supplemental Financial
Information — Quarterly Results” is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
	Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

There were no changes in or disagreements with
accountants on accounting and financial disclosure during the
last two fiscal years.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information relating to the Registrant’s
executive officers is included on pages 24 to 26 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information relating to
directors of the Registrant is set forth under the caption
“Election of Directors” on pages 4 to 6 of
the Registrant’s Proxy Statement for its 2002 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 5, 2002 (the
“2002 Proxy Statement”) and such information is
incorporated herein by reference. Also incorporated herein by
reference is the information under the caption “Other
Matters — 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” on page 25 of the 2002 Proxy Statement.

Item 11.

Executive
Compensation

Information relating to the Registrant’s
executive officer and director compensation is set forth under
the captions “Election of Directors — Employment
Contracts and Change of Control Arrangements”,
“— Director Compensation”,
“— Executive Compensation”,
“— Stock Options” and
“— Fiscal Year-End Option Holdings” on
pages 7 to 12 of the 2002 Proxy Statement and all such
information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.

Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Information relating to security ownership of
certain beneficial owners of the Registrant’s common stock
is set forth under the caption “Beneficial Owners of More
Than Five Percent” on page 22 of the 2002 Proxy
Statement and information relating to the security ownership of
the Registrant’s management is set forth under the caption
“Beneficial Ownership of Directors and Executive
Officers” on pages 20 to 21 of the 2002 Proxy
Statement and all such information is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 13.

Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions

Information regarding certain relationships and
related transactions is set forth under the Caption
“Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” on
pages 22 to 23 of the 2002 Proxy Statement and all
such information is incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

Item 14.

Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on
Form 8-K

(a) Documents filed as part of this
Report:

1. Consolidated Financial Statements

The consolidated financial statements required to
	be filed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are listed on
	page F-1 hereof and incorporated herein by reference to the
	corresponding page number in the 2001 Annual Report to
	Shareholders.

2. Financial Statement Schedule

The financial statement schedule required in this
	Annual Report on Form 10-K is listed on page F-1 hereof. The
	required schedule appears on pages F-3 through F-7 hereof.

3. Exhibits







*

Incorporated by reference to the corresponding
	exhibit to the Registrant’s registration statement on
	Form S-1 (No. 333-74449).

**

Incorporated by reference to the corresponding
	exhibit to the Registrant’s registration statement on
	Form S-1 (No. 333-75213).

+

This exhibit is a management contract or a
	compensatory plan or arrangement.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

On September 26, 2001, we filed a Current
	Report on Form 8-K reporting our earnings for our fiscal
	third quarter ended August 31, 2001.

On December 20, 2001, we filed a Current
	Report on Form 8-K reporting our earnings for our fiscal
	fourth quarter ended November 30, 2001.



THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL
STATEMENT SCHEDULE

ITEMS 14(a)(1) AND 14(a)(2)

Specifically incorporated elsewhere herein by
reference are certain portions of the following unaudited items:

(i)

Management’s Discussion and Analysis;

26 to 45

(ii)

Supplemental Financial Information —
	Quarterly Results;


(iii)

Supplemental Financial Information —
	Common Stock Price Range; and


(iv)

Supplemental Financial Information —
	Selected Financial Data


Schedules not listed are omitted because of the
absence of the conditions under which they are required or
because the information is included in the consolidated
financial statements and notes thereto in the 2001 Annual Report
to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.

F-1


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Directors and Shareholders of

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.:

Our audits of the consolidated financial
statements referred to in our report dated January 28, 2002
appearing in the 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders of The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries (which report and
consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit
of the financial statement schedule listed on page F-1 of
this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement
schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the
related consolidated financial statements.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

New York, New York

January 28, 2002.

F-2


SCHEDULE I

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (PARENT
COMPANY ONLY)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these condensed financial statements.

F-3


SCHEDULE I

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
(PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these condensed financial statements.

F-4


SCHEDULE I

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (PARENT
COMPANY ONLY)

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:

Cash payments for interest approximated the
related expense for each of the fiscal years presented.

Payments of income taxes were $545 million and
$1.23 billion for the years ended November 2001 and
November 2000, respectively, and were immaterial for the
year ended November 1999.

Noncash activities:

The value of common stock issued in connection
with business combinations was $223 million, $3.41 billion and
$245 million for the years ended November 2001,
November 2000 and November 1999, respectively.

Stock-based compensation expense included in
subsidiary net earnings was $766 million, $1.30 billion and
$2.94 billion for the years ended November 2001,
November 2000 and November 1999, respectively.

In connection with the firm’s conversion to
corporate form in 1999, junior subordinated debentures of $371
million were issued to retired limited partners in exchange for
their partnership interests.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these condensed financial statements.

F-5


SCHEDULE I

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

Note 1. Significant Accounting
Policies

Basis of
Presentation

The condensed unconsolidated financial statements
of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. should be read in conjunction
with the consolidated financial statements of The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc. and subsidiaries and notes thereto, which are
incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.

Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for
using the equity method.

These condensed unconsolidated financial
statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America
that require management to make estimates and assumptions
regarding investment valuations, the outcome of pending
litigation and other matters that affect the condensed
unconsolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
These estimates and assumptions are based on judgment and
available information and, consequently, actual results could be
materially different from these estimates.

Certain reclassifications have been made to prior
years’ financial statements to conform with the current
year presentation.

Financial
Instruments

Financial instruments owned, including principal
investments, are carried at fair value or amounts that
approximate fair value, with related unrealized gains or losses
recognized in the condensed statements of earnings. Fair value
is based generally on listed market prices or broker or dealer
price quotations. If prices are not readily determinable or if
liquidating the position is reasonably expected to affect market
prices, fair value is based on either internal valuation models
or management’s estimate of amounts that could be realized
under current market conditions, assuming an orderly liquidation
over a reasonable period of time. Where fair value is not
readily determinable, principal investments are initially
recorded at cost. Downward adjustments are made if management
determines that realizable value is less than carrying value.

Affiliate
Financings

Most of the consolidated unsecured financing of
Goldman Sachs is raised by the parent company, The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc. The parent company then lends the necessary funds to
its subsidiaries and affiliates, as represented by
“Receivables from affiliates” and “Subordinated
loan receivables from affiliates” on the condensed
statements of financial condition. Intercompany exposure is
managed by generally requiring intercompany loans to have
maturities equal to or shorter than the maturities of the
aggregate borrowings of the parent company. This policy ensures
that the subsidiaries’ obligations to the parent company
will generally mature in advance of the parent company’s
third-party long-term borrowings. In addition, many of the
subsidiaries and affiliates pledge collateral to cover their
intercompany borrowings. Equity investments in subsidiaries are
generally funded with equity capital.

Interest income is largely generated from loans
made to affiliates.

F-6


Income
Taxes

Income taxes are accounted for in accordance with
SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,”
which requires the recognition of tax benefits or expenses on
the temporary differences between the financial reporting and
tax bases of assets and liabilities. Tax assets and liabilities
are presented as a component of “Other assets” and
“Other liabilities and accrued expenses,”
respectively, on the condensed statements of financial condition.

Note 2. Restricted Stock Units

Total restricted stock units outstanding for the
years ended November 2001, November 2000 and
November 1999 were as follows:

(1)

Includes restricted stock units granted in
	connection with the combination with SLK and restricted stock
	units granted to employees, subsequent to year end, as part of
	year-end compensation.

F-7


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

By:

/s/               DAVID
	A. VINIAR

Name: David
	A. Viniar

Title:  Chief
	Financial Officer

Date: February 22, 2002

II-1


POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each
person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints
John A. Thain, Gregory K. Palm, David A. Viniar
and Esta E. Stecher, and each of them severally, his or her
true and lawful attorney-in-fact with power of substitution and
resubstitution to sign in his or her name, place and stead, in
any and all capacities, to do any and all things and execute any
and all instruments that such attorney may deem necessary or
advisable under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any
rules, regulations and requirements of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission in connection with this Annual Report on
Form 10-K and any and all amendments hereto, as fully for
all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in
person, and hereby ratifies and confirms all said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, each acting alone, and his or her
substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done
by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

II-2