Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Based on the information currently known to
us, we believe that the following information identifies the material factors affecting our company. However, the risks and uncertainties our company faces are not limited to those described below.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.

Risks Relating to Our Business

Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other
factors.

Our
financial condition and results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors. Many such factors of a global or
localized nature include: political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency
values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; terrorism events and
armed conflicts; and natural disasters such as weather catastrophes and widespread health emergencies. Furthermore, changes in consumer economic variables, such as the number and size of personal
bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment, decreases in property values, and the level of consumer confidence and consumer debt, may substantially affect consumer loan levels and credit quality,
which, in turn, could impact the results of our banking business. These factors also may have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      21










products.
Although we typically hedge against such fluctuations, significant changes in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

During
periods of falling interest rates or stagnancy of low interest rates, our spread may be reduced or could become negative, primarily because some of our products have guaranteed minimum
crediting rates. Due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our businesses, such as fixed annuities and guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, sustained
declines or stagnancy of low interest rates in long-term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs.

Interest
rate fluctuations also could have an adverse effect on the results of our investment portfolio. During periods of declining market interest rates or stagnancy of low interest rates, the
interest we receive on variable interest rate investments decreases. In addition, during those periods, we are forced to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of principal on our
investments in lower-yielding high-grade instruments or in lower-credit instruments to maintain comparable returns. Issuers of
certain callable fixed income securities also may decide to prepay their obligations in order to borrow at lower market rates, which increase the risk that we may have to invest the cash proceeds of
these securities in lower-yielding or lower-credit instruments.

Significant
downturns and volatility in equity markets have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Market downturns and volatility may
cause, and have caused, potential new purchasers of our products to refrain from purchasing products, such as mutual funds, OEICs, variable annuities and variable universal life insurance, which have
returns linked to the performance of the equity markets. If we are unable to offer appropriate product alternatives which encourage customers to continue purchasing in the face of actual or perceived
market volatility, our sales and management fee revenues could decline. Downturns may also cause current shareholders in our mutual funds and OEICs, contract holders in our annuity products and
policyholders in our protection products to withdraw cash values from those products.

We
believe that investment performance is an important factor in the growth of many of our businesses. Poor investment performance could impair our revenues and earnings, as well as our prospects for
growth. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from investment management agreements with the RiverSource family of mutual funds that are terminable on 60 days' notice. In addition,
although some contracts governing investment management services are subject to termination for failure to meet performance benchmarks, institutional and individual clients can terminate their
relationships with us or our

22      ANNUAL REPORT 2009










financial
advisors at will or on relatively short notice. Our clients can also reduce the aggregate amount of managed assets or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate
structures, for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, changes in investment preferences, changes in our (or our financial advisors') reputation
in the marketplace, changes in client management or ownership, loss of key investment management personnel and financial market performance. A reduction in managed assets, and the associated decrease
in revenues and earnings, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, certain money market funds we advise carry net asset protection mechanisms, which can be triggered by a
decline in market value of underlying portfolio assets. This decline could cause us to contribute capital to the funds without consideration, which would result in a loss.

Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital.

The capital and credit markets continue to experience varying degrees of volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward
pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest expenses and dividends on our capital stock. Without sufficient
liquidity, we could be required to curtail our operations, and our business would suffer.

We
maintain a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected cash inflows from investments and operations, is believed adequate to meet anticipated short-term and
long-term benefit and expense payment obligations. In the event current resources are insufficient to satisfy our needs, we may need to rely on financing sources such as bank debt. The
availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of
credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that our shareholders, customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our
long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access
to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating organizations take negative actions against us.

Disruptions,
uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to satisfy
statutory capital requirements, generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising
capital, issue different types of capital than we would otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and
significantly reduce our financial flexibility.

The impairment of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.

We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services
industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds, insurers, reinsurers and other investment funds and other institutions. The operations of U.S. and global
financial services institutions are highly interconnected and a decline in the financial condition of one or more financial services institutions may expose us to credit losses or defaults, limit our
access to liquidity or otherwise disrupt the operations of our businesses.

Many
transactions with and investments in the products and securities of other financial institutions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. With respect to secured
transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative
exposure due to it. We also have exposure to financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, derivative transactions

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      23










(including
with respect to derivatives hedging our exposure on variable annuity contracts with guaranteed benefits), reinsurance and underwriting arrangements and equity investments. There can be no
assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these assets would not materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations.

Downgrades
in the credit or financial strength ratings assigned to the counterparties with whom we transact could create the perception that our financial condition will be adversely impacted as a
result of potential future defaults by such counterparties. Additionally, we could be adversely affected by a general, negative perception of financial institutions caused by the downgrade of other
financial institutions. Accordingly, ratings downgrades for other financial institutions could affect our market capitalization and could limit access to or increase our cost of capital.

The failure of other insurers could require us to pay higher assessments to state insurance guaranty funds.

Our insurance companies are required by law to be members of the guaranty fund association in every state where they are licensed to do business. In
the event of insolvency of one or more unaffiliated insurance companies, our insurance companies could be adversely affected by the requirement to pay assessments to the guaranty fund associations.

Third-party defaults, bankruptcy filings, legal actions and other events may limit the value of or restrict our access and our clients' access to cash
and investments.

Capital and credit market volatility can exacerbate, and has exacerbated, the risk of third-party defaults, bankruptcy filings, foreclosures, legal
actions and other events that may limit the value of or restrict our access and our clients' access to cash and investments. Although we are not required to do so, we have elected in the past, and we
may elect in the future, to compensate clients for losses incurred in response to such events, provide clients with temporary credit or liquidity or other support related to products that we manage,
or provide credit liquidity or other support to the financial products we manage. Any such election to provide support may arise from factors specific to our clients, our products or
industry-wide factors. If we elect to provide additional support, we could incur losses from the support we provide and incur additional costs, including financing costs, in connection
with the support. These losses and additional costs could be material and could adversely
impact our results of operations. If we were to take such actions we may also restrict or otherwise utilize our corporate assets, limiting our flexibility to use these assets for other purposes, and
may be required to raise additional capital.

Governmental initiatives intended to address capital market and general economic conditions may not be effective and may give rise to additional
requirements for our business, including enhanced oversight, new capital requirements, additional fees and taxes or other regulations, that could materially impact our results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity in ways that we cannot predict.

This
legislation or similar proposals may fail to stabilize the financial markets or the economy generally. Any new legislation or regulatory changes could require us to change certain of our business
practices, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise adversely affect our business operations, regulatory reporting relationships, results of operations or financial condition. Consequences may
include substantially higher compliance costs as well as material effects on interest rates and foreign exchange rates, which could materially impact our investments, results of operations and
liquidity in ways that we cannot predict. In addition, prolonged government support for, and intervention in the management of, private institutions could distort customary and expected commercial
behavior on the part of those institutions, adversely impacting us. In addition, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by different governmental
authorities and non-governmental self-regulatory organizations, including foreign regulators, state

24      ANNUAL REPORT 2009










securities
and insurance regulators, the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange, FINRA, The Securities Investor Protection Corporation ("SIPC"), the OTS, the U.S. Department of Justice and state attorneys
general. Financial conditions may prompt, and have prompted, some of these authorities to consider additional regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or otherwise assure the
stability of institutions under their supervision. These authorities may also seek to exercise their authority in new or more expansive ways and the U.S. government may create additional regulators or
materially change the authorities of existing regulators. All of these possibilities, if they occurred, could impact the way we conduct our business and manage our capital, and may require us to
satisfy increased capital requirements, which in turn could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

Defaults in our fixed maturity securities portfolio or consumer credit products could adversely affect our earnings.

Issuers of the fixed maturity securities that we own may default on principal and interest payments. As of December 31, 2009, 5% of our
invested assets had ratings below investment-grade. Moreover, economic downturns and corporate malfeasance can increase the number of companies, including those with investment-grade ratings, that
default on their debt obligations. Default-related declines in the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio or consumer credit products could cause our net earnings to decline and could also
cause us to contribute capital to some of our regulated subsidiaries, which may require us to obtain funding during periods of unfavorable market conditions. Higher delinquency and default rates in
our bank's loan portfolio could require us to contribute capital to Ameriprise Bank and may result in additional restrictions from our regulators that impact the use and access to that capital.

If the counterparties to our reinsurance arrangements or to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default, we may be exposed
to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

We use reinsurance to mitigate our risks in various circumstances as described in Item 1 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K — "Business — Our Segments — Protection — Reinsurance." Reinsurance does not relieve us of our
direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit and performance risk with respect to our reinsurers. A reinsurer's insolvency or its
inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of our reinsurance agreement could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Notes 2
and 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In
addition, we use a variety of derivative instruments (including options, forwards, and interest rate and currency swaps) with a number of counterparties to hedge business risks. The amount and
breadth of exposure to derivative counterparties, as well as the cost of derivative instruments, have increased significantly in connection with our strategies to hedge guaranteed benefit obligations
under our variable annuity products. If our counterparties fail to honor their obligations under the derivative instruments in a timely manner, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. That
failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. This risk of failure of our hedge transactions may be increased by capital market volatility.

The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on certain investments is subject to management's evaluation and judgment and
could materially impact our results of operations or financial position.

The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of
inherent and known risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its
evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances.

The
assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on management's case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value that considers a
wide range of factors about the security issuer, and management uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects
for recovery. Inherent in management's evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential, which assumptions and estimates
are more difficult to make with certainty under current market conditions.

Our valuation of fixed maturity and equity securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing
interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition.

Fixed maturity, equity, trading securities and short-term investments, which are reported at fair value on the consolidated balance
sheets, represent the majority of our total cash and invested assets. The determination of fair values by management in the absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      25










methodologies;
(ii) securities we deem to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time,
based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or
counterparty. Factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer,
and quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

During
periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our
securities. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, certain
securities may require additional subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as
valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation, thereby resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further,
rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the
period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.

Some of our investments are relatively illiquid.

We invest a portion of our owned assets in certain privately placed fixed income securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, limited partnership
interests, collateralized debt obligations and restricted investments held by securitization
trusts, among others, all of which are relatively illiquid. These asset classes represented 12% of the carrying value of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2009. If we require
significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of our normal cash requirements, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or be forced to sell them for an amount less
than we would otherwise have been able to realize, or both, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Intense competition and the economics of changes in our product revenue mix and distribution channels could negatively impact our ability to maintain
or increase our market share and profitability.

Historically,
our branded advisor network (both franchisee advisors and those employed by AFSI) distributed annuity and protection products issued almost exclusively (in the case of annuities) or
predominantly (in the case of protection products) by our RiverSource Life companies. The primary exception to this general practice is that the branded advisors who joined us in connection with the
H&R Block Financial Advisors acquisition have continued to offer annuities from competitors as they did prior to the acquisition. We expect they will continue to do so until we harmonize the
competitive products offered by all of our branded advisors, as described below, at which point some of these advisors will offer a more limited number of competitors' products. In 2010, we plan to
begin expanding the offerings available to all of our branded advisors to include variable annuities issued by a limited number of unaffiliated insurance companies. As a result of this and further
openings of our branded advisor network to the products of other companies, we could experience lower sales of our companies' products, higher surrenders, or other developments which might not be
fully offset by higher distribution revenues or other benefits, possibly resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations.

A drop in investment performance as compared to our competitors could negatively impact our ability to increase profitability.

Sales of our own mutual funds by our affiliated financial advisor network comprise a significant percentage of our total mutual fund sales. We
attribute this success to performance, new

26      ANNUAL REPORT 2009










products
and marketing efforts. A decline in the level of investment performance as compared to our competitors could cause a decline in market share and a commensurate drop in profits as sales of
other companies' mutual funds are less profitable than those from our own mutual funds. A decline in investment performance could also adversely affect the realization of benefits from investments in
our strategy to expand alternative distribution channels for our own products, including third-party distribution of our mutual funds.

We face intense competition in attracting and retaining key talent.

We are dependent on our network of branded advisors for a significant portion of the sales of our mutual funds, annuities, face-amount
certificates, banking and insurance products. In addition, our continued success depends to a substantial degree on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The market for financial
advisors, registered representatives, management talent, qualified legal and compliance professionals, fund managers, and investment analysts is extremely competitive. If we are unable to attract and
retain qualified individuals or our recruiting and retention costs increase significantly, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted.

Our businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in legislation or regulation may reduce our profitability, limit our growth, or impact our ability
to pay dividends or achieve targeted return-on-equity levels.

We operate in highly regulated industries and are required to obtain and maintain licenses for many of the businesses we operate in addition to being
subject to regulatory oversight. Securities regulators have significantly increased the level of regulation in recent years and have several outstanding proposals for additional regulation. Market
conditions and recent events could result in increases or changes in current regulations and regulatory structures, including higher licensing fees and assessments. In addition, we are subject to
heightened requirements and associated costs and risks relating to privacy and the protection of customer data. These requirements, costs and risks, as well as possible legislative or regulatory
changes, may constrain our ability to market our products and services to our target demographic and potential customers, and could negatively impact our profitability and make it more difficult for
us to pursue our growth strategy.

Consumer
lending activities at our bank are subject to applicable laws as well as regulation by various regulatory bodies. Changes in laws or regulation could affect our bank's ability to conduct
business. These changes could include but are not limited to our bank's ability to market and sell products, fee pricing or interest

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      27










rates
that can be charged on loans outstanding, changes in communication with customers that affect payments, statements and collections of loans, and changes in accounting for the consumer lending
business.

The
majority of our affiliated financial advisors are independent contractors. Legislative or regulatory action that redefines the criteria for determining whether a person is an employee or an
independent contractor could materially impact our relationships with our advisors, and our business, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations.

For
a further discussion of the regulatory framework in which we operate, see Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K — "Business —
Regulation."

We face risks arising from acquisitions.

We have made acquisitions in the past and expect to continue to do so. We face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including
difficulties in the integration of acquired businesses into our operations, difficulties in assimilating and retaining employees and intermediaries, difficulties in retaining the existing customers of
the acquired entities, unforeseen liabilities that arise in connection with the acquired businesses, the failure of counterparties to satisfy any obligations to indemnify us against liabilities
arising from the acquired businesses, and unfavorable market conditions that could negatively impact our growth expectations for the acquired businesses. These risks may prevent us from realizing the
expected benefits from acquisitions and could result in the impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets recognized at the time of acquisition.

A failure to protect our reputation, including the proper management of conflicts of interest, could adversely affect our businesses.

Our reputation is one of our most important assets. Our ability to attract and retain customers, investors, employees and affiliated financial
advisors is highly dependent upon external perceptions of our level of service, business practices and financial condition. Damage to our reputation could cause significant harm to our business and
prospects and may arise from numerous sources, including litigation or regulatory actions, failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unethical behavior and the
misconduct of employees, affiliated financial advisors and counterparties. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage our reputation among existing and potential customers,
investors, employees and affiliated financial advisors. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation or result in greater regulatory or
legislative scrutiny or litigation against us.

Misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial advisors is difficult to detect and deter and could harm our business, results of operations or
financial condition.

Misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial advisors could result in violations of law, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or
financial harm. Misconduct can occur in each of our businesses and could include:

>binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits;>hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities resulting in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses;>improperly using, disclosing or otherwise compromising confidential information;>recommending transactions that are not suitable;>engaging in fraudulent or otherwise improper activity;>engaging in unauthorized or excessive trading to the detriment of customers; or>otherwise not complying with laws, regulations or our control procedures.

We
cannot always deter misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial advisors, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Preventing and
detecting misconduct among our branded

28      ANNUAL REPORT 2009








franchisee
advisors and our unbranded affiliated financial advisors who are not employees of our company and tend to be located in small, decentralized offices, present additional challenges. We also
cannot assure that misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial advisors will not lead to a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

Legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could result in financial losses or harm our businesses.

We are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our operations, both domestically and
internationally. Various regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our employees and independent financial advisors and to bring
regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our employees or affiliated financial advisors, are improper. Pending legal and regulatory actions include
proceedings relating to aspects of our businesses and operations that are specific to us and proceedings that are typical of the industries and businesses in which we operate. Some of these
proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. In certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or
exemplary damages. See Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K — "Legal Proceedings." In or as a result of turbulent times such as those we have
experienced, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings generally increase. Substantial legal liability in current or future legal or regulatory actions
could have a material adverse financial effect or cause significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects.

A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations.

Financial strength ratings, which various ratings organizations publish as a measure of an insurance company's ability to meet contract holder and
policyholder obligations, are important to maintain public confidence in our products, the ability to market our products and our competitive position. A downgrade in our financial strength ratings,
or the announced potential for a downgrade, could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including:

>reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and investment products;>adversely affecting our relationships with our affiliated financial advisors and third-party distributors of our products;>materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contract holders and policyholders;>requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and>adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance or obtain reasonable pricing on reinsurance.

A
downgrade in our credit ratings could also adversely impact our future cost and speed of borrowing and have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.

In
view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, including our competitors in the insurance industry, the ratings organizations have heightened the level of scrutiny
that they apply to such institutions and have requested additional information from the companies that they rate. They may increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, adjust upward the
capital and other requirements employed in the ratings organizations' models for maintenance of ratings levels, or downgrade ratings applied to particular classes of securities or types of
institutions. Ratings organizations may also become subject to tighter laws and regulations governing the ratings, which may in turn impact the ratings assigned to financial institutions.

We
cannot predict what actions rating organizations may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating organizations, which could adversely affect our business. As with other
companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be changed at any time and without any notice by the ratings organizations.

If our reserves for future policy benefits and claims or for our bank lending portfolio are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserve
liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

We establish reserves as estimates of our liabilities to provide for future obligations under our insurance policies, annuities and investment
certificate contracts. We also establish reserves as estimates of the potential for loan losses in our consumer lending portfolios. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation but, rather, are
estimates of contract benefits or loan losses and related expenses we expect to incur over time. The assumptions and estimates we make in establishing reserves require certain judgments about future
experience and, therefore, are inherently uncertain. We cannot determine with precision the actual amounts that we will pay for contract benefits, the timing of payments, or whether the assets
supporting our stated reserves will increase to the levels we estimate before payment of benefits or claims. We monitor our reserve levels continually. If we were to

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      29










conclude
that our reserves are insufficient to cover actual or expected contract benefits or loan collections, we would be required to increase our reserves and incur income statement charges for the
period in which we make the determination, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For more information on how we set our reserves, see Note 2 to our
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Morbidity rates or mortality rates that differ significantly from our pricing expectations could negatively affect profitability.

We set prices forRiverSourcelife insurance and some annuity products based upon expected claim payment
patterns, derived from assumptions we make about our policyholders and contract holders, the morbidity rates, or likelihood of sickness, and mortality rates, or likelihood of death. The
long-term profitability of these products depends upon how our actual experience compares with our pricing assumptions. For example, if morbidity rates are higher, or mortality rates are
lower, than our pricing assumptions, we could be required to make greater payments under disability income insurance policies, chronic care riders and immediate annuity contracts than we had
projected. The same holds true for long term care policies we previously underwrote to the extent of the risks that we have retained. If mortality rates are higher than our pricing assumptions, we
could be required to make greater payments under our life insurance policies and annuity contracts with guaranteed minimum death benefits than we have projected.

The
risk that our claims experience may differ significantly from our pricing assumptions is particularly significant for our long term care insurance products notwithstanding our ability to implement
future price increases with regulatory approvals. As with life insurance, long term care insurance policies provide for long-duration coverage and, therefore, our actual claims experience
will emerge over many years. However, as a relatively new product in the market, long term care insurance does not have the extensive claims experience history of life insurance and, as a result, our
ability to forecast future claim rates for long term care insurance is more limited than for life insurance. We have sought to moderate these uncertainties to some extent by partially reinsuring long
term care policies we previously underwrote and by limiting our present long term care insurance offerings to policies underwritten fully by unaffiliated third-party insurers, and we have also
implemented rate increases on certain in force policies as described in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K — "Business — Our
Segments — Protection — RiverSource Insurance Products — Long Term Care Insurance". We may be required to implement additional rate increases
in the future and may or may not receive regulatory approval for the full extent and timing of any rate increases that we may seek.

We may face losses if there are significant deviations from our assumptions regarding the future persistency of our insurance policies and annuity
contracts.

The prices and expected future profitability of our life insurance and deferred annuity products are based in part upon assumptions related to
persistency, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. Given the ongoing economic and market dislocations, future consumer persistency
behaviors could vary materially from the past. The effect of persistency on profitability varies for different products. For most of our life insurance and deferred annuity products, actual
persistency that is lower than our persistency assumptions could have an adverse impact on profitability, especially in the early years of a policy or contract, primarily because we would be required
to accelerate the amortization of expenses we deferred in connection with the acquisition of the policy or contract.

For
our long term care insurance and certain universal life insurance policies, actual persistency that is higher than our persistency assumptions could have a negative impact on profitability. If
these policies remain in force longer than we assumed, then we could be required to make greater benefit payments than we had anticipated when we priced or partially reinsured these products. Some of
our long term care insurance policies have experienced higher persistency and poorer loss experience than we had assumed, which led us to increase premium rates on certain of these policies.

Because
our assumptions regarding persistency experience are inherently uncertain, reserves for future policy benefits and claims may prove to be inadequate if actual persistency experience is
different from those assumptions. Although some of our products permit us to increase premiums during the life of the policy or contract, we cannot guarantee that these increases would be sufficient
to maintain profitability. Additionally, some of these pricing changes require regulatory approval, which may not be forthcoming. Moreover, many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums
or limit those increases during the life of the policy or contract, while premiums on certain other products (primarily long term care insurance) may not be increased without prior regulatory
approval. Significant deviations in experience from pricing expectations regarding persistency could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products.

We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs, which would increase our expenses and reduce profitability.

Deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") represent the costs of acquiring new business, principally direct sales commissions and other distribution and
underwriting costs that have been deferred on the sale of annuity, life and disability income insurance and, to a lesser extent, marketing and promotional expenses for personal

30      ANNUAL REPORT 2009










auto
and home insurance, and distribution expense for certain mutual fund products. For annuity and universal life products, DAC are amortized based on projections of estimated gross profits over
amortization periods equal to the approximate life of the business. For other insurance products, DAC are generally amortized as a percentage of premiums over amortization periods equal to the
premium-paying period. For certain mutual fund products, we generally amortize DAC over fixed periods on a straight-line basis.

Our
projections underlying the amortization of DAC require the use of certain assumptions, including interest margins, mortality rates, persistency rates, maintenance expense levels and customer asset
value growth rates for variable products. We periodically review and, where appropriate, adjust our assumptions. When we change our assumptions, we may be required to accelerate the amortization of
DAC or to record a charge to increase benefit reserves.

For
more information regarding DAC, see Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies — Deferred Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducement Costs" and " Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Recent Accounting Pronouncements."

We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.

We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual
property. Although we use a broad range of measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to
enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which represents a diversion of resources that
may be significant in amount and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets could
have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete.

We
also may be subject to costly litigation in the event that another party alleges our operations or activities infringe upon such other party's intellectual property rights. Third parties may have,
or may eventually be issued, patents or other protections that could be infringed by our products, methods, processes or services or could otherwise limit our ability to offer certain product
features. Any party that holds such a patent could make a claim of infringement against us. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark, license usage rights,
or misappropriation of trade secret rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a
third-party patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial liability, and in some circumstances could be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers
or utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses, or alternatively could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with
third parties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Breaches of security, or the perception that our technology infrastructure is not secure, could harm our business.

Our business requires the appropriate and secure utilization of client and other sensitive information. Our operations require the secure transmission
of confidential information over public networks. Security breaches in connection with the delivery of our products and services, including products and services utilizing the Internet, as well as
intrusions resulting from the efforts of "hackers" seeking the sensitive data we possess, and the trend toward broad consumer and general public notification of such incidents, could significantly
harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Even if we successfully protect our technology infrastructure and the confidentiality of sensitive data, we could suffer harm to our
business and reputation if attempted security breaches are publicized. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit
vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology or other
security measures protecting the networks used in connection with our products and services.

Protection from system interruptions and operating errors is important to our business. If we experience a sustained interruption to our
telecommunications or data processing systems, or other failure in operational execution, it could harm our business.

System or network interruptions could delay and disrupt our ability to develop, deliver or maintain our products and services, causing harm to our
business and reputation and resulting in loss of customers or revenue. Interruptions could be caused by operational failures arising from our implementation of new technology, as well from our
maintenance of existing technology. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are
wholly or partially beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process transactions or provide products and services to our customers. These interruptions can include fires, floods,
earthquakes, power losses,

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      31










equipment
failures, failures of internal or vendor software or systems and other events beyond our control. Further, we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any
of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate or are component providers to our securities transactions and other product manufacturing
and distribution activities. These risks are heightened by our deployment in response to both investor interest and evolution in the financial markets of increasingly sophisticated products, such as
those which incorporate automatic asset re-allocation, long/short trading strategies or multiple portfolios or funds, and business-driven hedging, compliance
and other risk management strategies. Any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely impact our ability to effect transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk.

Risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in identifying or mitigating risk exposure in all market environments or against
all types of risk, including employee and financial advisor misconduct.

We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and will continue to do so. Nonetheless, our policies and
procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. Many of our methods of managing
risk and exposures are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. During periods of market volatility or due to unforeseen events, the
historically derived correlations upon which these methods are based may not be valid. As a result, these methods may not accurately predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than
what our models indicate. This could cause us to incur investment losses or cause our hedging and other risk management strategies to be ineffective. Other risk management methods depend upon the
evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible to us, which may not always be accurate, complete,
up-to-date or properly evaluated.

Moreover,
we are subject to the risks of errors and misconduct by our employees and affiliated financial advisors, such as fraud, non-compliance with policies, recommending transactions
that are not suitable, and improperly using or disclosing confidential information. These risks are difficult to detect in advance and deter, and could harm our business, results of operations or
financial condition. We are further subject to the risk of nonperformance or inadequate performance of contractual obligations by third-party vendors of products and services that are used in our
businesses. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and
these policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. Insurance and other traditional
risk-shifting tools may be held by or available to us in order to manage certain exposures, but they are subject to terms such as deductibles, coinsurance, limits and policy exclusions, as
well as risk of counterparty denial of coverage, default or insolvency.

As a holding company, we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us to pay dividends and to meet our obligations.

We act as a holding company for our insurance and other subsidiaries. Dividends from our subsidiaries and permitted payments to us under our
intercompany arrangements with our subsidiaries are our principal sources of cash to pay shareholder dividends and to meet our other financial obligations. These obligations include our operating
expenses and interest and principal on our borrowings. If the cash we receive from our subsidiaries pursuant to dividend payment and intercompany arrangements is insufficient for us to fund any of
these obligations, we may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of additional debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. If any of this happens, it could adversely
impact our financial condition and results of operations.

32      ANNUAL REPORT 2009










which
could increase required capital and constrain our and our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make other permitted payments. The regulatory capital requirements and dividend-paying ability
of our subsidiaries may also be affected by a change in the mix of products sold by such subsidiaries. For example, fixed annuities typically require more capital than variable annuities, and an
increase in the proportion of fixed annuities sold in relation to variable annuities could increase the regulatory capital requirements of our life insurance subsidiaries. This may reduce the
dividends or other permitted payments which could be made from those subsidiaries in the near term without the rating organizations viewing this negatively. Further, the capital requirements imposed
upon our subsidiaries may be impacted by heightened regulatory scrutiny and intervention, which could negatively affect our and our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or make other permitted
payments. Additionally, in the past we have found it necessary to provide support to certain of our subsidiaries in order to maintain adequate capital for regulatory or other purposes and we may
provide such support in the future. The provision of such support could adversely affect our excess capital, liquidity, and the dividends or other permitted payments received from our subsidiaries.

The operation of our business in foreign markets and our investments in non-U.S. denominated securities and investment products subjects
us to exchange rate and other risks in connection with earnings and income generated overseas.

While we are a U.S.-based company, a portion of our business operations occur outside of the U.S. and some of our investments are not denominated in
U.S. dollars. As a result, we are exposed to certain foreign currency exchange risks that could reduce U.S. dollar equivalent earnings as well as negatively impact our general account and other
proprietary investment portfolios. Appreciation of the U.S. dollar could unfavorably affect net income from foreign operations, the value of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments and
investments in foreign subsidiaries. In comparison, depreciation of the U.S. dollar could positively affect our net income from foreign operations and the value of non-U.S. dollar
denominated investments, though such depreciation could also diminish investor, creditor and ratings agency perceptions of our company compared to peer companies that have a relatively greater
proportion of foreign operations or investments.

We
may seek to mitigate these risks by employing various hedging strategies including entering into derivative contracts. Currency fluctuations, including the effect of changes in the value of U.S.
dollar denominated investments that vary from the amounts ultimately needed to hedge our exposure to changes in the U.S. dollar equivalent of earnings and equity of these operations, may adversely
affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

Changes in U.S. federal income or estate tax law could make some of our products less attractive to clients.

Many of the products we issue or on which our businesses are based (including both insurance products and non-insurance products) enjoy
favorable treatment under current U.S. federal income or estate tax law. Changes in U.S. federal income or estate tax law could thus make some of our products less attractive to clients.

We are subject to tax contingencies that could adversely affect our provision for income taxes.

We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant
business operations. These tax laws are complex and may be subject to different interpretations. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws
when determining the provision for income taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over
interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. In addition, changes to the Internal Revenue Code, administrative rulings or court decisions could
increase our provision for income taxes.

Risks Relating to Our Common Stock

The market price of our shares may fluctuate.

The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control,
including:

>changes in expectations concerning our future financial performance and the future performance of the financial services
industry in general, including financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;>differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;>our strategic moves and those of our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;>changes in the regulatory framework of the financial services industry and regulatory action; and>changes in general economic or market conditions.

Stock
markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the
trading price of our common stock.

ANNUAL REPORT 2009      33










Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease
the market value of our common stock.

Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover
bids by making them unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions
include, among others:

>a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms;>elimination of the right of our shareholders to act by written consent;>rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings;>the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and>limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors.

Delaware
law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock.

We
believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our
board of directors time to assess any acquisition proposal. They are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered
beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and our shareholders.

