ITEMS 1. BUSINESS



Overview. We are a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio, Texas. Our corporate offices are at One Valero Way, San Antonio, Texas, 78249, and our telephone number is (210) 345-2000. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “VLO.” We were incorporated in Delaware in 1981 under the name Valero Refining and Marketing Company. We changed our name to Valero Energy Corporation on August 1, 1997. On January 31, 2016, we had 10,103 employees.



Our15petroleum refineries are located in the United States (U.S.), Canada, and the United Kingdom (U.K.). Our refineries can produce conventional gasolines, premium gasolines, gasoline meeting the specifications of the California Air Resources Board (CARB), diesel, low-sulfur diesel, ultra-low-sulfur diesel, CARB diesel, other distillates, jet fuel, asphalt, petrochemicals, lubricants, and other refined products. We market branded and unbranded refined products on a wholesale basis in the U.S., Canada, the Caribbean, the U.K., and Ireland through an extensive bulk and rack marketing network and through approximately7,500outlets that carry our brand names.We also own11ethanol plants in the central plains region of the U.S. that primarily produce ethanol, which we market on a wholesale basis through a bulk marketing network.



Available Information. Our website address is www.valero.com. Information on our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K filed with (or furnished to) the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are available on our website (under “Investors”) free of charge, soon after we file or furnish such material. In this same location, we also post our corporate governance guidelines, codes of ethics, and the charters of the committees of our board of directors. These documents are available in print to any stockholder that makes a written request to Valero Energy Corporation, Attn: Secretary, P.O. Box 696000, San Antonio, Texas 78269-6000.





SEGMENTS



We havetworeportable segments: refining and ethanol. Our refining segment includes refining and marketing operations in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Aruba, and Ireland. Our ethanol segment includes ethanol and marketing operations in the U.S. Financial information about our segments is presented inNote 17of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated herein by reference.



We formerly had a third reportable segment: retail. In 2013, we completed the separation of our retail business by creating an independent public company named CST Brands, Inc. (CST). The separation of our retail business is discussed inNote 3of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and that discussion is incorporated herein by reference.











VALERO’S OPERATIONS

REFINING

OnDecember 31, 2015, our refining operations included15petroleum refineries in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K., with a combined total throughput capacity of approximately3.0 millionbarrels per day (BPD). The following table presents the locations of these refineries and their approximate feedstock throughput capacities as ofDecember 31, 2015.



RefineryLocationThroughputCapacity (a)(BPD)U.S. Gulf Coast:Corpus Christi (b)Texas370,000Port ArthurTexas375,000St. CharlesLouisiana305,000Texas CityTexas260,000HoustonTexas175,000MerauxLouisiana135,000Three RiversTexas100,0001,720,000U.S. Mid-Continent:MemphisTennessee195,000McKeeTexas200,000ArdmoreOklahoma90,000485,000North Atlantic:PembrokeWales, U.K.270,000Quebec CityQuebec, Canada235,000505,000U.S. West Coast:BeniciaCalifornia170,000WilmingtonCalifornia135,000305,000Total3,015,000



(a)“Throughput capacity” represents estimated capacity for processing crude oil, inter-mediates, and other feedstocks. Total estimated crude oil capacity is approximately 2.5 million BPD.

(b)Represents the combined capacities of two refineries – the Corpus Christi East and Corpus Christi West Refineries.











Total Refining System

The following table presents the percentages of principal charges and yields (on a combined basis) for all of our refineries for the year endedDecember 31, 2015. Our total combined throughput volumes averaged approximately 2.8 million BPD for the year endedDecember 31, 2015.

Combined Total Refining System Charges and YieldsCharges:sour crude oil31%sweet crude oil43%residual fuel oil10%other feedstocks5%blendstocks11%Yields:gasolines and blendstocks48%distillates38%petrochemicals3%other products (includes gas oils, No. 6 fuel oil,petroleum coke, and asphalt)11%

U.S. Gulf Coast

The following table presents the percentages of principal charges and yields (on a combined basis) for the eight refineries in this region for the year endedDecember 31, 2015. Total throughput volumes for the U.S. Gulf Coast refining region averaged approximately 1.6 million BPD for the year endedDecember 31, 2015.

Combined U.S. Gulf Coast Region Charges and YieldsCharges:sour crude oil40%sweet crude oil25%residual fuel oil16%other feedstocks7%blendstocks12%Yields:gasolines and blendstocks46%distillates38%petrochemicals4%other products (includes gas oil, No. 6 fuel oil,petroleum coke, and asphalt)12%

Corpus Christi East and West Refineries. Our Corpus Christi East and West Refineries are located on the Texas Gulf Coast along the Corpus Christi Ship Channel. The East Refinery processes sour crude oil, and the West Refinery processes sweet crude oil, sour crude oil, and residual fuel oil. In 2015, we completed construction and placed into service a new 70,000 BPD crude distillation unit in the West Refinery. The feedstocks are delivered by tanker or barge via deepwater docking facilities along the Corpus Christi Ship Channel, and West Texas or South Texas crude oil is delivered via pipelines. The refineries’ physical locations allow for the transfer of various feedstocks and blending components between them. The refineries produce gasoline, aromatics, jet fuel, diesel, and asphalt. Truck racks service local markets for gasoline, diesel, jet











fuels, liquefied petroleum gases, and asphalt. These and other finished products are also distributed by ship or barge across docks and third-party pipelines.

Port Arthur Refinery. Our Port Arthur Refinery is located on the Texas Gulf Coast approximately 90 miles east of Houston. The refinery processes heavy sour crude oils and other feedstocks into gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel. In 2015, we completed a 15,000 BPD hydrocracker expansion project at this refinery. The refinery receives crude oil by rail, marine docks, and pipelines. Finished products are distributed into the Colonial, Explorer, and other pipelines and across the refinery docks into ships or barges.

St. Charles Refinery. Our St. Charles Refinery is located approximately 15 miles west of New Orleans along the Mississippi River. The refinery processes sour crude oils and other feedstocks into gasoline and diesel. The refinery receives crude oil over docks and has access to the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port. Finished products can be shipped over these docks or through the Parkway or Bengal pipelines, which ultimately provide access to the Plantation or Colonial pipeline networks.

Texas City Refinery. Our Texas City Refinery is located southeast of Houston on the Texas City Ship Channel. The refinery processes crude oils into gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel. The refinery receives its feedstocks by pipeline and by ship or barge via deepwater docking facilities along the Texas City Ship Channel. The refinery uses ships and barges, as well as the Colonial, Explorer, and other pipelines for distribution of its products.

Houston Refinery. Our Houston Refinery is located on the Houston Ship Channel. It processes a mix of crude and intermediate oils into gasoline, jet fuel, and diesel. The refinery receives its feedstocks by tankers or barges at deepwater docking facilities along the Houston Ship Channel and by various interconnecting pipelines with our Texas City Refinery. The majority of its finished products are delivered to local, mid-continent U.S., and northeastern U.S. markets through various pipelines, including the Colonial and Explorer pipelines.

Meraux Refinery. Our Meraux Refinery is located approximately 25 miles southeast of New Orleans along the Mississippi River. The refinery processes sour and sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, and high sulfur fuel oil. The refinery receives crude oil at its dock and has access to the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port. Finished products can be shipped from the refinery’s dock or through the Colonial pipeline. The refinery is located about 40 miles from our St. Charles Refinery, allowing for integration of feedstocks and refined product blending.

Three Rivers Refinery. Our Three Rivers Refinery is located in South Texas between Corpus Christi and San Antonio. It processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, and aromatics. The refinery has access to crude oil from sources outside the U.S. delivered to the Texas Gulf Coast at Corpus Christi as well as crude oil from local sources through third-party pipelines and trucks. The refinery distributes its refined products primarily through third-party pipelines.











U.S. Mid-Continent

The following table presents the percentages of principal charges and yields (on a combined basis) for the three refineries in this region for the year endedDecember 31, 2015. Total throughput volumes for the U.S. Mid-Continent refining region averaged approximately 447,000 BPD for the year endedDecember 31, 2015.

Combined U.S. Mid-Continent Region Charges and YieldsCharges:sour crude oil6%sweet crude oil85%other feedstocks1%blendstocks8%Yields:gasolines and blendstocks54%distillates36%petrochemicals4%other products (includes gas oil, No. 6 fuel oil,and asphalt)6%

Memphis Refinery. Our Memphis Refinery is located in Tennessee along the Mississippi River. It processes primarily sweet crude oils. Most of its production is gasoline, diesel, and jet fuels. Crude oil is supplied to the refinery via the Capline pipeline and can also be received, along with other feedstocks, via barge. Most of the refinery’s products are distributed via truck rack and barges.

McKee Refinery. Our McKee Refinery is located in the Texas Panhandle. It processes primarily sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuels, and asphalt. The refinery has access to local and Permian Basin crude oil sources via third-party pipelines. In 2015, we completed the final phases of a multi-year project, which increased the refinery’s crude oil processing capacity by approximately 20,000 BPD. The refinery distributes its products primarily via third-party pipelines to markets in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, and Oklahoma.

Ardmore Refinery. Our Ardmore Refinery is located in Oklahoma, approximately 100 miles south of Oklahoma City. It processes medium sour and sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, and asphalt. The refinery receives local crude oil and feedstock supply via third-party pipelines. Refined products are transported to market via rail, trucks, and the Magellan pipeline system.











North Atlantic

The following table presents the percentages of principal charges and yields (on a combined basis) for the two refineries in this region for the year endedDecember 31, 2015. Total throughput volumes for the North Atlantic refining region averaged approximately 494,000 BPD for the year endedDecember 31, 2015.

Combined North Atlantic Region Charges and YieldsCharges:sour crude oil3%sweet crude oil84%residual fuel oil5%other feedstocks1%blendstocks7%Yields:gasolines and blendstocks44%distillates44%petrochemicals1%other products (includes gas oil, No. 6 fuel oil,and other products)11%

Pembroke Refinery. Our Pembroke Refinery is located in the County of Pembrokeshire in southwest Wales, U.K. The refinery processes primarily sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, heating oil, and low-sulfur fuel oil. The refinery receives all of its feedstocks and delivers the majority of its products by ship and barge via deepwater docking facilities along the Milford Haven Waterway, with its remaining products being delivered by our Mainline pipeline system and by trucks.

Quebec City Refinery. Our Quebec City Refinery is located in Lévis, Canada (near Quebec City). It processes sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, heating oil, and low-sulfur fuel oil. The refinery receives crude oil by ship at its deepwater dock on the St. Lawrence River or by pipeline/ship from western Canada. The refinery transports its products through our pipeline from Quebec City to our terminal in Montreal and to various other terminals throughout eastern Canada by rail, ships, trucks, and third-party pipelines.











U.S. West Coast

The following table presents the percentages of principal charges and yields (on a combined basis) for the two refineries in this region for the year endedDecember 31, 2015. Total throughput volumes for the U.S. West Coast refining region averaged approximately 266,000 BPD for the year endedDecember 31, 2015.

Combined U.S. West Coast Region Charges and YieldsCharges:sour crude oil70%sweet crude oil5%other feedstocks11%blendstocks14%Yields:gasolines and blendstocks60%distillates25%other products (includes gas oil, No. 6 fuel oil,petroleum coke, and asphalt)15%

Benicia Refinery. Our Benicia Refinery is located northeast of San Francisco on the Carquinez Straits of San Francisco Bay. It processes sour crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, and asphalt. Gasoline production is primarily CARBOB gasoline, which meets CARB specifications when blended with ethanol. The refinery receives crude oil feedstocks via a marine dock and crude oil pipelines connected to a southern California crude oil delivery system. Most of the refinery’s products are distributed via pipeline and truck rack into northern California markets.

Wilmington Refinery. Our Wilmington Refinery is located near Los Angeles, California. The refinery processes a blend of heavy and high-sulfur crude oils. The refinery produces CARBOB gasoline, diesel, CARB diesel, jet fuel, and asphalt. The refinery is connected by pipeline to marine terminals and associated dock facilities that can move and store crude oil and other feedstocks. Refined products are distributed via pipeline systems to various third-party terminals in southern California, Nevada, and Arizona.











Feedstock Supply

Approximately 59 percent of our current crude oil feedstock requirements are purchased through term contracts while the remaining requirements are generally purchased on the spot market. Our term supply agreements include arrangements to purchase feedstocks at market-related prices directly or indirectly from various national oil companies as well as international and U.S. oil companies. The contracts generally permit the parties to amend the contracts (or terminate them), effective as of the next scheduled renewal date, by giving the other party proper notice within a prescribed period of time (e.g., 60 days, 6 months) before expiration of the current term. The majority of the crude oil purchased under our term contracts is purchased at the producer’s official stated price (i.e., the “market” price established by the seller for all purchasers) and not at a negotiated price specific to us.

Refining Segment Sales

Overview

Our refining segment includes sales of refined products in both the wholesale rack and bulk markets. These sales include refined products that are manufactured in our refining operations as well as refined products purchased or received on exchange from third parties. Most of our refineries have access to marine transportation facilities and interconnect with common-carrier pipeline systems, allowing us to sell products in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., and other countries.

Wholesale Marketing

We market branded and unbranded refined products on a wholesale basis through an extensive rack marketing network. The principal purchasers of our refined products from terminal truck racks are wholesalers, distributors, retailers, and truck-delivered end users throughout the U.S., Canada, the U.K., and Ireland.

The majority of our rack volume is sold through unbranded channels. The remainder is sold to distributors and dealers that are members of the Valero-brand family that operate approximately5,700branded sites in the U.S. and the Caribbean, approximately1,000branded sites in the U.K. and Ireland, and approximately800branded sites in Canada. These sites are independently owned and are supplied by us under multi-year contracts. For wholesale branded sites, we promote the Valero®, Beacon®, Diamond Shamrock®,and Shamrock®brands in the U.S. and the Caribbean, the Texaco®brand in the U.K. and Ireland, and we license the Ultramar®brand in Canada.

Bulk Sales and Trading

We sell a significant portion of our gasoline and distillate production through bulk sales channels in U.S. and international markets. Our bulk sales are made to various oil companies and traders as well as certain bulk end-users such as railroads, airlines, and utilities. Our bulk sales are transported primarily by pipeline, barges, and tankers to major tank farms and trading hubs.

We also enter into refined product exchange and purchase agreements. These agreements help minimize transportation costs, optimize refinery utilization, balance refined product availability, broaden geographic distribution, and provide access to markets not connected to our refined-product pipeline systems. Exchange agreements provide for the delivery of refined products by us to unaffiliated companies at our and third-parties’ terminals in exchange for delivery of a similar amount of refined products to us by these unaffiliated companies at specified locations. Purchase agreements involve our purchase of refined products from third parties with delivery occurring at specified locations.











Specialty Products

We sell a variety of other products produced at our refineries, which we refer to collectively as “Specialty Products.” Our Specialty Products include asphalt, lube oils, natural gas liquids (NGLs), petroleum coke, petrochemicals, and sulfur.

•We produce asphalt at five of our refineries. Our asphalt products are sold for use in road construction, road repair, and roofing applications through a network of refinery and terminal loading racks.

•We produce naphthenic oils at one of our refineries suitable for a wide variety of lubricant and process applications.

•NGLs produced at our refineries include butane, isobutane, and propane. These products can be used for gasoline blending, home heating, and petrochemical plant feedstocks.

•We are a significant producer of petroleum coke, supplying primarily power generation customers and cement manufacturers. Petroleum coke is used largely as a substitute for coal.

•We produce and market a number of commodity petrochemicals including aromatics (benzene, toluene, and xylene) and two grades of propylene. Aromatics and propylenes are sold to customers in the chemical industry for further processing into such products as paints, plastics, and adhesives.

•We are a large producer of sulfur with sales primarily to customers serving the agricultural sector. Sulfur is used in manufacturing fertilizer.

Logistics and Transportation

We own several transportation and logistics assets (crude oil pipelines, refined product pipelines, terminals, tanks, marine docks, truck rack bays, rail cars, and rail facilities) that support our refining and ethanol operations. In addition, through subsidiaries, we own the 2.0 percent general partner interest in Valero Energy Partners LP (VLP) and a 65.7 percent limited partner interest in VLP. VLP is a midstream master limited partnership. Its common units, representing limited partner interests, are traded on the NYSE under the symbol “VLP.” Its assets support the operations of our Ardmore, Corpus Christi, Houston, McKee, Memphis, Port Arthur, St. Charles, and Three Rivers Refineries. VLP is discussed more fully inNote 4of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.











ETHANOL

We own11ethanol plants with a combined ethanol production capacity of about 1.4 billion gallons per year. Our ethanol plants are dry mill facilities1that process corn to produce ethanol and distillers grains.2We source our corn supply from local farmers and commercial elevators. Our facilities receive corn primarily by rail and truck. We publish on our website a corn bid for local farmers and cooperative dealers to use to facilitate corn supply transactions.

After processing, our ethanol is held in storage tanks on-site pending loading to rail cars, trucks and barges. We sell our ethanol (i) to large customers–primarily refiners and gasoline blenders–under term and spot contracts, and (ii) in bulk markets such as New York, Chicago, the U.S. Gulf Coast, Florida, and the U.S. West Coast. We ship our dry distillers grains (DDG) by truck or rail primarily to animal feed customers in the U.S. and Mexico, with some sales into the Far East. We also sell modified distillers grains locally at our plant sites.

The following table presents the locations of our ethanol plants, their approximate ethanol and DDG production capacities, and their approximate corn processing capacities.

StateCityEthanol ProductionCapacity(in gallons per year)Productionof DDG(in tons per year)Corn Processed(in bushels per year)IndianaLinden130 million385,00046 millionMount Vernon100 million320,00037 millionIowaAlbert City130 million385,00046 millionCharles City135 million400,00048 millionFort Dodge135 million400,00048 millionHartley135 million400,00048 millionMinnesotaWelcome135 million400,00048 millionNebraskaAlbion130 million385,00046 millionOhioBloomingburg130 million385,00046 millionSouth DakotaAurora135 million400,00048 millionWisconsinJefferson105 million335,00039 milliontotal1,400 million4,195,000500 million



The combined production of denatured ethanol from our plants in 2015 averaged3.8 milliongallons per day.

________________________

1Ethanol is commercially produced using either the wet mill or dry mill process. Wet milling involves separating the grain kernel into its component parts (germ, fiber, protein, and starch) prior to fermentation. In the dry mill process, the entire grain kernel is ground into flour. The starch in the flour is converted to ethanol during the fermentation process, creating carbon dioxide and distillers grains.



2During fermentation, nearly all of the starch in the grain is converted into ethanol and carbon dioxide, while the remaining nutrients (proteins, fats, minerals, and vitamins) are concentrated to yield modified distillers grains, or, after further drying, dried distillers grains. Distillers grains generally are an economical partial replacement for corn and soybeans in feeds for cattle, swine, and poultry.











ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



We incorporate by reference into this Item the environmental disclosures contained in the following sections of this report:

•Item 1A, “Risk Factors”—Compliance with and changes in environmental laws, including proposed climate change laws and regulations, could adversely affect our performance,

•Item 1A, “Risk Factors”—We may incur additional costs as a result of our use of rail cars for the transportation of crude oil and the products that we manufacture,

•Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” under the caption “Environmental Enforcement Matters,” and

•Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” inNote 9of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption “Environmental Liabilities,” andNote 11of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption “Environmental Matters.”

Capital Expenditures Attributable to Compliance with Environmental Regulations. In2015, our capital expenditures attributable to compliance with environmental regulations were$140 million, and they are currently estimated to be$83 millionfor 2016 and$95 millionfor 2017. The estimates for 2016 and 2017 do not include amounts related to capital investments at our facilities that management has deemed to be strategic investments. These amounts could materially change as a result of governmental and regulatory actions.

