ITEMS 1. BUSINESS



OVERVIEW



We are a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio, Texas. Our corporate offices are at One Valero Way, San Antonio, Texas, 78249, and our telephone number is (210) 345-2000. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1981 under the name Valero Refining and Marketing Company. We changed our name to Valero Energy Corporation on August 1, 1997. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “VLO.” OnJanuary 31, 2017, we had 9,996 employees.



We own15petroleum refineries located in the United States (U.S.), Canada, and the United Kingdom (U.K.) with a combined throughput capacity of approximately3.1 millionbarrels per day. Our refineries produce conventional gasolines, premium gasolines, gasoline meeting the specifications of the California Air Resources Board (CARB), diesel, low-sulfur diesel, ultra-low-sulfur diesel, CARB diesel, other distillates, jet fuel, asphalt, petrochemicals, lubricants, and other refined petroleum products. We sell our refined petroleum products in both the wholesale rack and bulk markets, and approximately7,400outlets carry our brand names in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., and Ireland. Most of our logistics assets support our refining operations, and some of these assets are owned by Valero Energy Partners LP (VLP), a midstream master limited partnership majority owned by us. We also own11ethanol plants in the Mid-Continent region of the U.S. with a combined production capacity of approximately 1.4 billion gallons per year. We sell our ethanol in the wholesale bulk market, and some of our logistics assets support our ethanol operations.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



Our website address is www.valero.com. Information on our website is not part of this report. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, filed with (or furnished to) the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are available on our website (under “Investors”) free of charge, soon after we file or furnish such material. In this same location, we also post our corporate governance guidelines, codes of ethics, and the charters of the committees of our board of directors. These documents are available in print to any stockholder that makes a written request to Valero Energy Corporation, Attn: Secretary, P.O. Box 696000, San Antonio, Texas 78269-6000.













SEGMENTS



As ofDecember 31, 2016, we hadtworeportable segments — refining and ethanol. The refining segment includes our refining operations, the associated marketing activities, and logistics assets that support our refining operations. The ethanol segment includes our ethanol operations, the associated marketing activities, and logistics assets that support our ethanol operations. Financial information about our segments is presented inNote 16of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated herein by reference.



Effective January 1, 2017, we revised our reportable segments to align with certain changes in how our chief operating decision maker manages and allocates resources to our business and created a new reportable segment — VLP. The results of VLP, which are those of our majority-owned master limited partnership referred to by the same name, were transferred from the refining segment.













VALERO’S OPERATIONS



REFINING



Refining Operations

As ofDecember 31, 2016, our refining operations included15petroleum refineries in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K., with a combined total throughput capacity of approximately3.1 millionbarrels per day (BPD). The following table presents the locations of these refineries and their approximate feedstock throughput capacities as ofDecember 31, 2016.



RefineryLocationThroughputCapacity (a)(BPD)U.S. Gulf Coast:Port ArthurTexas395,000Corpus Christi (b)Texas370,000St. CharlesLouisiana340,000Texas CityTexas260,000HoustonTexas235,000MerauxLouisiana135,000Three RiversTexas100,0001,835,000U.S. Mid-Continent:McKeeTexas200,000MemphisTennessee195,000ArdmoreOklahoma90,000485,000North Atlantic:PembrokeWales, U.K.270,000Quebec CityQuebec, Canada235,000505,000U.S. West Coast:BeniciaCalifornia170,000WilmingtonCalifornia135,000305,000Total3,130,000



(a)“Throughput capacity” represents estimated capacity for processing crude oil, inter-mediates, and other feedstocks. Total estimated crude oil capacity is approximately 2.6 million BPD.

(b)Represents the combined capacities of two refineries – the Corpus Christi East and Corpus Christi West Refineries.









Total Refining System

The following table presents the percentages of principal charges and yields (on a combined basis) for all of our refineries for the year endedDecember 31, 2016, during which period our total combined throughput volumes averaged approximately2.9 millionBPD.



Combined Total Refining System Charges and YieldsCharges:sour crude oil32%sweet crude oil42%residual fuel oil10%other feedstocks5%blendstocks11%Yields:gasolines and blendstocks49%distillates37%other products (primarily includes petrochemicals, gas oils, No. 6 fuel oil, petroleum coke, sulfur and asphalt)14%



U.S. Gulf Coast

The following table presents the percentages of principal charges and yields (on a combined basis) for the eight refineries in the U.S. Gulf Coast region for the year endedDecember 31, 2016, during which period total throughput volumes averaged approximately1.7 millionBPD.



Combined U.S. Gulf Coast Region Charges and YieldsCharges:sour crude oil43%sweet crude oil23%residual fuel oil15%other feedstocks7%blendstocks12%Yields:gasolines and blendstocks46%distillates38%other products (primarily includes petrochemicals, gas oils, No. 6 fuel oil, petroleum coke, sulfur and asphalt)16%



Port Arthur Refinery. Our Port Arthur Refinery is located on the Texas Gulf Coast approximately 90 miles east of Houston. The refinery processes heavy sour crude oils and other feedstocks into gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel. The refinery receives crude oil by rail, marine docks, and pipelines. Finished products are distributed into the Colonial, Explorer, and other pipelines and across the refinery docks into ships or barges.



Corpus Christi East and West Refineries. Our Corpus Christi East and West Refineries are located on the Texas Gulf Coast along the Corpus Christi Ship Channel. The East Refinery processes sour crude oil, and the West Refinery processes sweet crude oil, sour crude oil, and residual fuel oil. The feedstocks are delivered by tanker or barge via deepwater docking facilities along the Corpus Christi Ship Channel, and West Texas or South Texas crude oil is delivered via pipelines. The refineries’ physical locations allow for the transfer









of various feedstocks and blending components between them. The refineries produce gasoline, aromatics, jet fuel, diesel, and asphalt. Truck racks service local markets for gasoline, diesel, jet fuels, liquefied petroleum gases, and asphalt. These and other finished products are also distributed by ship or barge across docks and third-party pipelines.



St. Charles Refinery. Our St. Charles Refinery is located approximately 25 miles west of New Orleans along the Mississippi River. The refinery processes sour crude oils and other feedstocks into gasoline and diesel. The refinery receives crude oil over docks and has access to the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port. Finished products can be shipped over these docks or through our Parkway pipeline or the Bengal pipeline, which ultimately provide access to the Plantation or Colonial pipeline networks.



Texas City Refinery. Our Texas City Refinery is located southeast of Houston on the Texas City Ship Channel. The refinery processes crude oils into gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel. The refinery receives its feedstocks by pipeline and by ship or barge via deepwater docking facilities along the Texas City Ship Channel. The refinery uses ships and barges, as well as the Colonial, Explorer, and other pipelines for distribution of its products.



Houston Refinery. Our Houston Refinery is located on the Houston Ship Channel. It processes a mix of crude and intermediate oils into gasoline, jet fuel, and diesel. In 2016, we completed construction of and placed into service a new 90,000 BPD crude distillation unit. The refinery receives its feedstocks by tankers or barges at deepwater docking facilities along the Houston Ship Channel and by various interconnecting pipelines. The majority of its finished products are delivered to local, mid-continent U.S., and northeastern U.S. markets through various pipelines, including the Colonial and Explorer pipelines.



Meraux Refinery. Our Meraux Refinery is located approximately 15 miles southeast of New Orleans along the Mississippi River. The refinery processes sour and sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, and high sulfur fuel oil. The refinery receives crude oil at its dock and has access to the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port. Finished products can be shipped from the refinery’s dock or through the Colonial pipeline. The refinery is located about 40 miles from our St. Charles Refinery, allowing for integration of feedstocks and refined petroleum product blending.



Three Rivers Refinery. Our Three Rivers Refinery is located in South Texas between Corpus Christi and San Antonio. It processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, and aromatics. The refinery has access to crude oil from sources outside the U.S. delivered to the Texas Gulf Coast at Corpus Christi, as well as crude oil from local sources through third-party pipelines and trucks. The refinery distributes its refined petroleum products primarily through third-party pipelines.









U.S. Mid-Continent

The following table presents the percentages of principal charges and yields (on a combined basis) for the three refineries in the U.S. Mid-Continent region for the year endedDecember 31, 2016, during which period total throughput volumes averaged approximately452,000BPD.



Combined U.S. Mid-Continent Region Charges and YieldsCharges:sour crude oil2%sweet crude oil90%blendstocks8%Yields:gasolines and blendstocks55%distillates35%other products (primarily includes petrochemicals, gas oils, No. 6 fuel oil, and asphalt)10%



McKee Refinery. Our McKee Refinery is located in the Texas Panhandle. It processes primarily sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuels, and asphalt. The refinery has access to local and Permian Basin crude oil sources via third-party pipelines. The refinery distributes its products primarily via third-party pipelines to markets in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, and Oklahoma.



Memphis Refinery. Our Memphis Refinery is located in Tennessee along the Mississippi River. It processes primarily sweet crude oils. Most of its production is gasoline, diesel, and jet fuels. Crude oil is supplied to the refinery via the Capline pipeline and can also be received, along with other feedstocks, via barge. Most of the refinery’s products are distributed via truck rack and barges.



Ardmore Refinery. Our Ardmore Refinery is located in Oklahoma, approximately 100 miles south of Oklahoma City. It processes medium sour and sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, and asphalt. The refinery receives local crude oil and feedstock supply via third-party pipelines. Refined petroleum products are transported to market via rail, trucks, and the Magellan pipeline system.



North Atlantic

The following table presents the percentages of principal charges and yields (on a combined basis) for the two refineries in the North Atlantic region for the year endedDecember 31, 2016, during which period total throughput volumes averaged approximately483,000BPD.



Combined North Atlantic Region Charges and YieldsCharges:sour crude oil4%sweet crude oil82%residual fuel oil6%blendstocks8%Yields:gasolines and blendstocks46%distillates42%other products (primarily includes petrochemicals, gas oils, and No. 6 fuel oil)12%









Pembroke Refinery. Our Pembroke Refinery is located in the County of Pembrokeshire in southwest Wales, U.K. The refinery processes primarily sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, heating oil, and low-sulfur fuel oil. The refinery receives all of its feedstocks and delivers the majority of its products by ship and barge via deepwater docking facilities along the Milford Haven Waterway, with its remaining products being delivered by our Mainline pipeline system and by trucks.



Quebec City Refinery. Our Quebec City Refinery is located in Lévis, Canada (near Quebec City). It processes sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, heating oil, and low-sulfur fuel oil. The refinery receives crude oil by ship at its deepwater dock on the St. Lawrence River or by pipeline or ship from western Canada. The refinery transports its products through our pipeline from Quebec City to our terminal in Montreal and to various other terminals throughout eastern Canada by rail, ships, trucks, and third-party pipelines.



U.S. West Coast

The following table presents the percentages of principal charges and yields (on a combined basis) for the two refineries in the U.S. West Coast region for the year endedDecember 31, 2016, during which period total throughput volumes averaged approximately267,000BPD.



Combined U.S. West Coast Region Charges and YieldsCharges:sour crude oil69%sweet crude oil4%other feedstocks12%blendstocks15%Yields:gasolines and blendstocks61%distillates23%other products (primarily includes gas oil, No. 6 fuel oil, petroleum coke, sulfur and asphalt)16%



Benicia Refinery. Our Benicia Refinery is located northeast of San Francisco on the Carquinez Straits of San Francisco Bay. It processes sour crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, and asphalt. Gasoline production is primarily CARBOB gasoline, which meets CARB specifications when blended with ethanol. The refinery receives crude oil feedstocks via a marine dock and crude oil pipelines connected to a southern California crude oil delivery system. Most of the refinery’s products are distributed via pipeline and truck rack into northern California markets.



Wilmington Refinery. Our Wilmington Refinery is located near Los Angeles, California. The refinery processes a blend of heavy and high-sulfur crude oils. The refinery produces CARBOB gasoline, diesel, CARB diesel, jet fuel, and asphalt. The refinery is connected by pipeline to marine terminals and associated dock facilities that can move and store crude oil and other feedstocks. Refined petroleum products are distributed via pipeline systems to various third-party terminals in southern California, Nevada, and Arizona.

Feedstock Supply

Approximately 55 percent of our crude oil feedstock requirements are purchased through term contracts while the remaining requirements are generally purchased on the spot market. Our term supply agreements include arrangements to purchase feedstocks at market-related prices directly or indirectly from various national oil companies as well as international and U.S. oil companies. The contracts generally permit the parties to amend the contracts (or terminate them), effective as of the next scheduled renewal date, by giving









the other party proper notice within a prescribed period of time (e.g., 60 days, 6 months) before expiration of the current term. The majority of the crude oil purchased under our term contracts is purchased at the producer’s official stated price (i.e., the “market” price established by the seller for all purchasers) and not at a negotiated price specific to us.



Marketing

Overview

We sell refined petroleum products in both the wholesale rack and bulk markets. These sales include refined petroleum products that are manufactured in our refining operations, as well as refined petroleum products purchased or received on exchange from third parties. Most of our refineries have access to marine transportation facilities and interconnect with common-carrier pipeline systems, allowing us to sell products in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., and other countries.



Wholesale Rack Sales

We sell branded and unbranded gasoline and distillate production, as well as other products, such as asphalt, lube oils, and natural gas liquids (NGLs), on a wholesale basis through an extensive rack marketing network. The principal purchasers of our refined petroleum products from terminal truck racks are wholesalers, distributors, retailers, and truck-delivered end users throughout the U.S., Canada, the U.K., and Ireland.



The majority of our rack volume is sold through unbranded channels. The remainder is sold to distributors and dealers that are members of the Valero-brand family that operate approximately5,700branded sites in the U.S., approximately900branded sites in the U.K. and Ireland, and approximately800branded sites in Canada. These sites are independently owned and are supplied by us under multi-year contracts. For branded sites, products are sold under the Valero®, Beacon®, Diamond Shamrock®,and Shamrock®brands in the U.S., the Texaco®brand in the U.K. and Ireland, and the Ultramar®brand in Canada.



Bulk Sales

We sell a significant portion of our gasoline and distillate production, as well as other products, such as asphalt, petrochemicals, and NGLs, through bulk sales channels in the U.S. and international markets. Our bulk sales are made to various oil companies and traders as well as certain bulk end-users such as railroads, airlines, and utilities. Our bulk sales are transported primarily by pipeline, barges, and tankers to major tank farms and trading hubs.



We also enter into refined petroleum product exchange and purchase agreements. These agreements help minimize transportation costs, optimize refinery utilization, balance refined petroleum product availability, broaden geographic distribution, and provide access to markets not connected to our refined-product pipeline systems. Exchange agreements provide for the delivery of refined petroleum products by us to unaffiliated companies at our and third-parties’ terminals in exchange for delivery of a similar amount of refined petroleum products to us by these unaffiliated companies at specified locations. Purchase agreements involve our purchase of refined petroleum products from third parties with delivery occurring at specified locations.

Logistics

We own logistics assets (crude oil pipelines, refined petroleum product pipelines, terminals, tanks, marine docks, truck rack bays, and other assets) that support our refining operations. In addition, through subsidiaries, we own the2.0percent general partner interest and the majority of the limited partner interest in VLP. VLP’s common units, representing limited partner interests, are traded on the NYSE under the symbol “VLP.” Its assets support the operations of our Ardmore, Corpus Christi, Houston, McKee, Memphis, Meraux, Port Arthur, St. Charles, and Three Rivers Refineries. VLP is discussed more fully inNote 11of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.









ETHANOL



We own11ethanol plants with a combined ethanol production capacity of about 1.4 billion gallons per year. Our ethanol plants are dry mill facilities1that process corn to produce ethanol, distillers grains, and corn oil.2We source our corn supply from local farmers and commercial elevators. Our facilities receive corn primarily by rail and truck. We publish on our website a corn bid for local farmers and cooperative dealers to use to facilitate corn supply transactions.



We sell our ethanol primarily to refiners and gasoline blenders under term and spot contracts in bulk markets such as New York, Chicago, the U.S. Gulf Coast, Florida, and the U.S. West Coast. We ship our dry distillers grains (DDGs) by truck or rail primarily to animal feed customers in the U.S. and Mexico. We also sell modified distillers grains locally at our plant sites, and corn oil by truck or rail. We distribute our ethanol through logistics assets, which include railcars owned by us.



The following table presents the locations of our ethanol plants, their approximate annual production capacities for ethanol (in millions of gallons) and DDGs (in tons), and their approximate corn processing capacities (in millions of bushels).



StateCityEthanolProductionCapacityProductionof DDGsCornProcessedIndianaLinden130385,00046Mount Vernon100320,00037IowaAlbert City130385,00046Charles City135400,00048Fort Dodge135400,00048Hartley135400,00048MinnesotaWelcome135400,00048NebraskaAlbion130385,00046OhioBloomingburg130385,00046South DakotaAurora135400,00048WisconsinJefferson105335,00039Total1,4004,195,000500



The combined production of denatured ethanol from our plants averaged3.8 milliongallons per day during the year endedDecember 31, 2016.

________________________

1Ethanol is commercially produced using either the wet mill or dry mill process. Wet milling involves separating the grain kernel into its component parts (germ, fiber, protein, and starch) prior to fermentation. In the dry mill process, the entire grain kernel is ground into flour. The starch in the flour is converted to ethanol during the fermentation process, creating carbon dioxide and distillers grains.

2During fermentation, nearly all of the starch in the grain is converted into ethanol and carbon dioxide, while the remaining nutrients (proteins, fats, minerals, and vitamins) are concentrated to yield corn oil, modified distillers grains, or, after further drying, dried distillers grains. Distillers grains generally are an economical partial replacement for corn and soybeans in feeds for cattle, swine, and poultry. Corn oil is produced as fuel grade and feed grade (not for human consumption), and is sold primarily as a feedstock for biodiesel or renewable diesel production with a smaller percentage sold into animal feed markets.











ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



We incorporate by reference into this Item the environmental disclosures contained in the following sections of this report:

•Item 1A, “Risk Factors”—Compliance with and changes in environmental laws, including proposed climate change laws and regulations, could adversely affect our performance;

•Item 1A, “Risk Factors”—Compliance with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Renewable Fuel Standard could adversely affect our performance;

•Item 1A, “Risk Factors”—We may incur additional costs as a result of our use of rail cars for the transportation of crude oil and the products that we manufacture;

•Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” under the caption “Environmental Enforcement Matters,” and;

•Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” inNote 7of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements andNote 9of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption “Environmental Matters.”

Capital Expenditures Attributable to Compliance with Environmental Regulations. In2016, our capital expenditures attributable to compliance with environmental regulations were$58 million, and they are currently estimated to be$169 millionfor2017and$289 millionfor2018. The estimates for2017and2018do not include amounts related to capital investments at our facilities that management has deemed to be strategic investments. These amounts could materially change as a result of governmental and regulatory actions.

