ITEMS 1. BUSINESS





OVERVIEW



We are a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio, Texas. Our corporate offices are at One Valero Way, San Antonio, Texas, 78249, and our telephone number is (210) 345-2000. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1981 under the name Valero Refining and Marketing Company. We changed our name to Valero Energy Corporation on August 1, 1997. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the trading symbol “VLO.” OnJanuary 31, 2020, we had 10,222 employees.



We own15petroleum refineries located in the United States (U.S.), Canada, and the United Kingdom (U.K.) with a combined throughput capacity of approximately3.15 millionbarrels per day (BPD). Our refineries produce conventional gasolines, premium gasolines, gasoline meeting the specifications of the California Air Resources Board (CARB), diesel, low-sulfur diesel, ultra-low-sulfur diesel, CARB diesel, other distillates, jet fuel, asphalt, petrochemicals, lubricants, and other refined petroleum products. We also own14ethanol plants located in the Mid-Continent region of the U.S. with a combined production capacity of approximately1.73 billiongallons per year. We are also a joint venture partner in Diamond Green Diesel Holdings LLC (DGD), which owns and operates a renewable diesel plant in Norco, Louisiana. We sell our products in the wholesale rack or bulk markets in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Ireland, and Latin America. Approximately7,000outlets carry our brand names.



On January 10, 2019, we completed our acquisition of all of the outstanding publicly held common units of Valero Energy Partners LP (VLP) as described inNote 2of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.





AVAILABLE INFORMATION



Our website address is www.valero.com. Information on our website is not part of this report. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and other reports, as well as any amendments to those reports, filed with (or furnished to) the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are available on our website (under About Valero > Investor Relations > Financial Information > SEC Filings) free of charge, soon after we file or furnish such material. In this same location, we also post our corporate governance guidelines and other governance policies, codes of ethics, and the charters of the committees of our board of directors. These documents are available in print to any stockholder that makes a written request to Valero Energy Corporation, Attn: Secretary, P.O. Box 696000, San Antonio, Texas 78269-6000.













VALERO’S OPERATIONS



Effective January 1, 2019, we revised our reportable segments to align with certain changes in how our chief operating decision maker manages and allocates resources to our business. Accordingly, we created a new reportable segment — renewable diesel — because of the growing importance of renewable fuels in the market and the growth of our investments in renewable fuels production. The renewable diesel segment includes the operations of DGD, which were transferred from the refining segment on January 1, 2019. Also effective January 1, 2019, we no longer have a VLP segment, and we include the operations of VLP in our refining segment. This change was made because of the Merger Transaction with VLP, as defined and discussed inNote 2of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference, and the resulting change in how we manage VLP’s operations. We no longer manage VLP as a business but as logistics assets that support the operations of our refining segment.



As a result, as of December 31, 2019, we hadthreereportable segments as follows:



•Refining segmentincludes our refining operations, the associated marketing activities, and logistics assets that support our refining operations;



•Ethanol segmentincludes our ethanol operations, the associated marketing activities, and logistics assets that support our ethanol operations; and



•Renewable diesel segmentincludes the operations of DGD, our consolidated joint venture, as discussed inNote 12of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.



Financial information about these segments is presented inNote 17of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.











REFINING

Refining Operations

As ofDecember 31, 2019, our refining operations included15petroleum refineries in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K., with a combined total throughput capacity of approximately3.15 millionBPD. The following table presents the locations of these refineries and their approximate feedstock throughput capacities as ofDecember 31, 2019.



RefineryLocationThroughputCapacity (a)(BPD)U.S.BeniciaCalifornia170,000WilmingtonCalifornia135,000MerauxLouisiana135,000St. CharlesLouisiana340,000ArdmoreOklahoma90,000MemphisTennessee195,000Corpus Christi (b)Texas370,000HoustonTexas255,000McKeeTexas200,000Port ArthurTexas395,000Texas CityTexas260,000Three RiversTexas100,000CanadaQuebec CityQuebec, Canada235,000U.K.PembrokeWales, U.K.270,000Total3,150,000

________________________

(a)“Throughput capacity” represents estimated capacity for processing crude oil, inter-mediates, and other feedstocks. Total estimated crude oil capacity is approximately 2.6 million BPD.

(b)Represents the combined capacities of two refineries – the Corpus Christi East and Corpus Christi West Refineries.









The following table presents the percentages of principal charges and yields (on a combined basis) for all of our refineries for2019, during which period our total combined throughput volumes averaged approximately3.0 millionBPD.



Combined Total Refining System Charges and YieldsChargessour crude oil23%sweet crude oil54%residual fuel oil7%other feedstocks5%blendstocks11%Yieldsgasolines and blendstocks48%distillates38%other products (primarily includes petrochemicals,gas oils, No. 6 fuel oil, petroleum coke, sulfurand asphalt)14%



California

Benicia Refinery. Our Benicia Refinery is located northeast of San Francisco on the Carquinez Straits of San Francisco Bay. It processes sour crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, and asphalt. Gasoline production is primarily California Reformulated Blendstock Gasoline for Oxygenate Blending (CARBOB), which meets CARB specifications when blended with ethanol. The refinery receives crude oil feedstocks via a marine dock and crude oil pipelines connected to a southern California crude oil delivery system. Most of the refinery’s products are distributed via pipeline and truck rack into northern California markets.



Wilmington Refinery.Our Wilmington Refinery is located near Los Angeles. The refinery processes a blend of heavy and high-sulfur crude oils. The refinery produces CARBOB gasoline, diesel, CARB diesel, jet fuel, and asphalt. The refinery is connected by pipeline to marine terminals and associated dock facilities that move and store crude oil and other feedstocks. Refined petroleum products are distributed via pipeline systems to various third-party terminals in southern California, Nevada, and Arizona.



Louisiana

Meraux Refinery.Our Meraux Refinery is located approximately 15 miles southeast of New Orleans along the Mississippi River. The refinery processes sour and sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, and high sulfur fuel oil. The refinery receives crude oil at its dock and has access to the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port. Finished products are shipped from the refinery’s dock and through the Colonial pipeline. The refinery is located about 40 miles from our St. Charles Refinery, allowing for integration of feedstocks and refined petroleum product blending.



St. Charles Refinery.Our St. Charles Refinery is located approximately 25 miles west of New Orleans along the Mississippi River. The refinery processes sour crude oils and other feedstocks into gasoline and diesel. The refinery receives crude oil over docks and has access to the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port. Finished products are shipped over these docks and through our Parkway pipeline and the Bengal pipeline, which ultimately provide access to the Plantation and Colonial pipeline networks.











Oklahoma

Ardmore Refinery. Our Ardmore Refinery is located in Oklahoma, approximately 100 miles south of Oklahoma City. It processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, diesel, and asphalt. The refinery predominantly receives Permian Basin and Cushing-sourced crude oil via third-party pipelines. Refined petroleum products are transported via rail, trucks, and the Magellan pipeline system.



Tennessee

Memphis Refinery. Our Memphis Refinery is located in Tennessee along the Mississippi River. It processes primarily sweet crude oils. Most of its production is gasoline, diesel, and jet fuels. Crude oil supply is primarily from Cushing, Oklahoma over the Diamond Pipeline. Crude oil can also be received, along with other feedstocks, via barge. Most of the refinery’s products are distributed via truck rack and barges.



Texas

Corpus Christi East and West Refineries.Our Corpus Christi East and West Refineries are located on the Texas Gulf Coast along the Corpus Christi Ship Channel. The East Refinery processes sour crude oil, and the West Refinery processes sweet crude oil, sour crude oil, and residual fuel oil. The feedstocks are delivered by tanker and barge via deepwater docking facilities along the Corpus Christi Ship Channel, and West Texas or South Texas crude oil is delivered via pipelines. The refineries’ physical locations allow for the transfer of various feedstocks and blending components between them. The refineries produce gasoline, aromatics, jet fuel, diesel, and asphalt. Truck racks service local markets for gasoline, diesel, jet fuels, liquefied petroleum gases, and asphalt. These and other finished products are also distributed by ship and barge across docks and third-party pipelines.



Houston Refinery. Our Houston Refinery is located on the Houston Ship Channel. It processes sweet crude and intermediate oils into gasoline, jet fuel, and diesel. The refinery successfully commissioned a new alkylation unit in 2019. The refinery receives its feedstocks primarily by various interconnecting pipelines and also has waterborne-receiving capability at deepwater docking facilities along the Houston Ship Channel. The majority of its finished products are delivered to local, mid-continent U.S., and northeastern U.S. markets through various pipelines, including the Colonial and Explorer pipelines.



McKee Refinery. Our McKee Refinery is located in the Texas Panhandle. It processes primarily sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuels, and asphalt. The refinery has access to local and Permian Basin crude oil sources via third-party pipelines. Refined petroleum products are transported primarily via third-party pipelines and rail to markets in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, Oklahoma, and Mexico.



Port Arthur Refinery.Our Port Arthur Refinery is located on the Texas Gulf Coast approximately 90 miles east of Houston. The refinery processes heavy sour crude oils and other feedstocks into gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel. The refinery receives crude oil by rail, marine docks, and pipelines. Finished products are distributed into the Colonial, Explorer, and other pipelines, and across the refinery docks into ships and barges.



Texas City Refinery.Our Texas City Refinery is located southeast of Houston on the Houston Ship Channel. The refinery processes crude oils into gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel. The refinery receives its feedstocks by pipeline and by ship or barge via deepwater docking facilities along the Houston Ship Channel. The refinery uses ships and barges, as well as the Colonial, Explorer, and other pipelines for distribution of its products.



Three Rivers Refinery. Our Three Rivers Refinery is located in South Texas between Corpus Christi and San Antonio. It primarily processes sweet crude oils into gasoline, distillates, and aromatics. The refinery has access to crude oil from West Texas and South Texas through third-party pipelines and trucks. The refinery distributes its refined petroleum products primarily through third-party pipelines.









Canada

Quebec City Refinery.Our Quebec City Refinery is located in Lévis, Canada (near Quebec City). It processes sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, heating oil, and low-sulfur fuel oil. The refinery receives crude oil by ship at its deepwater dock on the St. Lawrence River and by pipeline and ship from western Canada. The refinery transports its products through our pipeline from Quebec City to our terminal in Montreal and to various other terminals throughout eastern Canada by rail, ships, trucks, and third-party pipelines.



U.K.

Pembroke Refinery.Our Pembroke Refinery is located in the County of Pembrokeshire in southwest Wales, U.K. The refinery processes primarily sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, heating oil, and low-sulfur fuel oil. The refinery receives all of its feedstocks and delivers some of its products by ship and barge via deepwater docking facilities along the Milford Haven Waterway, with its remaining products being delivered through our Mainline pipeline system and by trucks.



Feedstock Supply

Our crude oil feedstocks are purchased through a combination of term and spot contracts. Our term supply agreements are at market-related prices and are purchased directly or indirectly from various national oil companies as well as international and U.S. oil companies. The contracts generally permit the parties to amend the contracts (or terminate them), effective as of the next scheduled renewal date, by giving the other party proper notice within a prescribed period of time (e.g., 60 days, 6 months) before expiration of the current term. The majority of the crude oil purchased under our term contracts is purchased at the producer’s official stated price (i.e., the “market” price established by the seller for all purchasers) and not at a negotiated price specific to us.



Marketing

Overview

We sell refined petroleum products in both the wholesale rack and bulk markets. These sales include refined petroleum products that are manufactured in our refining operations, as well as refined petroleum products purchased or received on exchange from third parties. Most of our refineries have access to marine transportation facilities and interconnect with common-carrier pipeline systems, allowing us to sell products in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., and other countries.



Wholesale Rack Sales

We sell our gasoline and distillate products, as well as other products, such as asphalt, lube oils, and natural gas liquids (NGLs), on a wholesale basis through an extensive rack marketing network. The principal purchasers of our refined petroleum products from terminal truck racks are wholesalers, distributors, retailers, and truck-delivered end users throughout the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Ireland, and Latin America.



The majority of our rack volume is sold through unbranded channels. The remainder is sold to distributors and dealers that are members of the Valero-brand family that operate5,158branded sites in the U.S.,874branded sites in the U.K. and Ireland, and795branded sites in Canada as ofDecember 31, 2019. These sites are independently owned and are supplied by us under multi-year contracts. For branded sites, products are sold under the Valero®, Beacon®, Diamond Shamrock®,and Shamrock®brands in the U.S., the Texaco®brand in the U.K. and Ireland, and the Ultramar®brand in Canada.



Bulk Sales

We also sell our gasoline and distillate products, as well as other products, such as asphalt, petrochemicals, and NGLs, through bulk sales channels in the U.S. and international markets. Our bulk sales are made to









various oil companies, traders, and bulk end-users, such as railroads, airlines, and utilities. Our bulk sales are transported primarily by pipeline, barges, and tankers to major tank farms and trading hubs.



We also enter into refined petroleum product exchange and purchase agreements. These agreements help minimize transportation costs, optimize refinery utilization, balance refined petroleum product availability, broaden geographic distribution, and provide access to markets not connected to our refined product pipeline systems. Exchange agreements provide for the delivery of refined petroleum products by us to unaffiliated companies at our and third-parties’ terminals in exchange for delivery of a similar amount of refined petroleum products to us by these unaffiliated companies at specified locations. Purchase agreements involve our purchase of refined petroleum products from third parties with delivery occurring at specified locations.

Logistics

We own logistics assets (crude oil pipelines, refined petroleum product pipelines, terminals, tanks, marine docks, truck rack bays, and other assets) that support our refining operations.



ETHANOL

We own14ethanol plants with a combined ethanol production capacity of1.73 billiongallons per year. Our ethanol plants are dry mill facilitiesthat process corn to produce ethanol, distillers grains, and corn oil.We source our corn supply from local farmers and commercial elevators. Our facilities receive corn primarily by rail and truck. We publish on our website a corn bid for local farmers and cooperative dealers to facilitate corn supply transactions.



We sell our ethanol primarily to refiners and gasoline blenders under term and spot contracts in bulk markets such as New York, Chicago, the U.S. Gulf Coast, Florida, and the U.S. West Coast. We also export our ethanol into the global markets. We ship our dry distillers grains (DDGs) by truck or rail primarily to animal feed customers in the U.S. and Mexico. We also sell modified distillers grains locally at our plant sites, and corn oil by truck and rail. We distribute our ethanol through logistics assets, which include railcars owned by us.











The following table presents the locations of our ethanol plants, their approximate annual production capacities for ethanol (in millions of gallons) and DDGs (in tons), and their approximate annual corn processing capacities (in millions of bushels).

StateCityEthanolProductionCapacityProductionof DDGsCornProcessedIndianaBluffton115302,00040Linden135355,00047Mount Vernon100263,00035IowaAlbert City135355,00047Charles City140368,00049Fort Dodge140368,00049Hartley140368,00049Lakota110289,00038MichiganRiga55145,00019MinnesotaWelcome140368,00049NebraskaAlbion135355,00047OhioBloomingburg135355,00047South DakotaAurora140368,00049WisconsinJefferson110352,00041Total1,7304,611,000606



The combined production of ethanol from our plants averaged4.3 milliongallons per day for2019.



RENEWABLE DIESEL

Our renewable segment includes the operations of DGD, which owns and operates a biomass-based diesel plant (the DGD Plant) that processes animal fats, used cooking oils, and other vegetable oils into renewable diesel. The DGD Plant is located next to our St. Charles Refinery in Norco, Louisiana. During 2019, the DGD Plant’s capacity was approximately 18,000 BPD. The DGD Plant is capable of annually converting approximately 2.3 billion pounds of rendered and recycled material into more than 275 million gallons of renewable diesel. In 2019, we began an expansion of the DGD Plant that is expected to increase production up to 675 million gallons of renewable diesel annually. DGD is in the advanced engineering review phase for a potential new renewable diesel plant to be located in Port Arthur, Texas.













ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



We incorporate by reference into this Item the environmental disclosures contained in the following sections of this report:

•Item 1A, “RISK FACTORS”—Compliance with and changes in environmental laws, including proposed climate change laws and regulations, could adversely affect our performance;

•Item 1A, “RISK FACTORS”—Compliance with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) could adversely affect our performance;

•Item 1A, “RISK FACTORS”—We may incur additional costs as a result of our use of rail cars for the transportation of crude oil and the products that we manufacture;

•Item 3, “LEGAL PROCEEDINGS” under the caption “ENVIRONMENTAL ENFORCEMENT MATTERS,” and;

•Item 8, “FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA” inNote 8of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Capital Expenditures Attributable to Compliance with Environmental Regulations. In2019, our capital expenditures attributable to compliance with environmental regulations were$235 million, and they are currently estimated to be$14 millionfor2020and$20 millionfor2021. The estimates for2020and2021do not include amounts related to capital investments at our facilities that management has deemed to be strategic investments. These amounts could materially change as a result of governmental and regulatory actions.



