ITEMS 1. BUSINESS

Overview

. We are a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio, Texas. Our corporate offices are at One Valero Way, San Antonio, Texas, 78249, and our telephone number is (210) 345-2000. Our common stock 
trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “VLO.” We were incorporated in Delaware in 1981 under the name Valero Refining and Marketing Company.  We changed our name to Valero Energy Corporation on August 1, 1997. On January 31, 2011, we had 20,313 employees.

Our 14 petroleum refineries are located in the United States (U.S.), Canada, and Aruba. Our refineries can produce conventional gasolines, distillates, jet fuel, asphalt, petrochemicals, lubricants, and other refined products as well as a slate of premium products including CBOB and RBOB


, gasoline meeting the speci
fications of the California Air Resources Board (CARB), CARB diesel fuel, low-sulfur and ultra-low-sulfur diesel fuel, and oxygenates (liquid hydrocarbon compounds containing oxygen).

We market branded and unbranded refined products on a wholesale basis in the U.S. and Canada through an extensive bulk and rack marketing network. We also sell refined products through a network of about 5,800 retail and wholesale branded outlets in the U.S., Canada, and Aruba.

We also own 10 ethanol plants in the Midwest with a combined ethan
ol production capacity of about 1.1 billion gallons per year.

Available Information

. Our internet website address is www.valero.com. Information contained on our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K filed with (or furnished to) the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are available on our internet website (in the “Investor Relations” section), free of charge, soon after we file or furnish such material. In this same location, we also post our corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct and ethics, code of ethics
 for senior financial officers, and the charters of the committees of our board of directors. These documents are available in print to any stockholder that makes a written request to Jay D. Browning, Senior Vice President – Corporate Law and Secretary, Valero Energy Corporation, P.O. Box 696000, San Antonio, Texas 78269-6000.

_____________________________


CBOB

, or “conventional blendstock for oxygenate blending,” is conventiona
l gasoline blendstock intended for blending with oxygenates downstream of the refinery where it was produced. CBOB becomes conventional gasoline after blending with oxygenates.

RBOB

is a base unfinished reformulated gasoline mixture known as “reformulated gasoline blendstock for oxygenate blending.” It is a specially produced reformulated gasoline blendstock intended for blending with oxygenates downstream of the refinery where it was produced to produce finished gasoline that meets or exceeds U.S. emissions performance requirements for federal reformulated gasoline.



SEGMENTS

&n
bsp;

Our business is organized into three reportable segments: refining, ethanol, and retail. The financial information about our segments in

Note 18

of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.

•

Our refining segment includes refining operations, wholesale marketing, product supply and distribution, and transportation operations. The refining segment is segregated geographically into the Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent, West Coast, and Northeast regions.

•

Our ethanol segment includes sales of internally produced ethanol and distillers grains. Our ethanol operation
s are geographically located in the central plains region of the U.S..

•

Our retail segment includes company-operated convenience stores, Canadian dealers/jobbers, truckstop facilities, cardlock facilities, and home heating oil operations. The retail segment is segregated into two geographic regions. Our retail operations in the U.S. are referred to as Retail-U.S. Our retail operations in eastern Canada are referred to as Retai
l-Canada.



VALERO

’

S OPERATIONS

REFINING

On

December 31, 2010

, our refining operations included 14 refineries in the U.S., Canada, and Aruba with a combined total throughput capacity of approximately 2.6 million barrels per day (BPD). The following table presents the locations of these refineries and their approximate feedstock throughput capacities as of

December 31, 2010

.

&n
bsp;

(a)

“Throughput capacity” represents estimated capacity for processing crude oil, intermediates, and other feedstocks. Total estimated crude oil capacity is approximately 2.2 million BPD.

(b)

Represents the combined capacities of two refineries – the Corpus Christi East and Corpus Christi West Refineries.

(c)

The Aruba Refinery was idled in July 2009, but resumed operations in January 2011.

(d)

We sold our Paulsboro, New Jersey Refinery in the fourth quarter of 2010, as described in

Note 3

of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Throughput capacity of this refinery was approximately 185,000 BPD.



Total Refining System

The following table presents the percentages of principal charges and yields (on a combined basis) for all of our refineries for the year ended

December 31, 2010

. Our total combined throughput volumes averaged 2.129 million BPD for the year ended

December 31, 2010

. (The information presented excludes the charges and yields of the Paulsboro Refinery, which we sold in the fourth quart
er of 2010, as more fully described in

Note 3

of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

Gulf Coast

The following table presents the percentages of principal charges and yields (on a combined basis) for the eight refineries in this region for the year ended

December 31, 2010

. Total throughput volumes for the Gulf Coast refining region averaged 1.28 million BPD for the year ended

December 31, 2010

.



Corpus Christi East and West Refineries

. Our Corpus Christi East and West Refineries are located on the Texas Gulf Coast along the Corpus Christi Ship Channel. The West Refinery specializes in processing primarily sour crude oil and residual fuel oil into premium products such as RBOB. The East Refinery processes sour crude oil into conventional gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, asphalt, aromatics, and other light products. The East and West Refineries are substantially integrated allowing for the trans
fer of various feedstocks and blending components between the two refineries and the sharing of resources. The refineries typically receive and deliver feedstocks and products by tanker and barge via deepwater docking facilities along the Corpus Christi Ship Channel. Three truck racks with a total of 16 bays service local markets for gasoline, diesel, jet fuels, liquefied petroleum gases, and asphalt. Finished products are distributed across the refinery docks into ships or barges, and are transported via third-party pipelines to the Colonial, Explorer, Valley, and other major pipelines.

Port Arthur Refinery

. Our Port Arthur Refinery is located on the Texas Gulf Coast app
roximately 90 miles east of Houston. The refinery processes primarily heavy sour crude oils and other feedstocks into gasoline blendstocks, as well as diesel, jet fuel, petrochemicals, petroleum coke, and sulfur. The refinery receives crude oil over marine docks and through crude oil pipelines, and has access to the Sunoco and Oiltanking terminals at Nederland, Texas. Finished products are distributed into the Colonial, Explorer, and TEPPCO pipelines and across the refinery docks into ships or barges.

St. Charles Refinery

. Our St. Charles Refinery is located approximately 15 miles from New Orleans along the Mississippi River. The refinery processes sour crude oils and oth
er feedstocks into gasoline, distillates, and other light products. The refinery receives crude oil over five marine docks and has access to the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port where it can receive crude oil through a 24-inch pipeline. Finished products can be shipped over these docks or through the Colonial pipeline network for distribution to the eastern U.S.

Texas City Refinery

. Our Texas City Refinery is located southeast of Houston on the Texas City Ship Channel. The refinery processes sour crude oils into a wide slate of products. The refinery receives and delivers its feedstocks and products by ship and barge via deepwater docking facilities along the Texas City Ship Channe
l and uses the Colonial, Explorer, and TEPPCO pipelines for distribution of its products.

Aruba Refinery

. Our Aruba Refinery is located on the island of Aruba in the Caribbean Sea. It processes primarily heavy sour crude oil and produces intermediate feedstocks and finished distillate products. Significant amounts of the refinery's intermediate feedstock production are transported and further processed in our other refineries in the Gulf Coast and West Coast regions. The refinery receives crude oil by ship at its two deepwater marine docks, which can berth ultra-large crude carriers. The refinery's products are delivered by ship primarily into markets in the U.S., the Caribbea
n, Europe, and South America.

Houston Refinery

. Our Houston Refinery is located on the Houston Ship Channel. It processes a mix of crude oils and low-sulfur residual fuel oil into reformulated gasoline and distillates. The refinery receives its feedstocks via tanker at deepwater docking facilities along the Houston Ship Channel and interconnecting pipelines with the Texas City Refinery. It delivers its products through major refined-product pipelines, including the Colonial, Explorer, Orion, and TEPPCO pipelines.

Three Rivers Refinery

. Our Three Rivers Refinery is located in South Texas between Corpus Christi and San Antonio. It processes sweet and medium sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, and aromatics. The refinery has access to crude oil from foreign sources delivered to the Texas Gulf Coast at Corpus Christi as well as crude oil from domestic sources through third-party pipelines and trucks. A 70-mile pipeline transports crude oil via connections to the Three Rivers Refinery from Corpus Christi. The refinery distributes its refined products primarily through pipelines owned by NuStar Energy L.P.



West Coast

The following table presents the percentages of principal charges and yields (on a combined basis) for the two refineries in this
 region for the year ended

December 31, 2010

. Total throughput volumes for the West Coast refining region averaged approximately 256,000 BPD for the year ended

December 31, 2010

.

Benicia Refinery

. Our Benicia Refinery is located northeast of San Francisco on the Carquinez Straits of San Francisco Bay. It processes sour crude oils into premium products, primarily CARBOB gasoline. (CARBOB is a reformulated gasoline mixture that meets the specifications of the CARB when blended with ethanol.) The refinery receives crude oil feedstocks via a marine dock that can berth large crude oil carriers and a 20-inch crude oil pipeline connected to a southern California crude oil delivery system. Most of the refinery's products are distributed via the Kinder Morgan pipeline system in California.

Wilmington Refinery

. Our Wilmington Refi
nery is located near Los Angeles, California. The refinery processes a blend of lower-cost heavy and high-sulfur crude oils. The refinery can produce all of its gasoline as CARBOB gasoline and produces both ultra-low-sulfur diesel and CARB diesel. The refinery is connected by pipeline to marine terminals and associated dock facilities that can move and store crude oil and other feedstocks. Refined products are distributed via the Kinder Morgan pipeline system and various third-party terminals in southern California, Nevada, and Arizona.


<
/div>


Mid-Continent

The following table presents the percentages of principal charges and yields (on a combined basis) for the three refineries in this region for the year ended

December 31, 2010

. Total throughput volumes for the Mid-Continent refining region averaged approximately 398,000 BPD for the year ended

December 31, 2010

.

Memphis Refinery

. Our Memphis Refinery is located in Tennessee along the Mississippi River's Lake McKellar. It processes primarily sweet crude oils. Most of its production is light products, including regular and premium gasoline, diesel, jet fuels, and petrochemicals. 
Crude oil is supplied to the refinery via the Capline pipeline and can also be received, along with other feedstocks, via barge. The refinery's products are distributed via truck racks at our three product terminals, barges, and a pipeline network, including one pipeline directly to the Memphis airport.

McKee Refinery

. Our McKee Refinery is located in the Texas Panhandle. It processes primarily sweet crude oils into conventional gasoline, RBOB, low-sulfur diesel, jet fuels, and asphalt. The refinery has access to crude oil from Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, and Colorado through third-party pipelines. The refinery also has access at Wichita Falls, Texas to third-party pipelines that
 transport crude oil from the Texas Gulf Coast and West Texas to the Mid-Continent region. The refinery distributes its products primarily via NuStar Energy L.P.'s pipelines to markets in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, and Oklahoma.

Ardmore Refinery

. Our Ardmore Refinery is located in Ardmore, Oklahoma, approximately 100 miles south of Oklahoma City. It processes medium sour and sweet crude oils into conventional gasoline, ultra-low-sulfur diesel, liquefied petroleum gas products, and asphalt. Local crude oil is gathered by TEPPCO's crude oil gathering/trunkline systems and trucking operations, and then transported to the refinery through third-party crude oil
 pipelines. Foreign, mid-continent, and other domestic crude oils are received via third-party pipelines. Refined products are transported to market via railcars, trucks, and the Magellan pipeline system.



Northeast

The following table presents the percentages of principal charges and yields for the Quebec City Refinery for the year ended

December 31, 2010

. Total throughput volumes for the Northeast refining region averaged approximately 195,000 BPD for the year ended

December 31, 2010

.

<
/div>

Quebec City Refinery

. Our Quebec City Refinery is located in Lévis, Canada (near Quebec City). It processes sweet, high mercaptan crude oils and lower-quality, sweet acidic crude oils into conventional gasoline, low-sulfur diesel, jet fuels, heating oil, and propane. The refinery receives crude oil by ship at its deepwater dock on the St. Lawrence River. We charter large ice-strengthened, double-hulled crude oil tankers that can nav
igate the St. Lawrence River year-round. The refinery transports its products to its terminals in Quebec and Ontario primarily by train, and also uses ships and trucks extensively throughout eastern Canada.

Feedstock Supply

Approximately 58 percent of our current crude oil feedstock requirements are purchased through term contracts while the remaining requirements are generally purchased on the spot market. Our term supply agreements include arrangements to purchase feedstoc
ks at market-related prices directly or indirectly from various foreign national oil companies (including feedstocks originating in the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Mexico, and South America) as well as international and domestic oil companies. The contracts generally permit the parties to amend the contracts (or terminate them), effective as of the next scheduled renewal date, by giving the other party proper notice within a prescribed period of time (

e.g

., 60 days, 6 months) before expiration of the current term. The majority of the crude oil purchased under our term contracts is purchased at the producer’s official stated price (

i.e

., the “market” price established by the seller for all purchasers) and not at a nego
tiated price specific to us. About 78 percent of our crude oil feedstocks under term supply agreements are imported from foreign sources and about 22 percent are domestic. If we become unable to purchase crude oil from any one of these sources, we believe that adequate alternative supplies of crude oil would be available.

The U.S. network of crude oil pipelines and terminals allows us to acquire crude oil from producing leases, domestic crude oil trading centers, and ships delivering cargoes of foreign and domestic crude oil. Our Quebec City and Aruba Refineries rely on foreign crude oil that is delivered to the refineries’ dock facilities by ship. We use the futures market to manage a portion of the price risk inherent in purchasing crude oil in adva
nce of the delivery date and holding inventories of crude oils and refined products.



Refining Segment Sales

Our refining segment includes sales of refined products in both the wholesale rack and bulk markets. These sales include refined products that are manufactured in our refining operations as well as refined products purchased or received on exchange from third parties. Most of our refineries have access to marine transportation facilities and interconnect with common-carrier pipeline systems, allowing us to sell products in most major geographic regions of the U.S. and eastern Canada. No customer accounted for more than 10 percent of our total operating revenues in 2010.

Wholesale Marketing

We market branded and unbranded transportation fuels on a wholesale basis in 44 states through an extensive rack marketing network. The principal purchasers of our transportation fuels from terminal truck racks are wholesalers, distributors, retailers, and truck-delivered end users throughout the U.S..

The majority of our rack volume is sold through unbranded channels. The remainder is sold to distributors and dealers that are members of the Valero-brand family that operate approximately 4,000 branded sites. These sites are indepen
dently owned and are supplied by us under multi-year contracts.  For wholesale branded sites, we promote our Valero

®

brand throughout the U.S. In addition, we offer the Beacon

®

brand in California and the Shamrock

®

brand elsewhere in the U.S.

Bulk Sales and Trading

We sell a significant portion of our gasoline and distillate production through bulk sales channels in domestic and international markets. Our bulk sales are made to various oil companies and traders as well as certain bulk end-users such as railroads, airlines, and utilities. Our bulk sales are transported primarily by pipeline, barges, and tankers to major tank farms and trading hubs.

We also enter into refined product exchange and purchase agreements. These agreements help to minimize transportation costs, optimize refinery utilization, balance refined product availability
, broaden geographic distribution, and provide access to markets not connected to our refined product pipeline systems. Exchange agreements provide for the delivery of refined products by us to unaffiliated companies at our and third parties’ terminals in exchange for delivery of a similar amount of refined products to us by these unaffiliated companies at specified locations. Purchase agreements involve our purchase of refined products from third parties with delivery occurring at specified locations.

Specialty Products

We sell a variety of other pr
oducts produced at our refineries, which we refer to collectively as “Specialty Products.” Our Specialty Products include asphalt, lube oils, natural gas liquids (NGLs), petroleum coke, petrochemicals, and sulfur.

•

We produce asphalt at five of our refineries. Our asphalt products are sold for use in road construction, road repair, and roofing applications through a network of refinery and terminal loading racks.

•

We produce napthenic oils at one of our refineries suitable for a wide variety of lubricant and process applications.

•

NGLs produced at our refineries include butane, isobutane, and propane. These products can b
e used for gasoline blending, home heating, and petrochemical plant feedstocks.

•

We are a significant producer of petroleum coke, supplying primarily power generation customers and cement manufacturers. Petroleum coke is used largely as a substitute for coal.



•

We produce and market a number of commodity petrochemicals including aromatic solvents (benzene, toluene, and xylene) and two grades of propylene. Aromatic solvents and propylenes are sold to customers in the chemical industry for further processing into such products as paints, plastics, and adhesives.

•

We are a large producer of sulfur with sales primarily to customers in the agricultural sector. Sulfur is used in manufacturing fertilizer.



ETHANOL

We own 10 ethanol plants with a combined ethanol production capacity of about 1.1
 billion gallons per year. Our ethanol plants are dry mill facilities


that process corn to produce ethanol and distillers grains.


We source our corn supply from local farmers and commercial elevators. Our facilities receive corn by rail and truck. On our website, we publish a corn bid for local farmers and cooperative dealers to use to facilitate corn supply transactions.

After processing, our ethanol is held in storage tanks on-site pending loading to trucks and railcars. We sell our ethanol (i) to large customers – primarily refiners and gasoline blenders – under term and spot contracts, and (ii) in bulk markets such as New York, Chicago, Dallas, Florida, and the West Coast. We also use our ethanol for our own needs in blending gasoline. We ship our dry distillers grains (DDG) by truck or rail primarily to animal feed customers in the U.S. and Mexico, with some sales into the Far East. We also sell modified distillers grains locally at our plant sites.

The following table presents the locations of our ethanol plants, their approximate ethanol and DDG production capacit
ies, and their approximate corn processing capacities.

Ethanol production from our 10 plants in the fourth quarter of 2010 averaged 3.25 million gallons per day. We acquired our Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, and South Dakota plants in the second quarter of 2009. We acquired our Indiana, Ohio, and Wisconsin plants in the first quarter of 2010. For additional information regarding these acquisitions, see

Note 2

of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

________________________


Ethanol is commercially produced using either the wet mill or dry mill process. Wet milling involves separating the grain kernel into its component parts (germ, fiber, protein, and starch) prior to fermentation. In the dry mill process, the entire grain kernel is ground into flour. The starch in the flour is converted to ethanol during the fermentation process, creating carbon dioxide and distillers grains.

;


During fermentation, nearly all of the starch in the grain is converted into ethanol and carbon dioxide, while the remaining nutrients (proteins, fats, minerals, and vitamins) are concentrated to yield modified distillers grains, or, after further drying, dried distillers grains. Distillers grains generally are an economical partial replacement for corn, soybean, and dicalcium phosphate in feeds for livestock, swine, and poultry.



RETAIL

Our retail segment operations include the following:

•

sales of transportation fuels at retail stores and unattended self-service cardlocks,

•

sales of convenience store merchandise and 
services in retail stores, and

•

sales of home heating oil to residential customers.

We are one of the largest independent retailers of refined products in the central and southwest U.S. and eastern Canada. Our retail operations are segregated geographically into two groups: Retail-U.S
. and Retail-Canada.

Retail-U.S.

Sales in Retail-U.S. represent sales of transportation fuels and convenience store merchandise and services through our company-operated retail sites. For the year ended

December 31, 2010

, total sales of refined products through Retail-U.S.’s retail sites averaged approximately 119,900 BPD. In addition to transportation fuels, our company-operated convenience stores sell tobacco products, beer, fast food
s and sandwiches, snacks, fountain drinks, bagged ice, and candy.  Our stores also offer services such as ATM access, money orders, lottery tickets, car wash facilities, air and water, and video rentals. On

December 31, 2010

, we had 994 company-operated sites in Retail-U.S. (of which 80 percent were owned and 20 percent were leased). Our company-operated stores are operated primarily under the Corner Store

®

brand name. Transportation fuels sold in our Retail-U.S. stores are sold primarily under the Valero

®

brand.

Retail-Canada

Sales in Retail-Canada include the following:

•

sales of refined products and convenience store merchandise th
rough our company-operated retail sites and cardlocks,

•

sales of refined products through sites owned by independent dealers and jobbers, and

•

sales of home heating oil to residential customers.

Retail-Canada includes retail operations in eastern Canada where we are a major supplier of refined products serving Quebec, Ontario, and the Atlantic Provinces of Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island. For the year ended

December 31, 2010

, total retail sales of refined products through Retail-Canada averaged approximately 75,400 BPD. Transportation fuels are sold under the Ultramar

®

brand through a network of 812 outlets throughout eastern Canada. On

December 31, 2010

, we owned or leased 392 retail stores in Retail-Canada and distributed gasoline to 420 dealers and independent jobbers. In addition, Retail-Canada operates 83 cardlocks, which are card- or key-activated, self-service, unattended stations that allow commercial, trucking, and governmental fleets to buy transportation fuel 24 hours a day. Retail-Canada operations also include a large home heating oil business that provides home heating oil to approximately 138,000 households in eastern Canada. Our home heating oil business tends to be seasonal to the extent of increased demand for home heating oil during the winter.