RISK FACTORS

We are subject to certain risks and events that, if one or more of them
occur, could adversely affect our business, our financial condition, our results of operations and the trading price of our common stock.

You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information presented in this report and the matters described in “Forward-Looking Statements,” as well as the other reports and registration
statements we file from time to time with the SEC, in evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities.

The risks below
are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely affect our business.

RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRIES AND BUSINESS

MACROECONOMIC CONDITIONS

The industries in which we operate are sensitive to macroeconomic conditions and consequently highly cyclical.

The overall levels of demand for the products we manufacture and distribute and consequently our sales and profitability reflect fluctuations in levels
of end-user demand, which depend in part on general macroeconomic conditions in North America and worldwide as well as on local economic conditions. Current economic conditions in the United States and the global economic downturn, combined with the
decreased availability of credit and high foreclosure rates, has resulted in a continued weakness in the homebuilding industry (including the company’s Real Estate business), increased inventories of available new homes, significant declines in
home prices, loss of home-equity values and loss of consumer confidence and demand. Our Wood Products segment is highly dependent on the strength of the homebuilding industry and the weakness in that industry has resulted in depressed prices of and
demand for wood products and building materials. This has been further reflected in declining prices and demand for logs and reduced harvests in our Timberland segment. The length and magnitude of industry cycles have varied over time and by
product, but generally reflect changes in macroeconomic conditions. Consumer demand could continue to decline as a result of the current economic conditions, further adversely affecting our businesses.

COMMOD

ITY PRODUCTS

Many of our products are commodities that are widely available from other producers.

Because commodity products have few distinguishing properties from producer to producer, competition for these products is based primarily on price,
which is determined by supply relative to demand and competition from substitute products. Prices for our products are affected by many factors outside of our control, and we have no influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which often
are volatile. Our profitability with respect to these products depends, in part, on managing our costs, particularly raw material and energy costs, which represent significant components of our operating costs and can fluctuate based upon factors
beyond our control. Prices of and demand for many of our products have declined significantly in recent quarters, while many of our raw material or energy costs have increased. This has adversely affected both our sales and profitability.

INDUST

RY SUPPLY OF LOGS, WOOD PRODUCTS AND PULP

Excess supply of products may adversely affect prices and margins.

Industry supply of logs, wood products and pulp is subject to changing macroeconomic and industry conditions that may cause producers to idle or permanently close individual machines or entire mills
or to decrease harvest levels. To avoid substantial cash costs in connection with idling or closing a mill, some producers choose to continue to operate at a loss, which could prolong weak prices due to oversupply. Oversupply of products also may
result from producers introducing new capacity or increasing harvest levels in response to favorable short-term pricing trends. Industry supplies of pulp also are influenced by overseas production capacity, which has grown in recent years and is
expected to continue to grow. While the weakness of the U.S. dollar in recent years has improved the company’s competitive position and mitigated the levels of imports, the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar and decreases in demand for
consumer products in emerging markets may result in increased imports of pulp from overseas, resulting in lower prices. Continuation of these factors could materially and adversely affect sales volumes and margins of our operations.

WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY

>

2009 ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K



HOMEBUILDING MARKET AND ECONOMIC RISKS

Continuing high foreclosure rates, low demand
and low levels of consumer confidence could continue to adversely affect our sales volume, pricing and margins and result in further impairments.

Demand for homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. During the period of 2007 through 2009,
the mortgage industry experienced significant instability and increasing default rates, particularly with regard to subprime and other nonconforming loans. This caused many lenders to tighten credit requirements and reduce the number of mortgage
loans available for financing home purchases. Demand for new homes also has been adversely affected by factors such as continued high unemployment, accelerating foreclosure rates and distress sales of houses, significant declines in home values and
a collapse of consumer confidence. Our cancellation rates have fallen, but homebuyers sometimes find it more advantageous to forfeit a deposit than to complete the purchase of the home because of the fear of further price declines. These factors
have resulted in reduced margins and prices and a higher level of sales incentives in many of our markets.

The company has traditionally
carried a larger supply of land for development than many of our competitors. Some of the land was purchased during the last few years. Land prices have fallen in these markets and may continue to fall. As new housing demand in our markets has
fallen significantly, we have elected to sell some of our land and lots at a loss or declined to exercise options, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write off preacquisition costs. We also have changed our competitive strategies
in some markets and elected to discontinue or postpone development in other markets in response to the downturn. As a result, we have been required to take substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory.

CAPITAL MARKETS

Recent deterioration in economic conditions and the credit markets could adversely affect our access to capital.

Financial and credit markets have been experiencing a period of turmoil that has included the failure or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States government. While it is
difficult to predict the ultimate results of these events, they may impair the company’s ability to borrow money. Similarly, our customers may be unable to borrow money to fund their operations.

Continued deteriorating or volatile market conditions could:

•

adversely affect our ability to access credit markets on terms acceptable to us,

•

limit our capital expenditures for repair or replacement of existing facilities or equipment,

•

adversely affect our compliance with covenants under existing credit agreements,

•

result in adverse changes in the credit ratings of our debt securities,

•

have an adverse effect on our customers and suppliers and their ability to purchase our products,

•

adversely affect the banks providing financial security for the transaction structures used to defer taxes related to several major sales of
timber,

•

adversely affect the performance of our pension plans requiring additional company contributions and

•

reduce our ability to take advantage of growth and expansion opportunities.

CH

ANGES IN CREDIT RATINGS

Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities.

Credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include our operating results, actions that we take, their view of the general outlook
for our industry and their view of the general outlook for the economy. Actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading or downgrading the current rating or placing the company on a watch list for possible future downgrading.
Downgrading the credit rating of our debt securities or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading could limit our access to the credit markets, increase our cost of financing, and have an adverse effect on the market price of our
securities.

SUBSTITUTION

Some of our products are vulnerable to declines in demand due to competing technologies or materials.

Our products may compete with nonfiber-based alternatives or with alternative products in certain market segments. For example, plastic, wood/plastic or composite materials may be used by builders as alternatives to the
products produced by our Wood Products businesses such as lumber, veneer, plywood and oriented strand board. Changes in prices for oil, chemicals and wood-based fiber can change the competitive position of our products relative to available
alternatives and could increase substitution of those products for our products. As the use of these alternatives grows, demand for our products may further decline.



CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX OR PRICING

Our results of operations and financial condition
could be materially adversely affected by changes in product mix or pricing.

Our results may be affected by a change in our sales
mix. Our outlook assumes a certain volume and product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our operations and our results could be negatively affected. Our outlook also assumes we will be
successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as future price increases. Delays in acceptance of price increases could negatively affect our results. Moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive
position, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations.

INTENSE COMPETITION

We face intense competition in our markets, and the failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.

We compete with North American and, for many of our product lines, global producers,
some of which may have greater financial resources and lower production costs than we do. The principal basis for competition is selling price. Our ability to maintain satisfactory margins depends in large part on our ability to control our costs.
Our industries are also particularly sensitive to other factors including innovation, design, quality and service, with varying emphasis on these factors depending on the product line. To the extent that one or more of our competitors become more
successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our ability to attract and retain customers could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to compete effectively, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.

MATERIAL DISRUPTION OF MANUFACTURING

A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales or negatively affect
our results of operation and financial condition.

Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise
operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including:

•

unscheduled maintenance outages;

•

prolonged power failures;

•

an equipment failure;

•

a chemical spill or release;

•

explosion of a boiler;

•

the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply;

•

labor difficulties;

•

disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels;

•

fires, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes;

•

terrorism or threats of terrorism;

•

governmental regulations; and

•

other operational problems.

Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime,
our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and income.

CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

Our operations require substantial capital.

The company has substantial capital requirements for expansion and repair or replacement of existing facilities or equipment. Although we maintain our
production equipment with regular scheduled maintenance, key pieces of equipment may need to be repaired or replaced periodically. The costs of repairing or replacing such equipment and the associated downtime of the affected production line could
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We believe our capital resources will
be adequate to meet our current projected operating needs, capital expenditures and other cash requirements. If for any reason we are unable to provide for our operating needs, capital expenditures and other cash requirements on economic terms, we
could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

LAWS AND REGULATIONS

We could incur substantial costs as a result of compliance with, violations of or liabilities under
applicable environmental laws and other laws and regulations.

We are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific laws
and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing:

•

air emissions;

•

wastewater discharges;

•

harvesting;

•

silvicultural activities;

•

the storage, management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes;

•

the cleanup of contaminated sites;

•

landfill operation and closure obligations;

WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY

>

2009 ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K



•

forestry operations and endangered species habitat; and

•

health and safety matters.

In particular, the pulp and paper industry in the United States is subject to Cluster Rules and Boiler Maximum Achievable Control Technology Rules that further regulate effluent and air emissions. These laws and regulations will
require us to obtain authorizations from and comply with the authorization requirements of the appropriate governmental authorities, which have considerable discretion over the terms and timing of permits.

We have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, significant capital, operating and other expenditures complying with applicable environmental
laws and regulations and as a result of remedial obligations. We also could incur substantial costs, such as civil or criminal fines, sanctions and enforcement actions (including orders limiting our operations or requiring corrective measures,
installation of pollution control equipment or other remedial actions), cleanup and closure costs, and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations.

As the owner and operator of real estate, including in our homebuilding business, we may be liable under environmental laws for cleanup,
closure and other damages resulting from the presence and release of hazardous substances on or from our properties or operations. The amount and timing of environmental expenditures is difficult to predict, and in some cases, our liability may
exceed forecasted amounts or the value of the property itself. The discovery of additional contamination or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations at our sites or third-party sites may result in significant additional costs. Any material
liability we incur could adversely affect our financial condition or preclude us from making capital expenditures that otherwise would benefit our business.

We also anticipate public policy developments at the state, federal and international level regarding climate change and energy access, security and competitiveness. We expect these developments to address emission of carbon
dioxide, renewable energy and fuel standards, and the monetization of carbon. Compliance with regulations that implement new public policy in these areas might require significant expenditures. Enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or
changes in existing laws or regulations, or the interpretation of these laws or regulations, might require significant expenditures. We also anticipate public policy developments at the state, federal and international level regarding taxes, health
care and a number of other areas that could require significant expenditures.

CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES

We will be affected by changes in currency exchange
rates.

We have manufacturing operations in Canada, Uruguay and Brazil. We are also a large exporter and compete with producers of
products very similar to ours. Therefore, we are affected by changes in the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar, Euro and Yen.

AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS AND ENERGY

Our business and operations could
be materially adversely affected by changes in the cost or availability of raw materials and energy.

We rely heavily on certain raw
materials (principally wood fiber and chemicals) and energy sources (principally natural gas, electricity, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing processes. Our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in
the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. We may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, productivity improvements or cost-reduction
programs.

TRANSPORTATION

We depend on third parties for transportation services and increases in costs and the availability of transportation could materially adversely affect our business and operations.

Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both domestically and internationally. We rely primarily on third parties
for transportation of the products we manufacture and/or distribute as well as delivery of our raw materials. In particular, a significant portion of the goods we manufacture and raw materials we use are transported by railroad or trucks, which are
highly regulated.

If any of our third-party transportation providers were to fail to deliver the goods we manufacture or distribute in a
timely manner, we may be unable to sell those products at full value — or at all. Similarly, if any of these providers were to fail to deliver raw materials to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products in response
to customer demand. In addition, if any of these third parties were to cease operations or cease doing business with us, we may be unable to replace them at reasonable cost.

Any failure of a third-party transportation provider to deliver raw materials or finished products in a timely manner could harm our reputation, negatively affect our customer relationships and have
a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.

In addition, an increase in transportation rates or fuel
surcharges could materially adversely affect our sales and profitability.



LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are a party to a number of legal proceedings, and adverse judgments in certain legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.

The costs and other effects of pending litigation against us and related insurance recoveries cannot be determined with certainty. Although the
disclosure in

Note 15: Legal Proceedings, Commitments and Contingencies

of

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

contains management’s current views of the effect such litigation will have on our financial results, there can
be no assurance that the outcome of such proceedings will be as expected.

For example, there have been several lawsuits filed against us
alleging that we violated U.S. antitrust laws. Those included lawsuits alleging antitrust violations against us and other manufacturers of oriented strand board and lawsuits alleging antitrust violations with respect to alder logs and
lumber. All of these matters have been settled.

It is possible that there could be adverse judgments against us in some or all
major litigation against us and that we could be required to take a charge for all or a portion of any damage award. Any such charge could materially and adversely affect our results of operations for the quarter or year in which we record it.

EXPORT TAXES

We may be required to pay significant export taxes or countervailing and anti-dumping duties for exported products.

We may experience reduced revenues and margins on some of our businesses as a result of export taxes or countervailing and anti-dumping duty applications. For example, in 2001, a group of companies filed petitions with the U.S.
Department of Commerce and the International Trade Commission claiming that production of softwood lumber in Canada was being subsidized by Canada and that imports into the U.S. from Canada were being sold in U.S. markets at less than their fair
value. We have softwood lumber facilities in Canada that export lumber into the U.S. We paid a total of $370 million in deposits for countervailing duty and anti-dumping tariffs from 2002 through 2006 related to those lumber exports. The U.S. and
Canadian governments reached a settlement of the dispute in 2006. As a result of the settlement, we received a refund of $344 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. However, our Canadian softwood lumber facilities will have to pay an export tax when
the price of lumber is at or below a threshold price. The export tax could be as high as 22.5 percent if a province exceeds its total allotted export share. Similar types of actions have been initiated from time to time against us and other U.S.
producers of products such as paper or lumber by countries such as China and Korea. It is possible that countervailing duty and antidumping tariffs, or similar types of tariffs could be imposed on us in the future. We may experience reduced revenues
and margins in any business that is subject to such tariffs or to the terms of the settlements of such international disputes. These tariffs or settlement terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and financial
condition, including facility closures or impairments of assets.

ELECTION OF REIT STATUS

If we elect to be treated as a REIT, it will have tax and liquidity implications.

As previously announced, our Board of Directors has determined that an election to be treated as a real estate investment trust (REIT) for tax purposes
would best support our strategic direction, although the timing of the conversion to a REIT is uncertain.

As a REIT, we generally would
not be subject to federal or state corporate income taxes on that portion of our capital gain or ordinary income from our REIT operations that is distributed to our shareholders. Our manufacturing operations, including our wood products, cellulose
fibers and real estate businesses, would continue to be subject to federal and state corporate income taxes.

Election of REIT status
would require that we make a one-time distribution to our shareholders of our accumulated earnings and profits (as calculated for U.S. federal income tax purposes) in the form of a special, taxable dividend, either in cash or a combination of cash
and shares of our capital stock or other property. We estimate that the aggregate value of the special dividend, if declared in 2010, would be approximately $6 billion. We would expect to limit the total amount of cash payable in the special
dividend to a maximum of 10 percent to 20 percent of the total value of the special dividend, or approximately $600 million to $1.2 billion. The balance of the special dividend, or approximately $4.8 to $5.4 billion, would be paid in the form of
shares of our capital stock. This would require us to issue a significant number of additional shares which will require shareholder approval. The actual amount of the special dividend is dependent, in part, on the results of the Company’s
operations, and may be adjusted by any amount that the Board of Directors may determine is appropriate to protect the Company’s ability to remain qualified as a REIT.

NATURAL DISASTERS

Our business and operations
could be adversely affected by weather, fire, infestation or natural disasters.

Our timberlands assets may be damaged by adverse
weather, severe wind and rainstorms, fires, pest infestation or other natural disasters. Because our manufacturing processes primarily use wood fiber, in many cases from our own

WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY

>

2009 ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K



timberlands, in the event of material damage to our timberlands, our operations could be disrupted or our production costs could be increased.

RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK

STOCK-PRICE VOLATILITY

The price of our common stock may be volatile.

The market price of our common stock may be influenced by
many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above under “Risks Related to our Industries and Business” and the following:

•

actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or our competitors’ operating results;

•

announcements by us or our competitors of new products, capacity changes, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments;

•

our growth rate and our competitors’ growth rates;

•

the financial market and general economic conditions;

•

changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, our competitors or the forest products industry generally, or lack of analyst
coverage of our common stock;

•

sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders or sales of substantial amounts of common stock; and

•

changes in accounting principles.

In addition, there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of companies operating in the forest products industry that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of
particular companies.

Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities litigation brought
against them. If litigation of this type is brought against us, it could result in substantial costs and would divert management’s attention and resources.

