Item 1. Business

General

Cardinal Health, Inc. is a global integrated healthcare services and products company providing customized solutions for hospitals, healthcare systems, pharmacies, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories, physician offices and patients in the home. We provide medical products and pharmaceuticals and cost-effective solutions that enhance supply chain efficiency.

Pharmaceutical Segment

In the United States, our Pharmaceutical segment:

•

through its Pharmaceutical Distribution division, distributes branded and generic pharmaceutical and over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products to retailers (including chain and independent drug stores and pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers), hospitals and other healthcare providers. This division:

•

maintains prime vendor relationships that streamline the purchasing process resulting in greater efficiency and lower costs for our retail, hospital and other healthcare provider customers;

•

provides services to pharmaceutical manufacturers, including distribution, inventory management, data reporting, new product launch support and chargeback administration;

•

through the connected care service offering, provides medication therapy management, telepharmacy and health messaging services and seeks to develop solutions to improve patient care through improved coordination of manufacturers, payers, pharmacies and patients;

•

provides pharmacy management services to hospitals and operates pharmacies, including in community health centers; and

•

repackages generic pharmaceuticals and over-the-counter healthcare products;

•

through its Specialty Solutions division, distributes specialty pharmaceutical products to hospitals and other healthcare providers and provides consulting, patient support and other services for specialty pharmaceutical products to pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers; and

•

through its Nuclear and Precision Health Solutions division, operates nuclear pharmacies and manufacturing facilities, which manufacture, prepare and deliver radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging and other procedures in hospitals and physician offices. This division also contract manufactures a radiopharmaceutical treatment (Xofigo) and holds the North American rights to manufacture and distribute Lymphoseek, a radiopharmaceutical diagnostic imaging agent.

See

Note 15

of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for Pharmaceutical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal


,


and


.

Pharmaceutical Distribution

Our Pharmaceutical Distribution division’s gross margin includes margin from our generic pharmaceutical program, from distribution services agreements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers and from over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products. It also includes manufacturer cash discounts.

Margin from our generic pharmaceutical program includes price discounts and rebates from manufacturers and may in limited instances include price appreciation. Our earnings on generic pharmaceuticals are generally highest during the period immediately following the initial launch of a product, because generic pharmaceutical selling prices are generally highest during that period and tend to decline over time.

Margin from distribution services agreements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers is derived from compensation we receive for providing a range of distribution and related services to manufacturers. Our compensation typically is a percentage of the wholesale acquisition cost that is set by manufacturers. In addition, under a limited number of agreements, branded pharmaceutical price appreciation, which is determined by the manufacturers, also serves as part of our compensation.

Sourcing Venture with CVS Health Corporation

In July 2014, we established Red Oak Sourcing, a U.S.-based generic pharmaceutical sourcing venture with CVS with an initial term of 10 years. Red Oak Sourcing negotiates generic pharmaceutical supply contracts on behalf of both companies.

Specialty Pharmaceutical Products and Services

We refer to products and services offered by our Specialty Solutions division as “specialty pharmaceutical products and services.” The Specialty Solutions division distributes oncology, rheumatology, urology, nephrology and other pharmaceutical products ("specialty pharmaceutical products") and human-derived plasma products to hospitals, dialysis clinics, physician offices and other healthcare providers; provides consulting, patient support, logistics, group purchasing and other services to pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers primarily supporting the development, marketing and distribution of specialty pharmaceutical products; and provides specialty pharmacy services. Our use of the terminology "specialty pharmaceutical products and services" may not be comparable to the terminology used by other industry participants.


Medical Segment

Our Medical segment manufactures and sources Cardinal Health branded general and specialty medical, surgical and laboratory products and devices. These products include exam and surgical gloves; needle, syringe and sharps disposal; compression; incontinence; nutritional delivery; wound care; cardiovascular and endovascular; single-use surgical drapes, gowns and apparel; fluid suction and collection systems; urology; operating room supply; and electrode product lines. Our Cardinal Health Brand products are sold directly or through third-party distributors in the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia and other markets. These products are generally higher-margin products.

The Medical segment also distributes a broad range of medical, surgical and laboratory products known as national brand products and provides supply chain services and solutions to hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories and other healthcare providers in the United States and Canada and this segment also assembles and sells sterile and non-sterile procedure kits.

Through Cardinal Health at-Home Solutions, this segment also distributes medical products to patients' homes in the United States.

Acquisitions and Divestitures

Acquisitions

We have acquired a number of businesses over the years that have enhanced our core strategic areas of Cardinal Health Brand medical products, generic pharmaceutical distribution and services, specialty pharmaceutical products and services, international and post-acute care. We expect to continue to pursue additional acquisitions in the future.

During the last five fiscal years, we completed the following three large acquisitions:

We also completed several smaller acquisitions during the last five fiscal years, including, in fiscal 2017, the acquisition of the North

American rights to Lymphoseek, a radiopharmaceutical diagnostic imaging agent, from Navidea Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.

Divestitures

Over the past three fiscal years, we have also completed several divestitures. In February 2018, we completed the sale of our pharmaceutical and medical products distribution business in China to Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding Co., Ltd. for proceeds of $861 million (after adjusting for third party indebtedness and preliminary transaction adjustments).

In August 2018, we completed the sale of our equity interest in naviHealth, Inc. to investor entities controlled by CD&R for proceeds of $737 million (after adjusting for certain fees and expenses) and a noncontrolling equity interest in a partnership that owned naviHealth. In May 2020, we sold the remainder of our equity interest in naviHealth.

We had acquired our equity interest in naviHealth through a series of transactions beginning in fiscal 2016, when we acquired a majority equity interest.




Customers

Our largest customers, CVS and OptumRx, accounted for

26 percent

and

14 percent

of our fiscal


revenue, respectively. In the aggregate, our five largest customers, including CVS and OptumRx, accounted for

49 percent

of our fiscal


revenue.

We have agreements with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) that act as agents to negotiate vendor contracts on behalf of their

members. Our two largest GPO relationships in terms of  revenue are with Vizient, Inc. and Premier, Inc. Sales to members of these two GPOs, under numerous contracts across our businesses, collectively accounted for

16 percent

of our revenue in fiscal


.

Suppliers

We rely on many different suppliers. Products obtained from our five largest suppliers accounted for an aggregate of

28 percent

of our revenue during fiscal


, and our largest supplier’s products accounted for approximately

6 percent

of revenue.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and consumer healthcare products. We also operate in a highly competitive environment in the manufacturing and distribution of medical devices and surgical products. We compete on many levels, including price, service offerings, support services, breadth of product lines and product quality and efficacy.

In the Pharmaceutical segment, we compete with wholesale distributors with national reach, including McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, regional wholesale distributors, self-warehousing chains, specialty distributors, third-party logistics companies, companies that provide specialty pharmaceutical services and nuclear pharmacies, among others. In addition, the

Pharmaceutical segment has experienced competition from a number of organizations offering generic pharmaceuticals, including telemarketers. We also compete with manufacturers that sell their products directly.

In the Medical segment, we compete with many diversified healthcare companies and national medical product distributors, such as Medline Industries, Inc., Owens & Minor, Inc. and Becton, Dickinson and Company, as well as regional medical product distributors and companies that are focused on specific product categories. We also compete with companies that distribute medical products to patients' homes and third-party logistics companies.

Employees

At

June 30, 2020

, we had approximately 30,000 employees in the United States and approximately 18,000 employees outside of the United States.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect our products, services and intangible assets. We hold patents, and continue to pursue patent protection throughout the world, relating to the manufacture, operation and use of various medical and surgical products, to certain distribution and logistics systems, to the production and distribution of our nuclear pharmacy products and to other service offerings. We also operate under licenses for certain proprietary technologies, and in certain instances we license our technologies to third parties.

We believe that we have taken all necessary steps to protect our proprietary rights, but no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully enforce or protect our rights in the event that they are infringed upon by a third party. While all of these proprietary rights are important to our operations, we do not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession to be material to our overall business.



Regulatory Matters

Our business is highly regulated in the United States, at both the federal and state level, and in foreign countries. Depending upon the specific business, we may be subject to regulation by government entities including:

•

the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (the “DEA”);

•

certain agencies within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”), the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Office of Inspector General and the Office for Civil Rights;

•

state health departments, insurance departments, Medicaid departments or other comparable state agencies;

•

state boards of pharmacy and other controlled substance authorities;

•

the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the “NRC”);

•

the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC");

•

U.S. Customs and Border Protection; and

•

agencies comparable to those listed above in markets outside the United States.

These regulatory agencies have a variety of civil, administrative and criminal sanctions at their disposal for failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements. They can suspend our ability to manufacture and distribute products, require us to initiate product recalls, seize products or impose criminal, civil and administrative sanctions.

Distribution

State Boards of Pharmacy, FDA, DEA and various other state authorities regulate the marketing, purchase, storage and distribution of pharmaceutical and medical products under various federal and state statutes including the federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987, Drug Quality and Security Act of 2013 (the “DQSA”), and Controlled Substances Act (the "CSA"). The CSA governs the sale, packaging, storage and distribution of controlled substances. Wholesale distributors of controlled substances must hold valid DEA registrations and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards including effective anti-diversion programs, and comply with the CSA. They must also comply with state requirements relating to controlled substances that differ from state to state.

Manufacturing, Sourcing and Marketing

We sell our manufactured products in the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia, Latin America and other markets. The FDA and other governmental agencies in the United States, as well as foreign governmental agencies, administer requirements that cover the design, testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing (including good manufacturing practices), quality systems, labeling, promotion and advertising (including restrictions on promoting or advertising a product other than for the product's cleared or approved uses), distribution, importation and post-market surveillance for most of our manufactured products. We are also responsible for compliance with

these requirements when we source certain Medical segment products from third-party manufacturers.

We need specific approval or clearance from, and registrations with, regulatory authorities before we can market and sell some products in the United States and certain other countries, including countries in the European Union ("EU").

In the United States, authorization to commercially market a medical device is generally received in one of two ways. The first, known as pre-market notification or the 510(k) process, requires us to demonstrate that a medical device is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device. The second more rigorous process, known as pre-market approval (“PMA”), requires us to independently demonstrate that a medical device is safe and effective. Many of our Medical segment branded products are cleared through the 510(k) process and certain products must be approved through the PMA process.

In the EU, we are required to comply with the Medical Device Directive ("MDD") and obtain CE Mark Certification in order to market medical devices. In 2017, EU regulatory bodies finalized a new Medical Device Regulation ("MDR") which will replace the MDD when it is implemented in May 2021. Under the MDR, medical devices marketed in the EU will require significant additional pre-market and post-market requirements, except that devices with valid CE Mark issued before May 2020 can be marketed until May 2024.

It can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory approvals, clearances and registrations of medical devices, and they might not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Even after we obtain approval or clearance to market a product or obtain product registrations, the product and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued regulatory oversight, including periodic inspection of manufacturing facilities by FDA and other regulatory authorities both in the United States and internationally.

From time to time, we may determine that products we manufacture or market do not meet our specifications, regulatory requirements or published standards. When we or a regulatory agency identify a quality or regulatory issue, we investigate and take appropriate corrective action, which may include recalling the product, correcting the product at the customer location, revising product labeling and notifying customers. For example, in January, 2020, we issued a voluntary recall for 9.1 million AAMI Level 3 surgical gowns and two voluntary field actions (a recall of some packs and a corrective action allowing overlabeling of other packs) for 2.9 million Presource Procedure Packs containing affected gowns because one of our FDA-registered suppliers in China had shifted production of some gowns to unapproved sites with uncontrolled environments, resulting in us being unable to assure the sterility of the gowns.




Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may limit our ability to effectively manufacture, source, market and sell our products, limit our ability to obtain future premarket approvals or result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. For additional information, please see our Risk Factor entitled

"Our business is subject to rigorous regulatory and licensing requirements."

Privacy and Data Protection

We are subject to various and evolving privacy laws and regulations in many jurisdictions. Because we collect, handle and maintain patient-identifiable health information, we are subject to laws that require specified privacy and security measures and that regulate the use and disclosure of such information, including the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA"), as augmented by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act as well as state laws, in the United States.

We also collect, handle, and maintain other sensitive personal and financial information. Within the U.S., these activities are regulated by certain federal and state laws. For example, the new California Consumer Privacy Act became effective in January 2020 and grants specified rights to consumers over the use of their personal information, including increased transparency. Other states are considering adopting similar or different comprehensive privacy laws. Internationally, we are also subject to privacy and data protection laws that require significant compliance efforts, including the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Canada's Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) and Japan's Act on the Protection of Personal Information (APPI), among many others.

Nuclear Pharmacies and Related Businesses

Our nuclear pharmacies and radiopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities (including for Xofigo) require licenses or permits and must abide by regulations issued by the NRC, applicable state boards of pharmacy and the radiologic health agency or department of health of each state in which we operate, including pharmacy sterile compounding standards and practices. In addition, our radiopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities also must comply with FDA regulations, including good manufacturing practices.

Product Tracing and Supply Chain Integrity

Title II of the DQSA, known as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act or "Track and Trace," establishes a phased-in national system for tracing pharmaceutical products through the pharmaceutical distribution supply chain to detect, prevent and rapidly respond to the introduction of drugs that may be counterfeit, diverted, stolen, adulterated, subject of a fraudulent transaction or otherwise unfit for distribution. The first phase of implementation began in 2015, and upon full implementation in 2023, we and other supply chain stakeholders will participate in an electronic, interoperable, prescription drug tracing system. In addition, the FDA also has issued regulations requiring most medical device labeling to bear a unique device identifier. These regulations are being phased in through 2020. The MDR, described above, also introduces a new unique device identifier requirement.

Government Healthcare Programs

We are subject to U.S. federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws. These laws generally prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any compensation in order to induce someone to order, recommend or purchase products or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-funded healthcare programs. They also prohibit submitting any fraudulent claim for payment by the federal government. There are similar state healthcare fraud and abuse laws that apply to Medicaid and other state-funded healthcare programs. Violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil penalties, as well as breach of contract claims and

qui tam

actions (false claims cases initiated by private parties purporting to act on behalf of federal or state governments).

Some businesses within each of our segments are Medicare-certified suppliers or participate in other federal and state healthcare

programs, such as state Medicaid programs and the federal 340B drug pricing program. These businesses are subject to accreditation and quality standards and other rules and regulations, including applicable reporting, billing, payment and record-keeping requirements. Other businesses within each segment manufacture pharmaceutical or medical products or repackage pharmaceuticals that are purchased or reimbursed through, or are otherwise governed by, federal or state healthcare programs. Failure to comply with applicable eligibility requirements, standards and regulations could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.

Our U.S. federal and state government contracts are subject to specific procurement requirements. Failure to comply with applicable rules or regulations or with contractual or other requirements may result in monetary damages and criminal or civil penalties as well as termination of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from government contract work.

Environmental, Health and Safety Laws

In the United States and other countries, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, including laws regulating the production or use of hazardous substances, as well as laws relating to safe working conditions and laboratory practices.

Antitrust Laws

The U.S. federal government, most U.S. states and many foreign countries have laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be anti-competitive. Violations of these laws can result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil penalties. Private plaintiffs also could bring civil lawsuits against us in the United States for alleged antitrust law violations, including claims for treble damages.

Laws Relating to Foreign Trade and Operations

U.S. and foreign laws require us to abide by standards relating to the import and export of finished goods, raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. We also must comply with various export control and trade embargo laws, which may require licenses or other authorizations for transactions within some countries or with some counterparties.



Similarly, we are subject to U.S. and foreign laws concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other foreign anti-bribery laws. Among other things, these laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising or making payments to officials of foreign governments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. For example, in February 2020, we paid approximately $8.4 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission to settle charges that our internal controls were not sufficient to detect improper payments made by employees of our former China distribution business.




Other Information

Although our agreements with manufacturers sometimes require us to maintain inventory levels within specified ranges, our distribution businesses are generally not required by our customers to maintain particular inventory levels other than as needed to meet service level requirements. Certain customer contracts require us to maintain sufficient inventory to meet emergency demands, but we do not believe those requirements materially affect inventory levels.

Our customer return policies generally require that the product be physically returned, subject to restocking fees. We only allow customers to return product for credit that can be added back to inventory and resold at full value, or that can be returned to vendors for credit.

We offer market payment terms to our customers.
