Item 1:Business

General

Cardinal Health, Inc. is an Ohio corporation formed in 1979. As used in this report, “we,” “our,”
“us” and similar pronouns refer to Cardinal Health, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. We are a global healthcare solutions company providing products and services that help hospitals, physician offices and
pharmacies reduce costs, improve safety and productivity, and deliver better care to patients. Except as otherwise specified, information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is provided as of June 30, 2010, which is the end of our 2010 fiscal
year.

Spin-Off of CareFusion Corporation

On August 31, 2009, we separated the clinical and medical products businesses from our other businesses through a pro rata
distribution to shareholders of 81% of the then outstanding common stock of a wholly-owned subsidiary, CareFusion Corporation (“CareFusion”). We refer to this transaction as the “Spin-Off.” CareFusion’s product lines are in
the areas of intravenous, infusion, medication and supply dispensing, respiratory care, infection prevention and surgical instruments. We retained 19% of CareFusion common stock, which we are required to dispose of before August 31, 2014,
pursuant to the private letter ruling we received from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) in connection with the Spin-Off. As of June 30, 2010, we owned approximately 30.5 million CareFusion shares. As part of the Spin-Off,
Cardinal Health and CareFusion entered into a separation agreement and various other agreements relating to the separation, including a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, intellectual property
agreements and certain other commercial agreements.

Business Segments

For fiscal 2009, we reported financial information in three segments: Healthcare Supply Chain Services, Clinical and Medical Products, and
All Other. From July 1, 2009 to August 31, 2009, we reported financial information in three different segments: Pharmaceutical, Medical and CareFusion. The Pharmaceutical segment included the businesses that were previously within the
Healthcare Supply Chain Services segment that distributed pharmaceutical, radiopharmaceutical and over-the-counter healthcare products, as well as the businesses previously within the All Other segment. The Medical segment included the
remaining businesses within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services segment and certain surgical and exam gloves, surgical drapes and apparel and fluid management businesses that were previously within the Clinical and Medical Products
segment. The CareFusion segment included the businesses previously within the Clinical and Medical Products segment but not the above-referenced surgical and exam gloves, surgical drapes and apparel and fluid management businesses. All
businesses in the CareFusion segment were part of the Spin-Off.

Once the Spin-Off was completed, our remaining businesses
were organized into our current two segments: Pharmaceutical and Medical. The following business discussion is based on the two segments as they were structured for fiscal 2010.

Pharmaceutical Segment

The Pharmaceutical segment:



•distributes branded and generic pharmaceutical, over-the-counter healthcare, and consumer products through its pharmaceutical distribution business;



•operates nuclear pharmacies and cyclotron facilities that prepare and deliver radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging and other procedures in
hospitals and clinics;







•distributes specialty pharmaceutical products and provides third-party logistics support services to manufacturers; and



•franchises retail pharmacies under the Medicine
Shoppe®and
Medicap®brands, and provides pharmacy services to hospitals and other healthcare facilities.

The pharmaceutical distribution business is a full-service wholesale distributor to retail customers
(including chain and independent drug stores and pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers), hospitals, and alternate care providers (including mail order pharmacies) located throughout the United States and in Puerto Rico.
Pharmaceutical distribution maintains prime vendor relationships that streamline the purchasing process resulting in greater efficiency and lower costs for our customers. Pharmaceutical distribution also helps pharmaceutical manufacturers with
services including distribution, inventory management, data/reporting, new product launch support, and contract and chargeback administration.

The pharmaceutical distribution business generates gross margin primarily when the aggregate selling price to our customers exceeds the
aggregate cost of products sold, net of manufacturer cash discount, branded manufacturer margin, and generic manufacturer margin.

“Manufacturer cash discounts” are price reductions that manufacturers may offer to us for prompt payment
of purchased products.

“Branded manufacturer margin” (also referred to as “branded
margin”) refers to compensation amounts under distribution service agreements with manufacturers and to pharmaceutical price appreciation. Compensation under the distribution service agreements may be a fee based on volume with or without
pharmaceutical price appreciation. A manufacturer may increase its published price for a product after we have purchased that product for inventory. Our contract price for branded pharmaceutical products to customers is based on the
manufacturer’s published price at the time of sale. As such, inventory sold following a manufacturer price increase will be based on the higher manufacturer price. “Pharmaceutical price appreciation” refers to amounts we earn
from selling inventory at these increased prices.

“Generic manufacturer margin” (also
referred to as “generic margin”) refers to price discounts, rebates and other incentives we receive from manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals. Our earnings on generic pharmaceuticals generally are highest during the period immediately
following the initial launch of a generic product because generic pharmaceutical selling prices tend to decline over time, although this may vary.

Bulk and Non-bulk Customers. The Pharmaceutical segment differentiates between bulk and non-bulk customers. Bulk customers consist
of retail chain customers’ centralized warehouse operations and customers’ mail order businesses. All other customers are classified as non-bulk customers. A retail chain pharmacy customer may be both a bulk customer with respect to its
warehouse operations and a non-bulk customer with respect to its retail stores.

Bulk customers can process large quantities
of products in central locations. Substantially all deliveries to bulk customers consist of products shipped in the same form that we receive them from the manufacturer; a small portion of deliveries to bulk customers are broken down into smaller
units prior to shipping. In contrast, non-bulk customers require more complex servicing. For non-bulk customers, we may receive inventory in large or full case quantities and break it down into smaller quantities, warehouse the product for a longer
period of time, pick individual products specific to a customer’s order, and deliver that smaller order to a customer location.

Bulk customers generate significantly lower segment profit as a percentage of revenue than non-bulk customers. Bulk customers receive
lower pricing on sales of the same products than non-bulk customers due to volume pricing in a competitive market and due to lower costs related to the fewer services we provide. In







addition, sales to bulk customers in aggregate generate higher segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue than sales to non-bulk customers, because bulk customers’ orders
consist almost entirely of higher cost branded products. The higher segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue for bulk customers is also driven by the impact of branded manufacturer margin and manufacturer cash discounts. Branded
manufacturer margin is lower due to the shorter time that products sold to bulk customers are held in inventory by us, allowing less opportunity for pharmaceutical price appreciation. Segment distribution, selling, general and administrative
(“SG&A”) expenses as a percentage of revenue from bulk customers are substantially lower than from non-bulk customers because deliveries to bulk customers require substantially fewer services to be rendered by us than deliveries to
non-bulk customers.

The following table shows the revenues, segment expenses, segment profit and segment profit as a
percentage of revenue for bulk and non-bulk customers for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008.



(in millions)20102009 (2)2008 (2)Non-bulk customers:Revenue from non-bulk customers$45,795.4$44,134.7$42,199.7Segment expenses allocated to non-bulk customers (1)44,908.443,272.941,335.6Segment profit from non-bulk customers (1)887.0861.8864.1Segment profit from non-bulk customers as a percentage of revenue from non-bulk customers (1)1.94%1.95%2.05%Bulk customers:Revenue from bulk customers$43,994.5$43,728.2$37,298.6Segment expenses allocated to bulk customers (1)43,879.743,554.337,140.3Segment profit from bulk customers (1)114.8173.9158.3Segment profit from bulk customers as a percentage of revenue from bulk customers (1)0.26%0.40%0.42%



(1)Segment expenses and profit required complex and subjective estimates and allocations based upon assumptions, past experience and judgment that we believe are
reasonable. In addition, amounts do not include the impact of last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) provisions, if any. We had no LIFO provisions in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008.

(2)During fiscal 2010, we revised some of the estimates used when allocating expenses between non-bulk customers and bulk customers. Prior period information has been
adjusted to reflect this change.

See Note 16 to the “Notes Consolidated Financial Statements” for
Pharmaceutical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008.

Medical Segment

The Medical segment distributes a broad range of medical, surgical and laboratory products to hospitals, surgery centers, laboratories,
physician offices and other healthcare providers. This segment also develops, manufactures and sources our own line of medical and surgical products. These products include: sterile and non-sterile procedure kits; single-use surgical drapes, gowns
and apparel; exam and surgical gloves; and fluid suction and collection systems. Our medical and surgical products are sold directly or through third-party distributors in the United States, Canada, Europe, South America and the Asia/Pacific region.

See Note 16 to the “Notes Consolidated Financial Statements” for Medical segment revenue, profit and assets for
fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008.







Acquisitions and Divestitures

In the past five fiscal years, we completed the following two significant acquisitions, both of which were transferred to CareFusion as
part of the Spin-Off.



Consideration PaidDate (1)CompanyLocationLine of BusinessCashStockOptionsConverted (2)(Amounts in millions)June 21, 2007VIASYS Healthcare Inc. (“VIASYS”)Conshohocken, PennsylvaniaRespiratory, neurology, medical disposable and orthopedic products$1,526(3)0.1May 12, 2008Enturia Inc. (“Enturia”)Leawood, KansasInfection prevention products$490(4)0.0



(1)Represents the date we became the majority shareholder.

(2)As a result of the acquisition, the outstanding stock options of the acquired company were converted into options to purchase Common Shares issued by us. This column
represents the number of our Common Shares subject to converted stock options immediately following conversion.

(3)Includes the assumption of approximately $54 million in debt; also includes approximately $88 million of shares under equity compensation plans in July 2007.

(4)Includes the assumption of approximately $5 million in debt.

We also completed several smaller acquisitions during the last five fiscal years, including:



•during fiscal 2006, purchasing the wholesale pharmaceutical, health and beauty and related drugstore products distribution business of The F. Dohmen
Co. and certain of its subsidiaries, and the remaining shares of Source Medical Corporation, our Canadian joint venture;



•during fiscal 2007, purchasing SpecialtyScripts, LLC; and



•during fiscal 2009, purchasing Borschow Hospital & Medical Supplies, Inc.

On June 9, 2010, we entered into an agreement to acquire Healthcare Solutions Holding, LLC, which provides specialty healthcare
services. On July 15, 2010, we completed that acquisition for a $517 million cash payment. The acquisition agreement also includes earn-out payments of up to $150 million over the next three years.

We completed several divestiture transactions during the past five fiscal years, including:



•during fiscal 2007, selling our former Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment, other than certain generic-focused businesses, for
approximately $3.2 billion in cash; our healthcare marketing services business; and our United Kingdom-based Intercare pharmaceutical distribution business.



•during fiscal 2010, consummating the Spin-Off of CareFusion Corporation; and selling SpecialtyScripts, LLC and our United Kingdom-based Martindale
injectable manufacturing business.

Customers

Our largest customers, Walgreen Co. (“Walgreens”) and CVS Caremark Corporation (“CVS”), accounted for approximately
24% and 22%, respectively, of our revenue for fiscal 2010. The aggregate of our five largest customers, including Walgreens and CVS, accounted for approximately 57% of our revenue for fiscal 2010.

We have agreements with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) that act as agents to negotiate vendor contracts on behalf of
their members. Our two largest GPO relationships in terms of member revenue are with







Novation, LLC, and Premier Purchasing Partners, L.P. Arrangements with these two GPOs accounted for approximately 15% of our revenue for fiscal 2010. Although GPO vendor selections may influence
member sourcing decisions, GPO members generally are not required to comply with those vendor selections. Accordingly, we believe that the loss of an agreement with a GPO would not cause the loss of sales to all members of the GPO.

Suppliers

We rely on
many different suppliers. Products obtained from our five largest suppliers accounted for an aggregate of approximately 20% of our revenue during fiscal 2010, but no single supplier’s products accounted for more than 6% of that revenue.
Overall, we believe our relationships with our suppliers are good. The loss of some suppliers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if alternative sources were unavailable at reasonable prices.

The Pharmaceutical distribution business is a party to distribution service agreements with pharmaceutical manufacturers. These
agreements generally have terms ranging from one year with an automatic renewal feature to five years. Generally, these agreements are terminable before they expire only if the parties mutually agree, if there is an uncured breach of the agreement,
or if one party is the subject of a bankruptcy filing or similar insolvency event. Some agreements allow the manufacturer to terminate the agreement without cause within a defined notice period.

Our Pharmaceutical segment’s nuclear pharmacy services business dispenses several products prepared using a particular radioisotope.
At the present time, it is difficult to acquire sufficient quantities of that radioisotope from third party suppliers because of a continued and prolonged shortage of a critical raw material used to derive that radioisotope from two nuclear
reactors, which are experiencing prolonged downtimes. Based on information obtained from parties involved with the two affected nuclear reactors, we anticipate the supply of raw material to normalize in the first half of fiscal 2011.

Competition

We operate
in a highly competitive environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare services. We also operate in a highly competitive environment in the development, manufacturing and distribution of medical and surgical products. We
compete on many levels, including service offerings, support services, breadth of product lines, and price.

In the
Pharmaceutical segment, we compete with two other national, full-line wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation) and a number of regional wholesale distributors, self-warehousing chains, direct selling
manufacturers, specialty distributors, third-party logistics companies, and nuclear pharmacies, among others. In addition, the Pharmaceutical segment has experienced competition from a number of organizations offering generic pharmaceuticals,
including telemarketers.

In the Medical segment, we compete with many different distributors, including Owens &
Minor, Inc., Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., PSS World Medical, Inc., Henry Schein, Inc., and Medline Industries, Inc. In addition, we compete with a number of regional medical products distributors and with third-party logistics companies.
Competitors of the Medical segment’s development and manufacturing business include Kimberly-Clark Corporation, Ansell Limited, DeRoyal Industries Inc., Medline Industries, Inc., and Mölnlycke Health Care.

Employees

As of
June 30, 2010, we had approximately 22,600 employees in the United States and approximately 8,600 employees outside of the United States. Overall, we consider our employee relations to be good.







Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and
technical measures to protect our products, services and intangible assets. We also operate under licenses for certain proprietary technologies, and in certain instances we license our technologies to third parties. All of these proprietary rights
are important to our ongoing operations. We enforce our intellectual property rights when they are infringed by others, and will continue to do so, where appropriate.

We have applied in the United States and other countries for registration of a number of trademarks and service marks. Some of our marks
are registered, but our applications may not always be granted. We also hold common law rights in various trademarks and service marks.

We hold patents relating to aspects of our distribution operations, including our nuclear pharmacy products and service offerings. We
also hold patents relating to medical and surgical products and devices, such as fluid suction and irrigation devices; surgical waste management systems; surgical and medical examination gloves; surgical drapes, gowns and facial protection products;
and patient temperature management products.

We have a number of pending patent applications in the United States and other
countries, and we intend to pursue additional patents as appropriate. We may not always obtain the patents for which we apply. We do not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession to be material to our overall
business.

Regulatory Matters

Our business is highly regulated in the United States at both the federal and state level and in foreign countries. Depending upon their
specific business and where they distribute, manufacture and sell their products, our subsidiaries may be subject to regulation by government entities including:



•the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (the “DEA”),



•the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”),



•the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the “NRC”),



•the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”),



•state boards of pharmacy,



•state controlled substance agencies,



•state health departments, insurance departments or other comparable state agencies, and



•foreign agencies that are comparable to those listed above.

These regulatory agencies have a variety of civil, administrative and criminal sanctions at their disposal. They can require us to
suspend distribution of products and controlled substances or initiate product recalls; they can seize products or impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions; and they can seek injunctions to halt the manufacture and
distribution of products.

Distribution.The DEA, FDA and various state authorities regulate the marketing, purchase,
storage and distribution of pharmaceutical products and controlled substances under various state and federal statutes including the Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987. Wholesale distributors of controlled substances must hold valid DEA
registrations and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with the Controlled Substances Act and its accompanying regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, storage and distribution of controlled
substances.

Manufacturing and marketing.Our subsidiaries that manufacture medical devices are subject to regulation
by the FDA and comparable foreign agencies including regulations regarding compliance with good manufacturing practices and quality systems. In addition, our Medical segment’s international manufacturing operations may be subject to local
certification requirements.







The FDA and other domestic and foreign governmental agencies administer requirements
covering the design, testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacture, labeling, promotion and advertising, distribution and post-market surveillance of certain of our manufactured products. We need specific approval or clearance from regulatory
authorities before we can market and sell many of our products in particular countries. Even after we obtain approval or clearance to market a product, the product and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued regulatory review.

To assess and facilitate compliance with federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, we routinely review our quality
and compliance systems to evaluate their effectiveness and to identify areas for improvement or remediation. As part of our quality review, we assess the suppliers of raw materials, components and finished goods that are incorporated into the
medical devices we manufacture. In addition, we conduct quality management reviews designed to highlight key issues that may affect the quality of our products and services. From time to time, we may determine that products we manufacture or market
do not meet our specifications, regulatory requirements, or published standards. When we identify a quality or regulatory issue, we investigate and take appropriate corrective action, such as withdrawing the product from the market, correcting the
product at the customer location, revising product labeling, and notifying customers.

Nuclear pharmacies and related
businesses.Our nuclear pharmacies and cyclotron facilities require licenses or permits from the NRC, the radiologic health agency or department of health of each state in which we operate, and the state board of pharmacy. In addition, the FDA
regulates cyclotron facilities. The FDA issued regulations, effective December 11, 2011, establishing current Good Manufacturing Practices for positron emission tomography (“PET”) drugs.

Prescription Drug Pedigree Tracking

State and federal agencies are concerned about preventing the introduction of counterfeit, diverted, adulterated or mislabeled
pharmaceuticals into the pharmaceutical supply chain. Some states have adopted or are considering laws and regulations intended to protect the integrity of the pharmaceutical distribution system while other government agencies are currently
evaluating their options. The FDA Amendments Act of 2007 requires the FDA to establish standards to identify and validate technologies for securing the pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs. These standards may include
track-and-trace or authentication technologies, such as radio frequency identification devices and other similar technologies. In March 2010, the FDA issued guidance establishing standardized numerical identifiers (“SNI”) for
prescription pharmaceutical packages.

In December 2006, we entered into a settlement to resolve a civil investigation by the
New York Attorney General’s Office focusing on sales and purchases of prescription pharmaceuticals in the secondary market. Pursuant to the settlement, we implemented a number of reforms within the pharmaceutical distribution business,
including requirements that customers who are wholesalers certify their compliance with our wholesaler safe product practices.

Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws

We are subject to extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. Laws and regulations
generally prohibit us (and others in our industry) from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any compensation in order to induce someone to order or purchase items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other
government-sponsored healthcare programs. We also cannot submit or cause to be submitted any fraudulent claim for payment by the federal government. Certain of our subsidiaries also maintain contracts with the federal government and are subject to
regulatory requirements relating to government contractors.

Health Information Practices

Services and products provided by some of our businesses involve access to patient identifiable healthcare information. In the past few
years, federal and state officials have focused on the questions of how patient







identifiable healthcare information should be handled, which entities should compile that information, and how that work should proceed. Changes in legislation such as the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) and its accompanying regulations may affect how some information services or products are provided. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, adopted in
February 2009, augmented HIPAA by increasing existing healthcare privacy requirements, including expanding HIPAA’s reach to cover additional entities, requiring certain notifications if there is a breach of patient information and increasing
penalties associated with noncompliance. In addition, certain jurisdictions where we do business regulate personal data protection and how information services or products are provided.

Franchising Laws

Our franchising operations, through Medicine Shoppe International, Inc. and Medicap Pharmacies Incorporated (collectively, “Medicine
Shoppe”), are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission. In addition, many states have laws that regulate the franchisor-franchisee relationship.

Environmental Laws

We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and we have made, and will continue to make, necessary expenditures
to comply with applicable laws. At the present time, we are participating in cleaning up environmental contamination at several sites, none of which are material to us.

Health and Safety Laws

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations, both in the United States and other countries,
relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, and the use, transportation and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances.

Laws Relating to Foreign Trade

Various U.S. and international laws and regulations require us to abide by standards relating to the import and export of finished goods,
raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. We also must comply with various export control and trade embargo laws and regulations, which may require licenses or other authorizations for transactions within some countries or with
some counterparties.

Similarly, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations,
including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, foreign anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of internal books and records. These laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S.
government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced some governmental corruption.

Other Information

Our
distribution businesses generally are not required by our customers to maintain particular inventory levels other than as needed to meet service level requirements. Certain supply contracts with U.S. government entities require us to maintain
sufficient inventory to meet emergency demands, but we do not believe those requirements materially affect inventory levels.

Our customer return policies generally require that the product be physically returned, subject to restocking fees. We only allow
customers to return products that can be added back to inventory and resold at full value, or that can be returned to vendors for credit.

We offer market payment terms to our customers.

Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area

See Note 16 to the “Notes Consolidated Financial Statements” for revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area.







Available Information and Exchange Certifications

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available
free of charge on our website (www.cardinalhealth.com), under the “Investors—Financials/SEC filings” caption, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the “SEC”).

You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference
Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) where you can search for annual, quarterly
and current reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding us and other public companies.

CareFusion filed a registration statement on Form 10 (File No. 001-34273) with the SEC that discloses information regarding the
Spin-Off and CareFusion.



