Item 1: Business

General

Cardinal Health, Inc. is an Ohio corporation formed in 1979. As used in this report, “we,” “our,” “us” and similar pronouns refer to Cardinal Health, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. We are a healthcare services company providing pharmaceutical and medical products and services that help pharmacies, hospitals and other healthcare providers focus on patient care while reducing costs, enhancing efficiency and improving quality. We also provide medical products to patients in the home.

Our fiscal year ends on June 30. References to fiscal2014,2013and2012are to the fiscal years endedJune 30, 2014,2013and2012, respectively. Except as otherwise specified, information in this Form 10-K is provided as ofJune 30, 2014.

We report our financial results in two segments: Pharmaceutical and Medical.

Pharmaceutical Segment

In the United States, the Pharmaceutical segment:

•distributes branded and generic pharmaceutical, over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products through its Pharmaceutical Distribution division to retailers (including chain and independent drug stores and pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers), hospitals and other healthcare providers. This division:

•maintains prime vendor relationships that streamline the purchasing process resulting in greater efficiency and lower costs for our customers;

•renders services to pharmaceutical manufacturers including distribution, inventory management, data reporting, new product launch support, and contract pricing and chargeback administration;

•provides pharmacy services to hospitals and other healthcare facilities; and

•franchises retail pharmacies under the Medicine Shoppe®and Medicap®brands;

•operates nuclear pharmacies and cyclotron facilities through its Nuclear Pharmacy Services division that manufacture, prepare and deliver radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging and other procedures in hospitals and physician offices; and

•distributes specialty pharmaceutical products, provides services to pharmaceutical manufacturers, third-party payors and healthcare providers supporting the development, marketing, distribution and payment for specialty pharmaceutical products, and operates specialty pharmacies through its Specialty Solutions division.

In China, the Pharmaceutical segment distributes branded, generic and specialty pharmaceutical, over-the-counter



healthcare and consumer products as well as provides logistics, marketing and other services and operates direct-to-patient specialty pharmacies through Cardinal Health China.

Pharmaceutical Distribution

Our Pharmaceutical Distribution division generates gross margin when the aggregate selling price to our customers exceeds the aggregate cost of products sold. Gross margin includes margin from our generic pharmaceutical programs, margin from branded pharmaceutical distribution agreements and cash discounts. Margin from our generic pharmaceutical programs includes price discounts and rebates and may include price appreciation on some products. Our earnings on generic pharmaceuticals are generally highest during the period immediately following the initial launch of a generic product because generic pharmaceutical selling prices are generally highest during that period and tend to decline over time. Margin from branded pharmaceutical distribution agreements refers primarily to fees we receive for rendering a range of distribution and related services to manufacturers and also includes benefits from pharmaceutical price appreciation.

Joint Venture With CVS Caremark

InJuly 2014, we established Red Oak Sourcing, LLC (“Red Oak Sourcing”), a U.S.-based generic pharmaceutical sourcing entity with CVS Caremark Corporation (“CVS”) with an initial term of10 years. Both companies have contributed sourcing and supply chain expertise to the 50/50 joint venture and have committed to source generic pharmaceuticals through arrangements negotiated by it. Red Oak Sourcing will negotiate generic pharmaceutical supply contracts on behalf of both companies, but will not own products or hold inventory on behalf of either company. We are required to pay39quarterly payments of$25.6 millionto CVS commencing in October 2014 and, only if certain milestones are achieved, to pay additional predetermined amounts to CVS beginning in fiscal 2016. The fixed payments of$25.6 millionwill be expensed evenly commencing with the ramp-up of the venture, which we expect to begin by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2015. No physical assets were contributed by either company to Red Oak Sourcing, and minimal funding has been provided to capitalize the entity.

Specialty Pharmaceutical Products and Services

We refer to products and services offered by our Specialty Solutions division as “specialty pharmaceutical products and services.” The Specialty Solutions division distributes oncology, rheumatology, urology and other pharmaceutical products ("specialty pharmaceutical products") and human-derived plasma products to hospitals, physician offices and other healthcare providers; provides consulting, patient support, logistics and other services to pharmaceutical manufacturers, third-party payors and healthcare providers primarily supporting the development, marketing, distribution and payment for specialty pharmaceutical products; and operates specialty








Table of ContentsCardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries



pharmacies. Our use of the terminology "specialty pharmaceutical products and services" may not be comparable to the use of that terminology by other industry participants.

Pharmaceutical Segment Financial Statements

See Note 15 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for Pharmaceutical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal2014,2013and2012.

Medical Segment

The Medical segment distributes a broad range of medical, surgical and laboratory products to hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories, physician offices and other healthcare providers in the United States, Canada and China and to patients in the home in the United States through our Cardinal Health at Home division ("Home division"), which was formerly known as our AssuraMed division. This segment also manufactures, sources and develops its own line of private brand medical and surgical products. Manufactured products include: single-use surgical drapes, gowns and apparel; exam and surgical gloves; and fluid suction and collection systems. The segment began to manufacture extravascular closure devices after the acquisition of Access Closure, Inc. ("AccessClosure") in May 2014. We expect to expand the segment's product offering for orthopedic, cardiovascular and other procedures. This segment also assembles and offers sterile and non-sterile procedure kits. Our manufactured products are sold directly or through third-party distributors in the United States, Canada, Europe and other regions internationally.In addition, the segment provides supply chain services, including spend management, distribution management and inventory management services, to healthcare providers.

Medical Segment Financial Statements

See Note 15 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for Medical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal2014,2013and2012.



Acquisitions and Divestitures

In the past five fiscal years, we completed the following four larger acquisitions:

DateCompanyLocationLineof BusinessAcquisitionPrice(in millions)03/13AssuraMed, Inc.Twinsburg, OHMedical product distribution$2,07012/10Kinray, Inc.Whitestone, NYPharmaceutical product distribution$1,33611/10Cardinal Health ChinaShanghai, ChinaPharmaceutical and medical product distribution$458(1)07/10Healthcare SolutionsHolding, LLCEllicott City, MDSpecialty  pharmaceutical services$520(2)

(1)Includes the assumption of approximately $57 million in debt.

(2)Includes $506 million in cash paid on the acquisition date and $14 million paid in fiscal 2012 and 2013 in connection with a contingent consideration obligation. The contingent consideration obligation had an acquisition date fair value of $92 million.

In addition, we completed several smaller acquisitions during the last five fiscal years, including AccessClosure, a manufacturer and distributor of extravascular closure devices in the United States, in fiscal 2014 and Futuremed Healthcare Products Corporation, a Canadian medical product distributor, in fiscal 2012.

During the past five fiscal years, we also completed several divestitures, including selling our United Kingdom-based Martindale injectable manufacturing business in fiscal 2010. In addition, effective August 31, 2009, we separated our clinical and medical products businesses (the "CareFusion Spin-Off") through a distribution to our shareholders of 81 percent of the then outstanding common stock of CareFusion Corporation ("CareFusion"). During fiscal 2010 and 2011, we disposed of the remaining shares of CareFusion common stock.

Customers

Our largest customer, CVS, accounted for28 percentof our fiscal2014revenue. In the aggregate, our five largest customers, including CVS, accounted for42 percentof our fiscal2014revenue. Our pharmaceutical distribution contract with Walgreen Co. ("Walgreens"), which was our second largest customer in fiscal2013and our third largest in fiscal 2014, expired in August 2013. Walgreens accounted for4 percentof our fiscal 2014 revenue.

In addition, we have agreements with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) that act as agents to negotiate vendor contracts on behalf of their members. Our two largest GPO relationships in terms of member revenue are with Novation, LLC and Premier Purchasing Partners, L.P. Sales to members of these two GPOs, under numerous contracts across all of our








Table of ContentsCardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries



businesses, collectively accounted for17 percentof our revenue in fiscal2014.

Suppliers

We rely on many different suppliers. Products obtained from our five largest suppliers accounted for an aggregate of24 percentof our revenue during fiscal2014, but no single supplier’s products accounted for more than6 percentof revenue. Overall, we believe our relationships with our suppliers are good.

The Pharmaceutical Distribution division is a party to distribution service agreements with pharmaceutical manufacturers. These agreements have terms ranging from one year to five years. Most provide for an automatic renewal feature of one year. Some agreements allow either party and in some instances only the manufacturer to terminate the agreement without cause subject to a defined notice period.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare services. We also operate in a highly competitive environment in the development, manufacturing and distribution of medical and surgical products. We compete on many levels, including service offerings, support services, breadth of product lines and price.

In the Pharmaceutical segment, we compete with wholesale distributors with national reach (including McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation), regional wholesale distributors, self-warehousing chains, specialty distributors, third-party logistics companies, companies that provide services supporting the development, marketing, distribution and payment for specialty pharmaceutical products and nuclear pharmacies, among others.In addition, the Pharmaceutical segment has experienced competition from a number of organizations offering generic pharmaceuticals, including telemarketers. We also compete with manufacturers that sell all or part of their product offerings directly.

In the Medical segment, we compete with many different national medical product distributors, including Owens & Minor, Inc., McKesson Corporation and Medline Industries, Inc. We also compete with regional medical product distributors and companies that distribute medical products to patients in the home as well as third-party logistics companies. In addition, we compete with manufacturers that sell all or part of their product offerings directly. Competitors of the Medical segment’s manufacturing and procedural kit businesses include diversified healthcare companies as well as companies that are more focused on specific product categories.

Employees

AtJune 30, 2014, we had approximately 23,900 employees in the United States and approximately 10,100 employees outside of the United States. Overall, we consider our employee relations to be good.



Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect our products, services and intangible assets. We hold patents relating to some medical and surgical products and to distribution of our nuclear pharmacy products and service offerings. We also operate under licenses for certain proprietary technologies, and in certain instances we license our technologies to third parties.

We believe that we have taken all necessary steps to protect our proprietary rights, but no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully enforce or protect our rights in the event that they are infringed upon by a third party.  While all of these proprietary rights are important to our operations, we do not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession to be material to our overall business.

Regulatory Matters

Our business is highly regulated in the United States at both the federal and state level and in foreign countries. Depending upon their specific business, our subsidiaries may be subject to regulation by government entities including:

•the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”);

•the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (the “DEA”);

•the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the “NRC”);

•the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services;

•the U.S. Federal Trade Commission;

•U.S. Customs and Border Protection;

•state boards of pharmacy;

•state controlled substance agencies;

•state health departments, insurance departments or other comparable state agencies; and

•foreign agencies that are comparable to those listed above.

These regulatory agencies have a variety of civil, administrative and criminal sanctions at their disposal for failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements. They can suspend our ability to distribute products or can initiate product recalls; they can seize products or impose criminal, civil and administrative sanctions; and they can seek injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products.

Distribution

The FDA, DEA and various state authorities regulate the marketing, purchase, storage and distribution of pharmaceutical and medical products under various state and federal statutes including the Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987 and the Federal Controlled Substances Act (the "CSA"), which governs the sale, packaging, storage and distribution of controlled substances. Wholesale distributors of controlled substances must hold valid DEA registrations and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with the








Table of ContentsCardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries



CSA. In May 2014, our Lakeland, Florida pharmaceutical distribution center's DEA registration to distribute controlled substances was reinstated in accordance with a settlement agreement that we had entered into with the DEA in May 2012, as further discussed in Note 9 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

Manufacturing and Marketing

Our subsidiaries that manufacture and source medical devices or pharmaceuticals are subject to regulation by the FDA or comparable foreign agencies that administer regulations such as compliance with good manufacturing practices and quality systems.

The FDA and other domestic and foreign governmental agencies administer requirements that cover the design, testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and advertising, distribution, importation and post-market surveillance of some of our manufactured products. We need specific approval or clearance from regulatory authorities before we can market and sell many of our products in particular countries. Even after we obtain approval or clearance to market a product, the product and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued regulatory oversight. It can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory approvals or clearances to market a medical device, and such approvals or clearances might not be granted on a timely basis, if at all.

From time to time, we may determine that products we manufacture or market do not meet our specifications, regulatory requirements, or published standards. When we or a regulatory agency identify a quality or regulatory issue, we investigate and take appropriate corrective action, which may include withdrawing the product from the market, correcting the product at the customer location, revising product labeling, and notifying customers.

Nuclear Pharmacies and Related Businesses

Our nuclear pharmacies and cyclotron facilities require licenses or permits and must abide by regulations issued by the NRC, applicable state boards of pharmacy and the radiologic health agency or department of health of each state in which we operate. In addition, our cyclotron facilities must comply with the FDA's good manufacturing practices regulations for positron emission tomography, or PET, drugs.

Prescription Drug Tracing and Supply Chain Integrity

In November 2013, the U.S. Congress enacted the Drug Supply Chain Security Act. This law establishes a phased-in national system for tracing pharmaceutical products through the pharmaceutical distribution supply chain to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated or mislabeled drugs. The first phase of implementation will begin January 1, 2015, and upon full implementation in 2023, supply chain stakeholders will participate in an electronic, interoperable, prescription drug tracing system.



Government Healthcare Programs

We are subject to U.S. federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws. These laws generally prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any compensation in order to induce someone to order or purchase items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-funded healthcare programs. They also prohibit submitting or causing to be submitted any fraudulent claim for payment by the federal government. There are often similar state healthcare fraud and abuse laws that apply to Medicaid and other state-funded healthcare programs. Violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil penalties, as well as breach of contract claims andqui tamactions (false claims cases initiated by private parties purporting to act on behalf of federal or state governments).

Our Home division is a Medicare-certified supplier and participates in state Medicaid programs with respect to a small portion of its business. It must meet quality standards and maintain accreditation to receive government reimbursement, and must comply with applicable billing, payment and record-keeping requirements. Failure to comply with quality standards and billing requirements could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.

In addition, our U.S. federal and state government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations. Failure to comply with applicable rules or regulations or with contractual or other requirements may result in monetary damages and criminal or civil penalties as well as termination of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from government contract work.

Health and Personal Information Practices

Some of our businesses collect, handle and maintain patient-identifiable healthcare information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as augmented by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, as well as some state laws, regulate the use and disclosure of patient-identifiable health information, including requiring specified privacy and security measures. Federal and state officials have increasingly focused on how patient-identifiable healthcare information should be handled, secured and disclosed.

Some of our businesses collect, handle and maintain other sensitive personal information that is subject to federal and state laws protecting such information. Security and disclosure of personal information is also highly regulated in many other countries in which we operate.

Environmental, Health and Safety Laws

In the United States and other countries, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, as well as laws relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices.








Table of ContentsCardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries



Laws Relating to Foreign Trade and Operations

U.S. and foreign laws require us to abide by standards relating to the import and export of finished goods, raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. We also must comply with various export control and trade embargo laws, which may require licenses or other authorizations for transactions within some countries or with some counterparties.

Similarly, we are subject to U.S. and foreign laws concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Chinese anti-corruption laws and other foreign anti-bribery laws. Among other things, these laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising or making payments to officials of foreign governments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.

Regulation in China

Our China operations are subject to national, regional and local regulations, including licensing and regulatory requirements of the China National Health and Family Planning Commission, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the China Food and Drug Administration, the National Development and Reform Commission and the General Administration of Customs.

Other Information

Although our agreements with manufacturers sometimes require us to maintain inventory levels within specified ranges, our distribution businesses are generally not required by our customers to maintain particular inventory levels other than as needed to meet service level requirements. Certain supply contracts with U.S. government entities require us to maintain sufficient inventory to meet emergency demands, but we do not believe those requirements materially affect inventory levels.

Our customer return policies generally require that the product be physically returned, subject to restocking fees. We only allow customers to return products that can be added back to inventory and resold at full value, or that can be returned to vendors for credit.

We offer market payment terms to our customers.

Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area

See Note 15 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website (www.cardinalhealth.com), under the “Investors—Financial Reporting—SEC Filings” caption, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).



You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) where you can search for annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding us and other public companies.



