Item 1. Business

General

Cardinal Health, Inc. is a global integrated healthcare services and products company providing customized solutions for hospital systems, pharmacies, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories and physician offices worldwide. We provide clinically proven medical products and pharmaceuticals and cost-effective solutions that enhance supply chain efficiency from hospital to home. We connect patients, providers, payers, pharmacists and manufacturers for integrated care coordination and better patient management.

Pharmaceutical Segment

In the United States, our Pharmaceutical segment:

•

distributes branded and generic pharmaceutical, over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products through its Pharmaceutical Distribution division to retailers (including chain and independent drug stores and pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers), hospitals and other healthcare providers. This division:

•

maintains prime vendor relationships that streamline the purchasing process resulting in greater efficiency and lower costs for our customers;

•

provides services to pharmaceutical manufacturers including distribution, inventory management, data reporting, new product launch support and contract pricing and chargeback administration;

•

provides pharmacy management services to hospitals as well as medication therapy management and patient outcomes services to hospitals, other healthcare providers and payers; and

•

repackages generic pharmaceuticals and over-the-counter healthcare products;

•

operates nuclear pharmacies and cyclotron facilities through its Nuclear Pharmacy Services division that manufacture, prepare and deliver radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging and other procedures in hospitals and physician offices; and

•

distributes specialty pharmaceutical products to hospitals and other healthcare providers; provides consulting, patient support and other services for specialty pharmaceutical products to pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers; and provides specialty pharmacy services through its Specialty Solutions division.

The Pharmaceutical segment is also constructing a sterile facility to contract manufacture a radiopharmaceutical for prostate cancer treatment.

In China, the Pharmaceutical segment distributes branded, generic and specialty pharmaceutical, over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products, provides logistics, marketing and other services and operates direct-to-patient specialty pharmacies through Cardinal Health China.

See

Note 15

of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for Pharmaceutical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal


,


and


.

Pharmaceutical Distribution

Our Pharmaceutical Distribution division’s gross margin includes margin from our generic pharmaceutical program, margin from pharmaceutical distribution agreements with branded manufacturers and margin from over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products. It also includes cash discounts. Margin from our generic pharmaceutical program includes price discounts and rebates from manufacturers and may include price appreciation on some products. Our earnings on generic pharmaceuticals are generally highest during the period immediately following the initial launch of a generic product because generic pharmaceutical selling prices are generally highest during that period and tend to decline over time. Overall, our generic pharmaceutical program's performance is driven by several factors, including increased utilization of generic pharmaceuticals, our ability to sell generic pharmaceuticals to new customers, our ability to sell more generic pharmaceuticals to existing customers, generic pharmaceutical price appreciation, our data and analytic capabilities to predict market trends, enhanced sourcing of generic pharmaceuticals through Red Oak Sourcing (which is discussed below) and new generic product launches. Margin from pharmaceutical distribution agreements with branded manufacturers refers primarily to fees we receive for providing a range of distribution and related services to manufacturers and also includes benefits from pharmaceutical price appreciation on branded pharmaceutical products.

Sourcing Venture With CVS Health

In July 2014, we established Red Oak Sourcing, a U.S.-based generic pharmaceutical sourcing venture with CVS Health with an initial term of 10 years. Red Oak Sourcing negotiates generic pharmaceutical supply contracts on behalf of both companies.

Specialty Pharmaceutical Products and Services

We refer to products and services offered by our Specialty Solutions division as “specialty pharmaceutical products and services.” The Specialty Solutions division distributes oncology, rheumatology, urology, nephrology and other pharmaceutical products ("specialty pharmaceutical products") and human-derived plasma products to hospitals, dialysis clinics, physician offices and other healthcare




providers; provides consulting, patient support, logistics, group purchasing and other services to pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers primarily supporting the development, marketing and distribution of specialty pharmaceutical products; and provides specialty pharmacy services. Our use of the

terminology "specialty pharmaceutical products and services" may not be comparable to the terminology used by other industry participants.

Medical Segment

Our Medical segment distributes a broad range of national and Cardinal Health Brand medical, surgical and laboratory products and provides services to hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories and other healthcare providers in the United States, Canada and China. It also distributes medical products to patients in the home in the United States through our Cardinal Health at Home division.

This segment also manufactures, sources and develops higher-margin, Cardinal Health Brand medical and surgical products. Manufactured products include: single-use surgical drapes, gowns and apparel; exam and surgical gloves; fluid suction and collection systems; cardiovascular and endovascular products; wound care products; and orthopedic products. In fiscal 2016, we completed the acquisition of Cordis,

a global manufacturer and distributor of interventional cardiology devices and endovascular solutions with operations in more than 50 countries

. We expect to continue to expand our lines of manufactured products through acquisitions, strategic partnerships and internal development. Our manufactured

products are sold directly or through third-party distributors in the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia, Latin America and other regions internationally. We are expanding our direct distribution network through Cordis.

Through naviHealth and other companies acquired within naviHealth during fiscal 2016, the Medical segment provides services and software to hospitals, other healthcare providers and payers that help manage the complex processes of patient discharge from an acute-care facility (“post-acute care”).

This segment also assembles and offers sterile and non-sterile procedure kits. In addition, the segment provides supply chain services, including spend management, distribution management and inventory management services, to healthcare providers.

See

Note 15

of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for Medical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal


,


and


.

Acquisitions

We have acquired a number of businesses over the last several years that have enhanced our core strategic areas of generics, health systems and hospital solutions (including manufactured medical products), specialty pharmaceutical products and services, international and post-acute care. We expect to continue to pursue additional acquisitions in the future.

Since July 1, 2011, we have completed the following three large acquisitions:

In addition, we completed several smaller acquisitions during the last five fiscal years, including: in fiscal 2016, the acquisition of a 71 percent ownership interest in naviHealth, a provider of post-acute care management services, and CuraSpan Health Group, Inc., a provider of discharge planning and care transition software; in fiscal 2015, Tradex International, Inc., a supplier of disposable gloves, and Metro Medical Supply, Inc., a distributor of specialty pharmaceuticals and medical and surgical products; in fiscal 2014, Access Closure, Inc., a manufacturer and distributor of extravascular closure devices; and in fiscal 2012, Futuremed Healthcare Products Corporation, a Canadian medical product distributor.

Cardinal Health

|

Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K


Business

Customers

Our largest customer, CVS Health, accounted for

25 percent

of our fiscal


revenue. In the aggregate, our five largest customers, including CVS Health, accounted for

40 percent

of our fiscal


revenue. Our pharmaceutical distribution agreements with CVS Health extend through June 2019.

In addition, we have agreements with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) that act as agents to negotiate vendor contracts on behalf

of their members. Our two largest GPO relationships in terms of member revenue are with Vizient (formerly Novation, LLC) and Premier, Inc. Sales to members of these two GPOs, under numerous contracts across all of our businesses, collectively accounted for

17 percent

of our revenue in fiscal


.

Suppliers

We rely on many different suppliers. Products obtained from our five largest suppliers accounted for an aggregate of

27 percent

of our revenue during fiscal


, but no single supplier’s products accounted for more than

8 percent

of revenue.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare services. We also operate in a highly competitive environment in the development, manufacturing and distribution of medical and surgical products. We compete on many levels, including price, service offerings, support services and breadth of product lines.

In the Pharmaceutical segment, we compete with wholesale distributors with national reach (including McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation), regional wholesale distributors, self-warehousing chains, specialty distributors, third-party logistics companies, companies that provide specialty pharmaceutical services and nuclear pharmacies, among others. In addition, the Pharmaceutical segment has experienced competition from a

number of organizations offering generic pharmaceuticals, including telemarketers. We also compete with manufacturers that sell their products directly.

In the Medical segment, we compete with many different national medical product distributors, including Owens & Minor, Inc., Medline Industries, Inc. and McKesson Corporation. We also compete with regional medical product distributors and companies that distribute medical products to patients in the home as well as third-party logistics companies. In addition, we compete with manufacturers that sell their products directly. Competitors of the Medical segment’s manufacturing and procedural kit businesses include diversified healthcare companies as well as companies that are more focused on specific product categories.

Employees

At

June 30, 2016

, we had approximately 26,500 employees in the United States and approximately 10,800 employees outside of the United States. Overall, we consider our employee relations to be good.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect our products, services and intangible assets. We hold patents relating to medical and surgical products and to distribution of our nuclear pharmacy products and service offerings. We also operate under licenses for certain proprietary technologies, and in certain instances we license our technologies to third parties.

We believe that we have taken all necessary steps to protect our proprietary rights, but no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully enforce or protect our rights in the event that they are infringed upon by a third party. While all of these proprietary rights are important to our operations, we do not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession to be material to our overall business.




Regulatory Matters

Our business is highly regulated in the United States, at both the federal and state level, and in foreign countries. Depending upon their specific business, our subsidiaries may be subject to regulation by government entities including:

•

the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (the “DEA”);

•

certain agencies within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”), the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Office of Inspector General and the Office for Civil Rights;

•

the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the “NRC”);

•

the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC");

•

U.S. Customs and Border Protection;

•

state boards of pharmacy;

•

state controlled substance agencies;

•

state health departments, insurance departments, Medicaid departments or other comparable state agencies; and

•

agencies comparable to those listed above in various regions, such as Europe, Asia and Latin America.

These regulatory agencies have a variety of civil, administrative and criminal sanctions at their disposal for failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements. They can suspend our ability to manufacture and distribute products, initiate product recalls, seize products or impose criminal, civil and administrative sanctions.

Distribution

The FDA, DEA and various state authorities regulate the marketing, purchase, storage and distribution of pharmaceutical and medical products under various federal and state statutes including the federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987, Drug Quality and Security Act of 2013 (the “DQSA”), and Controlled Substances Act (the "CSA"). The CSA governs the sale, packaging, storage and distribution of controlled substances. Wholesale distributors of controlled substances must hold valid DEA registrations and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with the CSA.

Manufacturing and Marketing

The FDA and other domestic and foreign governmental agencies administer requirements that cover the design, testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing (including good manufacturing practices), quality systems, labeling, promotion and advertising (including restrictions on promoting or advertising a product other than for the uses set forth in the approved product label), distribution, importation and post-market surveillance of most of our manufactured products. In addition, we need specific approval or clearance from regulatory authorities and may have to register products with regulatory authorities before we can market and sell some of these products in the United States and certain other countries.

In the United States, authorization to commercially distribute a new medical device is generally received in one of two ways. The first, known as pre-market notification or the 510(k) process, requires us to demonstrate that our new medical device is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device. The second, more rigorous process, known as pre-market approval (“PMA”), requires us to independently demonstrate that the new medical device is safe and effective, and is much more detailed than the 510(k) process. Many of our Medical segment products are cleared through the 510(k) process and certain Cordis products must be approved through the PMA process. It can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory approvals, clearances and registrations of medical devices, and such approvals, clearances and registrations might not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Even after we obtain approval or clearance to market a product or obtain product registrations, the product and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued regulatory oversight.

From time to time, we may determine that products we manufacture or market do not meet our specifications, regulatory requirements, or published standards. When we or a regulatory agency identify a quality or regulatory issue, we investigate and take appropriate corrective action, which may include recalling the product, correcting the product at the customer location, revising product labeling and notifying customers.

Nuclear Pharmacies and Related Businesses

Our nuclear pharmacies and radiopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities require licenses or permits and must abide by regulations issued by the NRC, applicable state boards of pharmacy and the radiologic health agency or department of health of each state in which we operate. In addition, our radiopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities must comply with the FDA's good manufacturing practices. Once completed, our sterile radiopharmaceutical manufacturing facility also will be subject to NRC and FDA regulation. Changes to pharmacy sterile compounding standards and practices are being considered by the FDA, state boards of pharmacy and standards setting organizations

that may affect our Nuclear Pharmacy Services division and could require additional infrastructure requirements and modifications to our current practices and impose additional costs.

Product Tracing and Supply Chain Integrity

Title II of the DQSA, known as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act, establishes a phased-in national system for tracing pharmaceutical products through the pharmaceutical distribution supply chain to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated or mislabeled drugs. The first phase of implementation began on January 1, 2015, and upon full implementation in 2023, we and other supply chain stakeholders will participate in an electronic, interoperable, prescription drug tracing system. In addition, the FDA also has issued regulations requiring most medical device labeling to bear a unique device identifier. These regulations are being phased in through 2020.

Cardinal Health

|

Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K


Business

Government Healthcare Programs

We are subject to U.S. federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws. These laws generally prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any compensation in order to induce someone to order or purchase items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-funded healthcare programs. They also prohibit submitting or causing to be submitted any fraudulent claim for payment by the federal government. There are similar state healthcare fraud and abuse laws that apply to Medicaid and other state-funded healthcare programs. Violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil penalties, as well as breach of contract claims and

qui tam

actions (false claims cases initiated by private parties purporting to act on behalf of federal or state governments).

Our Cardinal Health at Home business and a few of our other businesses are Medicare-certified suppliers or participate in state Medicaid programs. These businesses are subject to accreditation and quality standards and other rules and regulations, including applicable billing, payment and record-keeping requirements. In addition, we manufacture pharmaceutical and medical products and repackage pharmaceuticals that are purchased through federal or state healthcare programs and are subject to laws that establish eligibility for reimbursement by federal and state healthcare programs. Failure to comply with applicable standards and regulations could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.

In addition, our U.S. federal and state government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations. Failure to comply with applicable rules or regulations or with contractual or other requirements may result in monetary damages and criminal or civil penalties as well as termination of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from government contract work.

Health and Personal Information Practices

We collect, handle and maintain patient-identifiable health information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA"), as augmented by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, as well as some state and foreign laws, regulate the use and disclosure of patient-identifiable health information, including requiring specified privacy and security measures.

We also collect, handle and maintain other sensitive personal and financial information that is subject to federal and state laws protecting such information. Security and disclosure of personal information is also highly regulated in many other countries in which we operate.

In Europe, we are subject to the European Union (“EU”) data protection regulations, including the EU Directive on Data Protection, which requires member states to impose minimum restrictions on the collection, use and transfer of personal data that, in some respects, are more stringent, and impose more significant burdens on subject businesses, than current privacy standards in the United States. A new EU General Data Protection Regulation that will apply uniformly

across the EU will become effective in 2018 and includes, among other things, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches to data subjects and supervisory authorities in certain circumstances and significant fines for non-compliance.

Antitrust Laws

The U.S. federal government, most U.S. states and many foreign countries have antitrust laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be anti-competitive. Violations of antitrust laws can result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil penalties. Private plaintiffs also could bring civil lawsuits against us in the United States for alleged antitrust law violations, including claims for treble damages. As previously disclosed, in April 2015, we settled allegations by the FTC resulting from an investigation into supplier arrangements involving our Nuclear Pharmacy Services division primarily focused on the period between 2003 and 2008.

Environmental, Health and Safety Laws

In the United States and other countries, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, as well as laws relating to safe working conditions and laboratory practices.

Laws Relating to Foreign Trade and Operations

U.S. and foreign laws require us to abide by standards relating to the import and export of finished goods, raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. We also must comply with various export control and trade embargo laws, which may require licenses or other authorizations for transactions within some countries or with some counterparties.

Similarly, we are subject to U.S. and foreign laws concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Chinese anti-corruption laws, the U.K. Bribery Act and other foreign anti-bribery laws. Among other things, these laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising or making payments to officials of foreign governments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.




Other Information

Although our agreements with manufacturers sometimes require us to maintain inventory levels within specified ranges, our distribution businesses are generally not required by our customers to maintain particular inventory levels other than as needed to meet service level requirements. Certain supply contracts with U.S. government entities require us to maintain sufficient inventory to meet emergency demands, but we do not believe those requirements materially affect inventory levels.

Our customer return policies generally require that the product be physically returned, subject to restocking fees. We only allow customers to return products that can be added back to inventory and resold at full value, or that can be returned to vendors for credit.

We offer market payment terms to our customers.

Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area

See

Note 15

of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website (www.cardinalhealth.com), under the “Investors — Financial Reporting — SEC Filings” caption, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC.

You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC

20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) where you can search for annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding us and other public companies.