Item 1: Business

General

Cardinal Health, Inc. is an Ohio corporation formed in 1979. As used in this report, “we,” “our,” “us” and similar pronouns refer to Cardinal Health, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. We are a healthcare services company providing pharmaceutical and medical products and services that help pharmacies, hospitals, surgery centers, physician offices and other healthcare providers focus on patient care while reducing costs, enhancing efficiency and improving quality.

Our fiscal year ends on June 30. References to fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 are to the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Except as otherwise specified, information in this Form 10-K is provided as of June 30, 2012.

Pharmaceutical Segment

In the United States, including Puerto Rico, the Pharmaceutical segment:

•distributes branded and generic pharmaceutical, over-the-counter healthcare, and consumer products through its pharmaceutical distribution business to retailers (including chain and independent drug stores and pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers), hospitals, and other healthcare providers (including mail order pharmacies). This business:

•maintains prime vendor relationships that streamline the purchasing process resulting in greater efficiency and lower costs for our customers; and

•renders services to pharmaceutical manufacturers including distribution, inventory management, data reporting, new product launch support, and contract pricing and chargeback administration.

•operates nuclear pharmacies and cyclotron facilities that manufacture, prepare and deliver radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging and other procedures in hospitals and clinics;

•distributes specialty pharmaceutical products and provides services to pharmaceutical manufacturers, third-party payors and healthcare service providers supporting the marketing, distribution, and payment for specialty pharmaceutical products;

•franchises retail pharmacies under the Medicine Shoppe®and Medicap®brands;  and

•provides pharmacy services to hospitals and other healthcare facilities.

In China, the Pharmaceutical segment distributes branded, generic and specialty pharmaceuticals, over-the-counter and consumer products as well as provides logistics, marketing and other services through Cardinal Health China.



Pharmaceutical Distribution

Our pharmaceutical distribution business generates gross margin primarily when the aggregate selling price to our customers exceeds the aggregate cost of products sold, net of cash discounts, generic manufacturer margin and margin under branded pharmaceutical agreements. Cash discounts are price reductions that manufacturers may offer to us for prompt payment of purchased products.  Generic manufacturer margin refers to price discounts, rebates and other consideration that we receive under our agreements with manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals. Our earnings on generic pharmaceuticals are generally highest during the period immediately following the initial launch of a generic product because generic pharmaceutical selling prices are generally highest during that period and tend to decline over time, although this may vary. Margin under branded pharmaceutical agreements refers primarily to fees we receive for rendering a range of distribution and related services to manufacturers. In addition, margin under branded pharmaceutical agreements may include benefits from pharmaceutical price appreciation, which occurs when a manufacturer increases its published price for a product after we have purchased that product for inventory.

Bulk and Non-Bulk Sales

The Pharmaceutical segment differentiates between bulk and non-bulk sales based on the nature of our customers’ operations. Bulk sales consist of sales to retail chain customers’ centralized warehouse operations and customers’ mail order businesses in the United States. All other sales are classified as non-bulk. Sales to a retail chain pharmacy customer are classified as bulk sales with respect to its warehouse operations and non-bulk sales with respect to its retail stores.

Substantially all bulk sales consist of products shipped in the same form that we receive them from the manufacturer; a small portion of bulk sales are broken down into smaller units prior to shipping. In contrast, non-bulk sales require more complex servicing. For non-bulk sales, we may receive inventory in large or full case quantities and break it down into smaller quantities, warehouse the product for a longer period of time, pick individual products specific to a customer’s order, and deliver that smaller order to a customer location.

Bulk sales generate significantly lower segment profit as a percentage of revenue than non-bulk sales. Customers receive lower pricing on bulk sales of the same products than non-bulk sales, as bulk sales require less services to be provided to these customers, and hence, less costs are incurred by us in providing these products. In addition, bulk sales in aggregate generate higher segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue than non-bulk sales, due to the mix of products sold within the bulk category. Segment distribution, selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses as a percentage of revenue from bulk sales are substantially lower than from non-bulk sales because bulk sales require substantially fewer services to be rendered by us than non-bulk sales.











The following table shows the revenues, segment expenses, segment profit and segment profit as a percentage of revenue for bulk and non-bulk sales for fiscal2012,2011and2010.

(in millions)201220112010Non-bulk sales:Revenue from non-bulk sales$57,738$51,816$45,795Segment expenses allocated to non-bulk sales (1)56,33450,62244,899Segment profit from non-bulk sales (1)$1,404$1,194$896Segment profit from non-bulk sales as a percentage of revenue from non-bulk sales (1)2.43%2.31%1.96%Bulk sales:Revenue from bulk sales$40,187$41,928$43,995Segment expenses allocated to bulk sales (1)40,03341,79343,880Segment profit from bulk sales (1)$154$135$115Segment profit from bulk sales as a percentage of revenue from bulk sales (1)0.38%0.32%0.26%

(1)Segment expenses and profit required complex and subjective estimates and allocations based upon assumptions, past experience and judgment that we believe are reasonable.

Specialty Pharmaceutical Products and Services

We refer to products and services offered by our specialty solutions division as “specialty pharmaceutical products and services.”  The specialty solutions division currently (1) distributes oncology, rheumatology and other pharmaceutical products to physician offices; (2) distributes human plasma products and some limited-distribution pharmaceutical products to hospitals and other healthcare providers; and (3) provides various consulting and other services to pharmaceutical manufacturers, third-party payors and healthcare providers primarily supporting the marketing, distribution and payment for these products. Our use of this terminology may not be comparable to the use by other industry participants.

Pharmaceutical Segment Financials

See Note 15 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for Pharmaceutical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal2012,2011and2010.

Medical Segment

The Medical segment distributes a broad range of medical, surgical and laboratory products to hospitals, surgery centers, laboratories, physician offices and other healthcare providers in the United States, Canada and China. This segment also manufactures, sources and develops its own line of private brand medical and surgical products. Manufactured products include: single-use surgical drapes, gowns and apparel; exam and surgical gloves; and fluid suction and collection systems. The segment also offers sterile and non-sterile procedure



kits. Our manufactured products are sold directly or through third-party distributors in the United States, Canada, Europe, South America and the Asia/Pacific region. In addition, the segment provides supply chain services, including spend management, distribution management, and inventory management services, to healthcare providers.

Medical Segment Financials

See Note 15 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for Medical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal2012,2011and2010.

Acquisitions and Divestitures

In the past five fiscal years, we completed the following three significant acquisitions apart from businesses spun-off as part of CareFusion Corporation (“CareFusion”), as presented below.

DateCompanyLocationLineof BusinessAcquisition Price(in millions)July 15, 2010HealthcareSolutions Holding, LCC("P4 Healthcare")Ellicott City, MarylandSpecialty  pharmaceutical services$          598  (1)November 29, 2010Cardinal Health ChinaShanghai, ChinaPharmaceutical and medical products distribution458  (2)December 21, 2010Kinray, Inc. (“Kinray”)Whitestone, New YorkPharmaceutical, generic, health and beauty, and home health care products distribution1,336

(1)Includes $506 million in cash and $92 million for the acquisition date fair value of contingent consideration to be paid for the acquisition. We made cash payments of $14 million pursuant to the contingent consideration obligation, which included $10 million paid in fiscal 2011 and $4 million paid in July 2012 to settle the obligation.

(2)Includes the assumption of approximately $57 million in debt.



In addition, we completed several smaller acquisitions during the last five fiscal years, including purchasing Borschow Hospital & Medical Supplies, Inc. in fiscal 2009 and Futuremed Healthcare Products Corporation in fiscal 2012.

During the past five fiscal years, we also completed several divestitures, including selling our United Kingdom-based Martindale injectable manufacturing business in fiscal 2010. In addition, effective August 31, 2009, we separated our clinical and medical products businesses through distribution to our shareholders of 81 percent of the then outstanding common stock of CareFusion (the “Spin-Off”). During fiscal 2010, we disposed of 11 million shares of CareFusion common stock, and during fiscal 2011, we disposed of the remaining 30 million shares. Enturia Inc., a significant acquisition that was made in fiscal 2008, was spun-off as part of CareFusion.











Customers

Our largest customers, CVS Caremark Corporation (“CVS”) and Walgreen Co. (“Walgreens”), accounted for approximately 22 percent and 21 percent, respectively, of our fiscal 2012 revenue. The aggregate of our five largest customers, including CVS and Walgreens, accounted for approximately 59 percent of our fiscal 2012 revenue. Our contracts with CVS and Walgreens are currently scheduled to expire in June 2013 and August 2013, respectively. In August 2012, Walgreens issued a request for proposal for pharmaceutical distribution services for the three-year period beginning after the expiration of our contract with Walgreens. In the ordinary course of our business, we frequently are in a competitive bid, or request for proposal, process for pharmaceutical distribution and other business of a customer or potential customer.

In April 2012, Express Scripts, Inc., one of our pharmaceutical distribution customers, merged with Medco Health Solutions, Inc., which was a pharmaceutical distribution customer of a competitor.  In April 2012, the combined company issued a request for proposal for its combined pharmaceutical distribution business.  In July, 2012, Express Scripts, Inc. informed us that it had not awarded the combined contract to us. Our current pharmaceutical distribution contract with Express Scripts, Inc. expires on September 30, 2012 and provided approximately $9.0 billion of revenue in fiscal 2012, all of which is classified as bulk sales. Express Scripts, Inc. was our third largest customer in fiscal 2012.

In addition, we have agreements with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) that act as agents to negotiate vendor contracts on behalf of their members. Our two largest GPO relationships in terms of member revenue are with Novation, LLC, and Premier Purchasing Partners, L.P.   Sales to members of these two GPOs collectively accounted for 13 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2012.

Suppliers

We rely on many different suppliers. Products obtained from our five largest suppliers accounted for an aggregate of approximately 28 percent of our revenue during fiscal 2012, but no single supplier’s products accounted for more than 7 percent of that revenue. Overall, we believe our relationships with our suppliers are good.



The Pharmaceutical distribution business is a party to distribution service agreements with pharmaceutical manufacturers. These agreements generally have terms ranging from one year, with an automatic renewal feature, to five years. Generally, these agreements are terminable before they expire only if the parties mutually agree, if there is an uncured breach of the agreement, or if one party is the subject of a bankruptcy filing or similar insolvency event. Some agreements allow the manufacturer to terminate the agreement without cause within a defined notice period.



Competition

We operate in a highly competitive environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare services. We also operate in a highly competitive environment in the development, manufacturing and distribution of medical and surgical products. We compete on many levels, including service offerings, support services, breadth of product lines, and price.

In the Pharmaceutical segment, we compete with national, full-line wholesale distributors (including McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation), regional wholesale distributors (including H.D. Smith and Morris & Dickson Co., L.L.C.), self-warehousing chains, direct selling manufacturers, specialty distributors, third-party logistics companies (including United Parcel Service, Inc.), and nuclear pharmacies, among others. In addition, the Pharmaceutical segment has experienced competition from a number of organizations offering generic pharmaceuticals, including telemarketers.

In the Medical segment, we compete with many different distributors, including Owens & Minor, Inc., Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., PSS World Medical, Inc., Henry Schein, Inc., and Medline Industries, Inc. In addition, we compete with regional medical products distributors, third-party logistics companies and manufacturers’ direct distribution. Competitors of the Medical segment’s manufacturing and procedural kit businesses include Kimberly-Clark Corporation, Ansell Limited, DeRoyal Industries Inc., Medline Industries, Inc., Professional Hospital Supply and Medical Action Industries.

Employees

As of June 30, 2012, we had approximately 23,300 employees in the United States and approximately 9,200 employees outside of the United States. Overall, we consider our employee relations to be good.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect our products, services and intangible assets. We hold patents relating to the distribution of our nuclear pharmacy products and service offerings, and relating to medical and surgical products, such as fluid suction and irrigation devices; surgical waste management systems; surgical and medical examination gloves; surgical drapes, gowns and facial protection products; and patient temperature management products. We also operate under licenses for certain proprietary technologies, and in certain instances we license our technologies to third parties.

We believe that we have taken all necessary steps to protect our proprietary rights, but no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully enforce or protect our rights in the event that they are subject to third-party infringement claims.  While all of these proprietary rights are important to our operations, we do not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession to be material to our overall business.











Regulatory Matters

Our business is highly regulated in the United States at both the federal and state level and in foreign countries. Depending upon their specific business, our subsidiaries may be subject to regulation by government entities including:

•the United States Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”);

•the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (the “DEA”);

•the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the “NRC”);

•the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”);

•United States Customs and Border Protection;

•state boards of pharmacy;

•state-controlled substance agencies;

•state health departments, insurance departments or other comparable state agencies; and

•foreign agencies that are comparable to those listed above.

These regulatory agencies have a variety of civil, administrative and criminal sanctions at their disposal. They can suspend our ability to distribute products or can initiate product recalls; they can seize products or impose criminal, civil and administrative sanctions; and they can seek injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products.

Distribution

The FDA, DEA and various state authorities regulate the marketing, purchase, storage and distribution of pharmaceutical and medical products  under various state and federal statutes including the Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987 and the Federal Controlled Substances Act (the "CSA"). Wholesale distributors of controlled substances must hold valid DEA registrations and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with the CSA which governs the sale, packaging, storage and distribution of controlled substances.  As further discussed in Note 9 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements", on May 14, 2012, we entered into a settlement agreement with the DEA pursuant to which our Lakeland, Florida pharmaceutical distribution center's  registration to distribute controlled substances will be suspended until May 15, 2014. During this suspension, our Lakeland facility will continue to distribute pharmaceutical products (other than controlled substances) while controlled substances will be shipped to customers from our other distribution centers.

Our Pharmaceutical segment’s China distribution operations are subject to similar national, regional and local regulations, including licensing and regulatory requirements of the China Ministry of Health, Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Finance, the State Food and Drug Administration and the General Administration of Customs.

Manufacturing and Marketing

Our subsidiaries that manufacture and source medical devices are subject to regulation by the FDA and comparable foreign agencies including regulations regarding compliance with good manufacturing practices and quality systems.



The FDA and other domestic and foreign governmental agencies administer requirements that cover the design, testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and advertising, distribution, importation and post-market surveillance of some of our manufactured products. We need specific approval or clearance from regulatory authorities before we can market and sell many of our products in particular countries. Even after we obtain approval or clearance to market a product, the product and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued regulatory review.

To assess and facilitate compliance with federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, we routinely review our quality and compliance systems to evaluate their effectiveness and to identify areas for improvement or remediation. As part of our quality review, we assess the suppliers of raw materials, components and finished goods that are incorporated into the medical devices we manufacture. In addition, we conduct quality management reviews designed to highlight key issues that may affect the quality of our products and services.

From time to time, we may determine that products we manufacture or market do not meet our specifications, regulatory requirements, or published standards. When we or a regulatory agency identify a quality or regulatory issue, we investigate and take appropriate corrective action, such as withdrawing the product from the market, correcting the product at the customer location, revising product labeling, and notifying customers.  For example, in  August 2011, the FDA notified us that it was halting entry into the United States of all Presource® procedure kits that we assemble in Mexico and import through El Paso, Texas. The FDA indicated that we had not supplied adequate documentary support for certain components of these procedure kits, but did not indicate any concerns about patient safety. In response to the FDA's concerns we took remedial actions and have resumed importing procedure kits.

Nuclear Pharmacies and Related Businesses

Our nuclear pharmacies and cyclotron facilities require licenses or permits and must abide by regulations from the NRC, applicable state boards of pharmacy, and  the radiologic health agency or department of health of each state in which we operate. In addition, our cyclotron facilities must comply with the FDA's good manufacturing practices regulations for positron emission tomography (“PET”) drugs that became effective in December 2011.

Prescription Drug Pedigree Tracking and Supply Chain Integrity

The FDA Amendments Act of 2007 requires the FDA to establish standards to identify and validate technologies for securing the pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs. These standards may include track-and-trace or authentication technologies, such as radio frequency identification devices. In March 2010, the FDA issued guidance establishing standardized numerical identifiers for prescription pharmaceutical packages. Some states also have adopted or are considering adopting pedigree tracking laws. For example, effective July 2016, California will require that pharmaceutical wholesalers and repackagers implement electronic track-and-trace capabilities for pharmaceutical products.











Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws

We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws. These laws generally prohibit companies from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any compensation in order to induce someone to order or purchase items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other United States government-sponsored healthcare programs. They also prohibit submitting or causing to be submitted any fraudulent claim for payment by the federal government. Violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil penalties, as well as claims under the federal False Claims Act and similar state acts under which private persons may file suit on behalf of the federal and state governments.

Health and Personal Information Practices

Services and products provided by some of our businesses, including some provided by our nuclear and pharmacy services and specialty solutions divisions, involve access to patient-identifiable healthcare information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as augmented by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, as well as some state laws, regulate the use and disclosure of patient identifiable health information, including requiring specified privacy and security measures. Federal and state officials have increasingly focused on how patient-identifiable healthcare information should be handled, secured and disclosed.

Some of our businesses collect and maintain other sensitive personal information that is subject to federal and state laws protecting such information. Security and disclosure of personal information is also highly regulated in many other countries in which we operate.

Environmental, Health and Safety Laws

In the United States and other countries, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, as well as laws relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices.

Laws Relating to Foreign Trade and Operations

United States and international laws require us to abide by standards relating to the import and export of finished goods, raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. We also must comply with various export control and trade embargo laws, which may require licenses or other authorizations for transactions within some countries or with some counterparties.

Similarly, we are subject to laws concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and foreign anti-bribery laws. These laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising or making payments to officials of foreign governments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.

Other Information

Although our agreements with manufacturers sometimes require us to maintain inventory levels within specified ranges, our distribution businesses are generally not required by our customers to maintain particular inventory levels other than as needed to meet service level requirements. Certain supply contracts with United States government entities require us to maintain sufficient inventory to meet emergency demands, but we do not believe those requirements materially affect inventory levels.



Our customer return policies generally require that the product be physically returned, subject to restocking fees. We only allow customers to return products that can be added back to inventory and resold at full value, or that can be returned to vendors for credit.

We offer market payment terms to our customers.

Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area

See Note 15 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website (www.cardinalhealth.com), under the “Investors—Financial information—SEC filings” caption, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).

You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) where you can search for annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding us and other public companies.



