Item 1. Business

General

We are a healthcare services and products company that improves the cost-effectiveness of health care.  We help pharmacies, hospitals, and other healthcare providers focus on patient care while reducing

costs, enhancing efficiency and improving quality.  We also provide medical products to patients in the home.

Pharmaceutical Segment

In the United States, our Pharmaceutical segment:

•

distributes branded and generic pharmaceutical, over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products through its Pharmaceutical Distribution division to retailers (including chain and independent drug stores and pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers), hospitals and other healthcare providers. This division:

•

maintains prime vendor relationships that streamline the purchasing process resulting in greater efficiency and lower costs for our customers;

•

renders services to pharmaceutical manufacturers including distribution, inventory management, data reporting, new product launch support, and contract pricing and chargeback administration;

•

provides pharmacy operations, medication therapy management and patient outcomes services to hospitals and other healthcare providers; and

•

manufactures and repackages generic pharmaceuticals and over-the-counter healthcare products;

•

operates nuclear pharmacies and cyclotron facilities through its Nuclear Pharmacy Services division that manufacture, prepare and deliver radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging and other procedures in hospitals and physician offices; and

•

distributes specialty pharmaceutical products; provides services to pharmaceutical manufacturers, third-party payors and healthcare providers supporting the development, marketing, distribution and payment for specialty pharmaceutical products; and provides specialty pharmacy services through its Specialty Solutions division.

In China, the Pharmaceutical segment distributes branded, generic and specialty pharmaceutical, over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products, provides logistics, marketing and other services and operates direct-to-patient specialty pharmacies through Cardinal Health China.

See Note 15 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for Pharmaceutical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal


,


and


.

Pharmaceutical Distribution

Our Pharmaceutical Distribution division generates gross margin when the aggregate selling price to our customers exceeds the aggregate cost of products sold. Gross margin includes margin from our generic pharmaceutical program, margin from pharmaceutical distribution agreements with branded manufacturers and margin from over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products. It also includes cash discounts. Margin from our generic pharmaceutical program includes price discounts and rebates from manufacturers and may include price appreciation on some products. Our earnings on generic pharmaceuticals are generally highest during the period immediately following the initial launch of a generic product because generic pharmaceutical selling prices are generally highest during that period and tend to decline over time. Margin from pharmaceutical distribution agreements with branded manufacturers refers primarily to fees we receive for rendering a range of distribution and related services to manufacturers and also includes benefits from pharmaceutical price appreciation.

Sourcing Venture With CVS Health

In

July 2014

, we established Red Oak Sourcing, a U.S.-based generic pharmaceutical sourcing venture with CVS Health with an initial term of

10 years

. Both companies have contributed sourcing and supply chain expertise to the 50/50 venture and have committed to source generic pharmaceuticals through arrangements negotiated by the venture. Red Oak Sourcing negotiates generic pharmaceutical supply contracts on behalf of both companies.

Specialty Pharmaceutical Products and Services

We refer to products and services offered by our Specialty Solutions division as “specialty pharmaceutical products and services.” The Specialty Solutions division distributes oncology, rheumatology, urology, nephrology and other pharmaceutical products ("specialty pharmaceutical products") and human-derived plasma products to hospitals, dialysis clinics, physician offices and other healthcare providers; provides consulting, patient support, logistics and other services to pharmaceutical manufacturers, third-party payors and healthcare providers primarily supporting the development, marketing, distribution and payment for specialty pharmaceutical products; and provides specialty pharmacy services. Our use of the terminology "specialty pharmaceutical products and services" may not be comparable to the terminology used by other industry participants.



Medical Segment

Our Medical segment distributes a broad range of national brand and our own Cardinal Health brand medical, surgical and laboratory products and provides services to hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories and other healthcare providers in the United States, Canada and China and to patients in the home in the United States through our Cardinal Health at Home division. During fiscal 2015, we entered into an agreement with Henry Schein, Inc. to consolidate our physician office organization into Henry Schein, Inc. as part of a broader commercial relationship.

This segment also manufactures, sources and develops our own higher-margin, Cardinal Health brand medical and surgical products. Manufactured products include: single-use surgical drapes, gowns and apparel; exam and surgical gloves; fluid suction and collection systems; cardiovascular products; wound care products; and orthopedic products. We will expand this segment's product line to

include the cardiac and endovascular products manufactured by Cordis once our acquisition of Cordis, which is discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, is completed. We expect to continue to expand our manufactured products through acquisitions and internal development. Our manufactured products are sold directly or through third-party distributors in the United States, Canada, Europe and other regions internationally.

This segment also assembles and offers sterile and non-sterile procedure kits. In addition, the segment provides supply chain services, including spend management, distribution management and inventory management services, to healthcare providers.

See Note 15 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for Medical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal


,


and


.

Acquisitions

We have acquired a number of businesses over the last several years that have enhanced our core strategic areas of generics, health systems and hospital solutions (including manufactured medical products), specialty pharmaceutical products and services, international and alternate sites of care. We expect to continue to pursue additional acquisitions in the future.

Since July 1, 2010, we have completed, or expect to complete, the following six larger acquisitions:

(1)

Includes the assumption of approximately $57 million in debt.

(2)

Includes $506 million in cash paid on the acquisition date and $14 million paid in fiscal 2012 and 2013 in connection with a contingent consideration obligation. The contingent consideration obligation had an acquisition date fair value of $92 million.

In addition, we completed several smaller acquisitions during the last five fiscal years, including in fiscal 2015, Tradex International, Inc., a supplier of disposable gloves, and Metro Medical Supply, Inc., a distributor of specialty pharmaceuticals and medical and surgical products; in fiscal 2014, Access Closure, Inc., a manufacturer and distributor of extravascular closure devices; and in fiscal 2012, Futuremed Healthcare Products Corporation, a Canadian medical product distributor.


Cardinal Health

|

Fiscal 2015 Form 10-K

Business

Customers

Our largest customer, CVS Health, accounted for

27 percent

of our fiscal


revenue. In the aggregate, our five largest customers, including CVS Health, accounted for

41 percent

of our fiscal 2015 revenue.

In addition, we have agreements with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) that act as agents to negotiate vendor

contracts on behalf of their members. Our two largest GPO relationships in terms of member revenue are with Novation, LLC and Premier Purchasing Partners, L.P. Sales to members of these two GPOs, under numerous contracts across all of our businesses, collectively accounted for

18 percent

of our revenue in fiscal


.

Suppliers

We rely on many different suppliers. Products obtained from our five largest suppliers accounted for an aggregate of

22 percent

of our revenue during fiscal


, but no single supplier’s products accounted for more than

7 percent

of revenue.

The Pharmaceutical Distribution division is a party to distribution service agreements with most pharmaceutical manufacturers. These

agreements have terms ranging from one year to five years. Most provide for an automatic renewal feature of one year. Some agreements allow either party, and in some instances, only the manufacturer to terminate the agreement without cause subject to a defined notice period.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare services. We also operate in a highly competitive environment in the development, manufacturing and distribution of medical and surgical products. We compete on many levels, including price, service offerings, support services and breadth of product lines.

In the Pharmaceutical segment, we compete with wholesale distributors with national reach (including McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation), regional wholesale distributors, self-warehousing chains, specialty distributors, third-party logistics companies, companies that provide services supporting the development, marketing, distribution and payment for specialty pharmaceutical products and nuclear pharmacies, among others.

In addition, the Pharmaceutical segment has experienced competition

from a number of organizations offering generic pharmaceuticals, including telemarketers. We also compete with manufacturers that sell all or part of their product offerings directly.

In the Medical segment, we compete with many different national medical product distributors, including Owens & Minor, Inc., McKesson Corporation and Medline Industries, Inc. We also compete with regional medical product distributors and companies that distribute medical products to patients in the home as well as third-party logistics companies. In addition, we compete with manufacturers that sell all or part of their product offerings directly. Competitors of the Medical segment’s manufacturing and procedural kit businesses include diversified healthcare companies as well as companies that are more focused on specific product categories.

Employees

At

June 30, 2015

, we had approximately 24,400 employees in the United States and approximately 10,100 employees outside of the

United States. Overall, we consider our employee relations to be good.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect our products, services and intangible assets. We hold patents relating to some medical and surgical products and to distribution of our nuclear pharmacy products and service offerings. We also operate under licenses for certain proprietary technologies, and in certain instances we license our technologies to third parties.

We believe that we have taken all necessary steps to protect our proprietary rights, but no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully enforce or protect our rights in the event that they are infringed upon by a third party.  While all of these proprietary rights are important to our operations, we do not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession to be material to our overall business.



Regulatory Matters

Our business is highly regulated in the United States at both the federal and state level and in foreign countries. Depending upon their specific business, our subsidiaries may be subject to regulation by government entities including:

•

the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (the “DEA”);

•

the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) and other agencies within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Office of Inspector General and the Office for Civil Rights;

•

the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the “NRC”);

•

the U.S. Federal Trade Commission; (the "FTC);

•

U.S. Customs and Border Protection;

•

state boards of pharmacy;

•

state controlled substance agencies;

•

state health departments, insurance departments, Medicaid departments or other comparable state agencies; and

•

foreign agencies that are comparable to those listed above.

These regulatory agencies have a variety of civil, administrative and criminal sanctions at their disposal for failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements. They can suspend our ability to distribute products or can initiate product recalls; they can seize products or impose criminal, civil and administrative sanctions; and they can seek injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products.

Distribution

The FDA, DEA and various state authorities regulate the marketing, purchase, storage and distribution of pharmaceutical and medical products under various state and federal statutes including the Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987 and the Federal Controlled Substances Act (the "CSA"), which governs the sale, packaging, storage and distribution of controlled substances. Wholesale distributors of controlled substances must hold valid DEA registrations and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with the CSA.

Manufacturing and Marketing

The FDA and other domestic and foreign governmental agencies administer requirements that cover the design, testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing (including good manufacturing practices), quality systems, labeling, promotion and advertising, distribution, importation and post-market surveillance of most of our manufactured products. In addition, we need specific approval or clearance from regulatory authorities before we can market and sell some of these products in the United States and certain other countries. Even after we obtain approval or clearance to market a product, the product and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued regulatory oversight. It can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory approvals or clearances to market a

medical device, and such approvals or clearances might not be granted on a timely basis, if at all.

From time to time, we may determine that products we manufacture or market do not meet our specifications, regulatory requirements, or published standards. When we or a regulatory agency identify a quality or regulatory issue, we investigate and take appropriate corrective action, which may include withdrawing the product from the market, correcting the product at the customer location, revising product labeling, and notifying customers.

Nuclear Pharmacies and Related Businesses

Our nuclear pharmacies and cyclotron facilities require licenses or permits and must abide by regulations issued by the NRC, applicable state boards of pharmacy and the radiologic health agency or department of health of each state in which we operate. In addition, our cyclotron facilities must comply with the FDA's good manufacturing practices regulations for positron emission tomography, or PET, drugs.

Prescription Drug Tracing and Supply Chain Integrity

In November 2013, the U.S. Congress enacted the Drug Supply Chain Security Act. This law establishes a phased-in national system for tracing pharmaceutical products through the pharmaceutical distribution supply chain to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated or mislabeled drugs. The first phase of implementation began on January 1, 2015, and upon full implementation in 2023, we and other supply chain stakeholders will participate in an electronic, interoperable, prescription drug tracing system.

Government Healthcare Programs

We are subject to U.S. federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws. These laws generally prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any compensation in order to induce someone to order or purchase items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-funded healthcare programs. They also prohibit submitting or causing to be submitted any fraudulent claim for payment by the federal government. There are similar state healthcare fraud and abuse laws that apply to Medicaid and other state-funded healthcare programs. Violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil penalties, as well as breach of contract claims and

qui tam

actions (false claims cases initiated by private parties purporting to act on behalf of federal or state governments).

Our Cardinal Health at Home business and a few of our other businesses are Medicare-certified suppliers or participate in state Medicaid programs. These businesses are subject to accreditation and quality standards and other rules and regulations, including applicable billing, payment and record-keeping requirements. In addition, a few of our businesses manufacture or repackage pharmaceuticals and are subject to federal and state laws that establish eligibility for reimbursement by federal and state healthcare programs. Failure to comply with applicable standards and regulations could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the


Cardinal Health

|

Fiscal 2015 Form 10-K

Business

loss of our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.

In addition, our U.S. federal and state government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations. Failure to comply with applicable rules or regulations or with contractual or other requirements may result in monetary damages and criminal or civil penalties as well as termination of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from government contract work.

Health and Personal Information Practices

We collect, handle and maintain patient-identifiable healthcare information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA"), as augmented by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, as well as some state and foreign laws, regulate the use and disclosure of patient-identifiable health information, including requiring specified privacy and security measures.

We also collect, handle and maintain other sensitive personal information that is subject to federal and state laws protecting such information. Security and disclosure of personal information is also highly regulated in many other countries in which we operate.

In Europe, we are subject to the European Union (“EU”) data protection regulations, including the EU Directive on Data Protection, which requires member states to impose minimum restrictions on the collection and use of personal data that, in some respects, are more stringent, and impose more significant burdens on subject businesses, than current privacy standards in the United States.

Antitrust Laws

The U.S. federal government and most states have enacted antitrust laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be anti-competitive. Violations of federal or state antitrust laws can result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil penalties. Private plaintiffs also could bring civil lawsuits against us for alleged antitrust law violations, including claims for treble damages. As previously disclosed, in April 2015, we settled allegations by the FTC resulting

from an investigation into supplier arrangements involving our Nuclear Pharmacy Services division primarily focused on the period between 2003 and 2008. In that settlement, we agreed to a court order and injunction under federal antitrust laws, and agreed, among other things, to pay

$27 million

to the FTC, which the FTC has stated will be used to establish a fund for allegedly aggrieved third parties.

Environmental, Health and Safety Laws

In the United States and other countries, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, as well as laws relating to safe working conditions and laboratory practices.

Laws Relating to Foreign Trade and Operations

U.S. and foreign laws require us to abide by standards relating to the import and export of finished goods, raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. We also must comply with various export control and trade embargo laws, which may require licenses or other authorizations for transactions within some countries or with some counterparties.

Similarly, we are subject to U.S. and foreign laws concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Chinese anti-corruption laws, the U.K. Bribery Act and other foreign anti-bribery laws. Among other things, these laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising or making payments to officials of foreign governments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.

Regulation in China

Our China operations are subject to national, regional and local regulations, including licensing and regulatory requirements of the China National Health and Family Planning Commission, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the China Food and Drug Administration, the National Development and Reform Commission, the General Administration of Customs, the Ministry of Industrial and Information Technology and the China Insurance Regulatory Commission.

Other Information

Although our agreements with manufacturers sometimes require us to maintain inventory levels within specified ranges, our distribution businesses are generally not required by our customers to maintain particular inventory levels other than as needed to meet service level requirements. Certain supply contracts with U.S. government entities require us to maintain sufficient inventory to meet emergency demands, but we do not believe those requirements materially affect

inventory levels.

Our customer return policies generally require that the product be physically returned, subject to restocking fees. We only allow customers to return products that can be added back to inventory and resold at full value, or that can be returned to vendors for credit.

We offer market payment terms to our customers.

Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area

See Note 15 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area.



Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website (www.cardinalhealth.com), under the “Investors—Financial Reporting—SEC Filings” caption, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).

You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) where you can search for annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding us and other public companies.