Item 1:Business

General

Cardinal Health,
Inc. is an Ohio corporation formed in 1979. As used in this report, “we,” “our,” “us” and similar pronouns refer to Cardinal Health, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. We are a healthcare
services company providing products and services that help pharmacies, hospitals, surgery centers, physician offices and other healthcare providers focus on patient care while reducing costs, enhancing efficiency and improving quality.

Our fiscal year ends on June 30. References to fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 are to the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively. Except as otherwise specified, information in this Form 10-K is provided as of June 30, 2011.

Business Segments

The following business discussion is based on our two segments as they were structured for fiscal 2011.

Pharmaceutical Segment

In the United States, the Pharmaceutical segment:



•distributes branded and generic pharmaceutical, over-the-counter healthcare, and consumer products through its pharmaceutical distribution business to
retailers (including chain and independent drug stores and pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers), hospitals, and alternate care providers (including mail order pharmacies). This business:



•maintains prime vendor relationships that streamline the purchasing process resulting in greater efficiency and lower costs for our customers.



•helps pharmaceutical manufacturers with services including distribution, inventory management, data/reporting, new product launch support, and contract
and chargeback administration.



•operates nuclear pharmacies and cyclotron facilities that manufacture, prepare and deliver radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging and other
procedures in hospitals and clinics;



•distributes specialty pharmaceutical products and provides services to pharmaceutical manufacturers, third-party payors and healthcare service
providers supporting the marketing, distribution, and payment for specialty pharmaceutical products;



•franchises retail pharmacies under the Medicine Shoppe®and Medicap®brands; and



•provides pharmacy services to hospitals and other healthcare facilities.

In China, the Pharmaceutical segment distributes branded, generic and specialty pharmaceuticals as well as medical, surgical,
over-the-counter and consumer products through our Yong Yu subsidiary. Yong Yu is one of the largest importers of pharmaceuticals into China and reaches a wide range of customers including more than 49,000 hospitals and clinics and more than 123,000
retail outlets.

The pharmaceutical distribution business generates gross margin primarily when the aggregate selling price to
our customers exceeds the aggregate cost of products sold, net of manufacturer cash discount, branded manufacturer margin, and generic manufacturer margin.

Manufacturer cash discounts are price reductions that manufacturers may offer to us for prompt payment of purchased products.







Branded manufacturer margin refers to compensation amounts under distribution service
agreements with manufacturers and to pharmaceutical price appreciation. Amounts earned under the distribution service agreements compensate us for a range of distribution and related services we provide to manufacturers and consist of a fee based on
volume with or without pharmaceutical price appreciation. In addition, a manufacturer may increase its published price for a product after we have purchased that product for inventory. Our contract price for branded pharmaceutical products to
customers is based on the manufacturer’s published price at the time of sale. As such, inventory sold following a manufacturer price increase will be based on the higher manufacturer price.

Pharmaceutical price appreciation refers to amounts we earn from selling inventory at these increased prices.

Generic manufacturer margin (also referred to as “generic margin”) refers to price discounts, rebates and other incentives we
receive from manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals. Our earnings on generic pharmaceuticals are generally highest during the period immediately following the initial launch of a generic product because generic pharmaceutical selling prices tend
to decline over time, although this may vary.

Bulk and Non-bulk Sales. The Pharmaceutical segment differentiates
between bulk and non-bulk sales based on the nature of our customers’ operations. Bulk sales consist of sales to retail chain customers’ centralized warehouse operations and customers’ mail order businesses. All other sales, including
all sales to customers located in China, are classified as non-bulk. Sales to a retail chain pharmacy customer are classified as bulk sales with respect to its warehouse operations and non-bulk sales with respect to its retail stores. We formerly
referred to bulk sales as bulk customers and non-bulk sales as non-bulk customers. Other than this change in terminology, we have not changed how we categorize revenue, segment expenses and segment profit with respect to our bulk and non-bulk sales.

Substantially all bulk sales consist of products shipped in the same form that we receive them from the manufacturer; a small
portion of bulk sales are broken down into smaller units prior to shipping. In contrast, non-bulk sales require more complex servicing. For non-bulk sales, we may receive inventory in large or full case quantities and break it down into smaller
quantities, warehouse the product for a longer period of time, pick individual products specific to a customer’s order, and deliver that smaller order to a customer location.

Bulk sales generate significantly lower segment profit as a percentage of revenue than non-bulk sales. Customers receive lower pricing on
bulk sales of the same products than non-bulk sales due to volume pricing in a competitive market and due to lower costs related to the fewer services we provide. In addition, bulk sales in aggregate generate higher segment cost of products sold as
a percentage of revenue than non-bulk sales, because bulk orders consist largely of higher cost branded products. The higher segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue for bulk sales is also driven by lower branded manufacturer margin
and manufacturer cash discounts due to the mix of branded products in bulk sales. Segment distribution, selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses as a percentage of revenue from bulk sales are substantially lower than from
non-bulk sales because bulk sales require substantially fewer services to be rendered by us than non-bulk sales.







The following table shows the revenues, segment expenses, segment profit and segment profit
as a percentage of revenue for bulk and non-bulk sales for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009.



(in millions)201120102009Non-bulk sales:Revenue from non-bulk sales$51,815.5$45,795.4$44,134.7Segment expenses allocated to non-bulk sales (1)50,685.244,908.443,272.9Segment profit from non-bulk sales (1)1,130.3887.0861.8Segment profit from non-bulk sales as a percentage of revenue from non-bulk sales (1)2.18%1.94%1.95%Bulk sales:Revenue from bulk sales$41,928.0$43,994.5$43,728.2Segment expenses allocated to bulk sales (1)41,793.543,879.743,554.3Segment profit from bulk sales (1)134.5114.8173.9Segment profit from bulk sales as a percentage of revenue from bulk sales (1)0.32%0.26%0.40%



(1)Segment expenses and profit required complex and subjective estimates and allocations based upon assumptions, past experience and judgment that we believe are
reasonable. In addition, amounts do not include the impact of last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) provisions, if any. We had no LIFO provisions in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009.

See Note 16 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for Pharmaceutical segment revenue, profit and assets for
fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009.

Medical Segment

The Medical segment distributes a broad range of medical, surgical and laboratory products to hospitals, surgery centers, laboratories, physician offices and other healthcare providers in the United
States and Canada. This segment also manufactures, sources and develops its own line of private brand medical and surgical products. Manufactured products include: single-use surgical drapes, gowns and apparel; exam and surgical gloves; and
fluid suction and collection systems. The segment also offers sterile and non-sterile procedure kits. Our manufactured products are sold directly or through third-party distributors in the United States, Canada, Europe, South America and the
Asia/Pacific region. In addition, the segment provides supply chain services, including spend management, distribution management, and inventory management services, to healthcare providers.

See Note 16 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for Medical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal 2011,
2010 and 2009.







Acquisitions and Divestitures

In the past five fiscal years, we completed the following three significant acquisitions apart from businesses spun-off as part of
CareFusion Corporation (“CareFusion”), as discussed below.



Date (1)CompanyLocationLine of BusinessConsideration(in millions)July 15, 2010Healthcare SolutionsHolding, LLC (“P4 Healthcare”)Ellicott City, MarylandSpecialty pharmaceutical services$598(2)November 29, 2010Yong YuShanghai, ChinaPharmaceutical and medical products distribution$458(3)December 21, 2010Kinray, Inc.(“Kinray”)Whitestone, New YorkPharmaceutical, generic, health and beauty, and home health care products distribution$1,336



(1)Represents the date we became the majority shareholder.

(2)Includes $506 million in cash and $92 million for the acquisition date fair value of contingent consideration to be paid for the acquisition.

(3)Includes the assumption of approximately $57 million in debt.

We also completed several smaller acquisitions during the last five fiscal years, including purchasing Borschow Hospital & Medical Supplies, Inc. in fiscal 2009.

During the past five fiscal years, we also completed several divestitures, including selling our former Pharmaceutical Technologies and
Services segment, other than certain generic-focused businesses, for approximately $3.2 billion in cash during fiscal 2007 and selling our United Kingdom-based Martindale injectable manufacturing business in fiscal 2010. In addition, effective
August 31, 2009, we separated our clinical and medical products businesses through distribution to our shareholders of 81 percent of the then outstanding common stock of CareFusion (the “Spin-Off”). During fiscal 2010, we disposed of
10.9 million shares of CareFusion common stock and during fiscal 2011, we disposed of the remaining 30.5 million shares. VIASYS Healthcare Inc. and Enturia Inc., two significant acquisitions in the last five years, were spun-off as part of
CareFusion.

Customers

Our largest customers, Walgreen Co. (“Walgreens”) and CVS Caremark Corporation (“CVS”), accounted for approximately 23 percent and 22 percent, respectively, of our revenue for fiscal
2011. The aggregate of our five largest customers, including Walgreens and CVS, accounted for approximately 59 percent of our revenue for fiscal 2011.

We have agreements with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) that act as agents to negotiate vendor contracts on behalf of their members. Our two largest GPO relationships in terms of member
revenue are with Novation, LLC, and Premier Purchasing Partners, L.P. Arrangements with these two GPOs accounted for approximately 14 percent of our revenue for fiscal 2011.

Suppliers

We rely on many different suppliers. Products obtained from our
five largest suppliers accounted for an aggregate of approximately 22 percent of our revenue during fiscal 2011, but no single supplier’s products accounted for more than 5 percent of that revenue. Overall, we believe our relationships with our
suppliers are good.







The Pharmaceutical distribution business is a party to distribution service agreements with
pharmaceutical manufacturers. These agreements generally have terms ranging from one year with an automatic renewal feature to five years. Generally, these agreements are terminable before they expire only if the parties mutually agree, if there is
an uncured breach of the agreement, or if one party is the subject of a bankruptcy filing or similar insolvency event. Some agreements allow the manufacturer to terminate the agreement without cause within a defined notice period.

Our Pharmaceutical segment’s nuclear pharmacy services business dispenses several products prepared using a particular radioisotope.
During fiscal 2010, it was difficult to acquire sufficient quantities of that radioisotope from third-party suppliers because of a continued and prolonged shortage of a critical raw material used to derive that radioisotope. However, the supply of
raw material normalized in the first half of fiscal 2011.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare services. We also operate in
a highly competitive environment in the development, manufacturing and distribution of medical and surgical products. We compete on many levels, including service offerings, support services, breadth of product lines, and price.

In the Pharmaceutical segment, we compete with two other national, full-line wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation and
AmerisourceBergen Corporation) and a number of regional wholesale distributors, self-warehousing chains, direct selling manufacturers, specialty distributors, third-party logistics companies, and nuclear pharmacies, among others. In addition, the
Pharmaceutical segment has experienced competition from a number of organizations offering generic pharmaceuticals, including telemarketers.

In the Medical segment, we compete with many different distributors, including Owens & Minor, Inc., Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., PSS World Medical, Inc., Henry Schein, Inc., and Medline
Industries, Inc. In addition, we compete with regional medical products distributors, third-party logistics companies and manufacturers’ direct distribution. Competitors of the Medical segment’s manufacturing and procedural kit businesses
include Kimberly-Clark Corporation, Ansell Limited, DeRoyal Industries Inc., Medline Industries, Inc., Mölnlycke Health Care, America Contract Sterilization, Professional Hospital Supply and Medical Action Industries.

Employees

As of
June 30, 2011, we had approximately 22,600 employees in the United States and approximately 9,300 employees outside of the United States. Overall, we consider our employee relations to be good.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and
technical measures to protect our products, services and intangible assets. We hold patents relating to aspects of our distribution operations, including our nuclear pharmacy products and service offerings, and relating to medical and surgical
products, such as fluid suction and irrigation devices; surgical waste management systems; surgical and medical examination gloves; surgical drapes, gowns and facial protection products; and patient temperature management products. We also operate
under licenses for certain proprietary technologies, and in certain instances we license our technologies to third parties. All of these proprietary rights are important to our operations, but we do not consider any particular patent, trademark,
license, franchise or concession to be material to our overall business.







Regulatory Matters

Our business is highly regulated in the United States at both the federal and state level and in foreign countries. Depending upon their specific business, our subsidiaries may be subject to regulation by
government entities including:



•the United States Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”),



•the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (the “DEA”),



•the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the “NRC”),



•the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”),



•United States Customs and Border Protection,



•state boards of pharmacy,



•state controlled substance agencies,



•state health departments, insurance departments or other comparable state agencies, and



•foreign agencies that are comparable to those listed above.

These regulatory agencies have a variety of civil, administrative and criminal sanctions at their disposal. They can require us to suspend distribution of products and controlled substances or initiate
product recalls; they can seize products or impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions; and they can seek injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products.

Distribution. The FDA, DEA and various state authorities regulate the marketing, purchase, storage and distribution of
pharmaceutical and medical products and controlled substances under various state and federal statutes including the Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987. Wholesale distributors of controlled substances must hold valid DEA registrations and
state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with the Federal Controlled Substances Act governing the sale, marketing, packaging, storage and distribution of controlled substances.

Our Pharmaceutical segment’s China distribution operations are subject to similar national, regional and local regulations,
including licensing and regulatory requirements of the China Ministry of Health, Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Finance, the State Food and Drug Administration and the General Administration of Customs.

Manufacturing and marketing. Our subsidiaries that manufacture and source medical devices are subject to regulation by the FDA and
comparable foreign agencies including regulations regarding compliance with good manufacturing practices and quality systems. In addition, our Medical segment’s international manufacturing operations may be subject to local certification
requirements.

The FDA and other domestic and foreign governmental agencies administer requirements covering the design,
testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacture, labeling, promotion and advertising, distribution and post-market surveillance of some of our manufactured products. We need specific approval or clearance from regulatory authorities before we can market
and sell many of our products in particular countries. Even after we obtain approval or clearance to market a product, the product and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued regulatory review.

To assess and facilitate compliance with federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, we routinely review our quality and
compliance systems to evaluate their effectiveness and to identify areas for improvement or remediation. As part of our quality review, we assess the suppliers of raw materials, components and finished goods that are incorporated into the medical
devices we manufacture. In addition, we conduct quality management reviews designed to highlight key issues that may affect the quality of our products and services.







From time to time, we may determine that products we manufacture or market do not meet our specifications, regulatory requirements, or published standards. When we identify a quality or
regulatory issue, we investigate and take appropriate corrective action, such as withdrawing the product from the market, correcting the product at the customer location, revising product labeling, and notifying customers.

Nuclear pharmacies and related businesses. Our nuclear pharmacies and cyclotron facilities require licenses or permits and must
abide by regulations from the NRC, the radiologic health agency or department of health of each state in which we operate, and the state board of pharmacy. In addition, the FDA regulates cyclotron facilities and has issued, effective December 2011,
good manufacturing practices regulations for positron emission tomography (“PET”) drugs.

Prescription Drug
Pedigree Tracking and Supply Chain Integrity

The FDA Amendments Act of 2007 requires the FDA to establish standards to
identify and validate technologies for securing the pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs. These standards may include track-and-trace or authentication technologies, such as radio frequency identification devices. In
March 2010, the FDA issued guidance establishing standardized numerical identifiers for prescription pharmaceutical packages. Some states have also adopted laws to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, diverted, adulterated or mislabeled
pharmaceuticals into the pharmaceutical supply chain. For example, effective July 2016, California requires that pharmaceutical wholesalers and repackagers implement electronic track-and-trace capabilities for pharmaceutical products.

Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws

We are subject to extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. Laws and regulations generally prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any
compensation in order to induce someone to order or purchase items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other United States government-sponsored healthcare programs. They also prohibit submitting or causing to be
submitted any fraudulent claim for payment by the federal government. Violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil penalties as well as qui tam claims under the federal False Claims Act and similar state acts under which private persons
may file suit on behalf of the federal and state governments.

Health and Personal Information Practices

Services and products provided by some of our businesses, including our pharmacy services and specialty pharmaceutical
businesses, involve access to patient identifiable healthcare information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as augmented by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, as well as some state
laws, regulate the use and disclosure of patient identifiable health information, including requiring specified privacy and security measures. Federal and state officials have increasingly focused on how patient identifiable healthcare information
should be handled, secured and disclosed.

Some of our businesses collect and maintain other personal information that is
subject to federal and state laws protecting such information. Security and disclosure of personal information is also highly regulated in many other countries in which we operate.

Environmental, Health and Safety Laws

In the United States and other countries, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws as well as laws relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices.

Laws Relating to Foreign Trade and Operations

United States and international laws and regulations require us to abide by standards relating to the import and export of finished goods,
raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. We also must comply







with various export control and trade embargo laws and regulations, which may require licenses or other authorizations for transactions within some countries or with some counterparties. Also, we
must abide by United States and foreign customs laws and regulations.

Similarly, we are subject to laws and regulations
concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, foreign anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of internal books and records. These laws generally prohibit companies and
their intermediaries from offering, promising or making payments to non-United States government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.

Other Information

Our distribution businesses are generally not required
by our customers to maintain particular inventory levels other than as needed to meet service level requirements. Certain supply contracts with United States government entities require us to maintain sufficient inventory to meet emergency demands,
but we do not believe those requirements materially affect inventory levels.

Our customer return policies generally require
that the product be physically returned, subject to restocking fees. We only allow customers to return products that can be added back to inventory and resold at full value, or that can be returned to vendors for credit. We offer market payment
terms to our customers.

Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area

See Note 16 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area.

Available Information and Exchange Certifications

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website (www.cardinalhealth.com), under the
“Investors—Financials/SEC filings” caption, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).

You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC
20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) where you can search for annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information regarding us and other public companies.



