Item 1. Business

General

Cardinal Health, Inc. is a global integrated healthcare services and products company providing customized solutions for hospitals, healthcare systems, pharmacies, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories and physician offices. We provide medical products and pharmaceuticals and cost-effective solutions that enhance supply chain efficiency from hospital to home.

Pharmaceutical Segment

In the United States, our Pharmaceutical segment:

•

distributes branded and generic pharmaceutical and over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products through its Pharmaceutical Distribution division to retailers (including chain and independent drug stores and pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers), hospitals and other healthcare providers. This division:

•

maintains prime vendor relationships that streamline the purchasing process resulting in greater efficiency and lower costs for our retail, hospital and other healthcare provider customers;

•

provides services to pharmaceutical manufacturers, including distribution, inventory management, data reporting, new product launch support and chargeback administration;

•

provides pharmacy management services to hospitals as well as medication therapy management and patient outcomes services to hospitals, other healthcare providers and payers, and operates pharmacies in community health centers; and

•

repackages generic pharmaceuticals and over-the-counter healthcare products;

•

through its Specialty Solutions division, distributes specialty pharmaceutical products to hospitals and other healthcare providers and provides consulting, patient support and other services for specialty pharmaceutical products to pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers; and

•

operates nuclear pharmacies and manufacturing facilities through its Nuclear Pharmacy Services division, which manufactures, prepares and delivers radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging and other procedures in hospitals and physician offices. This division also contract manufactures a radiopharmaceutical treatment (Xofigo) and holds the North American rights to manufacture and distribute Lymphoseek, a radiopharmaceutical diagnostic imaging agent.

See

Note 16

of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for Pharmaceutical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal


,


and


.

Pharmaceutical Distribution

Our Pharmaceutical Distribution division’s gross margin includes margin from our generic pharmaceutical program, from distribution services agreements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers and from over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products. It also includes manufacturer cash discounts.

Margin from our generic pharmaceutical program includes price discounts and rebates from manufacturers and may in some instances include price appreciation. Our earnings on generic pharmaceuticals are generally highest during the period immediately following the initial launch of a product, because generic pharmaceutical selling prices are generally highest during that period and tend to decline over time.

Margin from distribution services agreements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers is derived primarily from compensation we receive for providing a range of distribution and related services to manufacturers. Our compensation typically is a percentage of the wholesale acquisition cost that is set by manufacturers. In addition, under a limited number of agreements, branded pharmaceutical price appreciation, which is determined by the manufacturers, also serves as part of our compensation.

Sourcing Venture With CVS Health Corporation

In July 2014, we established Red Oak Sourcing, a U.S.-based generic pharmaceutical sourcing venture with CVS with an initial term of 10 years. Red Oak Sourcing negotiates generic pharmaceutical supply contracts on behalf of both companies.

Specialty Pharmaceutical Products and Services

We refer to products and services offered by our Specialty Solutions division as “specialty pharmaceutical products and services.” The Specialty Solutions division distributes oncology, rheumatology, urology, nephrology and other pharmaceutical products ("specialty pharmaceutical products") and human-derived plasma products to hospitals, dialysis clinics, physician offices and other healthcare providers; provides consulting, patient support, logistics, group purchasing and other services to pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers primarily supporting the development, marketing and distribution of specialty pharmaceutical products; and provides specialty pharmacy services. Our use of the terminology "specialty pharmaceutical products and services" may not be comparable to the terminology used by other industry participants.




Medical Segment

Our Medical segment manufactures and sources Cardinal Health branded medical, surgical and laboratory products, including cardiovascular and endovascular products; wound care products; single-use surgical drapes, gowns and apparel; exam and surgical gloves; and fluid suction and collection systems. We further expanded this segment's portfolio of Cardinal Health Brand products through the acquisition of the

Patient Recovery Business

from Medtronic in July 2017, which includes incontinence, wound care, enteral feeding, urology, operating room supply, electrode and needle, syringe and sharps disposal product lines. Our Cardinal Health Brand products are sold directly or through third-party distributors in the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia and other markets.

The Medical segment also distributes a broad range of national brand products and provides supply chain services and solutions to hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories and other healthcare providers in the United States and Canada.

This segment also distributes medical products to patients' homes in the United States through our Cardinal Health at Home division.

This segment also assembles and sells sterile and non-sterile procedure kits. It also provides supply chain services, including spend management, distribution management and inventory management services, to healthcare providers.

naviHealth Partnership

In August 2018, we entered into a partnership with CD&R through which we own 44% of the ownership interests in the naviHealth business. naviHealth partners with health plans, hospital systems, physician groups and other healthcare providers to manage post-acute care through value-based programs.

See

Note 16

of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for Medical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal


,


and


.

Acquisitions and Divestitures

Acquisitions

We have acquired a number of businesses over the years that have enhanced our core strategic areas of Cardinal Health Brand medical products, generic pharmaceutical distribution and services, specialty pharmaceutical products and services, international and post-acute care. We expect to continue to pursue additional acquisitions in the future.

During the last five fiscal years, we completed the following three large acquisitions:

We have also completed several smaller acquisitions during the last five fiscal years, including: in fiscal 2017, the acquisition of the North

American rights to Lymphoseek, a radiopharmaceutical diagnostic imaging agent, from Navidea Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.; in fiscal 2015, the acquisitions of Tradex International, Inc., a supplier of disposable gloves, and Metro Medical Supply, Inc., a distributor of specialty pharmaceuticals and medical and surgical products; and in fiscal 2014, the acquisition of Access Closure, Inc., a manufacturer and distributor of extravascular closure devices.

Divestitures

Over the past year, we have also completed several divestitures, including, in February 2018, selling our pharmaceutical and medical products distribution business in China to Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding Co., Ltd. for proceeds of $861 million (after adjusting for third party indebtedness and preliminary transaction adjustments).

Additionally, in August 2018, we completed the sale of our ownership interest in naviHealth, Inc. to investor entities controlled by CD&R for proceeds of $736 million (after adjusting for certain fees and expenses) and a 44% equity interest in a partnership that owns the naviHealth business.

We had acquired our ownership interest in naviHealth through a series of transactions, beginning in fiscal 2016, when we acquired a 71% ownership interest. As of the end of fiscal 2018, we owned 98% of the interests in naviHealth.

Cardinal Health

|

Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K


Business

Customers

Our largest customers, CVS and OptumRx accounted for

25 percent

and 11 percent of our fiscal


revenue, respectively. In the aggregate, our five largest customers, including CVS and OptumRx, accounted for 47 percent of our fiscal


revenue. Our pharmaceutical distribution agreements with CVS extend through June 2019.

We have agreements with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) that act as agents to negotiate vendor contracts on behalf of their

members. Our two largest GPO relationships in terms of member revenue are with Vizient, Inc. and Premier, Inc. Sales to members of these two GPOs, under numerous contracts across all of our businesses, collectively accounted for

22 percent

of our revenue in fiscal


.

Suppliers

We rely on many different suppliers. Products obtained from our five largest suppliers accounted for an aggregate of

29 percent

of our revenue during fiscal


, but no single supplier’s products accounted for more than

8 percent

of revenue.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and consumer healthcare products. We also operate in a highly competitive environment in the development, manufacturing and distribution of medical devices and surgical products. We compete on many levels, including price, service offerings, support services, breadth of product lines and product quality and efficacy.

In the Pharmaceutical segment, we compete with wholesale distributors with national reach, including McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, regional wholesale distributors, self-warehousing chains, specialty distributors, third-party logistics companies, companies that provide specialty pharmaceutical

services and nuclear pharmacies, among others. In addition, the Pharmaceutical segment has experienced competition from a number of organizations offering generic pharmaceuticals, including telemarketers. We also compete with manufacturers that sell their products directly.

In the Medical segment, we compete with many diversified healthcare companies and national medical product distributors, such as Medline Industries, Inc.,  Owens & Minor, Inc. and Becton, Dickinson and Company, as well as regional medical product distributors and companies that are focused on specific product categories. We also compete with companies that distribute medical products to patients' homes and third-party logistics companies.

Employees

At

June 30, 2018

, we had approximately 32,300 employees in the United States and approximately 17,900 employees outside of the United States.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect our products, services and intangible assets. We hold patents, and continue to pursue patent protection throughout the world, relating to the manufacture, operation and use of various medical and surgical products, to certain distribution and logistics systems, to the production and distribution of our nuclear pharmacy products and to other service offerings. We also operate under licenses for certain proprietary technologies, and in certain instances we license our technologies to third parties.

We believe that we have taken all necessary steps to protect our proprietary rights, but no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully enforce or protect our rights in the event that they are infringed upon by a third party. While all of these proprietary rights are important to our operations, we do not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession to be material to our overall business.




Regulatory Matters

Our business is highly regulated in the United States, at both the federal and state level, and in foreign countries. Depending upon the specific business, we may be subject to regulation by government entities including:

•

the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (the “DEA”);

•

certain agencies within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”), the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Office of Inspector General and the Office for Civil Rights;

•

state health departments, insurance departments, Medicaid departments or other comparable state agencies;

•

state boards of pharmacy and other controlled substance authorities;

•

the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the “NRC”);

•

the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC");

•

U.S. Customs and Border Protection; and

•

agencies comparable to those listed above in markets outside the United States.

These regulatory agencies have a variety of civil, administrative and criminal sanctions at their disposal for failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements. They can suspend our ability to manufacture and distribute products, initiate product recalls, seize products or impose criminal, civil and administrative sanctions.

Distribution

State Boards of Pharmacy, FDA, DEA and various other state authorities regulate the marketing, purchase, storage and distribution of pharmaceutical and medical products under various federal and state statutes including the federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987, Drug Quality and Security Act of 2013 (the “DQSA”), and Controlled Substances Act (the "CSA"). The CSA governs the sale, packaging, storage and distribution of controlled substances. Wholesale distributors of controlled substances must hold valid DEA registrations and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with the CSA. They must also comply with state requirements relating to controlled substances that differ from state to state.

Manufacturing and Marketing

We sell our manufactured products in the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia and other markets. The FDA and other governmental agencies in the United States, as well as foreign governmental agencies, administer requirements that cover the design, testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing (including good manufacturing practices), quality systems, labeling, promotion and advertising (including restrictions on promoting or advertising a product other than for the product's cleared or approved uses), distribution, importation and post-market surveillance for most of our manufactured products. In addition, we need specific approval or clearance from, and registrations with, regulatory authorities before

we can market and sell some products in the United States and certain other countries, including countries in the European Union ("EU").

In the United States, authorization to commercially market a medical device is generally received in one of two ways. The first, known as pre-market notification or the 510(k) process, requires us to demonstrate that a medical device is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device. The second more rigorous process, known as pre-market approval (“PMA”), requires us to independently demonstrate that a medical device is safe and effective. Many of our Medical segment products are cleared through the 510(k) process and certain Cordis products must be approved through the PMA process.

In the EU, we are required to comply with applicable Medical Device Directives ("MDDs") and obtain CE Mark Certification in order to market medical devices. The EU regulatory bodies finalized a new Medical Device Regulation ("MDR") in 2017, which replaces the existing MDDs after a three-year transition period.  Among other things, the MDR clarifies that private label distributors are deemed to be the manufacturer, which will increase our regulatory obligations in the EU with respect to private label products.

It can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory approvals, clearances and registrations of medical devices, and they might not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Even after we obtain approval or clearance to market a product or obtain product registrations, the product and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued regulatory oversight, including periodic inspection of manufacturing facilities by FDA and other regulatory authorities both in the United States and internationally.

From time to time, we may determine that products we manufacture or market do not meet our specifications, regulatory requirements or published standards. When we or a regulatory agency identify a quality or regulatory issue, we investigate and take appropriate corrective action, which may include recalling the product, correcting the product at the customer location, revising product labeling and notifying customers.

Health and Personal Information Practices

We collect, handle and maintain patient-identifiable health information. The U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA"), as augmented by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, and state laws regulate the use and disclosure of patient-identifiable health information, including requiring specified privacy and security measures. We also collect, handle and maintain other sensitive personal and financial information that is subject to U.S. federal and state laws protecting such information.

The processing and disclosure of personal information is also highly regulated in many other countries in which we operate. In Europe, for example, we are subject to the EU data protection regulations, including the current EU Directive on Data Protection, which requires member states to impose minimum restrictions on the collection, use

Cardinal Health

|

Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K


Business

and transfer of personal data. The EU General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") includes, among other things, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches to data subjects and supervisory authorities in certain circumstances and significant fines for non-compliance. The GDPR also requires companies processing personal data of individuals residing in the EU to comply with EU privacy and data protection rules.

Nuclear Pharmacies and Related Businesses

Our nuclear pharmacies and radiopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities (including for Xofigo) require licenses or permits and must abide by regulations issued by the NRC, applicable state boards of pharmacy and the radiologic health agency or department of health of each state in which we operate, including pharmacy sterile compounding standards and practices. In addition, our radiopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities also must comply with FDA regulations, including good manufacturing practices.

Product Tracing and Supply Chain Integrity

Title II of the DQSA, known as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act or "Track and Trace," establishes a phased-in national system for tracing pharmaceutical products through the pharmaceutical distribution supply chain to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated or mislabeled drugs. The first phase of implementation began in 2015, and upon full implementation in 2023, we and other supply chain stakeholders will participate in an electronic, interoperable, prescription drug tracing system. In addition, the FDA also has issued regulations requiring most medical device labeling to bear a unique device identifier. These regulations are being phased in through 2020. The MDR finalized in the EU in 2017 also introduces a new unique device identifier requirement with a three-year transition period.

Government Healthcare Programs

We are subject to U.S. federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws. These laws generally prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any compensation in order to induce someone to order, recommend or purchase products or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-funded healthcare programs. They also prohibit submitting any fraudulent claim for payment by the federal government. There are similar state healthcare fraud and abuse laws that apply to Medicaid and other state-funded healthcare programs. Violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil penalties, as well as breach of contract claims and

qui tam

actions (false claims cases initiated by private parties purporting to act on behalf of federal or state governments).

Some businesses within each of our segments are Medicare-certified suppliers or participate in other federal and state healthcare

programs, such as state Medicaid programs and the federal 340B drug pricing program. These businesses are subject to accreditation and quality standards and other rules and regulations, including applicable reporting, billing, payment and record-keeping requirements. Other businesses within each segment manufacture pharmaceutical or medical products or repackage pharmaceuticals that are purchased or reimbursed through, or are otherwise governed by, federal or state healthcare programs. Failure to comply with applicable eligibility requirements, standards and regulations could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.

Our U.S. federal and state government contracts are subject to specific procurement requirements. Failure to comply with applicable rules or regulations or with contractual or other requirements may result in monetary damages and criminal or civil penalties as well as termination of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from government contract work.

Antitrust Laws

The U.S. federal government, most U.S. states and many foreign countries have laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be anti-competitive. Violations of these laws can result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil penalties. Private plaintiffs also could bring civil lawsuits against us in the United States for alleged antitrust law violations, including claims for treble damages.

Environmental, Health and Safety Laws

In the United States and other countries, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, as well as laws relating to safe working conditions and laboratory practices.

Laws Relating to Foreign Trade and Operations

U.S. and foreign laws require us to abide by standards relating to the import and export of finished goods, raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. We also must comply with various export control and trade embargo laws, which may require licenses or other authorizations for transactions within some countries or with some counterparties.

Similarly, we are subject to U.S. and foreign laws concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other foreign anti-bribery laws. Among other things, these laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising or making payments to officials of foreign governments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.



Other Information

Although our agreements with manufacturers sometimes require us to maintain inventory levels within specified ranges, our distribution businesses are generally not required by our customers to maintain particular inventory levels other than as needed to meet service level requirements. Certain supply contracts with U.S. government entities require us to maintain sufficient inventory to meet emergency demands, but we do not believe those requirements materially affect inventory levels.

Our customer return policies generally require that the product be physically returned, subject to restocking fees. We only allow customers to return products that can be added back to inventory and resold at full value, or that can be returned to vendors for credit.

We offer market payment terms to our customers.

Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area

See

Note 16

of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area.
