ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading provider of temporary percutaneous mechanical circulatory support devices and we offer a continuum of
care to heart failure patients. We develop, manufacture and market proprietary products that are designed to enable the heart to rest, heal and recover by improving blood flow to the coronary arteries and end-organs and/or temporarily performing the
pumping function of the heart. Our products are used in the cardiac catheterization lab (cath lab) by interventional cardiologists, the electrophysiology lab, the hybrid lab and in the heart surgery suite by heart surgeons. A physician may use our
devices for patients who are in need of hemodynamic support before, during or after angioplasty or heart surgery procedures. We believe heart recovery is the optimal clinical outcome for patients experiencing heart failure because it enables
patients to go home with their own native heart and restores their quality of life. In addition, we believe that for the care of such patients, heart recovery is the most cost-effective solution for the healthcare system.

£

We received 510(k) clearance in April 2009 for our Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices for circulatory support for up to six hours. These devices are larger and provide more blood flow to patients than the
Impella 2.5. In September 2012, our Impella CP product received 510(k) clearance from the FDA for partial circulatory support for up to six hours. We expect to submit Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella LD in fiscal 2016 as PMA supplements and that
these devices will retain their 510(k) clearances until FDA completes its review of the PMA supplements. We received FDA approval for Impella RP under a Humanitarian Device Exemption, or HDE, in January 2015. The Impella RP is the first percutaneous
single access heart pump designed for right heart support to receive FDA approval. Our Impella 2.5, Impella 5.0, Impella LD, Impella CP and Impella RP products also have CE Mark approval and Health Canada approval which allows us to market these
devices in the European Union and Canada.

The Impella product portfolio, which includes the Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella
RP, Impella LD and Impella 5.0, has supported over 25,000 patients in the U.S.

Our revenues are primarily generated from this
product portfolio. Revenues from our non-Impella products, largely focused on the heart surgery suite, have been lower over the past several years as we have strategically shifted our sales and marketing efforts towards our Impella products and the
cath lab. We expect that most of our product and service revenues in the near future will be from our Impella products.

Corporate
Background

Our Company was founded in 1981 and we are currently incorporated in Delaware and trade on the NASDAQ Global
Select Market under the ticker symbol ABMD.

Our principal executive offices are located at 22 Cherry Hill Drive, Danvers,
Massachusetts 01923. Our telephone number is(978) 646-1400.We make available, free of charge on our website located at www.abiomed.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. ABIOMED, Inc. has a code of conduct known as, “Guidelines of
Company Principles and Practices,” that applies to all of its directors, officers, and employees. These documents are available free of charge upon request in writing to the Compliance Officer at our principal executive office located at
22 Cherry Hill Drive, Danvers, Massachusetts or bye-mailto ir@abiomed.com. Our audit committee, governance and nominating committee and compensation committee charters are also posted on our website. The
contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this report.







Our Products

Impella 2.5

The Impella 2.5 catheter is a percutaneous micro heart
pump with an integrated motor and sensors. The device is designed primarily for use by interventional cardiologists to support patients in the cath lab who may require assistance to maintain their circulation. The Impella 2.5 catheter can be quickly
inserted via the femoral artery to reach the left ventricle of the heart where it is directly deployed to draw blood out of the ventricle and deliver it to the circulatory system. This function is intended to reduce ventricular work and provide flow
to vital organs. The Impella 2.5 is introduced with normal interventional cardiology procedures and can pump up to 2.5 liters of blood per minute.

£

A November 2011 update to the American College of Cardiology Foundation, or ACCF, / American Heart
Association, or AHA, Task Force on Practice Guidelines and the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and InterventionsGuidelines for Percutaneous Coronary Intervention, for the first time, included Impella in both the emergent and
prophylactic hemodynamic support settings. In addition, a December 2012 update to the AHA’sRecommendations for the Use of Mechanical Circulatory Support: Device Strategies and Patient Selectionrecommended Impella for use in mechanical
circulatory support; a December 2012 update to the ACCF/AHAGuidelines for the Management of ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction(STEMI) included Impella 2.5 for use in patients requiring urgent coronary artery bypass grafting with STEMI and
in treatment of patients with cardiogenic shock complications after STEMI; and a January 2013 update to the International Society for Heart and Lung TransplantationGuidelines for Mechanical Circulatory Supportincluded Impella for the first
time for patients with multi-organ failure. In addition, Impella was included in a January 2013 update to the ACCF /AHA Task Force on PracticeGuidelines for the Management of ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarctionand a September 2014 AHA /the
American College of Cardiology (ACC) Task Force on PracticeGuidelines for the Management of Patients with Non-ST-Elevation Acute Coronary Syndromes.

In addition to the U.S. clinical trial data, the Impella 2.5 PMA submission included clinical and scientific supporting evidence from more than 215 publications, covering 1,638 Impella 2.5 patients and
incorporated a medical device reporting (MDR) analysis from 13,981 Impella 2.5 patients. In addition to PROTECT I and PROTECT II, further data was provided in the submission from 637 high-risk patients enrolled in the U.S. Impella registry. The
U.S. Impella registry is an ongoing multicenter, observational retrospective registry that includes 49 centers. The data collection from the registry includes Institutional Review Board, or IRB, approval, complete data monitoring and Clinical Events
Committee adjudication. Additionally, the PMA analysis included hemodynamic science described in the literature and validated with a series of pre-clinical and clinical studies.

Impella CP

In September 2012, we announced that the Impella CP received 510(k) clearance from the FDA. The Impella CP provides blood flow of approximately one liter more per minute than the Impella 2.5 and is
primarily used by either interventional cardiologists to support patients in the cath lab or by surgeons in the heart surgery suite. The Impella CP is indicated for up to six hours of partial circulatory support using an extracorporeal bypass
control unit. It is also intended to be used to provide partial circulatory support, for up to six hours, during procedures not requiring cardiopulmonary bypass. The Impella CP received CE Mark approval to be marketed in the European Union in April
2012 and Health Canada approval to be marketed in Canada in June 2012.

We are currently working with the FDA on a PMA
supplement for the Impella CP and we expect to file the application in fiscal 2016. We expect Impella CP to retain its 510(k) clearance until FDA completes its review of the PMA supplement.

Impella 5.0 and Impella LD

The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD are percutaneous micro heart pumps with integrated motors and sensors for use primarily in the heart surgery suite. These devices are designed to support patients who
require higher levels of circulatory support as compared to the Impella 2.5. The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices received 510(k) clearance in April 2009, for circulatory support for up to six hours and have CE Mark approval in Europe for up to
ten days’ duration and are approved for use in over 40 countries.







The Impella 5.0 can be inserted into the left ventricle via femoral cut down or through the
axillary artery. The Impella 5.0 pump goes through the ascending aorta, across the valve and into the left ventricle. The Impella LD is similar to the Impella 5.0 but is implanted directly through an aortic graft. The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD can
pump up to five liters of blood per minute, providing full circulatory support.

We are currently working with the FDA on a
PMA supplement for the Impella 5.0 and LD devices and we expect to file the application for these products in fiscal 2016. The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD will retain their 510(k) clearances until completion of the FDA process.

Impella RP

The Impella RP is a percutaneous catheter-based axial flow pump that is designed to allow greater than four liters of flow per minute and is intended to provide the flow and pressure needed to compensate
for right side heart failure.

In November 2012, we announced that the Impella RP received U.S. investigational device
exemption, or IDE, approval from the FDA for use in RECOVER RIGHT, a pivotal clinical study in the U.S. In March 2014, we completed enrollment of 30 patients at sites that present with signs of right side heart failure, require hemodynamic support,
and are being treated in the catheterization lab or cardiac surgery suite. The study collected safety and effectiveness data on the percutaneous use of the Impella RP and was submitted to the FDA in connection with the HDE application towards the
submission of an HDE. In January 2015, we received FDA approval for Impella RP under an HDE.

Impella RP is the first
percutaneous single access heart pump designed for right heart support to receive FDA approval. An HDE is similar to a PMA application but is intended for patient populations of 4,000 or less per year in the U.S. and is subject to certain profit and
use restrictions. The Impella RP is a percutaneous device approved to provide support of the right heart during times of acute failure for certain patients who have received a left ventricle assist device or have suffered heart failure due to acute
myocardial infarction, or AMI, or a failed heart transplant. An HDE requires demonstration of the safety and probable benefit of the product, which is a lower standard than is applied to a PMA. In order to receive an HDE, there must be no comparable
devices approved under PMA that are available to treat the targeted population. An approved HDE authorizes sales of the device to any hospital after Institutional Review Board review and approval by the hospital. In April 2014, the Impella RP
received CE Marking approval which allows for commercial sales of Impella RP in the EU and other countries that require a CE Marking approval for sales.

AB5000

We manufacture and sell the AB5000 Circulatory Support
System for the temporary support of acute heart failure patients in profound shock, including patients suffering from cardiogenic shock after a heart attack, post-cardiotomy cardiogenic shock, or myocarditis. We believe the AB5000 is the only
commercially available cardiac assist device that is approved by the FDA for all indications where heart recovery is the desired outcome, including patients who have undergone successful cardiac surgery and subsequently develop low cardiac output,
or patients who suffer from acute cardiac disorders leading to hemodynamic instability. We expect revenues from the AB5000 to be a smaller part of our business in the future as we focus our efforts on the Impella suite of products.

Symphony

In November 2011, we announced Symphony, a synchronized minimally invasive implantable cardiac assist device designed to treat chronic patients with moderate heart failure by improving patient
hemodynamics and potentially improving their quality of life. The device is designed with the primary goal of stabilizing the progression of heart failure and recovering or remodeling the heart. To date, we have implanted the device in four patients
in first-in-human clinical trials of Symphony outside the U.S. We are evaluating the results of these cases and what impact on the Symphony product program moving forward. If we do continue to proceed, we would expect to conduct additional Symphony
trials outside of the U.S. in the future. Symphony is not currently approved by the FDA for sale in the U.S.

ECP

In July 2014, we acquired all of the issued shares of ECP Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH, or ECP, a German limited liability company, for
$13.0 million in cash, with additional potential payments up to a maximum of $15.0 million based on the achievement of certain technical, regulatory and commercial milestones. ECP, based in Berlin, Germany, is engaged in research, development,
prototyping and the pre-serial production of a percutaneous expandable catheter pump which increases blood circulation from the heart with an external drive shaft. In connection with our acquisition of ECP, ECP acquired all of the issued shares of
AIS GmbH Aachen Innovative Solutions, or AIS, a German limited liability company, for $2.8 million in cash which was provided by us. AIS, based in Aachen, Germany, holds certain intellectual property useful to ECP’s business, and, prior to
being acquired by ECP, had licensed such intellectual property to ECP.

Summary of Recent Financial Performance

During fiscal 2015, we recognized net income of $113.7 million, or $2.80 per basic share and $2.65 per diluted share, compared to $7.4
million, or $0.19 per basic share and $0.18 per diluted share for the prior fiscal year. The increase in net income in fiscal 2015 was primarily







due to the net income tax benefit of $84.9 million primarily due to the release of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets in the quarter ended March 31, 2015. We also had higher
Impella product revenue due to greater utilization of our Impella products in the U.S. and Europe in fiscal 2015.

Our Markets

According to the AHA, Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics 2014 Update Report, coronary heart disease, or CHD, causes
approximately one of every seven deaths in the United States. Coronary heart disease is a condition of the coronary arteries that causes reduced blood flow and insufficient oxygen delivery to the affected portion of the heart. Coronary heart disease
leads to AMI, commonly known as a heart attack, which may lead to heart failure, a condition in which the heart is unable to pump enough blood to the body’s major organs. In 2011, CHD mortality was 375,295. Each year, an estimated 635,000
Americans have a new coronary attack (defined as first hospitalized myocardial infarction or coronary heart disease death) and approximately 300,000 have a recurrent attack. It is estimated that an additional 155,000 “silent” first
myocardial infarctions occur each year.

A broad spectrum of therapies exists for the treatment of patients in early stages of
CHD. Angioplasty procedures and stents are commonly used in the cath lab to restore and increase blood flow to the heart. These treatments are often successful in slowing the progression of heart disease, extending life, and/or improving the quality
of life for some period of time. Patients presenting with acute cardiac injuries potentially have recoverable hearts. Treatment for these patients in pre-shock in the cath lab is primarily focused on hemodynamic stabilization. Acute heart failure
patients in profound shock typically require treatment in the surgery suite. These are patients suffering from cardiogenic shock after a heart attack, post-cardiotomy cardiogenic shock or myocarditis complicated with cardiogenic shock. Chronic heart
failure patients have hearts that are unlikely to be recoverable due to left and/or right-side heart failure and their conditions cause their hearts to fail over time. Limited therapies exist today for patients with severe, end-stage, or chronic
heart failure.

In more severe cases of heart failure, patients are sent directly to the surgery suite for coronary bypass or
valve replacement surgery. The most severe acute heart failure patients are in profound cardiogenic shock, including those suffering from myocarditis (a viral attack of the heart), or from those suffering from an impaired ability of the heart to
pump blood after a heart attack or heart surgery. According to results of the SHOCK (Should We Emergently Revascularize Occluded Coronaries for Cardiogenic Shock) trial published in the August 26, 1999 edition ofThe New England Journal of
Medicine, approximately 7 to 10% of the patients who are hospitalized for a heart attack suffer from cardiogenic shock and 60 to 80% of those patients die. These patients typically require treatments involving the use of mechanical circulatory
support devices that provide increased blood flow and reduce the stress on the heart. Many less severe patients in the cath lab could also benefit from circulatory support devices or other clinical treatment, which could potentially prevent them
from entering into profound shock.

There are a few primary types of devices used in the cath lab and surgery suite in the
U.S. for circulatory support for pre-shock and profound shock patients: IABs, percutaneous assist devices, and surgical ventricular assist devices, or VADs.

Percutaneous assist devices and
VADs are mechanical devices that help the failing heart pump blood or take over the pumping function of the failing heart. Historically, VADs have been highly invasive and require implantation in the surgery suite. Percutaneous assist devices allow
for less invasive placement and removal, and can be done through a small puncture in the leg in the catheterization lab, electrophysiology lab, or operating room. The use of surgically placed VADs generally falls into three sub-categories: recovery,
bridge-to-transplant and destination therapy.

Recovery VADs are designed to enable the patient’s heart to rest and
potentially recover so that the patient can return home with his or her own heart. Because recovery is the goal, these devices are designed to minimize damage to heart tissue and are removed once the patient’s heart has recovered. If possible,
recovery of a patient’s heart is generally preferred to transplantation or prolonged device implantation, both of which have significant side effects for the patient and increase the risk of mortality. We believe heart recovery is a preferred
clinical outcome for patients, since it also generally lowers the overall relative cost to the healthcare system versus alternative therapies and treatment paths that may require multiple surgeries, lengthy or repeated hospital stays, chronic
therapeutic and immunosuppressant drugs and other related healthcare costs.







Research and Product Development

Since our founding in 1981, we have gained substantial expertise in circulatory support through the development of many product platforms
to support heart patients. This includes our Impella platform and AB5000 systems that we currently market and other technologies that we previously supported, such as our BVS system and AbioCor program. We also continue to work on developing new
technologies as well, such as ECP and Symphony development programs. Our current strategy is to develop a complete portfolio of products for partial and full circulatory support to treat acute heart failure patients. We intend to continue to use
this experience to develop additional circulatory support products. Our research and development efforts are focused on developing a broader portfolio of products across the continuum of care in heart recovery, primarily focused in the area of
circulatory care. In addition, we have a number of new products at various stages of development some of which integrate the Impella technology platform.

As of March 31, 2015, our research and development staff consisted of 123 employees. We expended $36.0 million, $30.7 million and $25.6 million on research and development in fiscal years 2015, 2014
and 2013, respectively. Our research and development expenditures include costs related to clinical trials, including ongoing clinical studies for our Impella products.

Sales, Clinical Support, Marketing and Field Service

As of March 31,
2015, our worldwide sales, clinical support, marketing and field service teams included 235 full-time employees, 213 of whom are in the U.S. and Canada and 22 of whom are in Europe and Japan. Over the past five years, we have significantly increased
the number of our direct sales and clinical support personnel in the U.S and Europe.

Our clinical support personnel consist
primarily of registered nurses and other personnel with considerable experience in either the surgery suite or the cath lab, and they play a critical role in training current and prospective customers in the use of our products.

International sales (sales outside the U.S., primarily in Europe) accounted for 10%, 9% and 7% of total product revenue during the fiscal
years ended March 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Manufacturing

We manufacture our products in Danvers, Massachusetts and Aachen, Germany. Our Aachen facility performs final assembly and manufactures
most of our Impella disposable products, including Impella 2.5, Impella 5.0, Impella LD, Impella CP and Impella RP. Our Danvers facility manufactures certain Impella subsystems and accessories, including our Automated Impella Console, or AIC, our
console for our Impella products, the AB5000, and Portable Driver. Beginning in the quarter ended March 31, 2015, we started producing the Impella CP product in our Danvers facility. In addition, we rely on third-party suppliers to provide us
with components used in our existing products and products under development. For example, we outsource some of the manufacturing for components and circuit cards within our consoles.

We believe our existing manufacturing facilities give us the necessary physical capacity to produce sufficient quantities of products to
meet anticipated demand for at least the next twelve months based on our current revenue forecast. We expect to continue to increase Impella manufacturing capacity in our Aachen and Danvers facilities in fiscal 2016 to support the growing demand for
our Impella products. Our U.S. and German manufacturing facilities are certified by the International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, and operate under the FDA’s good manufacturing practice requirements set forth in the current
quality system regulation, or QSR.

Intellectual Property

We have developed significant know-how and proprietary technology, upon which our business depends. To protect our know-how and proprietary technology, we rely on trade secret laws, patents, copyrights,
trademarks, and confidentiality agreements and contracts. However, these methods afford only limited protection. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or technology, gain access to our trade secrets or
disclose or use such secrets or technology without our approval.

A substantial portion of our intellectual property rights
relating to the Impella products, AB5000, and other products under development is in the form of trade secrets, rather than patents. We protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge in part through confidentiality agreements with employees,
consultants and other parties. We cannot assure you that our trade secrets will not become known to or be independently developed by our competitors.

We own or have rights to numerous U.S. and foreign patents. Our U.S. patents have expiration dates ranging from 2015 to 2031 and our foreign patents have expiration dates ranging from 2016 to 2032. We
also own or have rights to certain pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We believe patents will issue pursuant to such applications, but cannot guarantee it. Moreover, neither the timing of any issuance, the scope of protection, nor the
actual issue date of these pending applications can be forecasted with precision. We have licensed patent rights from third parties in connection with which we are generally required to pay royalties.







Our patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. Our pending or future patent
applications may not be issued. The patents of others may render our patents obsolete, limit our ability to patent future innovations, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business. Because foreign patents may afford less
protection than U.S. patents, they may not adequately protect our technology.

The medical device industry is characterized by
a large number of patents and by frequent and substantial intellectual property litigation. Our products and technologies could infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. If third parties successfully assert infringement or other claims
against us, we may not be able to sell our products or we may have to pay significant damages and ongoing royalties. In addition, patent or intellectual property disputes or litigation may be costly, result in product development delays, or divert
the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. If any such disputes or litigation arise, we may seek to enter into a royalty or licensing arrangement. However, such an arrangement may not be available on commercially acceptable
terms, if at all. We may decide, in the alternative, to litigate the claims or seek to design around the patented or otherwise protected proprietary technology.

The U.S. government may obtain certain rights to use or disclose technical data developed under government contracts that supported the development of some of our products. We retain the right to obtain
patents on any inventions developed under those contracts, provided we follow prescribed procedures and are subject to a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free license to the U.S. government.

Competition

Competition among providers of treatments for the failing heart is intense and subject to rapid technological change and evolving
industry requirements and standards. We compete with companies that have substantially greater or broader financial, product development, sales and marketing resources and experience than we do. Other advances in medical technology, biotechnology
and pharmaceuticals may reduce the size of the potential markets for our products or render those products obsolete. Among our medical device competitors are Getinge (Maquet Cardiovascular), Teleflex Inc., Thoratec Corporation, HeartWare
International Inc., Terumo Heart, Inc. and CardiacAssist Inc.

Our customers are hospitals that have limited budgets. As a
result, our products compete against a broad range of medical devices and other therapies for these limited funds. Our continued success will depend in large part upon our ability to enhance our existing products, to develop new products to meet
regulatory and customer requirements, and to achieve market acceptance. We believe that important competitive factors with respect to the development and commercialization of our products include the relative speed with which we can develop
products, establish clinical utility, complete clinical trials and regulatory approval processes, obtain and protect reimbursement, maintain cost effectiveness for our products, and supply commercial quantities of our product to meet customer
demand.

Third-Party Reimbursement

Our products and services are generally purchased by healthcare institutions that rely on third-party payers to cover and reimburse the costs of related patient care. In the U.S., as well as in many
foreign countries, government-funded or private insurance programs pay the cost of a significant portion of a patient’s medical expenses. No uniform policy of coverage or reimbursement for medical technology exists among all these payers.
Therefore, coverage and reimbursement can differ significantly from payer to payer and by jurisdiction.

Third-party payers
may include government healthcare programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, private insurers or managed care organizations. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, is responsible for administering the Medicare program in the U.S.
and, along with its contractors, establishes coverage and reimbursement policies for the Medicare program. Medicare’s coverage and reimbursement policies are particularly significant to our business because a large percentage of the population
for which our products are intended includes elderly individuals who are Medicare beneficiaries. In addition, private payers often follow the coverage and reimbursement policies of Medicare. We cannot assure that government or private third-party
payers will continue to cover and reimburse the procedures using our products in whole or in part in the future or that payment rates will be adequate.

Medicare payment may be made, in appropriate cases, for procedures performed in the in-patient hospital setting using our technology. Medicare generally reimburses healthcare institutions in which the
procedures are performed based upon prospectively determined amounts. For hospital in-patient stays, the prospective payment generally is determined by the patient’s condition and other patient data and procedures performed during the
in-patient stay, using a classification system known as International Classification of Diseases, or ICD-9, and medical severity diagnosis-related groups, or MS DRGs. Prospective rates are adjusted for, among other things, regional differences,
co-morbidity and complications. Hospitals performing in-patient procedures using our devices generally do not receive separate Medicare reimbursement for the specific costs of purchasing or implanting our products. Rather, reimbursement for these
costs is bundled with the MS DRG-based payments made to hospitals for the procedures during which our devices are implanted, removed, repaired or replaced. Because prospective payments are based on predetermined rates and may be less than a
hospital’s actual costs in furnishing care, hospitals have incentives to lower their in-patient operating costs by utilizing products, devices and supplies that will reduce the length of in-patient stays, decrease labor or otherwise lower their
costs.

Medicare has announced plans to transition to a new system of ICD-10 in October 2015. CMS has stated that the
transition from ICD-9 to ICD-10 codes is intended to provide more descriptive information about procedures used to deliver care to patients, and is not a mechanism







for remapping DRGs or changing payment. Recently CMS updated their description for Impella to use 5A02(1,2)1D: “Assistance with Cardiac Output Using Impeller Pump,” which continues to
map to DRG 216-221. We believe this is an accurate description/DRG assignment and do not expect changes. However future updates before and after implementation are possible.

Coverage and reimbursements for procedures to implant, remove, replace or repair our products are generally established in the U.S. market. For instance, Medicare covers the use of LVADs when used for
support of blood circulation post-cardiotomy, as a temporary life-support system until a human heart becomes available for transplant, or as destination therapy for patients who require permanent mechanical cardiac support, when the use is
consistent with FDA approval and FDA-approved labeling instructions, as applicable. Coverage and reimbursements for procedures to implant the Impella 2.5, CP, 5.0, or LD are also established for in-hospital use by Medicare including ICD-9 for
procedures and MS DRG coding. Actual coverage and payment may vary by local Medicare fiscal intermediary or third-party insurer. We also announced in 2013 recent coverage decisions by third party insurers including Aetna, Humana, Cigna, HCSC Blue
Cross Blue Shield, and United Healthcare, to include Impella policies in their commercial and/or Medicare plans.

In addition
to payments to hospitals for procedures using our technology, Medicare makes separate payments to physicians for their professional services when they perform surgeries to implant, remove, replace or repair our devices or when they perform
percutaneous insertion and removal of Impella. Physicians generally bill for such services using a coding system known as Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes. Physician services performed in connection with the implantation, removal,
replacement or repair of our approved products are billed using a variety of CPT codes. Generally, Medicare payment levels for physician services are based on the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule and are revised annually by CMS.

In general, third-party reimbursement programs in the U.S. and abroad, whether government-funded or commercially insured, are developing
a variety of increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs, including prospective reimbursement and capitation programs, group purchasing, reducing benefit coverage, requiring second opinions prior to major surgery, negotiating
reductions to charges on patient bills, promoting healthier lifestyle initiatives and exploring more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These types of cost-containment programs, as well as legislative or regulatory changes to
reimbursement policies, could limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for our medical devices.

Government
Regulation

The healthcare industry, and thus our business, is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign
regulation. Some of the pertinent laws have not been definitively interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. In addition, these laws and their interpretations are subject
to change.

Premarket Regulation

In the U.S., the FDA strictly regulates medical devices under the authority of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA, and its regulations. The FDA classifies U.S. medical devices into one of
three classes (Class I, II or III) based on the statutory framework described in the FFDCA. Class III devices, which are typically life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, or new devices that have been found not to be substantially
equivalent to legally marketed devices. Class III devices must generally receive a PMA by the FDA to ensure their safety and effectiveness.

The PMA approval pathway requires reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device to the FDA’s satisfaction. The PMA approval pathway is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain
than the 510(k) path. In the PMA process, the FDA examines detailed data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the device. This information includes design, development, manufacture, labeling, advertising, preclinical testing and clinical study
data. Prior to approving a PMA, the FDA may conduct an inspection of the manufacturing facilities and the clinical sites where the supporting study was conducted. The facility inspection evaluates the company’s compliance with the Quality
System Regulation, or QSR. An inspection of clinical sites evaluates compliance with the IDE requirements. Typically, the FDA will convene an advisory panel meeting to seek review of the data presented in the PMA. The panel’s recommendation is
given substantial weight, but is not binding on the agency. By regulation, the FDA has 180 days to review a PMA application not requiring an advisory panel meeting, and 320 days to review a PMA application that does require an advisory panel
meeting. While the FDA has approved PMA applications within the allotted time period, reviews can occur over a significantly protracted period, usually 18 to 36 months, but sometimes longer, and a number of devices have never been approved for
marketing.

If the FDA’s evaluation is favorable, the PMA is approved and the device may be marketed in the U.S. The FDA
may approve a PMA with post-approval conditions intended to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device including, among other things, restrictions on labeling and promotion, and post-market collection of clinical data. Failure to comply with
the conditions of approval can result in material adverse enforcement action, including the loss or withdrawal of the approval. Even after approval of a PMA, a new PMA or PMA supplement is required in the event of a modification to the device, its
labeling or its manufacturing process. Even if a device receives 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, the FDA may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which a device may be marketed. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the promotion
of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. In addition, product approvals can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial marketing.







In 2009, the FDA began implementing the 515 Program Initiative to facilitate
the potential reclassification of twenty-six medical device types that are currently considered Class III devices. Class I and II devices are generally considered to be lower risk than Class III devices and require clearance through the FDA’s
510(k) premarket notification process. Class III devices, however, are typically higher risk and first-of-a-kind and require approval through a PMA which is more costly and uncertain process to approval than the 510(k) premarket notification
process.

In December 2012, as part of the FDA’s 515 Program Initiative, an FDA panel voted to recommend continuation of
Class III status for temporary ventricular support devices within the non-roller type cardiopulmonary bypass blood pumps category, which includes our Impella products. The panel’s recommendation of Class III for this category of device is
consistent with the current Class III designation for these device types. The FDA accepted the panel’s recommendation and we worked with the FDA on the PMA application for our Impella 2.5 pump for use during high-risk PCI procedures. Under the
515 Program Initiative, we are permitted to continue to market our Impella products pursuant to the 510(k) clearance for a sufficient time to allow for the submission and review of PMA applications relating to our Impella products.

In March 2015, we received Pre-Market Approval, or PMA , from the FDA for Impella 2.5 during elective and urgent high-risk percutaneous
coronary intervention, or PCI, procedures. Impella 2.5 is the first hemodynamic support device to receive a PMA indication for use during high-risk PCI procedures, demonstrating its safety and effectiveness for this complex patient population. With
this approval, the Impella 2.5 is a temporary (up to six hours) ventricular support device indicated for use during high-risk PCI performed in elective or urgent hemodynamically stable patients with severe coronary artery disease and depressed left
ventricular ejection fraction, when a heart team, including a cardiac surgeon, has determined high-risk PCI is the appropriate therapeutic option. Use of the Impella 2.5 in these patients may prevent hemodynamic instability that may occur during
planned temporary coronary occlusions and may reduce peri- and post-procedural adverse events. The product labeling allows for the clinical decision to leave Impella 2.5 in place beyond the intended duration of up to six hours due to unforeseen
circumstances. Per our PMA approval, we will conduct a single-arm, post approval study on the Impella 2.5, collecting data on high-risk PCI patients. The study will be a prospective, multi-center study comprised of 369 patients from 70 sites
supported with the Impella 2.5 system.

When clinical trials of a device are required in order to obtain FDA approval, the
sponsor of the trial is required to file an IDE application before commencing clinical trials. The FDA reviews and must approve an IDE before a study may begin in the U.S. In addition, the study must be approved by an Institutional Review Board, or
IRB, for each clinical site.

We are currently conducting the U.S. Impella registry, the first U.S. multicenter observational
registry collecting clinical data and outcomes for general use patients supported with the Impella 2.5, CP, and 5.0. The FDA, the IRB at each institution at which a clinical trial is being performed or we, may suspend a clinical trial at any time
for various reasons, including a belief that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. All clinical studies of investigational devices must be conducted in compliance with FDA requirements. Following the completion of a study,
the data from the study must be collected, analyzed and presented in an appropriate submission to the FDA, either through an IDE, 510(k) premarket notification or a PMA.







In addition, certain medical devices can be approved by the FDA in the U.S. under an HDE
rather than a PMA. In order for a device to be eligible for an HDE, there must be a qualifying target patient population of less than 4,000 patients per year for which there is no other comparable device available to treat the condition. The FDA
must agree that a device meets these criteria before it can be approved under an HDE. To treat that qualifying patient population FDA approval of an HDE also requires demonstration that the device is safe for its intended application, that it is
potentially effective, and that the probable benefits outweigh the associated risks. Within the regulations for an HDE, if a device becomes available through the PMA process that addresses the same patient population as the HDE device, the HDE
device may need to be withdrawn from the U.S. market. An approved HDE authorizes sales of the device to any hospital after Institutional Review Board review and approval by the hospital. Proposed modifications to approved HDE devices, like
modifications to approved PMA devices, require FDA approval through a new HDE application or an HDE supplement.

We received
FDA approval for Impella RP under an HDE in January 2015. Impella RP is the first percutaneous single access heart pump designed for right heart support to receive FDA approval. The Impella RP is a percutaneous device approved to provide support of
the right heart during times of acute failure for certain patients who have received a LVAD or have suffered heart failure due to AMI or a failed heart transplant.

Postmarket Regulation

The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion
of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. If the FDA or another regulatory agency determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training
or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered
off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion.

In June 2011, we received a warning letter from the FDA stating that some of our promotional materials marketed the Impella 2.5 for uses that had not been approved by the FDA. We cooperated with the FDA
and made changes to our promotional materials in response to the warning letter. However, in April 2012, we received a follow up letter from the FDA stating that some of our promotional materials continued to market the Impella 2.5 in ways that are
not compliant with FDA regulations. After additional action by us, we received a close-out letter in February 2013 from the FDA with respect to this matter, which noted that the FDA’s Office of Compliance had completed its review of the
corrective actions we took in response to the warning letter and that the concerns cited appeared to have been addressed.







On October 26, 2012, we were informed that the Department of Justice, United States
Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia was conducting an investigation, or the “Marketing and Labeling Investigation” focused on our marketing and labeling of the Impella 2.5. On October 31, 2012, we accepted service of a
subpoena related to this investigation seeking documents related to the Impella 2.5. We believe that we have substantially complied with the subpoena and have submitted the requested documents to the United States Attorney’s Office. On
September 13, 2013, we entered into a tolling agreement with the United States Attorney’s Office, pursuant to which we and the United States Attorney’s Office mutually agreed to toll the applicable statutes of limitations for all
criminal, civil and administrative offenses and violations that could be charged or claimed against us as of that date. On May 27, 2014 and January 30, 2015, we executed extensions of the tolling agreement. These extensions expired on
March 2, 2015. The investigation is ongoing and we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome or determine whether a liability has been incurred or make an estimate of the reasonably possible liability, if any, that could result from any
unfavorable outcome associated with this investigation. We have incurred significant expenses related to this investigation and we could continue to incur additional expenses in the future related to this action.

On April 25, 2014, we received a subpoena from the Boston regional office of the United States Department of Health and Human
Services, or HHS, Office of Inspector General requesting materials relevant to our reimbursement of expenses and remuneration to healthcare providers for a six month period from July 2012 through December 2012 in connection with a civil
investigation under the False Claims Act (the “FCA Investigation” and, together with the Marketing and Labeling Investigation, the “DOJ Investigations”). We submitted the requested documents to HHS and believe that we have
substantially complied with the subpoena. On November 6, 2014, we received notice from the Department of Justice, United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts in the form of a Civil Investigative Demand
(“CID”) requesting additional materials relating to this matter for the time period of January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2013. We are currently in the process of responding to the additional requests for information contained
in the CID and intend to continue to cooperate with the U.S. Attorney’s Office in connection with the FCA investigation.

The FDA often requires post-market surveillance, or PMS, for significant risk devices, such as VADs, that require ongoing collection of
clinical data during commercialization that must be gathered, analyzed and submitted to the FDA periodically for up to several years. The PMS data collection requirements are often burdensome and expensive and have an effect on the PMA approval
status. The failure to comply with the FDA’s regulations can result in enforcement action, including seizure of products, injunction, prosecution, civil fines and penalties, recall and/or suspension of FDA approval. The export of devices such
as ours is also subject to regulation in certain instances.

The FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection,
or CBP, administers controls over the import and export of medical devices into and out of the U.S. The CBP imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of medical devices, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. The
FDA also administers certain controls over the export of medical devices from the U.S. International sales of our medical devices that have not received FDA approval are therefore subject to FDA export requirements.

Fraud and Abuse Laws

Our business is regulated by laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by significant criminal and civil
sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices
to be in compliance with these laws. Evolving interpretations of current laws, or the adoption of new laws or regulations, could adversely affect our arrangements with customers and physicians. In addition, any violation of these laws or regulations
could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Anti-Kickback Statute

Subject to a number of statutory exceptions, the federal healthcare programs Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons
from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the furnishing, recommending, purchasing,
leasing, ordering, or arranging for, a good or service for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid. The term “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value,
including gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, waiver of payments, and providing anything of value at less than fair market value. The Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services, or the OIG, and the Department of Justice are responsible for enforcing the federal healthcare programs Anti-Kickback Statute and the OIG is primarily responsible for identifying fraud and abuse activities affecting government
healthcare programs.

Penalties for violating the federal healthcare programs Anti-Kickback Statute include substantial
criminal fines and/or imprisonment, substantial civil fines and possible exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Many states have adopted prohibitions similar to the federal healthcare programs
Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare services reimbursed by any source, not only by the Medicare and Medicaid programs and do not include comparable exceptions to those provided by the federal
healthcare programs Anti-Kickback Statute.

The OIG has issued safe harbor regulations that identify activities and business
relationships that are deemed safe from prosecution under the federal healthcare programs Anti-Kickback Statute. There are safe harbors for various types of arrangements, including certain investment interests, leases, personal service arrangements,
discounts and management contracts. The failure of a particular activity to comply with all







requirements of an applicable safe harbor regulation does not mean that the activity violates the federal healthcare programs Anti-Kickback Statute or that prosecution will be pursued. However,
activities and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities such as the OIG.

In recent years, the federal government and several states have enacted legislation requiring biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical
device companies to establish marketing compliance programs and file periodic reports on sales, marketing, and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and available
guidance is limited. We could face enforcement action, fines and other penalties and could receive adverse publicity, all of which could harm our business, if it is alleged that we have failed to fully comply with such laws and regulations.
Similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities that we do business with are found to have not complied with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on our business.

Federal False Claims Act

The federal False Claims Act prohibits knowingly filing or causing the filing of a false claim or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. A claim that is filed
pursuant to an unlawful kickback may be a false claim under this law. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory
civil penalties for each separate false claim. Private individuals can file suits under the False Claims Act on behalf of the government. These lawsuits are known as “qui tam” actions, and the individuals bringing such suits, sometimes
known as “relators” or, more commonly, “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. In addition, certain states have enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims
Act. Qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs
as a result of an investigation arising out of such action.

HIPAA

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false
statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payers. A violation of this statute
is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government-sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false,
fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment.

HIPAA also protects the security and privacy of individually identifiable health information maintained or transmitted by healthcare
providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses and their business associates. HIPAA restricts the use and disclosure of patient health information, including patient records. Although we believe that HIPAA does not apply to us directly, most
of our customers have significant obligations under HIPAA, and we intend to cooperate with our customers and others to ensure compliance with HIPAA with respect to patient information that comes into our possession. Failure to comply with HIPAA
obligations can result in civil fines and/or criminal penalties. Some states have also enacted rigorous laws or regulations protecting the security and privacy of patient information. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could
face additional sanctions.

Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation
Act

In March 2010, Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education
Reconciliation Act, or together, the Affordable Care Act. The law includes provisions that, among other things, reduce or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose increased
taxes. Specifically, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on United States sales of most medical devices beginning in 2013. We began paying the medical device excise tax in
January 2013. We expect that the excise tax will continue to impact our operating expenses in the future. Because many other parts of the Affordable Care Act remain subject to implementation, the long-term impact to us is uncertain. The new law or
any future legislation could reduce medical procedure volumes, lower reimbursement for our products, and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products.

The Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, or PPSA, which requires manufacturers of
drugs, biologics, devices and medical supplies covered under Medicare and Medicaid to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data to CMS, for subsequent public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements
have also been enacted in several states, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring transparency of interactions with healthcare professionals. Particularly, some states such as
Massachusetts and Vermont impose an outright ban on certain gifts to physicians. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties. We have reported the information as required by the PPSA for the period from
August 1, 2013 through December 31, 2014.







Additionally, the compliance environment is changing, with more states, such as California,
Connecticut, Nevada and Massachusetts, mandating implementation of compliance programs, compliance with industry ethics codes, and spending limits, and other states, such as Vermont, requiring reporting to state governments of gifts, compensation
and other remuneration to physicians. The shifting regulatory environment, along with the requirement to comply in multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and reporting requirements, increases the possibility that a company may run afoul of
one or more laws.

International Regulation

We are also subject to regulation in each of the foreign countries in which we sell our products. Many of the regulations applicable to
our products in these countries are similar to those of the FDA. The European Union requires that our medical devices comply with the Medical Device Directive or the Active Implantable Medical Device Directive, which includes quality system and CE
certification requirements. To obtain a CE Mark in the European Union, defined products must meet minimum standards of safety and quality (i.e., the essential requirements) and then undergo an appropriate conformity assessment procedure. A Notified
Body assesses the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the essential and other requirements within the Medical Device Directive. In the European Union, we are also required to maintain certain ISO
certifications in order to sell our products. Our Impella 2.5, Impella 5.0, Impella LD, Impella CP, Impella RP, AB5000, BVS 5000, IAB, iPulse console and Portable Driver are all approved under CE mark and are available for sale in the European
Union. We are also subject to regulations and periodic review from various regulatory bodies in Canada, Japan and other countries where we sell our products. Lack of regulatory compliance in any of these jurisdictions could limit our ability to
distribute products in these countries.

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and
their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Many of our customer relationships outside of the United States are, either directly or indirectly, with
governmental entities and employees (such as physicians) and are therefore subject to various anti-bribery laws. Although our corporate policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, we operate in many parts of the world that have
experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from
reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.

Other Regulations

We are also subject to various international, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to such matters as safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use,
handling and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research and development and manufacturing activities. Specifically, the manufacture of our biomaterials is subject to compliance with federal
environmental regulations and by various state and local agencies. Although we believe we are in compliance with these laws and regulations in all material respects, we cannot provide assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs
to comply with these and other laws or regulations in the future.

Seasonality

Our quarterly net sales are influenced by many factors, including new product introductions, acquisitions, regulatory approvals, patient
and physician holiday schedules, and other factors. Net sales in the first half of our fiscal year are typically lower than the second half of our fiscal year due to the seasonality of the United States and European markets, where summer vacation
schedules normally result in fewer medical procedures.

Employees

As of March 31, 2015, we had 589 full-time employees, including:



•123 in product engineering, research and development, and regulatory;



•235 in sales, clinical support, marketing, field service and related support;



•174 in manufacturing; and



•57 in general and administration.







We routinely enter into contractual agreements with our employees, which typically include
confidentiality and non-competition commitments. Our employees are not represented by unions. We consider our employee relations to be good. If we were unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, our operations could be
negatively impacted.



