ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

We are a
leading provider of medical devices in circulatory support and we offer a continuum of care in heart recovery to acute heart failure patients. Our products are designed to enable the heart to rest, heal and recover by improving blood flow and/or
performing the pumping function of the heart. Our products are used in the cardiac catheterization lab, or cath lab, by interventional cardiologists and/or in the heart surgery suite by heart surgeons for patients who are in need of hemodynamic
support prophelactically during high risk angioplasty procedures or who are in pre- shock, shock or profound cardiogenic shock. We believe heart recovery is the optimal clinical outcome by restoring the quality of life of patients. In addition, we
believe heart recovery is the most cost-effective path for the healthcare system.

Our Products

Impella 2.5

The Impella 2.5 catheter is a percutaneous micro heart pump with an integrated motor and sensors for use primarily in interventional
cardiology. The device is designed primarily for use by interventional cardiologists to support patients in the cath lab who may require assistance to maintain their circulation. The Impella 2.5 device received 510(k) clearance from the U.S Food and
Drug Administration, or FDA, in June 2008 for partial circulatory support for up to six hours, has CE mark approval in Europe for up to five days of use and is approved for use in over 40 countries.

The Impella 2.5 catheter can be quickly inserted via the femoral artery using a guide wire to reach the left ventricle of the heart where
it is directly deployed to draw blood out of the ventricle, deliver it to the systemic system and perfuse the heart muscle. This function is intended to reduce ventricular work (resting the heart) and provide flow to vital organs. The Impella 2.5 is
introduced with normal interventional cardiology procedures and can pump up to 2.5 liters of blood per minute.

In August
2007, we received approval from the FDA to begin a high-risk percutaneous coronary intervention, or PCI, pivotal clinical trial, known as the Protect II study, for the Impella 2.5. The pivotal study will determine the safety and effectiveness of the
Impella 2.5 as compared to optimal medical management with an intra-aortic balloon, or IAB, during “high-risk” angioplasty procedures. The study inclusion criteria have been extended to include patients with triple vessel disease with low
ejection fraction. The study is approved under category B2 status and the trial sites are eligible for full reimbursement from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS. The randomized pivotal study, in which 654 patients at up to 150
hospitals will undergo a high-risk PCI procedure, is comprised of two arms comparing nearly equal number of Impella 2.5 supported patients and IAB supported patients during the procedure. Patients receiving the Impella 2.5 can be supported for up to
five days as a left ventricular assist device, or VAD. As of March 31, 2010, a total of 341 patients were enrolled in the Protect II study, or 52% of the 654 patients required. Based on current trial enrollment rates, we expect to complete the
Protect II study in 2012.

In March 2008, we received approval from the FDA to begin a second pivotal study for our Impella
2.5 in the U.S. under an investigational device exemption, or IDE, for hemodynamically unstable patients undergoing a PCI procedure due to acute myocardial infarction, or AMI, commonly referred to as heart attack. The AMI study, known as Recover II,
was to determine the safety and effectiveness of the Impella 2.5 as a left ventricular assist device for heart attack patients as compared to optimal medical management with an IAB. The study is approved under category B2 status and the trial sites
are eligible for full CMS reimbursement. The randomized study, at up to 150 hospitals, is comprised of two arms; those patients that receive the Impella 2.5 for up to five days and patients that receive IAB therapy. The study will compare 192
Impella 2.5 patients to 192 IAB patients relative to a composite end point comparing safety and efficacy. In September 2009, we suspended further administrative progress towards new site activation on the Recover II study while exploring changes in
the study design. Because Recover II is a pivotal trial conducted under IDE, any changes in the study design need to be approved by the FDA.

In addition to the FDA approved studies for Impella 2.5, we are also conducting USpella, the first U.S. multicenter observational
registry collecting clinical data and outcomes for patients supported with Impella 2.5 during elective, urgent and emergent procedures. We invited 62 hospitals in the U.S. and Canada to participate in the USpella registry. Of these, 45 centers have
accepted the invitation and have begun the activation process, and 24 of these sites have received Investigational Review Board, or IRB, approval. An independent Clinical Event Committee (CEC) has been established to adjudicate adverse event
reporting. As of March 31, 2010, a total of 251 of the 301 patient data reports have completed the CEC adjudication process.

The clinical trial experience to date with our Impella 2.5 has been favorable, including our completed U.S. safety pilot clinical trial.
Factors that affect the length of time to complete the pivotal studies in the U.S. study include the timing of each center receiving IRB approval, the timing of the training we provide each center, and the rate of patient enrollment.






Impella 5.0 and Impella LD

The Impella 5.0 catheter and Impella LD are percutaneous micro heart pumps with integrated motors and sensors for use primarily in the
heart surgery suite. These devices are designed to support patients who require higher levels of circulatory support as compared to the Impella 2.5. The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices received 510(k) clearance in April 2009, for circulatory
support for up to six hours and have CE mark approval in Europe and are approved for use in over 40 countries.

The Impella
5.0 is implanted via a small incision in the femoral artery in the groin and can be quickly inplanted via the femoral artery using a guide wire to reach the left ventricle of the heart where it is directly deployed to draw blood out of the
ventricle, deliver it to the systemic system and perfuse the heart muscle. This function is intended to reduce ventricular work (resting the heart). The Impella LD is similar to the Impella 5.0 but is implanted directly through an incision in the
subclavien or through an aortic graft. The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD can pump up to five liters of blood per minute and have been used to treat patients in need of cardiac support resulting from post-cardiotomy cardiogenic shock, myocarditis, low
cardiac output after a heart attack, or post-coronary intervention procedures.

The Impella 5.0 is in a pilot clinical study
that is enrolling up to 20 patients at 15 U.S. sites. The study will include postcardiotomy patients who have been weaned from heart-lung machines and whose hearts require added support to maintain good blood flow. The study is enrolling those
patients that would typically need more flow and hemodynamic support than provided by an IAB.

AB5000 and BVS 5000

We manufacture and sell the AB5000 Circulatory Support System and the BVS 5000 Biventricular Support System for the
temporary support of acute heart failure patients in profound shock, including patients suffering from cardiogenic shock after a heart attack, post-cardiotomy cardiogenic shock, or myocarditis. The AB5000 and BVS 5000 systems, which are implanted in
the surgery suite, can assume the full pumping function of a patient’s failing heart, allowing the heart to rest, heal and potentially recover. Both systems are designed to provide either univentricular or biventricular support. We believe the
AB5000 and BVS 5000 systems are the only commercially available cardiac assist devices that are approved by the FDA for heart recovery for patients who have undergone successful cardiac surgery and subsequently develop low cardiac output, or
patients who suffer from acute cardiac disorders leading to hemodynamic instability.

The BVS 5000 Biventricular Support
System was our first product and has been available for sale since 1992. It was the first FDA-approved heart assist device capable of assuming the pumping function of the heart. Since its introduction, the BVS 5000 has supported thousands of
patients in the U.S., Europe and other countries.

The AB5000 Circulatory Support System is designed to provide a longer
duration of support than the BVS 5000 and facilitates patient mobility in the hospital. The AB5000 can provide up to 6.0 liters of pulsatile blood flow per minute to support patients in profound shock and was approved by the FDA in 2003. Our AB5000
is designed to provide enhanced patient mobility within and between medical centers and to provide enhanced features and ease of use for caregivers. We believe the AB5000 system’s high flow rates, ease of implant and historically low incidence
of adverse events facilitate heart recovery, for patients with potential for recovery, potentially avoiding the need for heart transplantation and thereby improving patient outcomes.

We have developed a Portable Circulatory Support Driver, or Portable Driver, for both in-hospital and out-of-hospital patients which is
designed to support our AB5000 VAD. We received CE mark approval for our Portable Driver in March 2008. In May 2008, we received conditional approval for the Portable Driver under an investigational device exemption, or IDE, to conduct a U.S.
patient discharge study at 20 hospitals for 30 patients. In March 2009, we received FDA approval of our PMA supplement for the AB Portable™ Driver. This clearance allows for immediate commercial shipment of the device to U.S. hospitals for in
hospital and transport use. The out of hospital use is being studied in a clinical trial to allow patients to go home while waiting for recovery.

AbioCor

Our AbioCor Implantable Replacement Heart is the first completely self-contained artificial heart. Designed to sustain the body’s
circulation, the AbioCor is intended for end-stage biventricular heart failure patients whose other treatment options have been exhausted. Patients with advanced age, impaired organ function or cancer are generally ineligible for a heart transplant
and are potential candidates to receive the AbioCor implantable heart. Once implanted, the AbioCor system does not penetrate the skin, reducing the chance of infection. This technology provides patients with mobility and remote diagnostics. The use
of AbioCor is limited to normal to larger sized male patients and has a product life expectancy of 18-24 months.

We received
HDE supplement approval from the FDA for product enhancement of the AbioCor in January 2008. HDE approval signifies that no comparable alternative therapy exists for patients facing imminent death without the technology. HDE approval allows the
AbioCor to be made available to a limited patient population, with no more than 4,000 patients receiving the technology in the U.S. each year under HDE approval limits. Because the AbioCor is only available to a limited patient population, we do not
expect that demand will meet the 4,000






patient limit under HDE approval. We have no current plans to seek a broader regulatory approval of the AbioCor. We began selling the AbioCor in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 in a controlled
roll-out to a limited number of heart centers in the U.S. We are unable to determine how many patient procedures will be performed after the centers are trained; however, we do not expect it to be a material number. In May 2008, we received a
positive National Coverage Determination, or NCD, from CMS to reimburse hospitals for the cost of the AbioCor replacement heart and the cost of implanting the device as part of Coverage with Evidence Development, or CED. In June 2009, the first
AbioCor patient procedure under HDE approval was performed at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital. This patient died on August 23, 2009, due to post-operative conditions unrelated to the AbioCor. We do not expect that revenues from sales of
the AbioCor will be a material portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future as our primary strategic focus is centered around heart recovery for acute heart failure patients.

Our Markets

According
to the American Heart Association, or AHA, Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics 2009 Update Report, coronary heart disease, or CHD, caused about 1 of every 5 deaths in the U.S. in 2005. CHD mortality in 2005 was approximately 445,000. In 2009, an
estimated 785,000 Americans will have a new coronary attack and about 470,000 will have a recurrent attack. An estimated additional 195,000 silent first myocardial infarctions occur each year. Coronary heart disease is a condition of the coronary
arteries that causes reduced blood flow and insufficient oxygen delivery to the affected portion of the heart. Coronary heart disease leads to acute myocardial infarction, or AMI, commonly known as a heart attack, which may lead to heart failure, a
condition in which the heart is unable to pump enough blood to the body’s major organs.

A broad spectrum of therapies
exists for the treatment of patients in early stages of CHD. Angioplasty procedures and stents are commonly used in the cath lab to restore and increase blood flow to the heart. These treatments are often successful in slowing the progression of
heart disease, extending life, and/or improving the quality of life for some period of time. Patients presenting with acute cardiac injuries have potentially recoverable hearts. Treatment for these patients in pre-shock in the cath lab is primarily
focused on hemodynamic stabilization. Acute heart failure patients in profound shock typically require treatment in the surgery suite. These are patients suffering from cardiogenic shock after a heart attack, post-cardiotomy cardiogenic shock or
myocarditis complicated with cardiogenic shock. Chronic heart failure patients have hearts that are unlikely to be recoverable due to left and/or right side heart failure and their conditions cause a heart to fail over time. Limited therapies exist
today for patients with severe, end-stage, or chronic heart failure.

In more severe cases of heart failure, patients are sent
directly to the surgery suite for coronary bypass or valve replacement surgery. The most severe acute heart failure patients are patients in profound cardiogenic shock, including those suffering from myocarditis, a viral attack of the heart, or
those suffering from impaired ability of the heart to pump blood, after a heart attack or heart surgery. According to results of the SHOCK (Should We Emergently Revascularize Occluded Coronaries for Cardiogenic Shock) trial published in the
August 26, 1999 edition of The New England Journal of Medicine, approximately 7 to 10% of the patients who are hospitalized for a heart attack suffer from cardiogenic shock and 60 to 80% of those patients die. These patients typically require
treatments in the surgery suite involving the use of mechanical circulatory support devices that provide increased blood flow and reduce the stress on the heart. However, many less severe patients in the cath lab could also benefit from circulatory
support devices or other clinical treatment, which could potentially prevent them from entering into profound shock.

There
are two primary types of devices used in the cath lab and surgery suite in the U.S. for circulatory support for pre-shock and profound shock patients: intra-aortic balloons, or IABs, and ventricular assist devices, or VADs.

An IAB is an inflatable balloon inserted via a catheter into the patient’s circulation and is inflated and deflated in synchrony
with the heart. This is used as an initial line of therapy in the cath lab or the surgery suite for patients with diminished heart function. However, IABs typically provide only limited enhancement and depend on the patient’s own heart to
generate the majority of the patient’s blood flow. In addition, IABs are often required to be used in conjunction with inotropes or other drugs to stimulate heart muscle ejection. However, the use of these drugs increases the risk of mortality.
Clinical publications have demonstrated that the need for two or more inotropes to improve blood flow results in mortality rates of approximately 80%. In addition, IABs have limited effectiveness in patients that are arrhythmic and /or in
cardiogenic shock and published reports have indicated that IABs do not reduce mortality for patients in cardiogenic shock. However, there are an estimated 160,000 annual IAB procedures globally, with an estimated 110,000 IAB procedures annually in
the U.S.

VADs are mechanical devices that help the failing heart pump blood or take over the pumping function of the failing
heart. Historically, VADs have been highly invasive and require implantation in the surgery suite. The use of VADs generally falls into three sub-categories: recovery, bridge-to-transplant and destination therapy.

Recovery VADs are designed to enable the patient’s heart to rest and potentially recover so that the patient can return home with
his or her own heart. Because recovery is the goal, these devices are designed to minimize damage to heart tissue and be removed once the heart has recovered. If possible, recovery of one’s own heart is generally preferred to transplantation or
prolonged device implantation, both of which have significant side effects for the patient and increase the risk of mortality. We believe heart recovery is a preferred clinical outcome for the patient, since it also generally lowers the overall
relative cost to the healthcare system versus alternative therapies and treatment paths that may require multiple surgeries, lengthy hospital stays, chronic therapeutic and immunosuppressant drugs and other related healthcare costs.






Bridge-to-transplant VADs are primarily used to support chronic heart failure patients
eligible to receive a heart transplant. According to the United Network for Organ Sharing, there were only approximately 1,850 heart transplants in the U.S in 2006. As a result, about one third of the patients eligible for transplant must rely on
bridge-to-transplant devices for an extended period while waiting for a heart transplant. During this time, these patients frequently experience significant medical complications, such as infection. Moreover, the implant of these devices generally
requires the removal of a portion of the patient’s heart tissue, significantly limiting the chance of recovery of the patient’s heart.

Destination therapy generally involves the implantation of a mechanical support device as the last clinical alternative for a chronic
patient with end-stage heart failure who is not eligible for transplantation. Destination therapy only prolongs the end-stage disease, as the patient’s heart condition is terminal and the patient’s heart is not expected to recover.
Furthermore, artificial replacement hearts, another destination therapy modality, may be suitable for end-stage heart failure patients requiring full support.

Our product portfolio is designed to provide a continuum of care in heart recovery to acute heart failure patients
from the intensive care unit to the cath lab to the surgery suite to home discharge and to provide an array of choices for clinicians treating acute heart failure patients. Our products provide various levels of blood flow and are capable of
supporting a patient from hours to months and longer to align with the clinical needs of the patient, whether in pre-shock or profound shock. Our primary cath lab products include the Impella®pumps for support of acute pre-shock patients or for prophylactic support of patients undergoing high-risk percutaneous coronary intervention. Our primary surgery suite
products include our Impella pumps, our BVS®5000 blood pump and AB5000TMVAD. Our BVS 5000
and AB5000 are designed to support acute heart failure patients in need of more blood flow and longer duration of support for AMI, cardiogenic shock post-AMI, and myocarditis.

We developed our first heart recovery products for use in open heart centers and transplant centers.

Research and Product Development

Since our founding in 1981, we have gained substantial expertise in circulatory support while developing the BVS and the AB5000 systems
and our AbioCor. Our current strategy is to develop a complete portfolio of products to treat acute heart failure patients with the goal of heart recovery. We have used this expertise to develop our IAB, iPulse and Portable Driver, and we intend to
continue to use this experience to develop additional circulatory support products. Our research and development efforts are focused on developing a broader portfolio of products across the continuum of care in heart recovery, primarily focused in
the area of circulatory care. In addition, we have a number of new products at various stages of development some of which integrate the Impella technology platform.

As of March 31, 2010, research and development staff consisted of 80 professional and technical personnel, including 28 engineers
with advanced degrees, covering disciplines such as electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, computer science, reliability engineering, fluid mechanics, materials and physiology.

We expended $26.0 million, $25.3 million, and $24.9 million on research and development in fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008,
respectively. Our research and development expenditures include costs related to clinical trials, including ongoing clinical studies for our Impella products.

Sales, Clinical Support, Marketing and Field Service

As of March 31, 2010, our worldwide sales, clinical support, marketing and field service teams included 128 full-time employees, 109
of whom are in the U.S. and 19 of whom are in Europe. Over the past five years, we have significantly increased the number of our direct sales and clinical support personnel covering the U.S., Canada, Germany, and France.

Our clinical support personnel consist primarily of registered nurses with experience in either the surgery suite or the cath lab, and
they play a critical role in training current and prospective customers in the use of our products.

International sales
(sales outside the U.S., primarily in Europe) accounted for 9%, 14%, and 17% of total product revenue during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 respectively.

Manufacturing

We
manufacture our products in Danvers, Massachusetts and Aachen, Germany. Our U.S. operations manufacture the BVS 5000, AB5000, AbioCor, IAB, iPulse and Portable Driver. Our Aachen, Germany facility manufactures all of our Impella products. In
addition, we rely on third-party suppliers to provide us with some components used in our existing products and products under development. For example, we outsource some of the manufacturing of our consoles.






We believe our existing manufacturing facilities give us the necessary physical capacity to
produce sufficient quantities of products to meet anticipated demand for at least the next twelve months based on our revenue forecast. In fiscal 2008 and 2009, we invested in capacity expansion in our German facility to meet the growing demand of
our Impella 2.5 product after the 510(k) clearance that we received in June 2008. In January 2010, we started performing some subassembly work on the Impella in Danvers to supplement main Impella manufacturing production in Aachen.

In July 2008, we entered into an agreement to lease additional manufacturing space in Athlone, Ireland in anticipation of supporting
future demand of Impella 2.5. We deferred the start up activities at our Athlone, Ireland manufacturing facility and are in the process of moving the equipment from Athlone to Aachen and Danvers. We have started exploring opportunities to sub-lease
the Athlone facility or terminate the lease early. We expect to record an expense of approximately $1.0 million as an estimate of the cost to terminate the Athlone lease when we fully vacate the facility, which is expected to occur in fiscal 2011.
As of March 31, 2010, we have $1.2 million in fixed assets located in our Athlone facility.

We expect to start a second
production line for Impella in Aachen during fiscal 2011 and are developing additional Impella manufacturing capacity in Danvers. Our U.S. and German manufacturing facilities are ISO certified and operate under the FDA’s good manufacturing
practice requirements set forth in the current quality system regulation, or QSR.

Intellectual Property

We have developed significant know-how and proprietary technology, upon which our business depends. To protect our know-how and
proprietary technology, we rely on trade secret laws, patents, copyrights, trademarks, and confidentiality agreements and contracts. However, these methods afford only limited protection. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent
proprietary information or technology, gain access to our trade secrets or disclose or use such secrets or technology without our approval.

A substantial portion of our intellectual property rights relating to the AB5000, the BVS 5000 and the AbioCor is in the form of trade
secrets, rather than patents. We protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge in part through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. We cannot assure you that our trade secrets will not become known to or be
independently developed by our competitors.

We own or have rights to numerous U.S. and foreign patents. Our U.S. patents have
expiration dates ranging from 2011 to 2026 and our foreign patents have expiration dates ranging from 2016 to 2023. We also own or have rights to certain pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We believe patents will issue pursuant to such
applications, but cannot guarantee it. Moreover, neither the timing of any issuance, the scope of protection, nor the actual issue date of these pending applications can be forecasted with precision. Where we have licensed patent rights from third
parties, we are generally required to pay royalties.

Our patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. Our pending
or future patent applications may not be issued. The patents of others may render our patents obsolete, limit our ability to patent future innovations, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business. Because foreign patents
may afford less protection than U.S. patents, they may not adequately protect our technology.

The medical device industry is
characterized by a large number of patents and by frequent and substantial intellectual property litigation. Our products and technologies could infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. If third parties successfully assert infringement
or other claims against us, we may not be able to sell our products or we may have to pay significant damages and ongoing royalties. In addition, patent or intellectual property disputes or litigation may be costly, result in product development
delays, or divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. If any such disputes or litigation arise, we may seek to enter into a royalty or licensing arrangement. However, such an arrangement may not be available on
commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We may decide, in the alternative, to litigate the claims or seek to design around the patented or otherwise protected proprietary technology.

The U.S. government may obtain certain rights to use or disclose technical data developed under government contracts that supported the
development of some of our products. We retain the right to obtain patents on any inventions developed under those contracts, provided we follow prescribed procedures and are subject to a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free license to the
U.S. government.

Competition

Competition among providers of treatments for the failing heart is intense and subject to rapid technological change and evolving
industry requirements and standards. We compete with companies that have substantially greater or broader financial, product development and sales and marketing resources and experience than we do. These competitors may develop superior products or
products of similar quality at the same or lower prices. Moreover, improvements in current or new technologies may make them technically equivalent or superior to our products in addition to providing cost or other advantages. Other advances in
medical technology, biotechnology and pharmaceuticals may reduce the size of the potential markets for our products or render those products obsolete.






Our customers frequently have limited budgets. As a result, our products compete against a
broad range of medical devices and other therapies for these limited funds. Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to enhance our existing products, to develop new products to meet regulatory and customer requirements, and to achieve
market acceptance. We believe that important competitive factors with respect to the development and commercialization of our products include the relative speed with which we can develop products, establish clinical utility, complete clinical
trials and regulatory approval processes, obtain reimbursement, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market.

Third-Party Reimbursement

Our products and services are generally purchased by healthcare institutions that rely on third-party payers to cover and reimburse the
costs of related patient care. In the U.S., as well as in many foreign countries, government-funded or private insurance programs pay the cost of a significant portion of a patient’s medical expenses. No uniform policy of coverage or
reimbursement for medical technology exists among all these payers. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement can differ significantly from payer to payer.

Third-party payers may include government healthcare programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, private insurers or managed care
organizations. CMS is responsible for administering the Medicare program and, along with its contractors, establishes coverage and reimbursement policies for the Medicare program. Because a large percentage of the population for which our products
are intended includes elderly individuals who are Medicare beneficiaries, Medicare’s coverage and reimbursement policies are particularly significant to our business. In addition, private payers often follow the coverage and reimbursement
policies of Medicare. We cannot assure you that government or private third-party payers will cover and reimburse the procedures using our products in whole or in part in the future or that payment rates will be adequate.

Medicare payment may be made, in appropriate cases, for procedures performed in the in-patient hospital setting using our technology.
Medicare generally reimburses healthcare institutions in which the procedures are performed based upon prospectively determined amounts. For hospital in-patient stays, the prospective payment generally is determined by the patient’s condition
and other patient data and procedures performed during the in-patient stay, using a classification system known as diagnosis-related groups, or DRGs. Prospective rates are adjusted for, among other things, regional differences, co-morbidity, and
complications. Hospitals performing in-patient procedures using our devices generally do not receive separate Medicare reimbursement for the specific costs of purchasing or implanting our products. Rather, reimbursement for these costs is bundled
with the DRG-based payments made to hospitals for the procedures during which our devices are implanted, removed, repaired or replaced. Because prospective payments are based on predetermined rates and may be less than a hospital’s actual costs
in furnishing care, hospitals have incentives to lower their in-patient operating costs by utilizing products, devices and supplies that will reduce the length of in-patient stays, decrease labor or otherwise lower their costs.

Coverage and reimbursements for procedures to implant, remove, replace or repair the AB5000 and BVS 5000 are generally established in the
U.S. market. For instance, Medicare covers the use of VADs when used for support of blood circulation post-cardiotomy, as a temporary life-support system until a human heart becomes available for transplant, or as therapy for patients who require
permanent mechanical cardiac support. Coverage and reimbursements for procedures to implant the Impella 2.5, 5.0, or LD are also established for in-hospital use by Medicare including ICD-9 for procedures and DRG coding. Actual coverage and payment
may vary by local Medicare fiscal intermediary or third party insurer.

In addition to payments to hospitals for procedures
using our technology, Medicare makes separate payments to physicians for their professional services when they perform surgeries to implant, remove, replace or repair our AB5000 or BVS 5000 devices or when they perform percutaneous insertion and
removal of Impella. Physicians generally bill for such services using a coding system known as Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes. Physician services performed in connection with the implantation, removal, replacement or repair of our
AB5000 or BVS 5000 devices are billed using a variety of CPT codes. Generally, Medicare payment levels for physician services are based on the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule and are revised annually by CMS.






In general, third-party reimbursement programs in the U.S. and abroad, whether
government-funded or commercially insured, are developing a variety of increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs, including prospective reimbursement and capitation programs, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, second
opinions required prior to major surgery, careful review of bills, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These types of cost-containment programs, as well as legislative or
regulatory changes to reimbursement policies, could limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for our medical devices.

Government Regulation

The healthcare industry, and thus our business, is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulation. Some of the
pertinent laws have not been definitively interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. In addition, these laws and their interpretations are subject to change.

Premarket Regulation

The FDA strictly regulates medical devices under the authority of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA, and its regulations.
The FFDCA and the implementing regulations govern, among other things, the following activities relating to our medical devices: preclinical and clinical testing, design, development, manufacture, safety, efficacy, labeling, storage, record keeping,
sales and distribution, post-market adverse event reporting, and advertising and promotion.

In the U.S., medical devices are
classified into one of three classes (Class I, II or III) based on the statutory framework described in the FFDCA. Class III devices, which are typically life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, or new devices that have been found
not to be substantially equivalent to legally marketed devices, must generally receive premarket approval, or PMA, by the FDA to ensure their safety and effectiveness.

When clinical trials of a device are required in order to obtain FDA approval, the sponsor of the trial is required to file an
investigational device exemption, or IDE, application before commencing clinical trials. The IDE application must be supported by data, which typically include the results of extensive device bench testing, animal testing performed in conformance
with Good Laboratory Practices, and formal laboratory testing and documentation in accordance with appropriate design controls and scientific justification.

The FDA reviews and must approve an IDE before a study may begin in the U.S. In addition, the study must be approved by an Institutional
Review Board, or IRB, for each clinical site. When all approvals are obtained, the study may be initiated to evaluate the device.

The FDA, and the IRB at each institution at which a clinical trial is being performed, may suspend a clinical trial at any time for
various reasons, including a belief that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. All clinical studies of investigational devices must be conducted in compliance with FDA requirements. During a study, we are required to comply
with the FDA’s IDE requirements for investigator selection, trial monitoring, reporting, recordkeeping and prohibitions on the promotion of investigational devices or making safety or efficacy claims for them. The investigators must obtain
patient informed consent, rigorously follow the investigational plan and study protocol, control the disposition of investigational devices, and comply with all reporting and record keeping requirements. Following completion of a study, we would
need to collect, analyze and present the data in an appropriate submission to the FDA, either through a 510(k) premarket notification or a PMA.

Certain Class III devices that were on the market before May 28, 1976, known
as preamendment Class III devices, and devices that are determined to be substantially equivalent to them, can be brought to market through the 510(k) process until the FDA, by regulation, calls for PMA applications for the devices. In addition, the
Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990 requires the FDA either to down-classify preamendment






Class III devices to Class I or Class II or to publish a classification regulation retaining the devices in Class III. Manufacturers of preamendment Class III devices that the FDA retains in
Class III must submit a PMA application within 90 days after the FDA publishes a final regulation requiring premarket approval for the device, or 30 months after final classification of the device, whichever is later. Failure to meet the deadline
can lead the FDA to prevent continued marketing of the device during the PMA application review period. Our IAB received 510(k) clearance based on a preamendment Class III device. The Impella 2.5, Impella 5.0, and Impella LD received clearance based
on a preamendment Class III device. If the FDA calls for a PMA for a preamendment Class III device, a PMA must be submitted for the device even if the device has already received 510(k) clearance; however, if the FDA down-classifies a preamendment
Class III device to Class I or Class II, a PMA application will not be required.

By regulation, the FDA has
180 days to review a PMA application, during which time an advisory committee may evaluate the application and provide recommendations to the FDA. While the FDA has approved PMA applications within the allotted time period, reviews can occur over a
significantly protracted period, usually 18 to 36 months but sometimes longer, and a number of devices have never been approved for marketing. This process is lengthy and expensive and there can be no assurance that FDA approval will be obtained.

Both a 510(k) and a PMA, if cleared or approved, may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which a
product may be marketed. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the promotion of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. In addition, product approvals can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of
unforeseen problems following initial marketing.

In addition, certain devices can be distributed under an HDE, rather than a
PMA. In order for a device to be eligible for an HDE, a qualifying target patient population of less than 4,000 patients per year for which there is no other available therapy must be approved by the FDA. The FDA’s approval of an HDE to treat
that qualifying patient population then requires demonstration that the device is safe for its intended application, that it is potentially effective, and that the probable benefits outweigh the associated risks. Within the regulations for an HDE,
if a device becomes available through the PMA process that addresses the same patient population as the HDE device, the HDE device may need to be withdrawn from the U.S. market. In January 2008 we received HDE supplement approval from the FDA for
the AbioCor.

Our AB5000 and BVS 5000 systems are approved by the FDA for use in patients who have undergone successful
cardiac surgery and subsequently develop low cardiac output, or patients who suffer from acute cardiac disorders leading to hemodynamic instability. The intent of therapy is to provide circulatory support, restore normal hemodynamics, reduce
ventricular work, and allow the heart time to recover adequate mechanical function. In 1992, the FDA approved our PMA for the BVS 5000. In 1996 and 1997, the FDA approved the use of the BVS 5000 for additional indications, expanding its use to the
treatment of all patients with potentially reversible heart failure. In April 2003, the AB5000 Circulatory Support System Console and in September 2003, the AB5000 VAD were approved under PMA supplements. We received FDA clearance for our new IAB in
December 2006. Our iPulse console was approved by the FDA under a PMA supplement in December 2007. Our Impella 2.5 device received 510(k) clearance in June 2008 for partial circulatory support for up to six hours. We received FDA 510(k) clearance of
our Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices in April 2009 for circulatory support for up to six hours. Our AB Portable Driver received FDA approval under a PMA supplement in March 2009. All of these products have CE marks allowing distribution within the
European Union.

Postmarket Regulation

The medical devices that we manufacture and distribute pursuant to FDA clearances or approvals are subject to continuing regulation by
the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The FDA reviews design, manufacturing, and distribution practices, labeling and record keeping, and manufacturers’ required reports of adverse experience and other information to identify potential
problems with marketed medical devices. Among other FDA requirements, we must comply with the FDA’s good manufacturing practice regulations. These QSR regulations govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design,
manufacture, packaging and servicing of all finished medical devices intended for human use. We must also comply with Medical Devices Reporting, or MDR, which requires that a firm report to the FDA any incident in which its product may have caused
or contributed to a death or serious injury, required an unnecessary intervention for a






patient, or in which its product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, it would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Labeling, advertising, and
promotional activities are subject to scrutiny by the FDA and, in certain circumstances, by the Federal Trade Commission. Current FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses.

We are subject to routine inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with Quality System Regulation, or QSR,
and MDR requirements, as well as other applicable regulations. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the
FDA could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, and require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present
unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The FDA may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, and assess civil or criminal fines and penalties
against our officers, employees, or us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the Department of Justice.

The FDA often
requires post market surveillance, or PMS, for significant risk devices, such as VADs, that require ongoing collection of clinical data during commercialization that must be gathered, analyzed and submitted to the FDA periodically for up to several
years. These PMS data collection requirements are often burdensome and expensive and have an effect on the PMA approval status. The failure to comply with the FDA’s regulations can result in enforcement action, including seizure, injunction,
prosecution, civil fines and penalties, recall and/or suspension of FDA approval. The export of devices such as ours is also subject to regulation in certain instances.

The FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection, or CBP, administers controls over the import and export of medical
devices into and out of the U.S. The CBP imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of medical devices, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. The FDA also administers certain controls over the export of medical
devices from the U.S. International sales of our medical devices that have not received FDA approval are subject to FDA export requirements.

International Regulation

We are also subject to regulation in each of the foreign countries in which we sell our products. Many of the regulations applicable to
our products in these countries are similar to those of the FDA. The European Union requires that medical devices such as ours comply with the Medical Device Directive or the Active Implantable Medical Device Directive, which includes quality system
and CE certification requirements. To obtain a CE Mark in the European Union, defined products must meet minimum standards of safety and quality (i.e., the essential requirements) and then undergo an appropriate conformity assessment procedure. A
Notified Body assesses the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the essential and other requirements within the Medical Device Directive. In the European Union, we are also required to maintain certain
International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, certifications in order to sell our products. Our BVS 5000, AB5000, Impella products, IAB, iPulse console and Portable Driver are CE marked and available for sale in the European Union. We are
also subject to regulations in Canada (CAMCAS) and other countries where we sell our products. Lack of regulatory compliance in any of these jurisdictions could limit our ability to distribute products in these countries.

Fraud and Abuse Laws

Our business is regulated by laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Violations
of these laws are punishable by significant criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Because of the far-reaching nature of these
laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Evolving interpretations of current laws, or the adoption of new laws or regulations, could adversely affect our arrangements with customers and
physicians. In addition, any violation of these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Anti-Kickback Statute

Subject to a number of statutory exceptions, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting,
offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the furnishing, recommending, or arranging for, a good or service for which payment
may be made under a federal health care program such as Medicare and Medicaid. The term “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit
arrangements, waiver of payments, and providing anything of value at less than fair market value. The Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or the OIG, is primarily responsible for enforcing the federal
Anti-Kickback Statute and generally for identifying fraud and abuse activities affecting government healthcare programs.

Penalties for violating the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include substantial criminal fines and/or imprisonment, substantial civil fines
and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Many states have adopted prohibitions similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for
healthcare services reimbursed by any source, not only by the Medicare and Medicaid programs and do not include comparable exceptions.






The OIG has issued safe harbor regulations that identify activities and business
relationships that are deemed safe from prosecution under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. There are safe harbors for various types of arrangements, including certain investment interests, leases, personal service arrangements, and management
contracts. The failure of a particular activity to comply with all requirements of an applicable safe harbor regulation does not mean that the activity violates the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or that prosecution will be pursued. However,
activities and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities such as the OIG.

In recent years, several states, including California, Vermont, Maine, Minnesota, Massachusetts, New Mexico, Nevada, and West Virginia,
in addition to the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation requiring biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device companies to establish marketing compliance programs and file periodic reports on sales, marketing, and other activities.
Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and available guidance is limited. We could face enforcement action, fines and other penalties and could receive adverse publicity, all of
which could harm our business, if it is alleged that we have failed to fully comply with such laws and regulations. Similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found not to comply with applicable laws,
they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on our business.

Federal False Claims Act

The federal False Claims Act prohibits the knowing filing or causing the filing of a false claim or the knowing use
of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it must pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties for each
separate false claim. Private individuals can file suits under the False Claims Act on behalf of the government. These lawsuits are known as “qui tam” actions, and the individuals bringing such suits, sometimes known as
“relators” or, more commonly, “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. In addition, certain states have enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. Qui
tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs as a
result of an investigation arising out of such action.

HIPAA

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false
statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payers. A violation of this statute
is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government-sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false,
fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment.

HIPAA also protects the security and privacy of individually identifiable health information maintained or transmitted by healthcare
providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses. HIPAA restricts the use and disclosure of patient health information, including patient records. Although we believe that HIPAA does not apply to us directly, most of our customers have
significant obligations under HIPAA, and we intend to cooperate with our customers and others to ensure compliance with HIPAA with respect to patient information that comes into our possession. Failure to comply with HIPAA obligations can entail
criminal penalties. Some states have also enacted rigorous laws or regulations protecting the security and privacy of patient information. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face additional sanctions.

Employees

As of
March 31, 2010, we had 365 full-time employees, including:



•80 in product engineering, research and development, and regulatory;



•128 in sales, clinical support, marketing and field service;



•113 in manufacturing; and



•44 in general and administration.

We routinely enter into contractual agreements with our employees, which typically include confidentiality and non-competition
commitments. Our employees are not represented by unions. We consider our employee relations to be good. If we were unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, our operations could be negatively impacted.






Our Corporate Information

We are a Delaware corporation and commenced operations in 1981. Our principal executive offices are located at 22 Cherry Hill Drive,
Danvers, Massachusetts 01923, and our telephone number is (978) 646-1400. Our web address is www.abiomed.com. We make available free of charge through the Investors section of our website, all reports filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. We do not incorporate the information on our website into this report, and you should not consider it part of this report.






