ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

We are a
leading provider of medical devices in circulatory support and we offer a continuum of care in heart recovery to acute heart failure patients. Our products are designed to enable the heart to rest, heal and recover by improving blood flow and/or
performing the pumping function of the heart. Our products are used in the cardiac catheterization lab, or cath lab, by interventional cardiologists and/or in the heart surgery suite by heart surgeons for patients who are in need of hemodynamic
support prophelactically during high risk angioplasty procedures or who are in pre- shock, shock or profound cardiogenic shock. We believe heart recovery is the optimal clinical outcome by restoring the quality of life of patients. In addition, we
believe heart recovery is the most cost-effective path for the healthcare system.

Our Products

Impella 2.5

The Impella 2.5 catheter is a percutaneous micro heart pump with an integrated motor and sensors. The device is designed primarily for use by interventional cardiologists to support patients in the cath
lab who may require assistance to maintain their circulation. The Impella 2.5 device received 510(k) clearance from the U.S Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in June 2008 for partial circulatory support for up to six hours, has CE mark approval
in Europe for up to five days of use and is approved for use in over 40 countries.

The Impella 2.5 catheter can be quickly
inserted via the femoral artery to reach the left ventricle of the heart where it is directly deployed to draw blood out of the ventricle and deliver it to the systemic system. This function is intended to reduce ventricular work (resting the heart)
and provide flow to vital organs. The Impella 2.5 is introduced with normal interventional cardiology procedures and can pump up to 2.5 liters of blood per minute.

In August 2007, we received approval from the FDA to begin a high-risk percutaneous coronary intervention, or PCI, pivotal clinical trial, known as the Protect II study, for the Impella 2.5. This pivotal
study was to determine the safety and effectiveness of the Impella 2.5 as compared to optimal medical management with an intra-aortic balloon, or IAB, during “high-risk” angioplasty procedures. In December 2010, we announced the
termination of the Protect II study based on a futility determination at the planned interim analysis regarding the primary end-point, which we view as likely to be due to how rotational atherectomy was used in the study. In April 2011, we announced
final results from the Protect II study, including those patients enrolled following the initiation of the interim analysis, which showed a statistically significant 21% reduction in major adverse events compared to the intra aortic balloon at 90
days per protocol.

In December 2010, we received conditional approval from the FDA to begin Mini-AMI, a prospective,
randomized, controlled multi-site trial to assess the potential role of the Impella 2.5 in reducing infarct size in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction, or STEMI. The primary objective of the study is to evaluate whether the adjunctive
use of the Impella 2.5 for 24 hours following primary PCI for STEMI has the potential to limit the infarction of at-risk myocardium compared to primary PCI with routine post-PCI care.

In addition to the FDA approved studies for Impella 2.5, we are also conducting USpella, the first U.S. multicenter observational
registry collecting clinical data and outcomes for patients supported with Impella 2.5 during elective, urgent and emergent procedures. We invited 62 hospitals in the U.S. and Canada to participate in the USpella registry.

Impella 5.0 and Impella LD

The Impella 5.0 catheter and Impella LD are percutaneous micro heart pumps with integrated motors and sensors for use primarily in the heart surgery suite. These devices are designed to support patients
who require higher levels of circulatory support as compared to the Impella 2.5. The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices received 510(k) clearance in April 2009, for circulatory support for up to six hours and have CE mark approval in Europe for up
to ten days of use and are approved for use in over 40 countries.

The Impella 5.0 can be quickly implanted via the femoral
artery using a guide wire to reach the left ventricle of the heart where it is directly deployed to draw blood out of the ventricle, deliver it to the systemic system and perfuse the heart muscle. This function is intended to reduce ventricular work
(resting the heart). The Impella LD is similar to the Impella 5.0 but is implanted directly through an incision in the subclavien or through an aortic graft. The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD can pump up to five liters of blood per minute and have been
used to treat patients in need of cardiac support resulting from post-cardiotomy cardiogenic shock, myocarditis, low cardiac output after a heart attack, or post-coronary intervention procedures.






AB5000 and BVS 5000

We manufacture and sell the AB5000 Circulatory Support System and the BVS 5000 Biventricular Support System for the temporary support of
acute heart failure patients in profound shock, including patients suffering from cardiogenic shock after a heart attack, post-cardiotomy cardiogenic shock, or myocarditis. The AB5000 and BVS 5000 systems, which are implanted in the surgery suite,
can assume the full pumping function of a patient’s failing heart, allowing the heart to rest, heal and potentially recover. Both systems are designed to provide either univentricular or biventricular support. We believe the AB5000 and BVS 5000
systems are the only commercially available cardiac assist devices that are approved by the FDA for heart recovery for patients who have undergone successful cardiac surgery and subsequently develop low cardiac output, or patients who suffer from
acute cardiac disorders leading to hemodynamic instability.

The BVS 5000 Biventricular Support System was our first product
and has been available for sale since 1992. It was the first FDA-approved heart assist device capable of assuming the pumping function of the heart. Since its introduction, the BVS 5000 has supported thousands of patients in the U.S., Europe and
other countries.

The AB5000 Circulatory Support System is designed to provide a longer duration of support than the BVS 5000
and facilitates patient mobility in the hospital. The AB5000 can provide up to 6.0 liters of pulsatile blood flow per minute to support patients in profound shock and was approved by the FDA in 2003. Our AB5000 is designed to provide enhanced
patient mobility within and between medical centers and to provide enhanced features and ease of use for caregivers. We believe the AB5000 system’s high flow rates, ease of implant and historically low incidence of adverse events facilitate
heart recovery, for patients with potential for recovery, potentially avoiding the need for heart transplantation and thereby improving patient outcomes.

We have developed a Portable Circulatory Support Driver, or Portable Driver, for both in-hospital and out-of-hospital patients which is designed to support our AB5000 VAD. We received CE mark approval for
our Portable Driver in March 2008. In May 2008, we received conditional approval for the Portable Driver under an investigational device exemption, or IDE, to conduct a U.S. patient discharge study at 20 hospitals for 30 patients. In March 2009, we
received FDA approval of our PMA supplement for the Portable™Driver. This clearance allows for commercial shipment of the device to U.S. hospitals for in hospital and
transport use. The out of hospital use is being studied in a clinical trial, which, when successfully completed, would allow patients to go home while waiting for recovery.

AbioCor

Our AbioCor Implantable Replacement Heart is the first
completely self-contained artificial heart. Designed to sustain the body’s circulation, the AbioCor is intended for end-stage biventricular heart failure patients whose other treatment options have been exhausted. Patients with advanced age,
impaired organ function or cancer are generally ineligible for a heart transplant and are potential candidates to receive the AbioCor implantable heart. Once implanted, the AbioCor system does not penetrate the skin, reducing the chance of
infection. This technology provides patients with mobility and remote diagnostics. The use of AbioCor is limited to normal to larger sized male patients and has a product life expectancy of 18-24 months.

We received humanitarian device exemption, or HDE, supplement approval from the FDA for product enhancement of the AbioCor in January
2008. HDE approval signifies that no comparable alternative therapy exists for patients facing imminent death without the technology. HDE approval allows the AbioCor to be made available to a limited patient population, with no more than 4,000
patients receiving the technology in the U.S. each year under HDE approval limits. Because the AbioCor is only available to a limited patient population, we do not expect that demand will meet the 4,000 patient limit under HDE approval. We have no
current plans to seek a broader regulatory approval of the AbioCor. We do not expect to earn revenues from sales of the AbioCor in the foreseeable future as our primary strategic focus is centered on heart recovery for acute heart failure patients.

Our Markets

According to the American Heart Association, or AHA, Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics 2011 Update Report, coronary heart disease, or
CHD, caused about 1 of every 6 deaths in the U.S. in 2007. Coronary heart disease is a condition of the coronary arteries that causes reduced blood flow and insufficient oxygen delivery to the affected portion of the heart. Coronary heart disease
leads to acute myocardial infarction, or AMI, commonly known as a heart attack, which may lead to heart failure, a condition in which the heart is unable to pump enough blood to the body’s major organs. CHD mortality in 2007 was approximately
406,000. In 2009, an estimated 785,000 Americans had a new coronary attack and about 470,000 had a recurrent attack. An estimated additional 195,000 silent first myocardial infarctions occur each year.

A broad spectrum of therapies exists for the treatment of patients in early stages of CHD. Angioplasty procedures and stents are commonly
used in the cath lab to restore and increase blood flow to the heart. These treatments are often successful in slowing the progression of heart disease, extending life, and/or improving the quality of life for some period of time. Patients
presenting with acute cardiac injuries potentially have recoverable hearts. Treatment for these patients in pre-shock in the cath lab is primarily focused on hemodynamic stabilization. Acute heart failure patients in profound shock typically require
treatment in the surgery suite. These are patients suffering from






cardiogenic shock after a heart attack, post-cardiotomy cardiogenic shock or myocarditis complicated with cardiogenic shock. Chronic heart failure patients have hearts that are unlikely to be
recoverable due to left and/or right side heart failure and their conditions cause their hearts to fail over time. Limited therapies exist today for patients with severe, end-stage, or chronic heart failure.

In more severe cases of heart failure, patients are sent directly to the surgery suite for coronary bypass or valve replacement surgery.
The most severe acute heart failure patients are patients in profound cardiogenic shock, including those suffering from myocarditis, a viral attack of the heart, or those suffering from impaired ability of the heart to pump blood, after a heart
attack or heart surgery. According to results of the SHOCK (Should We Emergently Revascularize Occluded Coronaries for Cardiogenic Shock) trial published in the August 26, 1999 edition of The New England Journal of Medicine, approximately 7 to
10% of the patients who are hospitalized for a heart attack suffer from cardiogenic shock and 60 to 80% of those patients die. These patients typically require treatments in the surgery suite involving the use of mechanical circulatory support
devices that provide increased blood flow and reduce the stress on the heart. However, many less severe patients in the cath lab could also benefit from circulatory support devices or other clinical treatment, which could potentially prevent them
from entering into profound shock.

There are two primary types of devices used in the cath lab and surgery suite in the U.S.
for circulatory support for pre-shock and profound shock patients: intra-aortic balloons, or IABs, and ventricular assist devices, or VADs.

An IAB is an inflatable balloon inserted via a catheter into the patient’s circulation and is inflated and deflated in synchrony with the heart. This is used as an initial line of therapy in the cath
lab or the surgery suite for patients with diminished heart function. There are an estimated 124,000 IAB procedures performed annually in the U.S. However, IABs typically provide only limited enhancement and depend on the patient’s own heart to
generate the majority of the patient’s blood flow. In addition, IABs are often required to be used in conjunction with inotropes or other drugs to stimulate heart muscle ejection. The use of these drugs, however, increases the risk of
mortality. Clinical publications have demonstrated that the need for two or more inotropes to improve blood flow results in mortality rates of approximately 80%. In addition, IABs have limited effectiveness in patients that are arrhythmic and /or in
cardiogenic shock and published reports have indicated that IABs do not reduce mortality for patients in cardiogenic shock.

VADs are mechanical devices that help the failing heart pump blood or take over the pumping function of the failing heart. Historically,
VADs have been highly invasive and require implantation in the surgery suite. The use of VADs generally falls into three sub-categories: recovery, bridge-to-transplant and destination therapy.

Recovery VADs are designed to enable the patient’s heart to rest and potentially recover so that the patient can return home with
his or her own heart. Because recovery is the goal, these devices are designed to minimize damage to heart tissue and are removed once the heart has recovered. If possible, recovery of one’s own heart is generally preferred to transplantation
or prolonged device implantation, both of which have significant side effects for the patient and increase the risk of mortality. We believe heart recovery is a preferred clinical outcome for the patient, since it also generally lowers the overall
relative cost to the healthcare system versus alternative therapies and treatment paths that may require multiple surgeries, lengthy hospital stays, chronic therapeutic and immunosuppressant drugs and other related healthcare costs.

Bridge-to-transplant VADs are primarily used to support chronic heart failure patients eligible to receive a heart transplant. According
to the United Network for Organ Sharing, there were approximately 2,300 heart transplants in the U.S in 2010. About one third of the patients eligible for transplant must rely on bridge-to-transplant devices for an extended period while waiting for
a heart transplant. During this time, these patients frequently experience significant medical complications, including infection. Moreover, the implant of these devices generally requires the removal of a portion of the patient’s heart tissue,
significantly limiting the chance of recovery of the patient’s heart.

Destination therapy generally involves the
implantation of a mechanical support device as the last clinical alternative for a chronic patient with end-stage heart failure who is not eligible for transplantation. Destination therapy only prolongs the end-stage disease, as the patient’s
heart condition is terminal and the patient’s heart is not expected to recover. Furthermore, artificial replacement hearts, another destination therapy modality, may be suitable for end-stage heart failure patients requiring full support.

Our product portfolio is designed to provide a continuum of care in heart recovery to acute heart failure
patients from the intensive care unit to the cath lab to the surgery suite to home discharge and to provide an array of choices for clinicians treating acute heart failure patients. Our products provide various levels of blood flow and are capable
of supporting a patient from hours to months to align with the clinical needs of the patient, whether in pre-shock or profound shock. Our primary cath lab products include the Impella®pumps for support of acute pre-shock patients or for prophylactic support of patients undergoing high-risk percutaneous coronary intervention. Our primary surgery suite
products include our Impella 5.0 pump and Impella LD pump, our BVS 5000 blood pump, and our AB5000 VAD. Our surgery suite products are designed to support acute heart failure patients in need of more blood flow and longer duration of support for
AMI, cardiogenic shock post-AMI, and myocarditis.

Research and Product Development

Since our founding in 1981, we have gained substantial expertise in circulatory support while developing the BVS and the AB5000 systems,
our Impella platform and our AbioCor. Our current strategy is to develop a complete portfolio of products to treat acute heart failure patients with the goal of heart recovery. We have used this expertise to develop our IAB, iPulse and Portable
Driver, and we intend to






continue to use this experience to develop additional circulatory support products. Our research and development efforts are focused on developing a broader portfolio of products across the
continuum of care in heart recovery, primarily focused in the area of circulatory care. In addition, we have a number of new products at various stages of development some of which integrate the Impella technology platform.

As of March 31, 2011, our research and development staff consisted of 89 employees. We expended $26.7 million, $26.0 million and
$25.3 million on research and development in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our research and development expenditures include costs related to clinical trials, including ongoing clinical studies for our Impella products.

Sales, Clinical Support, Marketing and Field Service

As of March 31, 2011, our worldwide sales, clinical support, marketing and field service teams included 129 full-time employees, 114 of whom are in the U.S. and 15 of whom are in Europe. Over the
past five years, we have significantly increased the number of our direct sales and clinical support personnel covering the U.S., Canada, Germany, France, and the U.K.

Our clinical support personnel consist primarily of registered nurses with experience in either the surgery suite or the cath lab, and they play a critical role in training current and prospective
customers in the use of our products.

International sales (sales outside the U.S., primarily in Europe) accounted for 8%, 9%,
and 14% of total product revenue during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Manufacturing

We manufacture our products in Danvers, Massachusetts and Aachen, Germany. Our U.S. operations manufacture the BVS 5000,
AB5000, AbioCor, IAB, iPulse, Portable Driver, and certain Impella subsystems. Our Aachen, Germany facility manufactures most of our Impella products. In addition, we rely on third-party suppliers to provide us with components used in our existing
products and products under development. For example, we outsource some of the manufacturing of our consoles.

We believe our
existing manufacturing facilities give us the necessary physical capacity to produce sufficient quantities of products to meet anticipated demand for at least the next twelve months based on our current revenue forecast. In fiscal 2008 and 2009, we
invested in capacity expansion in our German facility to meet the growing demand of our Impella 2.5 product after the 510(k) clearance that we received in June 2008. In fiscal 2011, we started performing some subassembly work on the Impella product
line in Danvers to supplement the main Impella manufacturing production in Aachen.

In July 2008, we entered into an agreement
to lease additional manufacturing space in Athlone, Ireland in anticipation of supporting future demand of Impella 2.5. We relocated the production equipment from the Athlone facility to our Aachen and Danvers facilities and vacated the Athlone
facility in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. In March 2011, we terminated our lease agreement in Ireland and paid a termination fee of approximately $0.8 million.

We expect to increase additional Impella manufacturing capacity in Aachen and Danvers in fiscal 2012 to support the growing demand for our Impella products. Our U.S. and German manufacturing facilities
are ISO certified and operate under the FDA’s good manufacturing practice requirements set forth in the current quality system regulation, or QSR.

Intellectual Property

We have developed significant know-how and
proprietary technology, upon which our business depends. To protect our know-how and proprietary technology, we rely on trade secret laws, patents, copyrights, trademarks, and confidentiality agreements and contracts. However, these methods afford
only limited protection. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or technology, gain access to our trade secrets or disclose or use such secrets or technology without our approval.

A substantial portion of our intellectual property rights relating to the AB5000, the BVS 5000 and the AbioCor is in the form of trade
secrets, rather than patents. We protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge in part through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. We cannot assure you that our trade secrets will not become known to or be
independently developed by our competitors.

We own or have rights to numerous U.S. and foreign patents. Our U.S. patents have
expiration dates ranging from 2012 to 2029 and our foreign patents have expiration dates ranging from 2016 to 2023. We also own or have rights to certain pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We believe patents will issue pursuant to such
applications, but cannot guarantee it. Moreover, neither the timing of any issuance, the scope of protection, nor the actual issue date of these pending applications can be forecasted with precision. Where we have licensed patent rights from third
parties, we are generally required to pay royalties.






Our patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. Our pending or future patent
applications may not be issued. The patents of others may render our patents obsolete, limit our ability to patent future innovations, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business. Because foreign patents may afford less
protection than U.S. patents, they may not adequately protect our technology.

The medical device industry is characterized by
a large number of patents and by frequent and substantial intellectual property litigation. Our products and technologies could infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. If third parties successfully assert infringement or other claims
against us, we may not be able to sell our products or we may have to pay significant damages and ongoing royalties. In addition, patent or intellectual property disputes or litigation may be costly, result in product development delays, or divert
the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. If any such disputes or litigation arise, we may seek to enter into a royalty or licensing arrangement. However, such an arrangement may not be available on commercially acceptable
terms, if at all. We may decide, in the alternative, to litigate the claims or seek to design around the patented or otherwise protected proprietary technology.

The U.S. government may obtain certain rights to use or disclose technical data developed under government contracts that supported the development of some of our products. We retain the right to obtain
patents on any inventions developed under those contracts, provided we follow prescribed procedures and are subject to a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free license to the U.S. government.

Competition

Competition among providers of treatments for the failing heart is intense and subject to rapid technological change and evolving
industry requirements and standards. We compete with companies that have substantially greater or broader financial, product development and sales and marketing resources and experience than we do. These competitors may develop superior products or
products of similar quality at the same or lower prices. Moreover, improvements in current or new technologies may make them technically equivalent or superior to our products in addition to providing cost or other advantages. Other advances in
medical technology, biotechnology and pharmaceuticals may reduce the size of the potential markets for our products or render those products obsolete. Among our medical device competitors are Getinge (Maquet Cardiovascular), Teleflex Inc, Thoratec
Corporation, Levitronix, HeartWare International Inc., Jarvik Heart, CircuLite, Inc., CardiacAssist Inc., and WorldHeart Corporation.

Our customers are hospitals that frequently have limited budgets. As a result, our products compete against a broad range of medical devices and other therapies for these limited funds. Our success will
depend in large part upon our ability to enhance our existing products, to develop new products to meet regulatory and customer requirements, and to achieve market acceptance. We believe that important competitive factors with respect to the
development and commercialization of our products include the relative speed with which we can develop products, establish clinical utility, complete clinical trials and regulatory approval processes, obtain reimbursement, and supply commercial
quantities of the product to the market.

Third-Party Reimbursement

Our products and services are generally purchased by healthcare institutions that rely on third-party payers to cover and reimburse the
costs of related patient care. In the U.S., as well as in many foreign countries, government-funded or private insurance programs pay the cost of a significant portion of a patient’s medical expenses. No uniform policy of coverage or
reimbursement for medical technology exists among all these payers. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement can differ significantly from payer to payer.

Third-party payers may include government healthcare programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, private insurers or managed care organizations. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS,
is responsible for administering the Medicare program and, along with its contractors, establishes coverage and reimbursement policies for the Medicare program. Because a large percentage of the population for which our products are intended
includes elderly individuals who are Medicare beneficiaries, Medicare’s coverage and reimbursement policies are particularly significant to our business. In addition, private payers often follow the coverage and reimbursement policies of
Medicare. We cannot assure that government or private third-party payers will cover and reimburse the procedures using our products in whole or in part in the future or that payment rates will be adequate.

Medicare payment may be made, in appropriate cases, for procedures performed in the in-patient hospital setting using our technology.
Medicare generally reimburses healthcare institutions in which the procedures are performed based upon prospectively determined amounts. For hospital in-patient stays, the prospective payment generally is determined by the patient’s condition
and other patient data and procedures performed during the in-patient stay, using a classification system known as diagnosis-related groups, or DRGs. Prospective rates are adjusted for, among other things, regional differences, co-morbidity and
complications. Hospitals performing in-patient procedures using our devices generally do not receive separate Medicare reimbursement for the specific costs of purchasing or implanting our products. Rather, reimbursement for these costs is bundled
with the DRG-based payments made to hospitals for the procedures during which our devices are implanted, removed, repaired or replaced. Because prospective payments are based on predetermined rates and may be less than a hospital’s actual costs
in furnishing care, hospitals have incentives to lower their in-patient operating costs by utilizing products, devices and supplies that will reduce the length of in-patient stays, decrease labor or otherwise lower their costs.






Coverage and reimbursements for procedures to implant, remove, replace or repair the AB5000
and BVS 5000 are generally established in the U.S. market. For instance, Medicare covers the use of VADs when used for support of blood circulation post-cardiotomy, as a temporary life-support system until a human heart becomes available for
transplant, or as therapy for patients who require permanent mechanical cardiac support. Coverage and reimbursements for procedures to implant the Impella 2.5, 5.0, or LD are also established for in-hospital use by Medicare including ICD-9 for
procedures and DRG coding. Actual coverage and payment may vary by local Medicare fiscal intermediary or third party insurer.

In addition to payments to hospitals for procedures using our technology, Medicare makes separate payments to physicians for their
professional services when they perform surgeries to implant, remove, replace or repair our AB5000 or BVS 5000 devices or when they perform percutaneous insertion and removal of Impella. Physicians generally bill for such services using a coding
system known as Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes. Physician services performed in connection with the implantation, removal, replacement or repair of our AB5000, BVS 5000 or Impella devices are billed using a variety of CPT codes.
Generally, Medicare payment levels for physician services are based on the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule and are revised annually by CMS.

In general, third-party reimbursement programs in the U.S. and abroad, whether government-funded or commercially insured, are developing a variety of increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling
healthcare costs, including prospective reimbursement and capitation programs, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, second opinions required prior to major surgery, careful review of bills, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of
more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These types of cost-containment programs, as well as legislative or regulatory changes to reimbursement policies, could limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for our
medical devices.

Government Regulation

The healthcare industry, and thus our business, is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulation. Some of the pertinent laws have not been definitively interpreted by the regulatory
authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. In addition, these laws and their interpretations are subject to change.

Premarket Regulation

The FDA strictly regulates medical devices
under the authority of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA, and its regulations. In the U.S., medical devices are classified into one of three classes (Class I, II or III) based on the statutory framework described in the FFDCA. Class
III devices, which are typically life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, or new devices that have been found not to be substantially equivalent to legally marketed devices, must generally receive premarket approval, or PMA, by the
FDA to ensure their safety and effectiveness.

When clinical trials of a device are required in order to obtain FDA approval,
the sponsor of the trial is required to file an investigational device exemption, or IDE, application before commencing clinical trials. The FDA reviews and must approve an IDE before a study may begin in the U.S. In addition, the study must be
approved by an Institutional Review Board, or IRB, for each clinical site. When all approvals are obtained, the study may be initiated to evaluate the device.

The FDA, and the IRB at each institution at which a clinical trial is being performed, may suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the subjects are being exposed
to an unacceptable health risk. All clinical studies of investigational devices must be conducted in compliance with FDA requirements. Following completion of a study, we would need to collect, analyze and present the data in an appropriate
submission to the FDA, either through a 510(k) premarket notification or a PMA.






Certain Class III devices that were on the market before May 28, 1976, known as
preamendment Class III devices, and devices that are determined to be substantially equivalent to them, can be brought to market through the 510(k) process until the FDA, by regulation, calls for PMA applications for the devices. In addition, the
Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990 requires the FDA either to down-classify preamendment Class III devices to Class I or Class II or to publish a classification regulation retaining the devices in Class III. Manufacturers of preamendment Class III
devices that the FDA retains in Class III must submit a PMA application within 90 days after the FDA publishes a final regulation requiring premarket approval for the device, or 30 months after final classification of the device, whichever is later.
Failure to meet the deadline can lead the FDA to prevent continued marketing of the device during the PMA application review period. The Impella 2.5, Impella 5.0, and Impella LD received clearance based on a preamendment Class III device. If the FDA
calls for a PMA for a preamendment Class III device, a PMA must be submitted for the device even if the device has already received 510(k) clearance; however, if the FDA down-classifies a preamendment Class III device to Class I or Class II, a PMA
application will not be required.

The PMA approval pathway requires proof of the safety and effectiveness of the device to
the FDA’s satisfaction. The PMA approval pathway is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) path. In the PMA process, the FDA examines detailed data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the device. This information includes
design, development, manufacture, labeling, advertising, preclinical testing and clinical study data. Prior to approving the PMA, the FDA may conduct an inspection of the manufacturing facilities and the clinical sites where the supporting study was
conducted. The facility inspection evaluates the company’s compliance with the QSR. An inspection of clinical sites evaluates compliance with the IDE requirements. Typically, the FDA will convene an advisory panel meeting to seek review of the
data presented in the PMA. The panel’s recommendation is given substantial weight, but is not binding on the agency. By regulation, the FDA has 180 days to review a PMA application, during which time an advisory committee may evaluate the
application and provide recommendations to the FDA. While the FDA has approved PMA applications within the allotted time period, reviews can occur over a significantly protracted period, usually 18 to 36 months but sometimes longer, and a number of
devices have never been approved for marketing.

If the FDA’s evaluation is favorable, the PMA is approved and the device
may be marketed in the U.S. The FDA may approve the PMA with post-approval conditions intended to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device including, among other things, restrictions on labeling, promotion, sale and distribution. Failure to
comply with the conditions of approval can result in material adverse enforcement action, including the loss or withdrawal of the approval. Even after approval of a PMA, a new PMA or PMA supplement is required in the event of a modification to the
device, its labeling or its manufacturing process. Both a 510(k) and a PMA, if cleared or approved, may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the promotion of
approved medical devices for unapproved uses. In addition, product approvals can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial marketing.

In addition, certain devices can be distributed under an HDE, rather than a PMA. In order for a device to be eligible for an HDE, a
qualifying target patient population of less than 4,000 patients per year for which there is no other available therapy must be approved by the FDA. The FDA’s approval of an HDE to treat that qualifying patient population then requires
demonstration that the device is safe for its intended application, that it is potentially effective, and that the probable benefits outweigh the associated risks. Within the regulations for an HDE, if a device becomes available through the PMA
process that addresses the same patient population as the HDE device, the HDE device may need to be withdrawn from the U.S. market. In January 2008 we received HDE supplement approval from the FDA for our AbioCor.

Our AB5000 and BVS 5000 systems are approved by the FDA for use in patients who have undergone successful cardiac surgery and
subsequently develop low cardiac output, or patients who suffer from acute cardiac disorders leading to hemodynamic instability. The intent of therapy is to provide circulatory support, restore normal hemodynamics, reduce ventricular work, and allow
the heart time to recover adequate mechanical function. In 1992, the FDA approved our PMA for the BVS 5000. In 1997, the FDA approved the use of the BVS 5000 for additional indications, expanding its use to the treatment of all patients with
potentially reversible heart failure. In April 2003, the AB5000 Circulatory Support System Console and in September 2003, the AB5000 VAD were approved under PMA supplements. We received FDA clearance for our IAB in December 2006. Our iPulse console
was approved by the FDA under a PMA supplement in December 2007. Our Impella 2.5 device received 510(k) clearance in June 2008 for partial circulatory support for up to six hours. We received FDA 510(k) clearance of our Impella 5.0 and Impella LD
devices in April 2009 for circulatory support for up to six hours. Our AB Portable Driver received FDA approval under a PMA supplement in March 2009. All of these products have CE marks allowing distribution within the European Union.

Postmarket Regulation

The medical devices that we manufacture and distribute pursuant to FDA clearances or approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The FDA reviews design,
manufacturing, and distribution practices, labeling and record keeping, and manufacturers’ required reports of adverse experience and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. Among other FDA requirements,
we must comply with the FDA’s good manufacturing practice regulations. These regulations govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging and servicing of all finished medical devices
intended for human use. We must also comply with Medical Devices Reporting, or MDR, which requires that a firm report to the FDA any incident in which its product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or required an
unnecessary intervention for a patient, or in which its product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, it would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or






serious injury. Labeling, advertising, and promotional activities are subject to scrutiny by the FDA and, in certain circumstances, by the Federal Trade Commission. Current FDA enforcement policy
prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses.

We are subject to routine inspection by the FDA and
other regulatory authorities for compliance with Quality System Regulation, or QSR, and MDR requirements, as well as other applicable regulations. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that
any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, and
require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The FDA may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law
pertaining to medical devices, and assess civil or criminal fines and penalties against our officers, employees, or us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice.

The FDA often requires post market surveillance, or PMS, for significant risk devices, such as VADs, that require ongoing collection of
clinical data during commercialization that must be gathered, analyzed and submitted to the FDA periodically for up to several years. These PMS data collection requirements are often burdensome and expensive and have an effect on the PMA approval
status. The failure to comply with the FDA’s regulations can result in enforcement action, including seizure, injunction, prosecution, civil fines and penalties, recall and/or suspension of FDA approval. The export of devices such as ours is
also subject to regulation in certain instances.

The FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection, or CBP,
administers controls over the import and export of medical devices into and out of the U.S. The CBP imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of medical devices, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. The FDA also
administers certain controls over the export of medical devices from the U.S. International sales of our medical devices that have not received FDA approval are subject to FDA export requirements.

International Regulation

We are also subject to regulation in each of the foreign countries in which we sell our products. Many of the regulations applicable to our products in these countries are similar to those of the FDA. The
European Union requires that medical devices such as ours comply with the Medical Device Directive or the Active Implantable Medical Device Directive, which includes quality system and CE certification requirements. To obtain a CE Mark in the
European Union, defined products must meet minimum standards of safety and quality (i.e., the essential requirements) and then undergo an appropriate conformity assessment procedure. A Notified Body assesses the quality management systems of the
manufacturer and the product conformity to the essential and other requirements within the Medical Device Directive. In the European Union, we are also required to maintain certain International Organization for Standardization, or ISO,
certifications in order to sell our products. Our BVS 5000, AB5000, Impella products, IAB, iPulse console and Portable Driver are all CE marked and available for sale in the European Union. We are also subject to regulations in Canada and other
countries where we sell our products. Lack of regulatory compliance in any of these jurisdictions could limit our ability to distribute products in these countries.

Fraud and Abuse Laws

Our business is regulated by laws pertaining
to healthcare fraud and abuse including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by significant criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state
healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Evolving interpretations of current laws, or the
adoption of new laws or regulations, could adversely affect our arrangements with customers and physicians. In addition, any violation of these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations.

Anti-Kickback Statute

Subject to a number of statutory exceptions, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or
indirectly, in cash or in kind, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the furnishing, recommending, or arranging for, a good or service for which payment may be made under a federal health care program such as
Medicare and Medicaid. The term “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, waiver of payments, and providing anything
of value at less than fair market value. The Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or the OIG, is primarily responsible for enforcing the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and generally for identifying
fraud and abuse activities affecting government healthcare programs.

Penalties for violating the federal Anti-Kickback
Statute include substantial criminal fines and/or imprisonment, substantial civil fines and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Many states have adopted prohibitions similar to the
federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare services reimbursed by any source, not only by the Medicare and Medicaid programs and do not include comparable exceptions.






The OIG has issued safe harbor regulations that identify activities and business
relationships that are deemed safe from prosecution under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. There are safe harbors for various types of arrangements, including certain investment interests, leases, personal service arrangements, and management
contracts. The failure of a particular activity to comply with all requirements of an applicable safe harbor regulation does not mean that the activity violates the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or that prosecution will be pursued. However,
activities and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities such as the OIG.

In recent years, several states have enacted legislation requiring biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device companies to
establish marketing compliance programs and file periodic reports on sales, marketing, and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and available guidance is
limited. We could face enforcement action, fines and other penalties and could receive adverse publicity, all of which could harm our business, if it is alleged that we have failed to fully comply with such laws and regulations. Similarly, if the
physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found not to comply with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on our business.

Federal False Claims Act

The federal False Claims Act prohibits knowingly filing or causing the filing of a false claim or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. When an entity is
determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it must pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties for each separate false claim. Private individuals can file suits under the False Claims Act on
behalf of the government. These lawsuits are known as “qui tam” actions, and the individuals bringing such suits, sometimes known as “relators” or, more commonly, “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the
entity to the government in fines or settlement. In addition, certain states have enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. Qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies
to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action.

HIPAA

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud
statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payers. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion
from government-sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the
delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment.

HIPAA also protects the security and privacy of individually identifiable health information maintained or transmitted by healthcare providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses. HIPAA restricts
the use and disclosure of patient health information, including patient records. Although we believe that HIPAA does not apply to us directly, most of our customers have significant obligations under HIPAA, and we intend to cooperate with our
customers and others to ensure compliance with HIPAA with respect to patient information that comes into our possession. Failure to comply with HIPAA obligations can entail criminal penalties. Some states have also enacted rigorous laws or
regulations protecting the security and privacy of patient information. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face additional sanctions.

Employees

As of March 31, 2011, we had 374 full-time employees,
including:



•89 in product engineering, research and development, and regulatory;



•129 in sales, clinical support, marketing, field service and related support;



•116 in manufacturing; and



•40 in general and administration.

We routinely enter into contractual agreements with our employees, which typically include confidentiality and non-competition commitments. Our employees are not represented by unions. We consider our
employee relations to be good. If we were unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, our operations could be negatively impacted.

Our Corporate Information

We are a Delaware corporation and commenced
operations in 1981. Our principal executive offices are located at 22 Cherry Hill Drive, Danvers, Massachusetts 01923, and our telephone number is (978) 646-1400. Our web address is www.abiomed.com. We make available free of charge through the
Investors section of our website, all reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not incorporate the information on our website into this report, and you should not consider it part of this report.






