ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

We are a leading provider of mechanical circulatory support devices and we offer a continuum of care to heart failure
patients. We develop, manufacture and market proprietary products that are designed to enable the heart to rest, heal and recover by improving blood flow and/or performing the pumping function of the heart. Our products are used in the cardiac
catheterization lab, or cath lab, by interventional cardiologists and in the heart surgery suite by heart surgeons for patients who are in need of hemodynamic support prophylactically or emergently before, during or after angioplasty or heart
surgery procedures. We believe heart recovery is the optimal clinical outcome for patients experiencing heart failure because it restores their quality of life. In addition, we believe that for the care of such patients, heart recovery is the most
cost-effective solution for the healthcare system.

Our strategic focus and the driver of the majority of our revenue growth
is the market penetration of our Impella family of products. Our Impella 2.5 product received 510(k) clearance in June 2008 from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for partial circulatory support for up to six hours. We received 510(k)
clearance in April 2009 for our Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices for circulatory support for up to six hours. These devices are larger and provide more blood flow to patients than the Impella 2.5. In September 2012, our Impella CP product received
510(k) clearance from the FDA for partial circulatory support for up to six hours. Our Impella 2.5, Impella 5.0, Impella LD and Impella CP products also have CE Mark approval and Health Canada approval which allow us to market these devices in the
European Union and Canada. We have placed our Impella products at 859 sites since initial launch.

In November 2012, we
announced that the Impella RP received Investigational Device Exemption, or IDE, approval from the FDA for use in RECOVER RIGHT, a pivotal clinical study in the U.S. The RECOVER RIGHT study was designed to enroll up to 30 patients with signs of
right side heart failure who require hemodynamic support and are being treated in the cath lab or surgery suite. The Impella RP is a percutaneous catheter-based axial flow pump that is designed to allow greater than four liters of flow per minute
and is intended to provide the flow and pressure needed to compensate for right side heart failure. In April 2013, we enrolled the first patient in RECOVER RIGHT and we completed enrollment for the 30 patients in the Impella RP RECOVER RIGHT study
in March 2014. In May 2014, we received approval for implementation of a Continuous Access Protocol, or CAP, from the FDA for the RECOVER RIGHT RP trial. The CAP will allow us to enroll up to 22 additional patients at the 15 U.S. investigational
sites for a six month period. In April 2014, the Impella RP received CE Marking approval which allows for commercial sales of Impella RP in the EU and other countries that require a CE Marking approval for commercial sale. This product is not
currently available for commercial use outside of Europe.

In December 2012, as part of the FDA’s 515 Program Initiative,
an FDA panel voted to recommend continuation of Class III status for temporary ventricular support devices within the non-roller type cardiopulmonary bypass blood pumps category, which includes our Impella products. The panel’s recommendation
of Class III for this category of device is consistent with the current Class III designation for these device types. The FDA accepted the Panel’s recommendation recently as reflected in its issuance of a Proposed Order reflecting this
categorization. The Proposed Order was open for public comment until April 7, 2014. The FDA process will then be to address the public comments and over an unspecified period of time develop and issue a final order classifying these devices in
Class III. We will then be required to file a PMA application for our Impella products within 90 days from the issuance of the Final Order. Under the 515 Program Initiative, we will be permitted to continue to market our Impella products pursuant to
the 510(k) clearance for a sufficient period of time to allow for the submission and review of PMA applications relating to our Impella products.

We have been working with the FDA to submit a modular PMA submission for Impella 2.5 in response to the Panel’s recommendation of Class III for Impella products. A modular PMA allows for a parallel
submission of preclinical and manufacturing data for review while still preparing the clinical module. In July 2013, we received written notification that the FDA has reviewed our proposed PMA shell for modular review of the Impella 2.5 System. The
FDA has confirmed that it agrees with our proposed shell and we submitted all modules required by the FDA as part of the planned modular PMA submission in March 2014. The PMA will be treated as a standard PMA and all modules will now be combined for
final review by the FDA.

In November 2011, we announced Symphony, a synchronized minimally invasive implantable cardiac
assist device designed to treat chronic patients with moderate heart failure by improving patient hemodynamics and potentially improving their quality of life. The device is designed with the primary goal of stabilizing the progression of heart
failure and recovering or remodeling the heart. We are currently conducting first-in-human clinical trials of Symphony outside the U.S. This product is not currently approved by the FDA for sale in the U.S.

On October 26, 2012, we were informed that the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia is conducting an
investigation that is focused on our marketing and labeling of the Impella 2.5. On October 31, 2012, we accepted service of a subpoena related to this investigation seeking documents related to the Impella 2.5. We believe we have substantially
complied with the subpoena and have submitted the requested documents to the United States Attorney’s Office. On September 13, 2013, we entered into a tolling agreement with the United States Attorney’s Office, pursuant to which we
and the United States Attorney’s Office mutually agreed to toll the applicable statutes of limitations for all criminal, civil and administrative offenses and violations that could be charged or claimed against us as of that







date until June 2, 2014. On May 27, 2014, we executed an extension of the tolling agreement through February 2, 2015. Because the investigation is in the early stages, we are unable to
predict the ultimate outcome or determine whether a liability has been incurred or make an estimate of the reasonably possible liability, if any, that could result from any unfavorable outcome associated with this inquiry. We have incurred
significant expenses related to this investigation, and we expect to continue to incur additional expenses in the future.

On
November 16 and 19, 2012, two purported class action complaints were filed against us and certain of our officers in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts by alleged purchasers of our common stock, on behalf of themselves
and persons or entities that purchased or acquired our securities between August 5, 2011 and October 31, 2012. The complaints alleged that the defendants violated the federal securities laws in connection with disclosures related to the
FDA and the marketing and labeling of our Impella 2.5 product and seek damages in an unspecified amount. The Court has consolidated these complaints and a consolidated amended complaint was filed by the plaintiffs on May 20, 2013. On
July 8, 2013, we filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated class action. Oral arguments on our motion to dismiss were conducted before the presiding district court judge on September 18, 2013. On April 10, 2014, the U.S. District
Court entered an order granting our motion and dismissed the consolidated and amended complaint. On May 9, 2014, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal.

On February 4, 2013, an alleged stockholder of the Company filed a derivative action on our behalf against each of our directors in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The
complaint alleged that the directors breached their fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders in connection with disclosures related to the FDA and the marketing and labeling of our Impella 2.5 product and sought damages in an unspecified amount.
On March 22, 2013, we filed a motion to dismiss the derivative action. On June 21, 2013, the District Court granted our motion to dismiss. The plaintiff has appealed the dismissal to the United States Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit. Oral argument was conducted before the appellate court on February 5, 2014.

On April 25, 2014, we received
a subpoena from the Boston regional office of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General requesting materials relevant to our reimbursement of expenses and remuneration to healthcare providers for a six
month period from July 2012 through December 2012. The Office of Inspector General has informed us that the subpoena currently relates to a civil investigation. We intend to comply fully and promptly with this request.

Our revenues are primarily generated from our Impella line of products. Revenues from our non-Impella products, largely focused on the
heart surgery suite, have been lower over the past several years as we have strategically shifted our sales and marketing efforts towards our Impella products and the cath lab. We expect revenues from our non-Impella products, primarily AB5000, will
continue to decrease as we continue to focus on our Impella products.

For the year ended March 31, 2014, we recognized
net income of $7.4 million. Even though we were profitable in fiscal 2014, we have incurred losses in the past and may incur additional losses in the future as we continue to invest in research and development related to our products, conduct
clinical studies and registries on our products, expand our commercial infrastructure, incur additional legal fees to comply with the ongoing investigations by the Department of Justice and the Office of the Inspector General and defend ourselves
from other legal claims, incur additional costs in preparing our PMA application, enter into collaborations with other parties and invest in new markets such as Japan.

Corporate Background

We are incorporated in Delaware and trade on the
NASDAQ Global Select Market under the ticker symbol ABMD.

Our principal executive offices are located at 22 Cherry Hill
Drive, Danvers, Massachusetts 01923. Our telephone number is (978) 646-1400. We make available, free of charge on our website located at www.abiomed.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form
8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Our corporate governance guidelines, code of conduct, audit committee, governance and
nominating committee and compensation committee charters are also posted on our website. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this report.

Our Products

Impella 2.5

The Impella 2.5 catheter is a percutaneous micro heart pump with an integrated motor and sensors. The device is designed primarily for
use by interventional cardiologists to support patients in the cath lab who may require assistance to maintain their circulation. The Impella 2.5 device received 510(k) clearance from the FDA in June 2008 for partial circulatory support for up to
six hours, has CE mark approval in Europe for up to five days of use and is approved for use in over 40 countries.







The Impella 2.5 catheter can be quickly inserted via the femoral artery to reach the left
ventricle of the heart where it is directly deployed to draw blood out of the ventricle and deliver it to the circulatory system. This function is intended to reduce ventricular work and provide flow to vital organs. The Impella 2.5 is introduced
with normal interventional cardiology procedures and can pump up to 2.5 liters of blood per minute.

In August 2007, we
received approval from the FDA to begin a high-risk percutaneous coronary intervention, or PCI, pivotal clinical trial, known as the Protect II study, for the Impella 2.5. This pivotal study was a superiority study to determine the safety and
effectiveness of the Impella 2.5 as compared to medical management with an intra-aortic balloon, or IAB, during “high-risk” angioplasty procedures. In December 2010, we announced the termination of the Protect II study based on a futility
determination at the planned interim analysis regarding the primary end-point, which we view as likely to have resulted from how rotational atherectomy was performed by investigators in the study.

In November 2011, we announced additional analysis of the results from the Protect II study, including those patients enrolled following
the initiation of the interim analysis, which showed a statistically significant 22% relative reduction in major adverse events compared to an intraortic balloon pump, or IAB, at 90 days per protocol (p=0.023), a 52% relative reduction in repeat
revascularization (p=0.024) and a 56% relative reduction in material adverse events post hospital discharge (p=0.002). Furthermore, additional data analysis of the clinical data from the Protect II trial revealed that more aggressive
revascularization is beneficial for patients with coronary artery disease and reduced left ventricular function.

A November
2011 update to the American College of Cardiology Foundation (ACCF) /American Heart Association (AHA) Task Force on Practice Guidelines and the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions Guidelines for Percutaneous Coronary
Intervention, for the first time, included Impella in both the emergent and prophylactic hemodynamic support settings. In addition, a December 2012 update to the AHA’sRecommendations for the Use of Mechanical Circulatory Support: Device
Strategies and Patient Selectionrecommended Impella for use in mechanical circulatory support; a December 2012 update to the ACCF/AHAGuidelines for the Management of ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction(STEMI) included Impella for use in
patients requiring urgent coronary artery bypass grafting with STEMI and in treatment of patients with cardiogenic shock complications after STEMI; and a January 2013 update to the International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation Guidelines
for Mechanical Circulatory Support included Impella for the first time for patients with multi-organ failure.

We are
currently conducting USpella, the first U.S. multicenter observational registry collecting clinical data and outcomes for general use patients supported with Impella 2.5, CP, and 5.0 during procedures. In December 2012, as part of the FDA’s 515
Program Initiative, an FDA panel voted to recommend continuation of Class III status for temporary ventricular support devices within the non-roller type cardiopulmonary bypass blood pumps category, which includes our Impella products. The
panel’s recommendation of Class III for this category of device is consistent with the current Class III designation for these device types. The FDA accepted the Panel’s recommendation recently as reflected in its issuance of a Proposed
Order reflecting this categorization. If the FDA issues a final order classifying these devices in Class III, we will be required to file a PMA application for our Impella products. We will have 90 days to file the PMA from the issuance of the Final
Order. Under the 515 Program Initiative, we will be permitted to continue to market our Impella products pursuant to the 510(k) clearance for a sufficient period of time to allow for the submission and review of PMA applications relating to our
Impella products.

Pursuant to discussions with the FDA, we have agreed to submit a modular PMA submission for Impella 2.5. A
modular PMA allows for a parallel submission of preclinical and manufacturing data for review while still preparing the clinical module. In July 2013, we received written notification that the FDA has reviewed our proposed PMA shell for modular
review of Impella 2.5. The FDA has confirmed that it agrees with our proposed shell. In March 2014, we submitted all of the modules required by the FDA as part of the planned modular PMA submission. The PMA will be treated as a standard PMA and all
modules will now be combined for final review by the FDA.

Impella CP

In September 2012, we announced that the Impella CP received 510(k) clearance from the FDA. The Impella CP provides blood flow of
approximately one liter more per minute than the Impella 2.5 and is indicated for up to six hours of partial circulatory support using an extracorporeal bypass control unit. It is also intended to be used to provide partial circulatory support, for
up to six hours, during procedures not requiring cardiopulmonary bypass. The Impella CP received CE Mark approval to be marketed in the European Union in April 2012 and Health Canada approval to be marketed in Canada in June 2012. We began selling
Impella CP in the U.S. during the second quarter of fiscal 2013.

Impella 5.0 and Impella LD

The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD are percutaneous micro heart pumps with integrated motors and sensors for use primarily in the heart
surgery suite. These devices are designed to support patients who require higher levels of circulatory support as compared to the Impella 2.5.







The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices received 510(k) clearance in April 2009, for circulatory support for up to six hours and have CE Mark approval in Europe for up to ten days duration and are
approved for use in over 40 countries.

The Impella 5.0 can be quickly implanted via a small incision in the femoral artery in
the groin using a guide wire to reach the left ventricle of the heart where it can then be directly deployed to draw blood out of the ventricle, deliver it to the arterial system and perfuse the heart muscle. This function is intended to reduce
ventricular work. The Impella LD is similar to the Impella 5.0 but is implanted directly through an aortic graft. The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD can pump up to five liters of blood per minute, providing full circulatory support.

Impella RP

The Impella RP is a percutaneous catheter-based axial flow pump that is designed to allow greater than four liters of flow per minute and is intended to provide the flow and pressure needed to compensate
for right heart failure. In November 2012, we announced that the Impella RP received US IDE approval from the FDA for use in RECOVER RIGHT, a pivotal clinical study in the U.S. In March 2014, we completed enrollment of 30 patients at sites that
present with signs of right side heart failure, require hemodynamic support, and are being treated in the catheterization lab or cardiac surgery suite. The study collected safety and effectiveness data on the percutaneous use of the Impella RP and
will be applied towards the submission of a Humanitarian Device Exemption, or HDE. In May 2014, we received approval for implementation of a Continuous Access Protocol, or CAP, from the FDA for the RECOVER RIGHT RP trial. The CAP will allow us to
enroll up to 22 additional patients at the 15 U.S. investigational sites for a six month period.

We expect that the HDE will
be approved in late fiscal 2015. An HDE is similar to a PMA application but is intended for patient populations of 4,000 or less per year in the U.S. Approval of an HDE requires demonstration of the safety and probable benefit of the product, which
is a lower standard than is applied to a PMA. In order to receive an HDE, there must be no comparable devices approved under PMA that are available to treat the targeted population. An approved HDE authorizes sales of the device to any hospital
after Institutional Review Board review and approval by the hospital. In April 2014, the Impella RP received CE Marking approval which allows for commercial sales of Impella RP in the EU and other countries that require a CE Marking approval for
sales. This product is not currently available for commercial use outside of Europe.

AB5000

We manufacture and sell the AB5000 Circulatory Support System for the temporary support of acute heart failure patients in profound
shock, including patients suffering from cardiogenic shock after a heart attack, post-cardiotomy cardiogenic shock, or myocarditis. We believe the AB5000 is the only commercially available cardiac assist device that is approved by the FDA for all
indications where heart recovery is the desired outcome, including patients who have undergone successful cardiac surgery and subsequently develop low cardiac output, or patients who suffer from acute cardiac disorders leading to hemodynamic
instability. We are no longer actively manufacturing or selling our BVS 5000 Biventricular Support System. We have transitioned our sales focus in the surgery market from the BVS 5000 to the AB5000, the Impella 5.0, and the Impella LD.

Symphony

In November 2011, we announced Symphony, a synchronized minimally invasive implantable cardiac assist device designed to treat chronic patients with moderate heart failure by improving patient
hemodynamics and potentially improving their quality of life. The device is designed with the primary goal of stabilizing the progression of heart failure and recovering or remodeling the heart. To date, we have implanted the device in four patients
in first-in-human clinical trials of Symphony outside the U.S. We are evaluating the results of these cases and expect to conduct additional Symphony trials outside of the U.S. in fiscal 2015. Symphony is not currently approved by the FDA for sale
in the U.S.

Our Markets

According to the American Heart Association, or AHA, Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics 2014 Update Report, coronary heart disease, or CHD, causes ≈1 of every 6 deaths in the United States.
Coronary heart disease is a condition of the coronary arteries that causes reduced blood flow and insufficient oxygen delivery to the affected portion of the heart. Coronary heart disease leads to acute myocardial infarction, or AMI, commonly known
as a heart attack, which may lead to heart failure, a condition in which the heart is unable to pump enough blood to the body’s major organs. In 2010, CHD mortality was 379,559. Each year, an estimated 620,000 Americans have a new coronary
attack (defined as first hospitalized myocardial infarction or coronary heart disease death) and approximately 295,000 have a recurrent attack. It is estimated that an additional 150,000 “silent” first myocardial infarctions occur each
year.

A broad spectrum of therapies exists for the treatment of patients in early stages of CHD. Angioplasty procedures and
stents are commonly used in the cath lab to restore and increase blood flow to the heart. These treatments are often successful in slowing the progression of heart disease, extending life, and/or improving the quality of life for some period of
time. Patients presenting with acute cardiac injuries potentially have recoverable hearts. Treatment for these patients in pre-shock in the cath lab is primarily focused on hemodynamic







stabilization. Acute heart failure patients in profound shock typically require treatment in the surgery suite. These are patients suffering from cardiogenic shock after a heart attack,
post-cardiotomy cardiogenic shock or myocarditis complicated with cardiogenic shock. Chronic heart failure patients have hearts that are unlikely to be recoverable due to left and/or right side heart failure and their conditions cause their hearts
to fail over time. Limited therapies exist today for patients with severe, end-stage, or chronic heart failure.

In more
severe cases of heart failure, patients are sent directly to the surgery suite for coronary bypass or valve replacement surgery. The most severe acute heart failure patients are in profound cardiogenic shock, including those suffering from
myocarditis (a viral attack of the heart), or from those suffering from an impaired ability of the heart to pump blood after a heart attack or heart surgery. According to results of the SHOCK (Should We Emergently Revascularize Occluded Coronaries
for Cardiogenic Shock) trial published in the August 26, 1999 edition ofThe New England Journal of Medicine, approximately 7 to 10% of the patients who are hospitalized for a heart attack suffer from cardiogenic shock and 60 to 80% of
those patients die. These patients typically require treatments involving the use of mechanical circulatory support devices that provide increased blood flow and reduce the stress on the heart. Many less severe patients in the cath lab could also
benefit from circulatory support devices or other clinical treatment, which could potentially prevent them from entering into profound shock.

There are a few primary types of devices used in the cath lab and surgery suite in the U.S. for circulatory support for pre-shock and profound shock patients: intra-aortic balloons, or IABs, percutaneous
assist devices such as Impella, and surgical ventricular assist devices, or VADs.

An IAB is an inflatable balloon inserted
via a catheter into a patient’s circulation and is inflated and deflated in the aorta. This is used as an initial line of therapy in the cath lab or the surgery suite for patients with diminished heart function. There are an estimated 170,000
annual IAB procedures globally, with an estimated 75,000 IAB procedures annually in the U.S. However, IABs typically provide only limited enhancement and depend on the patient’s own heart to generate the majority of the patient’s blood
flow. In addition, IABs are often required to be used in conjunction with inotropes or other drugs to stimulate heart muscle ejection. The use of these drugs, however, increases the risk of mortality. Clinical publications have demonstrated that the
need for two or more inotropes to improve blood flow results in mortality rates of approximately 80%. In addition, IABs have limited effectiveness in patients that are arrhythmic and /or in cardiogenic shock and published reports have indicated that
IABs do not reduce mortality for patients in cardiogenic shock.

Percutaneous assist devices and VADs are mechanical devices
that help the failing heart pump blood or take over the pumping function of the failing heart. Historically, VADs have been highly invasive and require implantation in the surgery suite. Percutaneous assist devices allow for less invasive placement
and removal, and can be done through a small puncture in the leg in the catheterization lab, electrophysiology lab, or operating room. The use of surgically placed VADs generally falls into three sub-categories: recovery, bridge-to-transplant and
destination therapy.

Recovery VADs are designed to enable the patient’s heart to rest and potentially recover so that
the patient can return home with his or her own heart. Because recovery is the goal, these devices are designed to minimize damage to heart tissue and are removed once the patient’s heart has recovered. If possible, recovery of a patient’s
heart is generally preferred to transplantation or prolonged device implantation, both of which have significant side effects for the patient and increase the risk of mortality. We believe heart recovery is a preferred clinical outcome for patients,
since it also generally lowers the overall relative cost to the healthcare system versus alternative therapies and treatment paths that may require multiple surgeries, lengthy or repeated hospital stays, chronic therapeutic and immunosuppressant
drugs and other related healthcare costs.

Bridge-to-transplant VADs are primarily used to support
chronic heart failure patients eligible to receive a heart transplant. Destination therapy generally involves the implantation of a mechanical support device as the last clinical alternative for a chronic patient with end-stage heart failure who is
not eligible for transplantation. Our product portfolio is designed to provide a continuum of care in heart recovery to acute heart failure patients from the intensive care unit to the cath lab to the surgery suite to home discharge and to provide
an array of choices for clinicians treating acute heart failure patients. Our products provide various levels of blood flow and are capable of supporting a patient for lengths of time ranging from several hours to months to align with the clinical
needs of the patient, whether in pre-shock or profound shock. Our primary cath lab products include the Impella®pumps for partial or full circulatory support. Our
primary cath lab products are Impella 2.5 and Impella CP. Our primary surgery suite products include our Impella 5.0, Impella LD and our AB5000 VAD. Our surgery suite products are designed to support acute heart failure patients in need of more
blood flow. Our VADs are indicated for longer duration of support of up to 30 days for AMI, cardiogenic shock post-AMI, and myocarditis patients.

Research and Product Development

Since our founding in 1981, we have
gained substantial expertise in circulatory support while developing our Impella platform, our BVS and AB5000 systems, and our AbioCor program. Our current strategy is to develop a complete portfolio of products for partial and full circulatory
support to treat acute heart failure patients. We intend to continue to use this experience to develop additional circulatory support products. Our research and development efforts are focused on developing a broader portfolio of products across the
continuum of care in heart recovery, primarily focused in the area of circulatory care. In addition, we have a number of new products at various stages of development some of which integrate the Impella technology platform.







As of March 31, 2014, our research and development staff consisted of 105 employees. We
expended $30.7 million, $25.6 million and $27.2 million on research and development in fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our research and development expenditures include costs related to clinical trials, including ongoing clinical
studies for our Impella products.

Sales, Clinical Support, Marketing and Field Service

As of March 31, 2014, our worldwide sales, clinical support, marketing and field service teams included 211 full-time employees, 191
of whom are in the U.S. and Canada and 20 of whom are in Europe and Japan. Over the past five years, we have significantly increased the number of our direct sales and clinical support personnel covering the U.S., Canada, Germany, France, and the
U.K.

Our clinical support personnel consist primarily of registered nurses and other personnel with considerable experience
in either the surgery suite or the cath lab, and they play a critical role in training current and prospective customers in the use of our products.

International sales (sales outside the U.S., primarily in Europe) accounted for 9%, 7% and 8% of total product revenue during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

Manufacturing

We manufacture our products in Danvers, Massachusetts and Aachen, Germany. Our Danvers facility manufactures certain Impella subsystems and accessories, including our Automated Impella Console, or AIC,
our console for our Impella products, the AB5000, and Portable Driver. Our Aachen facility manufactures most of our Impella disposable products. In addition, we rely on third-party suppliers to provide us with components used in our existing
products and products under development. For example, we outsource some of the manufacturing for components and circuit cards within our consoles.

We believe our existing manufacturing facilities give us the necessary physical capacity to produce sufficient quantities of products to meet anticipated demand for at least the next twelve months based
on our current revenue forecast. We expect to continue to increase Impella manufacturing capacity in our Aachen and Danvers facilities in fiscal 2015 to support the growing demand for our Impella products. Our U.S. and German manufacturing
facilities are certified by the International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, and operate under the FDA’s good manufacturing practice requirements set forth in the current quality system regulation, or QSR.

Intellectual Property

We have developed significant know-how and proprietary technology, upon which our business depends. To protect our know-how and
proprietary technology, we rely on trade secret laws, patents, copyrights, trademarks, and confidentiality agreements and contracts. However, these methods afford only limited protection. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent
proprietary information or technology, gain access to our trade secrets or disclose or use such secrets or technology without our approval.

A substantial portion of our intellectual property rights relating to the Impella products, AB5000, and other products under development is in the form of trade secrets, rather than patents. We protect
our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge in part through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. We cannot assure you that our trade secrets will not become known to or be independently developed by our
competitors.

We own or have rights to numerous U.S. and foreign patents. Our U.S. patents have expiration dates ranging from
2015 to 2031 and our foreign patents have expiration dates ranging from 2016 to 2028. We also own or have rights to certain pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We believe patents will issue pursuant to such applications, but cannot
guarantee it. Moreover, neither the timing of any issuance, the scope of protection, nor the actual issue date of these pending applications can be forecasted with precision. Where we have licensed patent rights from third parties, we are generally
required to pay royalties.

Our patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. Our pending or future patent
applications may not be issued. The patents of others may render our patents obsolete, limit our ability to patent future innovations, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business. Because foreign patents may afford less
protection than U.S. patents, they may not adequately protect our technology.

The medical device industry is characterized by
a large number of patents and by frequent and substantial intellectual property litigation. Our products and technologies could infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. If third parties successfully assert infringement or other claims
against us, we may not be able to sell our products or we may have to pay significant damages and ongoing royalties. In addition, patent or intellectual property disputes or litigation may be costly, result in product development delays, or divert
the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. If any such disputes or litigation arise, we may seek to enter into a royalty or licensing arrangement. However, such an arrangement may not be available on commercially acceptable
terms, if at all. We may decide, in the alternative, to litigate the claims or seek to design around the patented or otherwise protected proprietary technology.







The U.S. government may obtain certain rights to use or disclose technical data developed
under government contracts that supported the development of some of our products. We retain the right to obtain patents on any inventions developed under those contracts, provided we follow prescribed procedures and are subject to a non-exclusive,
non-transferable, royalty-free license to the U.S. government.

Competition

Competition among providers of treatments for the failing heart is intense and subject to rapid technological change and evolving
industry requirements and standards. We compete with companies that have substantially greater or broader financial, product development, sales and marketing resources and experience than we do. These competitors may develop superior products or
products of similar quality at the same or lower prices. Moreover, improvements in current or new technologies may make them technically equivalent or superior to our products in addition to providing cost or other advantages. Other advances in
medical technology, biotechnology and pharmaceuticals may reduce the size of the potential markets for our products or render those products obsolete. Among our medical device competitors are Getinge (Maquet Cardiovascular), Teleflex Inc., Thoratec
Corporation, HeartWare International Inc., Jarvik Heart, Terumo Heart, Inc. and CardiacAssist Inc.

Our customers are
hospitals that have limited budgets. As a result, our products compete against a broad range of medical devices and other therapies for these limited funds. Our continued success will depend in large part upon our ability to enhance our existing
products, to develop new products to meet regulatory and customer requirements, and to achieve market acceptance. We believe that important competitive factors with respect to the development and commercialization of our products include the
relative speed with which we can develop products, establish clinical utility, complete clinical trials and regulatory approval processes, obtain and protect reimbursement, maintain cost effectiveness for our products, and supply commercial
quantities of our product to meet customer demand.

Third-Party Reimbursement

Our products and services are generally purchased by healthcare institutions that rely on third-party payers to cover and reimburse the
costs of related patient care. In the U.S., as well as in many foreign countries, government-funded or private insurance programs pay the cost of a significant portion of a patient’s medical expenses. No uniform policy of coverage or
reimbursement for medical technology exists among all these payers. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement can differ significantly from payer to payer and by jurisdiction.

Third-party payers may include government healthcare programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, private insurers or managed care organizations. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS,
is responsible for administering the Medicare program in the U.S. and, along with its contractors, establishes coverage and reimbursement policies for the Medicare program. Medicare’s coverage and reimbursement policies are particularly
significant to our business because a large percentage of the population for which our products are intended includes elderly individuals who are Medicare beneficiaries. In addition, private payers often follow the coverage and reimbursement
policies of Medicare. We cannot assure that government or private third-party payers will continue to cover and reimburse the procedures using our products in whole or in part in the future or that payment rates will be adequate.

Medicare payment may be made, in appropriate cases, for procedures performed in the in-patient hospital setting using our technology.
Medicare generally reimburses healthcare institutions in which the procedures are performed based upon prospectively determined amounts. For hospital in-patient stays, the prospective payment generally is determined by the patient’s condition
and other patient data and procedures performed during the in-patient stay, using a classification system known as International Classification of Diseases, or ICD-9, and diagnosis-related groups, or DRGs. Prospective rates are adjusted for, among
other things, regional differences, co-morbidity and complications. Hospitals performing in-patient procedures using our devices generally do not receive separate Medicare reimbursement for the specific costs of purchasing or implanting our
products. Rather, reimbursement for these costs is bundled with the DRG-based payments made to hospitals for the procedures during which our devices are implanted, removed, repaired or replaced. Because prospective payments are based on
predetermined rates and may be less than a hospital’s actual costs in furnishing care, hospitals have incentives to lower their in-patient operating costs by utilizing products, devices and supplies that will reduce the length of in-patient
stays, decrease labor or otherwise lower their costs.

Medicare has announced plans to transition to a new system of
International Classification of Diseases, or ICD-10, in October 2015. CMS has stated that the transition from ICD-9 to ICD-10 codes is intended to provide more descriptive information about procedures used to deliver care to patients, and is not a
mechanism for remapping DRGs or changing payment. Recently CMS updated their description for Impella to use 5A02(1,2)1D: “Assistance with Cardiac Output Using Impeller Pump,” which continues to map to DRG 216-221. We believe this is an
accurate description/DRG assignment and do not expect changes. However future updates before and after implementation are possible.

Coverage and reimbursements for procedures to implant, remove, replace or repair our products are generally established in the U.S. market. For instance, Medicare covers the use of LVADs when used for
support of blood circulation post-cardiotomy, as a temporary life-support system until a human heart becomes available for transplant, or as therapy for patients who require permanent mechanical cardiac support. Coverage and reimbursements for
procedures to implant the Impella 2.5, CP, 5.0, or LD are also established for in-hospital use by







Medicare including ICD-9 for procedures and DRG coding. Actual coverage and payment may vary by local Medicare fiscal intermediary or third-party insurer. We also announced in 2013 recent
coverage decisions by third party insurers including Aetna, Humana, Cigna, HCSC Blue Cross Blue Shield, and United Healthcare, to include Impella policies in their commercial and/or Medicare plans.

In addition to payments to hospitals for procedures using our technology, Medicare makes separate payments to physicians for their
professional services when they perform surgeries to implant, remove, replace or repair our devices or when they perform percutaneous insertion and removal of Impella. Physicians generally bill for such services using a coding system known as
Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes. Physician services performed in connection with the implantation, removal, replacement or repair of our approved products are billed using a variety of CPT codes. Generally, Medicare payment levels for
physician services are based on the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule and are revised annually by CMS.

In general, third-party
reimbursement programs in the U.S. and abroad, whether government-funded or commercially insured, are developing a variety of increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs, including prospective reimbursement and capitation
programs, group purchasing, reducing benefit coverage, requiring second opinions prior to major surgery, negotiating reductions to charges on patient bills, promoting healthier lifestyle initiatives and exploring more cost-effective methods of
delivering healthcare. These types of cost-containment programs, as well as legislative or regulatory changes to reimbursement policies, could limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for our medical devices.

Government Regulation

The healthcare industry, and thus our business, is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulation. Some of the
pertinent laws have not been definitively interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. In addition, these laws and their interpretations are subject to change.

Premarket Regulation

In the U.S., the FDA strictly regulates medical devices under the authority of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA, and its regulations. The FDA classifies U.S. medical devices into one of
three classes (Class I, II or III) based on the statutory framework described in the FFDCA. Class III devices, which are typically life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, or new devices that have been found not to be substantially
equivalent to legally marketed devices. Class III devices must generally receive a PMA by the FDA to ensure their safety and effectiveness.

When clinical trials of a device are required in order to obtain FDA approval, the sponsor of the trial is required to file an investigational device exemption, or IDE, application before commencing
clinical trials. The FDA reviews and must approve an IDE before a study may begin in the U.S. In addition, the study must be approved by an Institutional Review Board, or IRB, for each clinical site.

The FDA, the IRB at each institution at which a clinical trial is being performed or we, may suspend a clinical trial at any time for
various reasons, including a belief that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. All clinical studies of investigational devices must be conducted in compliance with FDA requirements. Following the completion of a study, the
data from the study must be collected, analyzed and presented in an appropriate submission to the FDA, either through an IDE, 510(k) premarket notification or a PMA.

Certain Class III devices that were on the market before May 28, 1976, known as pre-amendment Class III devices, and devices that
are determined to be substantially equivalent to them, can be brought to market through the 510(k) process until the FDA, by regulation, calls for PMA applications for these devices. In addition, the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990, as amended by
the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act (FDAISIA) of 2012, requires the FDA either down-classify pre-amendment Class III devices to Class I or Class II or to publish an administrative order retaining the devices in Class III.
Manufacturers of pre-amendment Class III devices that the FDA retains







in Class III must submit a PMA application within 90 days after the FDA publishes a final order requiring premarket approval for the device, or 30 months after final classification of the device,
whichever is later. Failure to meet the deadline can lead the FDA to prevent continued marketing of the device during the PMA application review period. The Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella LD received clearance based on a
pre-amendment Class III device. If the FDA publishes a final order that calls for a PMA, a PMA must be submitted for the device even if the device has already received 510(k) clearance; however, if the FDA down-classifies a pre-amendment Class III
device to Class I or Class II, a PMA application will not be required. In December 2012, as part of the FDA’s 515 Program Initiative, an FDA panel voted to recommend continuation of Class III status for temporary ventricular support devices
within the non-roller type cardiopulmonary bypass blood pumps category, which includes our Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella LD products.

The PMA approval pathway requires reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device to the FDA’s satisfaction. The PMA approval pathway is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain
than the 510(k) path. In the PMA process, the FDA examines detailed data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the device. This information includes design, development, manufacture, labeling, advertising, preclinical testing and clinical study
data. Prior to approving a PMA, the FDA may conduct an inspection of the manufacturing facilities and the clinical sites where the supporting study was conducted. The facility inspection evaluates the company’s compliance with the Quality
System Regulation, or QSR. An inspection of clinical sites evaluates compliance with the IDE requirements. Typically, the FDA will convene an advisory panel meeting to seek review of the data presented in the PMA. The panel’s recommendation is
given substantial weight, but is not binding on the agency. By regulation, the FDA has 180 days to review a PMA application not requiring an advisory panel meeting, and 320 days to review a PMA application that does require an advisory panel
meeting. While the FDA has approved PMA applications within the allotted time period, reviews can occur over a significantly protracted period, usually 18 to 36 months, but sometimes longer, and a number of devices have never been approved for
marketing.

If the FDA’s evaluation is favorable, the PMA is approved and the device may be marketed in the U.S. The FDA
may approve the PMA with post-approval conditions intended to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device including, among other things, restrictions on labeling and promotion, and post-market collection of clinical data. Failure to comply
with the conditions of approval can result in material adverse enforcement action, including the loss or withdrawal of the approval. Even after approval of a PMA, a new PMA or PMA supplement is required in the event of a modification to the device,
its labeling or its manufacturing process. Even if a device receives 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, the FDA may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which a device may be marketed. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the
promotion of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. In addition, product approvals can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial marketing.

In 2009, the FDA implemented the 515 Program Initiative to facilitate the potential reclassification of twenty-six medical devices which
are currently classified as Class III devices. Class I and II devices are generally considered to be lower risk than Class III devices and require clearance through the FDA’s 510(k) premarket notification process. Class III devices, however,
are typically higher risk and first-of-a-kind and require approval through a PMA which is a much more costly and uncertain process to approval than the 510(k) premarket notification process. Under the 515 Program Initiative, the FDA is reviewing
Class III device types to determine whether any of them should be reclassified as Class I or II devices or if they should remain classified as Class III devices and be subject to approval through the PMA process.

In December 2012, as part of the 515 Program Initiative, an FDA panel voted to recommend continuation of Class III status for the
temporary ventricular support devices within the non-roller type cardiopulmonary bypass blood pumps category, which includes our Impella products. The panel’s recommendation of Class III for this category of device is consistent with the
current Class III designation for these device types. If the FDA accepts the panel’s determination and issues a final order classifying these devices in Class III, we will have 90 days from the date of the issuance of that order to file a PMA
application for Impella 2.5 in order for the product to remain on the market. Under the 515 Program Initiative, we will be permitted to continue to market our Impella products pursuant to the 510(k) clearance for a sufficient period of time to allow
for the submission and review of PMA applications relating to our Impella products. As of March 31, 2014, we submitted the final module of the modular PMA application to the FDA for our Impella 2.5 device. The PMA will be treated as a standard
PMA and all modules will now be combined for final review by the FDA.

In addition, certain devices can be distributed under
an HDE, rather than a PMA. In order for a device to be eligible for an HDE, a qualifying target patient population of less than 4,000 patients per year for which there is no other comparable device available to treat the condition must be approved
by the FDA. The FDA’s approval of an HDE to treat that qualifying patient population then requires demonstration that the device is safe for its intended application, that it is potentially effective, and that the probable benefits outweigh the
associated risks. Within the regulations for an HDE, if a device becomes available through the PMA process that addresses the same patient population as the HDE device, the HDE device may need to be withdrawn from the U.S. market. We are applying
for regulatory approval of the Impella RP in the U.S. through the HDE process.

Our AB5000 system is approved by the FDA for
use in patients who have undergone successful cardiac surgery and subsequently develop low cardiac output, or patients who suffer from acute cardiac disorders leading to hemodynamic instability. The intent of therapy is to provide circulatory
support, restore normal hemodynamics, reduce ventricular work, and allow the heart time to recover adequate mechanical function. In April 2003, the AB5000 Circulatory Support System Console and in September 2003, the AB5000 VAD were approved under
PMA supplements. We received FDA clearance for our IAB in December 2006. Our iPulse console was approved by the FDA under a PMA supplement in December 2007. Our Impella 2.5 device received 510(k) clearance in June 2008 for partial circulatory
support for up to six hours. We received FDA 510(k) clearance of our Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices in April 2009 for circulatory support for up to six hours.







Our AB Portable Driver received FDA approval under a PMA supplement in March 2009. All of these products have CE marks allowing distribution within the European Union. In September 2012, we
announced that the Impella CP received 510(k) clearance from the FDA for up to six hours of partial circulatory support using an extracorporeal bypass control unit. The Impella CP (previously marketed outside of the U.S. as Impella cVAD) received CE
Mark approval to market the device in the European Union in April 2012 and Health Canada approval to market the device in Canada in June 2012.

Postmarket Regulation

The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products
for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. If the FDA or another regulatory agency determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or
promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered
off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion.

In June 2011, we received a warning letter from the FDA stating that some of our promotional materials marketed the Impella 2.5 for uses that had not been approved by the FDA. We cooperated with the FDA
and made changes to our promotional materials in response to the warning letter. However, in April 2012, we received a follow up letter from the FDA stating that some of our promotional materials continued to market the Impella 2.5 in ways that are
not compliant with FDA regulations. After additional action by us, we received a close-out letter in February 2013 from the FDA with respect to this matter, which noted that the FDA’s Office of Compliance had completed its review of the
corrective actions we took in response to the warning letter and that the concerns cited appeared to have been addressed.

On
October 26, 2012, we were informed that the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia is conducting an investigation that is focused on our marketing and labeling of the Impella 2.5. On October 31, 2012, we accepted
service of a subpoena related to this investigation seeking documents related to the Impella 2.5. We believe we have substantially complied with the subpoena and have submitted the requested documents to the United States Attorney’s Office. On
September 13, 2013, we entered into a tolling agreement with the United States Attorney’s Office, pursuant to which we and the United States Attorney’s Office mutually agreed to toll the applicable statutes of limitations for all
criminal, civil and administrative offenses and violations that could be charged or claimed against us as of that date until June 2, 2014. On May 27, 2014, we executed an extension of the tolling agreement through February 2, 2015. Because the
investigation is in the early stages, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome or determine whether a liability has been incurred or make an estimate of the reasonably possible liability, if any, that could result from any unfavorable outcome
associated with this inquiry. We have incurred significant expenses related to this investigation and we expect to continue to incur additional expenses in the future.

On April 25, 2014, we received a subpoena from the Boston regional office of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General requesting materials relevant to
our reimbursement of expenses and remuneration to healthcare providers for a six month period from July 2012 through December 2012. The Office of Inspector General has informed us that the subpoena currently relates to a civil investigation. We
intend to comply fully and promptly with this request.

The FDA often requires post market surveillance, or PMS, for
significant risk devices, such as VADs, that require ongoing collection of clinical data during commercialization that must be gathered, analyzed and submitted to the FDA periodically for up to several years. The PMS data collection requirements are
often burdensome and expensive and have an effect on the PMA approval status. The failure to comply with the FDA’s regulations can result in enforcement action, including seizure of products, injunction, prosecution, civil fines and penalties,
recall and/or suspension of FDA approval. The export of devices such as ours is also subject to regulation in certain instances.







The FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection, or CBP, administers
controls over the import and export of medical devices into and out of the U.S. The CBP imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of medical devices, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. The FDA also administers
certain controls over the export of medical devices from the U.S. International sales of our medical devices that have not received FDA approval are therefore subject to FDA export requirements.

Fraud and Abuse Laws

Our business is regulated by laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by significant criminal and civil
sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices
to be in compliance with these laws. Evolving interpretations of current laws, or the adoption of new laws or regulations, could adversely affect our arrangements with customers and physicians. In addition, any violation of these laws or regulations
could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Anti-Kickback Statute

Subject to a number of statutory exceptions, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and
willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the furnishing, recommending, or arranging for, a good or
service for which payment may be made under a federal health care program such as Medicare and Medicaid. The term “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including gifts, discounts, the furnishing of
supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, waiver of payments, and providing anything of value at less than fair market value. The Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or the OIG, and the Department
of Justice are responsible for enforcing the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the OIG is primarily responsible for identifying fraud and abuse activities affecting government healthcare programs.

Penalties for violating the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include substantial criminal fines and/or imprisonment, substantial civil fines
and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Many states have adopted prohibitions similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for
healthcare services reimbursed by any source, not only by the Medicare and Medicaid programs and do not include comparable exceptions to those provided by the federal Anti-Kickback Statute.

The OIG has issued safe harbor regulations that identify activities and business relationships that are deemed safe from prosecution
under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. There are safe harbors for various types of arrangements, including certain investment interests, leases, personal service arrangements, and management contracts. The failure of a particular activity to
comply with all requirements of an applicable safe harbor regulation does not mean that the activity violates the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or that prosecution will be pursued. However, activities and business arrangements that do not fully
satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities such as the OIG.

In recent years, the federal government and several states have enacted legislation requiring biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical
device companies to establish marketing compliance programs and file periodic reports on sales, marketing, and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and available
guidance is limited. We could face enforcement action, fines and other penalties and could receive adverse publicity, all of which could harm our business, if it is alleged that we have failed to fully comply with such laws and regulations.
Similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities that we do business with are found to have not complied with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on our business.

On April 25, 2014, we received a subpoena from the Boston regional office of the United States Department of Health and Human
Services, Office of Inspector General requesting materials relevant to our reimbursement of expenses and remuneration to healthcare providers during the period of July 2012 through December 2012. The Office of Inspector General has informed us that
the subpoena currently relates to a civil investigation. We intend to comply fully and promptly with this request.

Federal False Claims Act

The federal False Claims Act prohibits knowingly filing or causing the filing of a false claim or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. When an entity is
determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it must pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties for each separate false claim. Private individuals can file suits under the False Claims Act on
behalf of the government. These lawsuits are known as “qui tam” actions, and the individuals bringing such suits, sometimes known as “relators” or, more commonly, “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the
entity to the government in fines or settlement. In addition, certain states have enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. Qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies
to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action.







HIPAA

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false
statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payers. A violation of this statute
is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government-sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false,
fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment.

HIPAA also protects the security and privacy of individually identifiable health information maintained or transmitted by healthcare
providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses. HIPAA restricts the use and disclosure of patient health information, including patient records. Although we believe that HIPAA does not apply to us directly, most of our customers have
significant obligations under HIPAA, and we intend to cooperate with our customers and others to ensure compliance with HIPAA with respect to patient information that comes into our possession. Failure to comply with HIPAA obligations can result in
civil fines and/or criminal penalties. Some states have also enacted rigorous laws or regulations protecting the security and privacy of patient information. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face additional sanctions.

Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act

In March 2010, Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or
together, the Affordable Care Act. The law includes provisions that, among other things, reduce or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose increased taxes. Specifically, the
law requires the medical device industry to subsidize health care reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on United States sales of most medical devices beginning in 2013. We began paying the medical device excise tax in January 2013. We expect that
the excise tax will continue to impact our operating expenses in the future. Because many other parts of the Affordable Care Act remain subject to implementation, the long-term impact to us is uncertain. The new law or any future legislation could
reduce medical procedure volumes, lower reimbursement for our products, and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products.

The Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, or PPSA, which requires manufacturers of drugs, biologics, devices and medical supplies covered under
Medicare and Medicaid to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, for subsequent public disclosure. The PPSA requires manufacturers
to begin collecting data required beginning in August 2013 with the first report required for the period from August 1 through December 31, 2013 to be reported to CMS in early 2014. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted in
several states, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring transparency of interactions with health care professionals. Particularly, some states such as Massachusetts, Minnesota and
Vermont, impose an outright ban on certain gifts to physicians. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties.

Additionally, the compliance environment is changing, with more states, such as California and Massachusetts, mandating implementation of compliance programs, compliance with industry ethics codes, and
spending limits, and other states, such as Vermont, Maine, and Minnesota, requiring reporting to state governments of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. The shifting regulatory environment, along with the requirement to comply
in multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and reporting requirements, increases the possibility that a company may run afoul of one or more laws.

International Regulation

We are also subject to regulation in each
of the foreign countries in which we sell our products. Many of the regulations applicable to our products in these countries are similar to those of the FDA. The European Union requires that our medical devices comply with the Medical Device
Directive or the Active Implantable Medical Device Directive, which includes quality system and CE certification requirements. To obtain a CE Mark in the European Union, defined products must meet minimum standards of safety and quality (i.e., the
essential requirements) and then undergo an appropriate conformity assessment procedure. A Notified Body assesses the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the essential and other requirements within the
Medical Device Directive. In the European Union, we are also required to maintain certain ISO certifications in order to sell our products. Our Impella 2.5, Impella 5.0, Impella LD, Impella CP, AB5000, BVS 5000, IAB, iPulse console and Portable
Driver are all approved under CE mark and are available for sale in the European Union. We are also subject to regulations and periodic review from various regulatory bodies in Canada, Japan and other countries where we sell our products. Lack of
regulatory compliance in any of these jurisdictions could limit our ability to distribute products in these countries.







Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and
their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Many of our customer relationships outside of the United States are, either directly or indirectly, with governmental
entities and are therefore subject to various anti-bribery laws. Although our corporate policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and
in certain circumstances strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or
agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Other Regulations

We are also subject to various international, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to such matters as safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use,
handling and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research and development and manufacturing activities. Specifically, the manufacture of our biomaterials is subject to compliance with federal
environmental regulations and by various state and local agencies. Although we believe we are in compliance with these laws and regulations in all material respects, we cannot provide assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs
to comply with these and other laws or regulations in the future.

Seasonality

Our quarterly net sales are influenced by many factors, including new product introductions, acquisitions, regulatory approvals, patient
and physician holiday schedules, and other factors. Net sales in the first and second fiscal quarters are typically lower than other quarters of the year due to the seasonality of the United States and European markets, where summer vacation
schedules normally result in fewer medical procedures.

Employees

As of March 31, 2014, we had 511 full-time employees, including:



•105 in product engineering, research and development, and regulatory;



•211 in sales, clinical support, marketing, field service and related support;



•142 in manufacturing; and



•53 in general and administration.

We routinely enter into contractual agreements with our employees, which typically include confidentiality and non-competition commitments. Our employees are not represented by unions. We consider our
employee relations to be good. If we were unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, our operations could be negatively impacted.



