
10-K
0001.txt
FORM 10-K




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                           --------------------------

                                    FORM 10-K
             [ X ] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000
                                       OR
            [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-10585

                           --------------------------

                            CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

     INCORPORATED IN DELAWARE I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NO. 13-4996950

           469 NORTH HARRISON STREET, PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY 08543-5297
               (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (609) 683-5900

                           --------------------------

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                              NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
                     TITLE OF EACH CLASS ON WHICH REGISTERED

               Common Stock, $1 par value New York Stock Exchange
             Preferred Stock Purchase Rights New York Stock Exchange

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: None

                           --------------------------

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed  by  Section  13 or 15 (d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934
during  the  preceding  12  months  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
                                   Yes X No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

As  of  February   28,  2001,   37,173,827   shares  of  Common  Stock  held  by
non-affiliates  were outstanding with an aggregate market value of approximately
$813 million.  The aggregate  market value is based on the closing price of such
stock on the New York Stock Exchange on February 28, 2001.

As of February 28, 2001, 38,589,102 shares of Common Stock were outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

PART III            Portions of  registrant's  Proxy  Statement  for the
                    Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 10, 2001.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------





                                

                                     PART I

ITEM                                                                       PAGE

1.    Business                                                             - 1 -
2.    Properties                                                           - 6 -
3.    Legal Proceedings                                                    - 7 -
4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders                  - 7 -


                                     PART II


5.    Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related
           Stockholder Matters                                             - 7 -
6.    Selected Financial Data                                              - 7 -
7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
          and Results of Operations                                        - 7 -
7a.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk           - 7 -
8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                          - 7 -
9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
           Financial Disclosure                                            - 7 -


                                    PART III


10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant                   - 8 -
11.   Executive Compensation                                               - 8 -
12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management       - 8 -
13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                       - 8 -


                                     PART IV


14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K      - 8 -







                                  PART I

ITEM 1.     BUSINESS.

     The  Company was  founded in 1846 and is the  world's  leading  producer of
sodium  bicarbonate,  popularly known as baking soda, a versatile chemical which
performs a broad range of functions such as cleaning, deodorizing, leavening and
buffering.   The  Company   specializes   in  sodium   bicarbonate   and  sodium
bicarbonate-based  products,  along with other  products  which use the same raw
materials or technology or are sold into the same markets.

     The  Company  sells  its  products,  primarily  under  the ARM &  HAMMER(R)
trademark,   to   consumers   through   supermarkets,   drug   stores  and  mass
merchandisers; and to industrial customers and distributors. ARM & HAMMER is the
registered trademark for a line of consumer products which includes ARM & HAMMER
Baking Soda,  ARM & HAMMER DENTAL  CARE(R)  Dentifrices  and ARM & HAMMER DENTAL
CARE  Gum,  ARM &  HAMMER  Carpet  Deodorizer,  ARM  &  HAMMER  Deodorizing  Air
Freshener,  ARM & HAMMER Powder and Liquid Laundry Detergent, ARM & HAMMER SUPER
SCOOP(R)  and ARM & HAMMER SUPER  STOP(R) Cat Litter and ARM & HAMMER  Deodorant
Anti-Perspirant  with Baking Soda. The ARM & HAMMER trademark is also used for a
line of chemical products,  the most important of which are sodium  bicarbonate,
ammonium  bicarbonate,  sodium  sesquicarbonate,  ARM & HAMMER  MEGALAC(R) Rumen
Bypass Fat and ARMEX(R)  Blast Media.  The Company also owns BRILLO(R) Soap Pads
and  other  consumer   products.   In  2000,   consumer   products   represented
approximately   80%  and  specialty   products  20%  of  the  Company's   sales.
Approximately  88% of the Company's sales revenues are derived from sales in the
United States.

CONSUMER PRODUCTS

     PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

     The Company's  founders first marketed  baking soda in 1846 for use in home
baking.  The ARM & HAMMER trademark was adopted in 1867.  Today, this product is
known for a wide variety of uses in the home,  including as a  refrigerator  and
freezer deodorizer,  scratchless cleaner and deodorizer for kitchen surfaces and
cooking  appliances,  bath  additive,  dentifrice,  cat litter  deodorizer,  and
swimming  pool pH  stabilizer.  The  Company  estimates  that a majority of U.S.
households  have a box of baking soda on hand.  Although no longer the Company's
largest single  business,  ARM & HAMMER Baking Soda remains the leading brand of
baking  soda  in  terms  of  consumer  recognition  of the  brand  name  and its
reputation for quality and value.

     The deodorizing properties of baking soda have since led to the development
of several other household  products;  ARM & HAMMER Carpet  Deodorizer and ARM &
HAMMER  Deodorizing Air Freshener are both available in a variety of fragrances.
In 1992,  the Company  launched  ARM & HAMMER Cat Litter  Deodorizer,  a scented
baking soda product targeted to cat-owning households and veterinarians.  During
the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company introduced nationally ARM & HAMMER SUPER
SCOOP(R),  The Baking Soda Clumping  Litter,  which competes in the fast-growing
clumping  segment of the cat litter market.  Following its success,  the Company
launched ARM & HAMMER SUPER STOP(R) Clay Litter in late 1999. In early 2001, the
Company  introduced  ARM & HAMMER  Vacuum  Free(TM)  Foam Carpet  Deodorizer,  a
companion product to ARM & HAMMER Carpet Deodorizer.

     The Company's largest consumer business today, measured by sales volume, is
in the laundry detergent market. The ARM & HAMMER brand name has been associated
with this market since the last century when ARM & HAMMER Super Washing Soda was
first introduced as a heavy-duty  laundry and household  cleaning  product.  The
Company  today makes  products for use in various  stages of the laundry  cycle;
powdered  and liquid  laundry  detergents,  fabric  softener  dryer sheets and a
laundry detergent booster.

     ARM & HAMMER Laundry Detergents, in both powder and liquid forms, have been
available nationally since the early 1980's. The Company markets these brands as
value products,  priced at a 15 to 20 percent discount from products  identified
by the  Company  as  market  leaders.  In 1996  and in late  1999,  the  Company
reformulated  and concentrated the powder product.  A companion  product,  ARM &
HAMMER Liquid  Laundry  Detergent,  is also available in regular and perfume and
dye-free  forms.  In 1995 and 1998,  this  liquid  product was  reformulated  to
improve its performance.

     In 1992, the Company  completed the national  expansion of another  laundry
product,  ARM & HAMMER Fabric Softener Sheets.  This product stops static cling,
and softens and  freshens  clothes.  In 1998,  the Company  acquired the TOSS `N
SOFT(R)  brand of dryer  sheets and  combined  both  products  under the FRESH &
SOFT(R) brand name.

     ARM & HAMMER  Baking  Soda has long  been  used as a  dentifrice.  Its mild
cleansing action cleans and polishes teeth,  removes plaque and leaves the mouth
feeling  fresh and clean.  These  properties  have led to the  development  of a
complete line of sodium bicarbonate-based dentifrice products which are marketed
and sold nationally  primarily under the ARM & HAMMER DENTAL CARE brand name. In
1998,  the Company  introduced ARM & HAMMER DENTAL CARE Gum, a baking soda based
oral care  product  that is  available  in four  flavors.  In 1999,  the Company
introduced  ARM & HAMMER  ADVANCE  WHITE, a line of dentifrice for the whitening
segment of the  toothpaste  market and ARM & HAMMER P.M.,  the first  toothpaste
specifically formulated for nighttime oral care. In 2000, the Company introduced
ARM & HAMMER SENSATION,  a toothpaste  targeted to 15-34 year olds, ARM & HAMMER
DENTAL  CARE Kids Gum and in early  2001,  ARM & HAMMER  ADVANCE  WHITE  Gum,  a
companion product to the Advance White toothpaste.

     The Company markets and sells, ARM & HAMMER Deodorant  Anti-Perspirant with
Baking Soda,  and ARM & HAMMER  Deodorant  with Baking Soda.  These products are
available in various scented and unscented stick, aerosol and roll-on forms.

     In 1997,  the Company  acquired a group of five household  cleaning  brands
from The Dial  Corporation.  The brands  acquired were  BRILLO(R)  Soap Pads and
other steel wool products,  PARSONS(R) and  BO-PEEP(R)  Ammonia,  CAMEO(R) Metal
Polish,  RAIN DROPS(R)  Water  Softener and SNO BOL(R)  Cleaners.  In 1998,  the
Company purchased from The Dial Corporation TOSS `N SOFT(R) Dryer Sheets. During
1999, the Company entered the bathroom  cleaner category with the acquisition of
two major brands,  CLEAN SHOWER(R) and SCRUB FREE(R).  As part of the Scrub Free
transaction,  the Company also acquired the DELICARE(R)  fine fabric wash brand.
The  acquisition  of these  brands  broadens  the  Company's  base of  household
cleaning products,  and fits well within the Company's current sales,  marketing
and distribution activities.

     COMPETITION

            For  information  regarding  competition,  see page 4  through  5 of
Exhibit 99.

     DISTRIBUTION

     The Company's  consumer  products are  primarily  marketed  throughout  the
United States and Canada and sold through  supermarkets,  mass merchandisers and
drugstores.  The Company employs a sales force based  regionally  throughout the
United  States.  This sales force  utilizes  the  services of  independent  food
brokers in each market.  The  Company's  products are  strategically  located in
Church & Dwight plant and public warehouses and either picked up by customers or
delivered by independent trucking companies.

SPECIALTY PRODUCTS

     PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

     The  Company's  specialty  products  business  primarily  consists  of  the
manufacture,  marketing and sale of sodium  bicarbonate in a range of grades and
granulations  for use in  industrial  and  agricultural  markets.  In industrial
markets,  sodium  bicarbonate  is used by  other  manufacturing  companies  as a
leavening agent for commercial baked goods, as an antacid in pharmaceuticals, as
a carbon dioxide release agent in fire  extinguishers,  and as an alkaline agent
in swimming pool chemicals,  and as an agent in kidney dialysis. A special grade
of sodium bicarbonate, as well as sodium sesquicarbonate,  is sold to the animal
feed market as a feed additive for use by dairymen as a buffer, or antacid,  for
dairy cattle.

     The  Company  markets and sells  MEGALAC  Rumen  Bypass Fat, a  nutritional
supplement  made from natural oils,  which allows cows to maintain energy levels
during the period of high-milk production, resulting in improved milk yields and
minimal weight loss. The product and the trademark  MEGALAC are licensed under a
long-term license agreement from a British company, Volac Ltd.

     In January 1999, the Company  formed a joint venture with the  Safety-Kleen
Corporation called the ArmaKleen Company.  This joint venture distributes Church
& Dwight's proprietary product line of aqueous cleaners along with the Company's
Armex Blast Media line which is  designed  for the removal of a wide  variety of
surface  coatings.  In 1999, the Company sold the equipment portion of the Armex
blast cleaning business to U.S. Filter Surface  Preparation  Group, Inc., a U.S.
Filter Company.

     The Company  markets and sells  ammonium  bicarbonate  and other  specialty
chemicals to food and  agricultural  markets in Europe through its  wholly-owned
British subsidiary Brotherton Speciality Products Ltd.

     The Company and Occidental  Petroleum  Corporation  are equal partners in a
joint  venture  named  Armand  Products  Company,  which  produces  and  markets
potassium  carbonate and potassium  bicarbonate.  Potassium  chemicals are sold,
among others, to the glass industry for use in TV and computer monitor screens.

     During  1997,  the  Company  acquired  a  40  percent  equity  interest  in
QGN/Carbonor,  a Brazilian  bicarbonate/carbonate-related  chemical company. The
Company exercised its option to increase its interest to 75 percent during 1999.

     COMPETITION

     For information regarding competition, see pages 4 through 5 of Exhibit 99.

     DISTRIBUTION

     The Company  markets sodium  bicarbonate  and other chemicals to industrial
and agricultural customers throughout the United States and Canada. Distribution
is   accomplished    through   regional   sales   offices   and   manufacturer's
representatives  augmented by the sales  personnel of  independent  distributors
throughout the country.

     RAW MATERIALS AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY

     The Company  manufactures  sodium  bicarbonate for both of its consumer and
industrial  businesses at two of its plants located at Green River,  Wyoming and
Old Fort, Ohio.

     The production of sodium bicarbonate requires two basic raw materials, soda
ash and carbon  dioxide.  The primary  source of soda ash used by the Company is
the mineral,  trona, which is found in abundance in southwestern  Wyoming,  near
the  Company's  Green River  plant.  The Company had acquired a number of leases
allowing it to extract these trona  deposits.  In January 1999, the Company sold
most of these leases to Solvay Minerals, Inc. The Company retains adequate trona
reserves to support the requirements of the sodium bicarbonate  business and may
acquire other leases in the future as the need arises.

     The  Company is party to a  partnership  agreement  with  General  Chemical
Corporation,  which mines and processes  certain trona reserves owned by each of
the two companies in Wyoming.  Through the  partnership  and related  supply and
services  agreements,  the Company obtains a substantial  amount of its soda ash
requirements,  enabling  the  Company to  achieve  some of the  economies  of an
integrated business capable of producing sodium bicarbonate and related products
from the basic raw material. The Company also has an agreement for the supply of
soda ash from another company.

      The partnership  agreement and other supply agreements between the Company
and General  Chemical  terminate  upon two years notice by either  company.  The
Company believes that alternative sources of supply are available.

     The Company  obtains its supply of the second  basic raw  material,  carbon
dioxide,  in Green River and Old Fort,  under long-term  supply  contracts.  The
Company believes that its sources of carbon dioxide, and other raw and packaging
materials, are adequate.

     At the Company's Green River,  Wyoming plant,  the Company produces laundry
detergent powder employing a process  utilizing raw materials  readily available
from a number of sources.  Therefore, the supply of appropriate raw materials to
manufacture this product is adequate.

     During 1995, a liquid laundry detergent  manufacturing line was constructed
in the Company's  Syracuse,  New York Plant.  This line was capable of producing
virtually  all of the  Company's  liquid  laundry  detergent  requirements.  The
Company,  when necessary,  would utilize a contract  manufacturer to meet higher
demand.  As a result of the ARMUS Joint  Venture,  all of the  Company's  liquid
laundry  detergent  production  will be shifted to USA Detergents'  plants.  The
Syracuse  plant  will be shut down at the end of the  first  quarter  2001.  USA
Detergents has enough capacity to produce all of Church & Dwight's requirements.
The BRILLO product line and the Company's Dryer Sheets line are  manufactured at
the  Company's  London,  Ohio plant.  ARM & HAMMER  DENTAL CARE Gum,  PARSONS(R)
Ammonia,  CAMEO(R)  Metal  Polish,  RAIN  DROPS(R)  Water  Softener,  SNO BOL(R)
Cleaners  SCRUB FREE and  DELICARE,  are contract  manufactured  for the Company
under various agreements. Alternative sources of supply are available in case of
disruption or termination of the agreements.

     The main raw material  used in the  production  of  potassium  carbonate is
liquid  potassium  hydroxide.  Armand  Products  obtains  its  supply  of liquid
potassium hydroxide under a long-term supply arrangement.

     The ArmaKleen Company's  industrial liquid cleaning products are contracted
manufactured.

     PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

     The Company's ARM & HAMMER  trademark is registered  with the United States
Patent and Trademark Office and also with the trademark  offices of many foreign
countries.  It has been  used by the  Company  since the late  1800's,  and is a
valuable  asset and  important  to the  successful  operation  of the  Company's
business.

     CUSTOMERS AND ORDER BACKLOG

     A group of three Consumer  Products  customers  accounted for approximately
21% of  consolidated  net  sales in 2000,  including  a  single  customer  which
accounted  for  approximately  13%.  A group of three  customers  accounted  for
approximately  20% of consolidated net sales in 1999 including a single customer
which accounted for approximately 12%. This group accounted for 16% in 1998.

     The time between receipt of orders and shipment is generally  short, and as
a result, backlog is not significant.

     RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT

     The  Company's  Research and  Development  Department is engaged in work on
product  development,  process  technology  and  basic  research.  During  2000,
$19,363,000 was spent on research  activities as compared to $17,921,000 in 1999
and $16,448,000 in 1998.


     ENVIRONMENT

     The  Company's   operations  are  subject  to  federal,   state  and  local
regulations governing air emissions,  waste and steam discharges,  and solid and
hazardous waste  management  activities.  The Company  endeavors to take actions
necessary  to  comply  with  such  regulations.  These  steps  include  periodic
environmental  audits of each  Company  facility.  The audits,  conducted  by an
independent  engineering  concern with  expertise  in the area of  environmental
compliance,  include  site  visits  at each  location,  as well as a  review  of
documentary  information,  to determine compliance with such federal,  state and
local  regulations.  The Company  believes  that its  compliance  with  existing
environmental  regulations will not have any material adverse effect with regard
to the Company's  capital  expenditures,  earnings or competitive  position.  No
material capital  expenditures  relating to environmental  control are presently
anticipated.

     EMPLOYEES

     At December  31, 2000 , the  Company  had 1,439  employees.  The Company is
party to a labor  contract  with the United  Steelworkers  of  America  covering
approximately  109 hourly  employees  at its  Syracuse,  New York plant which is
scheduled to close in early 2001;  and,  with the United  Industrial  Workers of
North America at its London, Ohio plant which contract continues until September
28,  2002.  The  Company  believes  that its  relations  with both its union and
non-union employees are satisfactory.

     CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS

     The Company's operations  constitute two operating segments.  The table set
forth below shows the percentage of the Company's net sales  contributed by each
group of similar products marketed by the Company during the period from January
1, 1996 through December 31, 2000.






ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

     The Company's executive offices and research and development facilities are
owned by the Company,  subject to a New Jersey Industrial  Revenue Bond, and are
located on 22 acres of land in Princeton,  New Jersey, with approximately 72,000
square feet of office and  laboratory  space.  In addition,  the Company  leases
space in two  buildings  adjacent to this facility  which contain  approximately
90,000  square feet of office  space.  The Company  also leases  regional  sales
offices in  various  locations  throughout  the United  States.  The  Company is
currently  constructing an additional 55,000 square feet of administration space
to its Princeton facility.

     At  Syracuse,  New York the  Company  owns a 16 acre site and  plant  which
includes a group of connected buildings containing  approximately 270,000 square
feet of floor  space.  This  plant is used  primarily  for the  manufacture  and
packaging of liquid laundry detergent. As previously mentioned, the Company will
be  closing  the  plant in early  2001 and  shifting  liquid  laundry  detergent
production to USA Detergents'  facilities.  The Company is currently  evaluating
options as to the  disposition  of the facility.  This will be completed  during
2001.

     The Company's plant in Green River, Wyoming is located on 112 acres of land
owned by the Company.  The plant and related  facilities  contain  approximately
273,000  square feet of floor space.  The plant was  constructed in 1968 and has
since been expanded to a current capacity of 200,000 tons of sodium  bicarbonate
per year. This plant also manufactures  powder laundry detergent and cat litter.
During 2001, an additional 101,000 square feet of warehouse space will be added.

     The Company's  plant in Old Fort, Ohio is located on 75 acres of land owned
by the Company. The plant and related facilities contain  approximately  208,000
square feet of floor space.  The plant was  completed in 1980 and has since been
expanded to a capacity of 280,000 tons of sodium  bicarbonate  per year.  During
2001, an additional 90,000 square feet of warehouse space will be added.

     In 1998, the Company purchased a 250,000 square foot manufacturing facility
set on approximately 46 acres in Lakewood,  New Jersey.  The plant  manufactures
and  packages  the ARM & HAMMER  Deodorant  Anti-Perspirant  product  line,  its
dentifrice  products  which was relocated from the Company's  Greenville,  South
Carolina, facility in 1999, ARM & HAMMER Deodorizing Air Freshener, and packages
ARM & HAMMER Dental Care Gum. In 2000, CLEAN SHOWER bathroom cleaner  production
started. Previously it was contract manufactured.

     During  2000,  the  Company  sold a  portion  of the  facility  it  owns in
Greenville, South Carolina. It expects to sell the remaining portion in 2001.

     During 1997, the Company acquired from The Dial Corporation a manufacturing
facility in London,  Ohio. This facility contains  approximately  141,000 square
feet of floor space and is located on 6 acres of land. The facility manufactures
and packages BRILLO Soap Pads and ARM & HAMMER FRESH & SOFT Dryer Sheets.

     In Ontario,  Canada,  the Company  owns a 26,000  square foot  distribution
center which is used for the purpose of warehousing and distribution of products
sold into Canada. The principal office of the Canadian  subsidiary is located in
leased offices in Toronto.

     Brotherton  Speciality Products Ltd. owns and operates a 71,000 square foot
manufacturing facility in Wakefield, England on about 7 acres of land.

     The Armand Products  partnership,  in which the Company has a 50% interest,
owns and operates a potassium  carbonate  manufacturing  plant located in Muscle
Shoals,  Alabama.  This facility  contains  approximately  53,000 square feet of
space and has a capacity of 103,000 tons of potassium carbonate per year.

     The  Company  believes  that its  manufacturing,  distribution  and  office
facilities are adequate for the conduct of its business at the present time.


ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     The Company is subject to claims and  litigation in the ordinary  course of
its business such as product  liability claims,  employment  related matters and
general commercial disputes. The Company does not believe that any pending claim
or litigation will have a material adverse effect on the business.


ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     No matters  were  submitted  to a vote of the  Company's  security  holders
during the last quarter of the year ended December 31, 2000.


                                     PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
            STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

     The  Company's  common  stock  is  traded  on the New York  Stock  Exchange
(symbol:  "CHD") This  information  appears  under "Common Stock Price range and
dividends,"  on page 5 of Exhibit 99 hereto,  and on page 5 of Appendix B of the
Proxy Statement,  incorporated  herein by reference.  During 2000, there were no
sales of unregistered securities.


ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

     This information appears under "Eleven-Year  Financial Summary," on page 22
of  Exhibit  99 hereto,  and on page 22 of  Appendix  B of the Proxy  Statement,
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
            AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.

     This information  appears under "Financial Review," on pages 1 through 5 of
Exhibit  99  hereto,  and on  pages  1  through  5 of  Appendix  B of the  Proxy
Statement, incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

     This  information   appears  under  "Market  Risk"  in  the   "Management's
Discussion  and  Analysis,"  on pages 3 through 4 of Exhibit  99 hereto,  and on
pages 3 through 4 of Appendix B of the Proxy Statement,  incorporated  herein by
reference.


ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

     These  statements  and data  appear on pages 6  through  21 of  Exhibit  99
hereto,  and on  pages  6  through  21 of  Appendix  B of the  Proxy  Statement,
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
            FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None


                                    PART III

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     Information  required  by this item is  incorporated  by  reference  to the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement  pursuant to Regulation 14A which will be
filed with the  Commission not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2000.


ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     Information  required  by this item is  incorporated  by  reference  to the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement  pursuant to Regulation 14A which will be
filed with the  Commission not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2000.


ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     Information  required  by this item is  incorporated  by  reference  to the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement  pursuant to Regulation 14A which will be
filed with the  Commission not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2000.


ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     Information  required  by this item is  incorporated  by  reference  to the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement  pursuant to Regulation 14A which will be
filed with the  Commission not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2000.



                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a) 1.      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     Consolidated Financial Statements and Independent Auditors' Report included
in Exhibit 99 hereto,  and in  Appendix B of the Proxy  Statement,  incorporated
herein by reference:

            Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three
            years in the period ended December 31, 2000

            Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  as of  December  31,  2000  and  1999
            Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flow for each of the three years in
            the period ended December 31, 2000

            Consolidated  Statements  of  Stockholders'  Equity  for each of the
            three years in the period ended December 31, 2000

            Notes to Financial Statements

            Independent Auditors' Report


(a)  2.        FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

     Included in Part IV of this report:

            Independent Auditors' Report on Schedule

            For each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000:

            Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Other  schedules are omitted  because of the absence of  conditions  under which
they are required or because the required  information is given in the financial
statements or notes thereto.

(a)  3.        EXHIBITS

     (3)  (a)  Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation including  amendments has
               previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
               on the Company's  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989,
               (Commission file no. 1-10585) which is incorporated by reference.

          (b)  By-Laws  have  previously  been  filed  with the  Securities  and
               Exchange Commission on the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
               December  31,  1985,  (Commission  file  no.  1-10585)  which  is
               incorporated herein by reference.

     (4)  The Company is party to a Loan  Agreement  dated May 31, 1991 with the
          New Jersey Economic Development Authority. The principal amount of the
          loan thereunder is less than ten percent of the Company's consolidated
          assets.  The  Company  will  furnish a copy of said  agreement  to the
          Commission upon request.

     (10) (a)  Supply  Agreement between  Church & Dwight  Co.,  Inc.  and ALCAD
               Partnership for supply of soda ash. This document is not attached
               hereto  but  has  been  separately  submitted  to the  Securities
               and  Exchange  Commission  which   has   approved  the  Company's
               application under rule  24b-2  for  privileged  and  confidential
               treatment thereof.

          (b)  Limited  Liability  Company  Operation  Agreement of Armus,  LLC,
               dated as of June 14, 2000,  between Church & Dwight Co., Inc. and
               USA Detergents, Inc. This document has been previously filed with
               the Securities and Exchange Commission on the Company's Quarterly
               Report on Form 10-Q,  filed on August 14,  2000 and was  approved
               under  rule  24b-2  for  priviliged  and  confidential  treatment
               thereof.

          (c)  Stock  Purchase  Agreement  dated as of June 14, 2000,  among USA
               Detergents,  Inc.,  Church & Dwight Co.,  Inc.  and  Frederick R.
               Adler.   This  document  has  been  previously   filed  with  the
               Securities  and Exchange  Commission on the  Company's  Quarterly
               Report on Form 10-Q,  filed on August 14,  2000.

               COMPENSATION PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS

          (d)  Indemnification  Agreement for directors,  and certain  officers,
               employees,   agents  and  fiduciaries,   which  was  approved  by
               stockholders  at the  Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders  on May 7,
               1987,  and  was  included  in  the  Company's   definitive  Proxy
               Statement  dated  April 6, 1987,  (Commission  file no.  1-10585)
               which is incorporated herein by reference.

          (e)  Shareholder  Rights  Agreement  dated  August 27,  1999,  between
               Church & Dwight Co., Inc. and ChaseMellon  Shareholder  Services,
               L.L.C.,  has been  previously  filed on August 31,  1999 with the
               Securities  and Exchange  Commission on the  Company's  Form 8-K,
               (Commission  file no.  1-10585) which is  incorporated  herein by
               reference.

          (f)  The  Company's  1983 Stock  Option  Plan,  which was  approved by
               stockholders  at the  Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders  on May 5,
               1983,  and  was  included  in  the  Company's   definitive  Proxy
               Statement  dated  April 4, 1983,  (Commission  file no.  1-10585)
               which is incorporated herein by reference.

          g)   Restricted  Stock  Plan  for  Directors  which  was  approved  by
               stockholders  at the  Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders  on May 7,
               1987,  and  was  included  in  the  Company's   definitive  Proxy
               Statement  dated  April 6, 1987,  (Commission  file no.  1-10585)
               which is incorporated herein by reference.

          (h)  Church & Dwight Co., Inc. Executive  Deferred  Compensation Plan,
               effective as of June 1, 1997, (Commission file no. 1-10585) which
               is incorporated herein by reference.

          (i)  Deferred  Compensation  Plan for  Directors has  previously  been
               filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange   Commission  on  the
               Company's  Form  10-K  for the  year  ended  December  31,  1987,
               (Commission  file no.  1-10585) which is  incorporated  herein by
               reference.

          (j)  Employment  Service  Agreement with Senior Management of Church &
               Dwight Co., Inc. has  previously  been filed with the  Securities
               and Exchange  Commission on the Company's  Form 10-K for the year
               ended December 31, 1990,  (Commission  file no. 1-10585) which is
               incorporated herein by reference.

          (k)  The  Stock  Option  Plan for  Directors  which  was  approved  by
               stockholders  in May 1991,  authorized the granting of options to
               non-employee  directors.  The  full  text of the  Church & Dwight
               Co.,Inc.  Stock Option Plan for  Directors  was  contained in the
               definitive  Proxy Statement filed with the Commission on April 2,
               1991,  (Commission file no. 1-10585) which is incorporated herein
               by reference.

          (l)  A description of the Company's  Incentive  Compensation  Plan has
               previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
               on the Company's  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992,
               (Commission  file no.  1-10585) which is  incorporated  herein by
               reference.

          (m)  Church & Dwight  Co.,  Inc.  Executive  Stock  Purchase  Plan has
               previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
               on the Company's  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993,
               (Commission  file no.  1-10585) which is  incorporated  herein by
               reference.

          (n)  The 1994 Incentive  Stock Option Plan has  previously  been filed
               with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the Company's Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994,  (Commission  file no.
               1-10585) which is incorporated herein by reference.

          (o)  The  Compensation  Plan for  Directors,  which  was  approved  by
               stockholders  at the  Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders  on May 9,
               1996,  and  was  included  in  the  Company's   definitive  Proxy
               Statement filed with the Commission on April 1, 1996, (Commission
               file no. 1-10585) which is incorporated herein by reference.

     *(11)     Computation of earnings per share.

     *(13)     2000 Annual Report to Stockholders.

     *(21)     List of the Company's subsidiaries.

     *(23)     Consent of Independent Auditor.

     *(27)     Financial Data Schedule.

     *(99)     Financial Statements.

(b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     No  reports on Form 8-K were  filed  during the fourth  quarter of the year
ended December 31, 2000.

               Copies of exhibits will be made  available upon request and for a
reasonable charge.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
*filed herewith



INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


To The Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Church & Dwight Co., Inc.
Princeton, New Jersey


We have audited the  consolidated  financial  statements of Church & Dwight Co.,
Inc.  and  subsidiaries  as of December  31, 2000 and 1999,  and for each of the
three years in the period ended  December  31, 2000,  and have issued our report
thereon dated  February 23, 2001;  such  consolidated  financial  statements and
report are included  elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Our audits also  included the
consolidated  financial  statement  schedule  of Church & Dwight Co.,  Inc.  and
subsidiaries,  listed in Item 14. This consolidated financial statement schedule
is the  responsibility  of the Company's  management.  Our  responsibility is to
express  an opinion  based on our  audits.  In our  opinion,  such  consolidated
financial  statement  schedule,   when  considered  in  relation  to  the  basic
consolidated  financial  statements  taken as a whole,  presents  fairly  in all
material respects the information set forth therein.


DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Parsippany, New Jersey
February 23, 2001





                   CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (In thousands)









                   CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 EXHIBIT 11 - COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
                     (In thousands except per share amounts)











                   CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                   EXHIBIT 21
                       LIST OF THE COMPANY'S SUBSIDIARIES




1)       Church & Dwight Ltd./Ltee
         Incorporated in Canada

2)       C & D Chemical Products, Inc.
         Incorporated in the State of Delaware,
         D/B/A Armand Products Company, a Partnership

3)       Brotherton Speciality Products Ltd.
         Incorporated in the United Kingdom

4)       Industrias Bicarbon De Venezuela, S.A. - Ceased operation December 1998

5)       Quimica Geral do Nordeste S.A. (QGN)
         Incorporated in Brazil (75% Interest)


         The Company's remaining subsidiaries, if considered in the aggregate as
a single  subsidiary,  would  not  constitute  a  significant  subsidiary  as of
December 31, 2000.







INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT



We consent to the  incorporation  by reference in  Registration  Statements  No.
33-60149,  33-60147,  33-24553,  33-6150 and 33-44881 on Form S-8 of our reports
dated  February 23, 2001  included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Church &
Dwight Co., Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2000.



DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Parsippany, New Jersey
March  9 , 2001





                                                                 SIGNATURES

      Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 28, 2001.


                            CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC.


                            By:      /s/ Robert A. Davies, III
                                     -------------------------
                                     Robert A. Davies, III
                                     Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.






/s/ Robert A. Davies, III      Chairman and                    February 28, 2001
- -------------------------
Robert A. Davies, III          Chief Executive Officer




/s/ Zvi Eiref                  Vice President Finance and      February 28, 2001
- -------------------------
Zvi Eiref                      Chief Financial Officer
                               (Principal Financial Officer)



/s/ Gary P. Halker             Vice President, Controller and  February 28, 2001
- -------------------------
Gary P. Halker                 Chief Information Officer
                               (Principal Accounting Officer)





Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


/s/ William R. Becklean              Director                 February 28, 2001
- -----------------------
William R. Becklean

/s/ Robert H. Beeby                  Director                 February 28, 2001
- -------------------
Robert H. Beeby

/s/ Robert A. Davies, III            Chairman                 February 28, 2001
- -------------------------
Robert A. Davies, III

/s/ Rosina B. Dixon, M.D.            Director                 February 28, 2001
- -------------------------
Rosina B. Dixon, M.D.

/s/ J. Richard Leaman, Jr.           Director                 February 28, 2001
- --------------------------
J. Richard Leaman, Jr.

/s/ Robert D. LeBlanc                Director                 February 28, 2001
- ---------------------
Robert D. LeBlanc

/s/ John D. Leggett, III, Ph.D       Director                 February 28, 2001
- ------------------------------
John D. Leggett, III, Ph.D.

/s/ John F. Maypole                  Director                 February 28, 2001
- -------------------
John F. Maypole

/s/ Robert A. McCabe                 Director                 February 28, 2001
- --------------------
Robert A. McCabe

/s/ Dwight C. Minton                 Chairman Emeritus        February 28, 2001
- --------------------
Dwight C. Minton

/s/ Burton B. Staniar                Director                 February 28, 2001
- ---------------------
Burton B. Staniar

/s/ John O. Whitney                  Director                 February 28, 2001
- -------------------
John O. Whitney

