
10-K
CHURCH & DWIGHT CO. INC.



===============================================================================
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                               ---------------

                                    FORM 10-K
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994      COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-10585 

                               ---------------

                           CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        DELAWARE                                          13-4996950
(State of incorporation)                    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

469 NORTH HARRISON STREET, PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY                      08543-5297
   (Address of principal executive offices)                           (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (609) 683-5900

                               ---------------

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                                         NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
       TITLE OF EACH CLASS                                ON WHICH REGISTERED
    Common Stock, $1 par value                          New York Stock Exchange
  Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                       New York Stock Exchange

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: None

                               ---------------

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Sections 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
                                    Yes   X         No      
                                        -----          -----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. / /

As of February 24, 1995, 19,531,735 shares of Common Stock held by
non-affiliates were outstanding with an aggregate market value of approximately
$356 million. The aggregate market value is based on the closing price of such
stock on the New York Stock Exchange on February 24, 1995.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

        PARTS II AND IV           Portions of registrant's 1994 Annual Report 
                                  to Stockholders.
                                  

        PART III                  Portions of registrant's Notice of Annual 
                                  Meeting to be held on May 11, 1995 and Proxy 
                                  Statement.

================================================================================




                              
                                     PART I






                                     PART I

ITEM 1.     BUSINESS

     The Company was founded in 1846 and is the world's leading producer of
sodium bicarbonate, popularly known as baking soda, a versatile chemical which
performs a broad range of functions such as cleaning, deodorizing, leavening and
buffering. The Company specializes in sodium bicarbonate and sodium
bicarbonate-based products, along with other products which use the same raw
materials or technology or are sold into the same markets.

     The Company sells its products, primarily under the ARM & HAMMER(R)
trademark, to consumers through supermarkets, drug stores and mass
merchandisers; and to industrial customers and distributors. ARM & HAMMER is the
registered trademark for a line of consumer products which includes ARM & HAMMER
Baking Soda, ARM & HAMMER DENTAL CARE(R), ARM & HAMMER Carpet Deodorizer, ARM &
HAMMER Deodorizing Air Freshener, ARM & HAMMER Powder and Liquid Laundry
Detergent and ARM & HAMMER Deodorant Anti-Perspirant with Baking Soda. The ARM &
HAMMER trademark is also used for a line of chemical products, the most
important of which are sodium bicarbonate, ammonium bicarbonate, sodium
sesquicarbonate, ARM & HAMMER MEGALAC(R) Rumen Bypass Fat and ARMEX(R) Blast
Media. In 1994, consumer products represented 80% and specialty products 20% of
the Company's sales. The Company does approximately 95% of its business in the
U.S. and Canada.

CONSUMER PRODUCTS

     PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

     The Company's founders first marketed baking soda in 1846 for use in home
baking. The ARM & HAMMER trademark was adopted in 1878. Today, this product is
known for a wide variety of uses in the home, including as a refrigerator and
freezer deodorizer, scratchless cleaner and deodorizer for kitchen surfaces and
cooking appliances, bath additive, dentifrice, cat litter deodorizer, and
swimming pool pH stabilizer. The Company estimates that a majority of U.S.
households have a box of baking soda on hand. Although no longer the Company's
largest brand, ARM & HAMMER Baking Soda remains the leading brand in terms of
consumer recognition of the brand name and its reputation for quality and value.

     The deodorizing properties of baking soda have since led to the development
of several other household products; ARM & HAMMER Carpet Deodorizer and ARM &
HAMMER Deodorizing Air Freshener are both available in a variety of fragrances.
In 1992, the Company launched ARM & HAMMER Cat Litter Deodorizer, a scented
baking soda product targeted to cat-owning households and veterinarians.

     The Company's largest consumer business today is in the laundry detergent
market. The ARM & HAMMER brand name has been associated with this market since
the last century when ARM & HAMMER Super Washing Soda was first introduced as a
heavy-duty laundry and household cleaning product. The Company today makes
products for use in various stages of the laundry cycle.

     ARM & HAMMER Laundry Detergents, in both powder and liquid forms, have been
available nationally since the early 1980's. The Company markets these brands as
value products, priced at a 15 to 20 percent discount from market leaders. Early
1993, ARM & HAMMER Powder Laundry Detergent was restaged with a new formulation
containing ACTIVATED BAKING SODA(TM). At the same time, the Company introduced
ARM & HAMMER Free Powder Laundry Detergent, a perfume- and dye-free formulation.
Similarly, a companion product, ARM & HAMMER Liquid Laundry Detergent, was
converted to a new concentrated formula in 1993, and is also available in
regular and perfume- and dye-free forms.

                                      - 1 -


     In 1992, the Company completed the national expansion of another laundry
product, ARM & HAMMER FRESH & SOFT(R) Dryer Sheets. This product stops static
cling, and softens and freshens clothes. ARM & HAMMER Super Washing Soda is
promoted as a detergent booster and bleach substitute.

     ARM & HAMMER Baking Soda has long been used as a dentifrice. Its mild
action cleans and polishes teeth, removes plaque and leaves the mouth feeling
fresh and clean. These properties have led to the development of a complete line
of sodium bicarbonate-based dentifrice products: ARM & HAMMER DENTAL CARE, The
Baking Soda Tooth Powder; ARM & HAMMER DENTAL CARE, The Baking Soda Toothpaste;
ARM & HAMMER DENTAL CARE Gel; ARM & HAMMER DENTAL CARE Tartar Control Formula;
and ARM & HAMMER DENTAL CARE Tartar Control Gel. Both the Toothpaste and Tooth
Powder have been in national distribution since 1988. ARM & HAMMER DENTAL CARE
Gel and ARM & HAMMER DENTAL CARE Tartar Control Formula were introduced in the
latter part of 1990 and 1991, respectively. ARM & HAMMER Tartar Control Gel was
launched nationally in 1992. Late in 1994, ARM & HAMMER PEROXICARE(R), a baking
soda and peroxide toothpaste was introduced nationally.

     During the first quarter of 1994, the Company launched nationally a new
personal care product, ARM & HAMMER Deodorant Anti-perspirant with Baking Soda.
This new product is available in scented and unscented stick and roll-on forms.

     COMPETITION

     The markets for retail consumer products are highly competitive. ARM &
HAMMER Baking Soda competes with generic and private label brands of grocery
chains. ARM & HAMMER DENTAL CARE, ARM & HAMMER Carpet Deodorizer, ARM & HAMMER
Deodorant Anti-Perspirant and ARM & HAMMER Deodorizing Air Freshener compete
with other nationally advertised brands.

     The Company's laundry products, ARM & HAMMER Powder Laundry Detergent, ARM
& HAMMER Liquid Laundry Detergent, ARM & HAMMER Super Washing Soda, and ARM &
HAMMER FRESH & SOFT Dryer Sheets, all have small shares in large markets
dominated by major consumer packaged goods companies. Despite its relatively
small size, the Company has maintained its position in the laundry detergent
market in recent years.

     All of the Company's products are competitively priced and receive strong
support in the form of trade and consumer promotion. In addition, the Company
advertises certain products on national television.

     DISTRIBUTION

     The Company's consumer products are primarily marketed throughout the
United States and Canada and sold through supermarkets, mass merchandisers and
drugstores. The Company employs a regional sales force which operates primarily
through independent food brokers in each market. The products are stored in
public warehouses and either picked up by customers or distributed by
independent trucking companies.

SPECIALTY PRODUCTS

     PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

     The Company's specialty products business primarily consists of the
manufacture and sale of sodium bicarbonate in a range of grades and granulations
for use in industrial and agricultural markets. In industrial markets, sodium
bicarbonate is used as a leavening agent for commercial baked goods, an antacid
in pharmaceuticals, a carbon dioxide release agent in fire extinguishers, and as
an alkaline agent in swimming pool chemicals, detergents and various textile and
tanning applications. A special grade of sodium bicarbonate, as well as sodium
sesquicarbonate, is sold to the animal feed market for use as a buffer, or
antacid, for dairy cattle.

                                      - 2 -


     The Company is the sole U.S. producer of ammonium bicarbonate, which is
primarily used as a leavening agent in the food industry, and produces other
chemicals related to sodium bicarbonate.

     During 1994, the Company increased its ownership position in Brotherton
Chemicals Ltd., a British producer of ammonium bicarbonate and other chemicals
sold to the food and agricultural markets, from 95% to 100%.

     MEGALAC Rumen Bypass Fat is a nutritional supplement made from natural oils
which allows cows to maintain energy levels during the period of high-milk
production, resulting in improved milk yields and minimal weight loss. The
product and the trademark MEGALAC are licensed from a British company, Volac
Ltd.

     ARMEX Blast Media is a small but rapidly developing product line of
formulations designed for the removal of a wide variety surface coatings. This
product which is used in conjunction with the Company's ACCUSTRIP SYSTEM(TM)
Delivery Device provides an environmentally safe alternative to existing
processes such as sand blasting and chemical stripping.

     In 1986, the Company along with a subsidiary of Occidental Petroleum
Corporation formed Armand Products Company, an equally owned joint venture
partnership that produces and markets potassium carbonate and potassium
bicarbonate. Potassium chemicals have some characteristics akin to the Company's
existing product line, and the Company hopes to develop new applications in much
the same way it broadened the uses of sodium bicarbonate.

     COMPETITION

     The sodium bicarbonate industry continues to be affected by competition
from domestic sodium bicarbonate producers and imports. In agricultural markets,
sodium bicarbonate also competes with several alternative buffer products.
During 1992, the structure of the sodium bicarbonate industry changed as two
competitors merged and closed one production site in the process. North American
Chemicals continues to gain market penetration in the commodities sector of the
sodium bicarbonate market with nahcolite, a naturally-occurring form of
low-grade sodium bicarbonate. The Company's position in this market has
essentially remained the same despite these adverse conditions.

     The Company competes primarily on the basis of its product quality, grade
availability and reliability of supply from a two-plant manufacturing system.
Pricing is a major competitive factor for animal feed and other less specialized
grades of sodium bicarbonate.

     In 1994, two competitors recently added a combined total of 50,000 tons of
potassium carbonate capacity, thus ending Armand Products position as the sole
North American producer of potassium carbonate. These events have been
anticipated for some time, but it is impossible to predict the extent to which
these developments will impact this business.

     DISTRIBUTION

     The Company markets sodium bicarbonate and other chemicals to industrial
and agricultural customers throughout the United States and Canada. Distribution
is accomplished through regional sales offices and manufacturer's
representatives augmented by the sales personnel of independent distributors
throughout the country.

                                      - 3 -


     RAW MATERIALS AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY

     The Company manufactures sodium bicarbonate for its consumer and industrial
markets at its two plants located at Green River, Wyoming and Old Fort, Ohio.

     The production of sodium bicarbonate requires two basic raw materials, soda
ash and carbon dioxide. The primary source of soda ash used by the Company is
the mineral, trona, which is found in abundance in southwestern Wyoming, near
the Company's Green River plant. The Company has acquired a number of leases
allowing it to extract these trona deposits.

     The Company is party to a partnership agreement with General Chemical
Corporation who mines and processes certain trona reserves owned by each of the
two Companies in Wyoming. Through the partnership and related agreements, the
Company obtains a substantial amount of its soda ash requirements, enabling the
Company to achieve some of the economies of an integrated business capable of
producing sodium bicarbonate and related products from the basic raw material.
The Company also has an agreement for the long term supply of trona from another
company.

     The Company presently uses light soda ash in the manufacture of its ARM &
HAMMER Powder Laundry Detergent in its Syracuse, New York plant. Light soda ash
is obtained under a one-year supply agreement which is automatically renewable
on a year to year basis. This agreement terminates upon one year's written
notice by either company. At the Syracuse plant and the Green River, Wyoming
plant, the Company also produces Laundry Detergent Powder employing a process
utilizing raw materials readily available from a number of sources.

     The partnership agreement and other supply agreements between the Company
and General Chemical terminate upon two years notice by either company. The
Company believes that alternative sources of supply are available.

     The Company obtains its supply of the second basic raw material, carbon
dioxide, in Green River and Old Fort, under long-term supply contracts. The
Company believes that its sources of carbon dioxide, and other raw and packaging
materials, are adequate.

     During 1995, a liquid laundry detergent facility is being constructed at
the Company's Syracuse, New York Plant. This new plant will be capable of
producing a substantial amount of the Company's liquid laundry detergent
requirements. Prior to this, all of the Company's ARM & HAMMER Liquid Laundry
Detergent was contract manufactured. ARM & HAMMER FRESH & SOFT Dryer Sheets, ARM
& HAMMER Deodorizing Air Freshener and ARM & HAMMER Deodorant Anti-perspirant
are also contract manufactured for the Company under various agreements.
Alternative sources of supply are available in case of disruption or termination
of the agreements.

     The main raw material used in the production of potassium carbonate is
liquid potassium hydroxide. Armand Products obtains its supply of liquid
potassium hydroxide under a long-term supply arrangement.

     PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

     The Company's ARM & HAMMER trademark is registered with the United States
Patent and Trademark Office and also with the trademark offices of many foreign
countries. It has been used by the Company since the late 1800's, and is a
valuable asset and important to the successful operation of the Company's
business.

     SEASONALITY

     It appears that the Company's sales are principally affected by marketing
and promotion activities rather than seasonal factors.

                                      - 4 -


     CUSTOMERS AND ORDER BACKLOG

     No material part of the Company's business is dependent upon either a
single customer or a few customers.

     The time between receipt of orders and shipment is generally short, and as
a result, backlog is not significant.

     RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT

     The Company's Research and Development Department is engaged in work on
product development, process technology and basic research. During 1994,
approximately $20,594,000 was spent on research activities as compared to
$21,172,000 in 1993 and $17,826,000 in 1992.

     ENVIRONMENT

     Similar to other manufacturers, the Company's operations are subject to
federal, state and local regulations governing air emissions, waste and steam
discharges, and solid and hazardous waste management activities. The Company
continues to take all steps required to comply with such regulations. These
steps include annual environmental audits of each Company facility. The audits,
conducted by an independent engineering concern with expertise in the area of
environmental compliance, include site visits at each location, as well as a
review of documentary information, to determine compliance with such federal,
state and local regulations. The Company believes that existing promulgated
environmental regulations will not have any material adverse effect with regard
to the Company's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. No
material capital expenditures relating to environmental control are anticipated.

     EMPLOYEES

     At December 31, 1994, the Company had 1,028 employees. The Company is party
to a labor contract with the United Steelworkers of America covering
approximately sixty hourly employees at its Syracuse, New York plant which
continues until July 1, 1997. Labor relations have been good.

   LINES OF BUSINESS AND CLASSES OF PRODUCTS

   The Company's operations constitute one business segment. The chart set forth
below shows the percentage of the Company's net sales contributed by each group
of products marketed by the Company during the period from January 1, 1990
through December 31, 1994.



                                      - 5 -


ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

     The executive offices and research and development facilities are owned by
the Company and are located on 22 acres of land in Princeton, New Jersey, with
approximately 72,000 square feet of office and laboratory space. In addition,
the Company leases space in two buildings adjacent to this facility which
contain approximately 90,000 square feet of office space. The Company also
leases regional sales offices in various locations throughout the United States.

     At Syracuse, New York the Company owns a 16 acre site on which a group of
connected buildings containing approximately 270,000 square feet of floor space
are located. This plant is used primarily for the manufacture and packaging of
consumer products. Adjacent to this, the Company also owns a one acre site where
it manufactures ammonium bicarbonate in a 14,000 square foot building.

     The Company's plant in Green River, Wyoming is located on 112 acres of land
owned by the Company. The plant and related facilities contain approximately
273,000 square feet of floor space. The plant was constructed in 1968 and has
since been expanded to a current capacity of 190,000 tons of sodium bicarbonate
per year.

     The Company's plant in Old Fort, Ohio is located on 75 acres of land owned
by the Company. The plant and related facilities contain approximately 208,000
square feet of floor space. The plant was completed in 1980 and has since been
expanded to a capacity of 210,000 tons of sodium bicarbonate per year. The last
expansion was completed in the spring of 1994.

     The Company maintains an operating facility in Taylors, South Carolina, for
the manufacturing and packaging of its dentifrice products in a 117,000 square
foot building. The facility is located on 6 acres of land owned by the Company.

     In Ontario, Canada, the Company owns a 26,000 square foot distribution
center which was previously the site of a packaging plant servicing Canadian
markets. In 1994, the manufacturing activities were transferred to the Company's
United States facilities. The principal office of the Canadian subsidiary 
(which is leased) is located in Toronto.

     Brotherton Chemical Ltd. operates a 71,000 square foot manufacturing 
facility in Wakefield, England on about 7 acres of land.

     The Company's Venezuela subsidiary, Industrias Bicarbon De Venezuela S.A.,
is currently completing construction of a new 11,000 ton sodium bicarbonate
plant. The plant is expected to be operational in early 1995.

     The Armand Products partnership, in which the Company has a 50% interest,
owns and operates a potassium carbonate manufacturing plant located in Muscle
Shoals, Alabama. This facility contains approximately 53,000 square feet of
floor space and has a capacity of 103,000 tons of potassium carbonate per year.

ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is subject to claims and litigation in the ordinary course of
its business, but does not believe that any such claim or litigation will have a
material adverse effect on the business.

ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's security holders
during the last quarter of the year ended December 31, 1994.

                                      - 6 -


                                     PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
            MATTERS

     The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange 
(symbol: "CHD").  Refer to Page 20 of the Annual Report which is incorporated 
herein by reference.

ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     Refer to Page 16 of the Annual Report which, in so far as the data for the
years 1990 through 1994 are concerned, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND 
            FINANCIAL CONDITION

     Refer to Financial Review Pages 17-20 of the Annual Report which are
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     Refer to Pages 21-34 of the Annual Report which are incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
            FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     This item is omitted because the Company will file with the Commission a
definitive proxy statement pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days
after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, which proxy
statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     This item is omitted because the Company will file with the Commission a
definitive proxy statement pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days
after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, which proxy
statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     This item is omitted because the Company will file with the Commission a
definitive proxy statement pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days
after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, which proxy
statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     This item is omitted because the Company will file with the Commission a
definitive proxy statement pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days
after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, which proxy
statement is incorporated herein by reference.

                                      - 7 -


                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) 1.      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     The following financial statements are incorporated herein by reference to
the Annual Report to Security Holders:




(a) 2.   FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

    Included in Part IV of this report:

            Independent Auditors' Report on Schedule

            For the three years ended December 31, 1994:

            Schedule VIII - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

    Other schedules are omitted because of the absence of conditions under which
they are required or because the required information is given in the financial
statements or notes thereto.

                                      - 8 -


(a)  3.       EXHIBITS

    (3)       (a)   Restated Certificate of Incorporation including
                    amendments has previously been filed with the Securities and
                    Exchange Commission on the Company's Form 10-K for the year
                    ended December 31, 1989, which is incorporated by reference.

              (b)   By-Laws have previously been filed with the Securities and
                    Exchange Commission in the Company's Form 10-K for the year
                    ended December 31, 1985, which is incorporated herein by
                    reference.

    (4)             The Company is party to a Loan Agreement dated May 31, 1991
                    with the New Jersey Economic Development Authority. The
                    principal amount of the loan thereunder is less than ten
                    percent of the Company's consolidated assets. The Company
                    will furnish a copy of said agreement to the Commission upon
                    request.

    (10)      (a)   Supply Agreement between Church & Dwight Co., Inc. and
                    ALCAD Partnership for supply of soda ash. This document is
                    not attached hereto but has been separately submitted to the
                    Securities and Exchange Commission which has approved the
                    Company's application under rule 24b-2 for privileged and
                    confidential treatment thereof.

                    COMPENSATION PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS

              (b)   Indemnification Agreement for directors, and certain
                    officers, employees, agents and fiduciaries, which was
                    approved by stockholders at the Annual Meeting of
                    Stockholders on May 7, 1987, and was included in the
                    Company's definitive Proxy Statement dated April 6, 1987
                    which is incorporated herein by reference.

              (c)   Stockholder Rights Agreement dated April 27, 1989, between
                    Church & Dwight Co., Inc. and Manufacturers Hanover Trust
                    Company, has been previously filed on April 28, 1989 with
                    the Securities and Exchange Commission in the Company's Form
                    8-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

              (d)   The Company's 1983 Stock Option Plan, which was approved by
                    stockholders at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 5,
                    1983, and was included in the Company's definitive Proxy
                    Statement dated April 4, 1983 which is incorporated herein
                    by reference.

              (e)   Restricted Stock Plan for Directors which was approved by
                    stockholders at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 7,
                    1987, and was included in the Company's definitive Proxy
                    Statement dated April 6, 1987 which is incorporated herein
                    by reference.

              (f)   Church & Dwight Co., Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan and
                    Agreement for Officers Amended and Restated as of January 1,
                    1988 has previously been filed with the Securities and
                    Exchange Commission in the Company's Form 10-K for the year
                    ended December 31, 1987, which is incorporated herein by
                    reference.

              (g)   Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors has previously been
                    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the
                    Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987,
                    which is incorporated herein by reference.

              (h)   Employment Service Agreement with Senior Management of
                    Church & Dwight Co., Inc. has previously been filed with the
                    Securities and Exchange Commission in the Company's Form
                    10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990, which is
                    incorporated herein by reference.

                                      - 9 -


              (i)   The Stock Option Plan for Directors which was approved by
                    stockholders in May 1991, authorized the granting of options
                    to non-employee directors. The full text of the Church &
                    Dwight Co.,Inc. Stock Option Plan for Directors was
                    contained in the definitive Proxy Statement filed with the
                    Commission on April 2, 1991 and incorporated herein by
                    reference.

              (j)   A description of the Company's Incentive Compensation Plan
                    has previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange
                    Commission on the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
                    December 31, 1992, which is incorporated herein by
                    reference.

              (k)   Church & Dwight Co., Inc. Executive Stock Purchase Plan has
                    previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange
                    Commission in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
                    December 31, 1993, which is incorporated herein by
                    reference.

              (l)   The 1994 Incentive Stock Option Plan.

    (11)      Computation of earnings per share.

    (13)      1994 Annual Report to Stockholders.

    (21)      List of the Company's subsidiaries.

(b)           REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of the year
ended December 31, 1994.

              Copies of exhibits will be made available upon request and for a
reasonable charge.

                                     - 10 -


INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To The Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Church & Dwight Co., Inc.
Princeton, New Jersey

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Church & Dwight Co.,
Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1994, and have issued our report
thereon dated January 25, 1995; such consolidated financial statements and
report are included in your 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders and are
incorporated herein by reference. Our audits also included the consolidated
financial statement schedule of Church & Dwight Co., Inc. and subsidiaries,
listed in Item 14. This consolidated financial statement schedule is the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.





Deloitte & Touche LLP

January 25, 1995

                                     - 11 -




                   CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (In thousands)



                                     - 12 -


                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 23, 1994.

                                             CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC.

                                             By:      /s/ Dwight C. Minton      
                                                      -------------------------
                                                      Dwight C. Minton
                                                      Chairman of the Board and
                                                      Chief Executive Officer

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.




/s/ Dwight C. Minton         Chairman of the Board, and
-------------------------    Chief Executive Officer
Dwight C. Minton                                               February 22, 1995




/s/ Anthony P. Deasey        Vice President Finance, and
-------------------------    Chief Financial Officer
Anthony P. Deasey            (Principal Financial Officer)

                                                               February 22, 1995





/s/ Mark L. Stolp            Controller
-------------------------    (Principal Accounting Officer)
Mark L. Stolp                                                  February 22, 1995



                                     - 19 -


      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


/s/ Cyril C. Baldwin, Jr.              Director                February 22, 1995
-------------------------------
Cyril C. Baldwin, Jr.




/s/ William R. Becklean                Director                February 22, 1995
-------------------------------
William R. Becklean




/s/ Robert H. Beeby                    Director                February 22, 1995
-------------------------------
Robert H. Beeby




/s/ Rosina B. Dixon, M.D.              Director                February 22, 1995
-------------------------------
Rosina B. Dixon, M.D.




/s/ J. Richard Leaman, Jr.             Director                February 22, 1995
-------------------------------
J. Richard Leaman, Jr.




/s/ John D. Leggett, III, Ph.D.        Director                February 22, 1995
-------------------------------
John D. Leggett, III, Ph.D.




/s/ Robert A. McCabe                   Director                February 22, 1995
-------------------------------
Robert A. McCabe




/s/ Dean P. Phypers                    Director                February 22, 1995
-------------------------------
Dean P. Phypers




/s/ Jarvis J. Slade                    Director                 February 22,1995
-------------------------------
Jarvis J. Slade



/s/ John O. Whitney                    Director                February 22, 1995
-------------------------------
John O. Whitney



                                     - 20 -

                                EXHIBIT INDEX
                                -------------                      
                                                                   
Exhibit No.                      Description                       
-----------                     ------------                       
(a)  3.       

    (3)       (a)   Restated Certificate of Incorporation including
                    amendments has previously been filed with the Securities and
                    Exchange Commission on the Company's Form 10-K for the year
                    ended December 31, 1989, which is incorporated by reference.

              (b)   By-Laws have previously been filed with the Securities and
                    Exchange Commission in the Company's Form 10-K for the year
                    ended December 31, 1985, which is incorporated herein by
                    reference.

    (4)             The Company is party to a Loan Agreement dated May 31, 1991
                    with the New Jersey Economic Development Authority. The
                    principal amount of the loan thereunder is less than ten
                    percent of the Company's consolidated assets. The Company
                    will furnish a copy of said agreement to the Commission upon
                    request.

    (10)      (a)   Supply Agreement between Church & Dwight Co., Inc. and
                    ALCAD Partnership for supply of soda ash. This document is
                    not attached hereto but has been separately submitted to the
                    Securities and Exchange Commission which has approved the
                    Company's application under rule 24b-2 for privileged and
                    confidential treatment thereof.

                    COMPENSATION PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS

              (b)   Indemnification Agreement for directors, and certain
                    officers, employees, agents and fiduciaries, which was
                    approved by stockholders at the Annual Meeting of
                    Stockholders on May 7, 1987, and was included in the
                    Company's definitive Proxy Statement dated April 6, 1987
                    which is incorporated herein by reference.

              (c)   Stockholder Rights Agreement dated April 27, 1989, between
                    Church & Dwight Co., Inc. and Manufacturers Hanover Trust
                    Company, has been previously filed on April 28, 1989 with
                    the Securities and Exchange Commission in the Company's Form
                    8-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

              (d)   The Company's 1983 Stock Option Plan, which was approved by
                    stockholders at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 5,
                    1983, and was included in the Company's definitive Proxy
                    Statement dated April 4, 1983 which is incorporated herein
                    by reference.

              (e)   Restricted Stock Plan for Directors which was approved by
                    stockholders at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 7,
                    1987, and was included in the Company's definitive Proxy
                    Statement dated April 6, 1987 which is incorporated herein
                    by reference.

              (f)   Church & Dwight Co., Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan and
                    Agreement for Officers Amended and Restated as of January 1,
                    1988 has previously been filed with the Securities and
                    Exchange Commission in the Company's Form 10-K for the year
                    ended December 31, 1987, which is incorporated herein by
                    reference.

              (g)   Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors has previously been
                    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the
                    Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987,
                    which is incorporated herein by reference.

              (h)   Employment Service Agreement with Senior Management of
                    Church & Dwight Co., Inc. has previously been filed with the
                    Securities and Exchange Commission in the Company's Form
                    10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990, which is
                    incorporated herein by reference.

              (i)   The Stock Option Plan for Directors which was approved by
                    stockholders in May 1991, authorized the granting of options
                    to non-employee directors. The full text of the Church &
                    Dwight Co.,Inc. Stock Option Plan for Directors was
                    contained in the definitive Proxy Statement filed with the
                    Commission on April 2, 1991 and incorporated herein by
                    reference.

              (j)   A description of the Company's Incentive Compensation Plan
                    has previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange
                    Commission on the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
                    December 31, 1992, which is incorporated herein by
                    reference.

              (k)   Church & Dwight Co., Inc. Executive Stock Purchase Plan has
                    previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange
                    Commission in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
                    December 31, 1993, which is incorporated herein by
                    reference.

              (l)   The 1994 Incentive Stock Option Plan.

    (11)      Computation of earnings per share.

    (13)      1994 Annual Report to Stockholders.

    (21)      List of the Company's subsidiaries.


