ITEM 1.Business

Overview

We complement our FortiGate product line with a family of FortiManager appliances, which
enable end-customers to manage the system configuration and security functions of multiple FortiGate appliances from a centralized console, as well as FortiAnalyzer appliances, which enable collection, analysis and archiving of content and log data
generated by our products. We also offer other appliances and software that provide additional protection, such as: (i) FortiMail, a family of multi-featured, high performance messaging security appliances, (ii) FortiDB, a family of
appliances that provide centrally managed database-specific security, (iii) FortiClient, a software product that provides endpoint security for desktops, laptops and mobile devices and that is primarily used in conjunction with our FortiGate
appliances, (iv) FortiWeb, an appliance that provides security for Web-based applications, and (v) FortiScan, an appliance designed to provide endpoint vulnerability assessment and remediation.

As of December 31, 2009, we had shipped over 500,000 appliances to more than 5,000 channel partners and 75,000 end-customers worldwide,
including a majority of the 2009 Fortune Global 100.

We were incorporated in Delaware in November 2000. Our principle
executive office is located at 1090 Kifer Road, Sunnyvale, California 94086 and our telephone number at that location is (408) 235-7700.

Technology and Architecture

Our proprietary FortiASIC, hardware architecture, FortiOS operating system
and associated security and networking functions combine to form a platform that integrates security features and enables our products to perform sophisticated security processing for networks with high throughput requirements.

FortiASIC

Our FortiASIC family of ASICs is comprised of the FortiASIC content processor, or CP, line and the FortiASIC network processor, or NP, line. These custom ASICs are designed to enhance the sophisticated security processing capabilities
implemented in software by accelerating the computational intensive tasks such as firewall policy enforcement or IPS anomaly detection. This architecture provides the flexibility of implementing accelerated processing of new threat detection without
requiring a new ASIC release. We are able to implement additional new computationally intensive security tasks in later generations of ASICs thereby providing further acceleration capabilities. The FortiASIC CP is currently included in most of our
entry-level and all of our mid-range and high-end FortiGate appliances. The FortiASIC NP is currently included in most of our high-end and some of our mid-range FortiGate appliances, delivering further accelerated firewall and VPN performance.



•FortiASIC CP.Our sixth generation FortiASIC CP implements several techniques in hardware to assist in computationally intensive tasks, such as
protocol parsing and encryption/decryption processing associated with VPN. In addition, the FortiASIC CP implements other techniques, such as shared memory integration, to reduce the overhead associated with processing data in multiple locations.
The FortiASIC CP is a critical component that accelerates processing of sophisticated content inspection tasks executed by the FortiOS.







•FortiASIC NP.Our second generation FortiASIC NP is an in-line processor that is designed to accelerate some of the common tasks associated with
the processing of network traffic, especially in the context of network security. In particular, the FortiASIC NP is capable of accelerating several computationally intensive security tasks such as firewall policy enforcement, encryption and
decryption of VPN traffic and traffic shaping, to enable increased network security protection while minimizing any impact to network bandwidth and throughput. The FortiASIC NP is also flexible in its ability to handle a variety of network traffic
types and is agnostic to packet size and other attributes that are different among various network deployments.

Custom Hardware Architecture

Our custom hardware architecture provides the foundation for all FortiGate
platforms, combining the integration of FortiASICs with general purpose processors, high-performance network interfaces and custom expansion capabilities. By developing a custom hardware architecture, we are able to incorporate our ASICs within the
system to optimize their ability to process traffic for network and security functions.

FortiOS

FortiOS provides the foundation for the operation of all FortiGate appliances, from the core kernel functions to the security processing
feature sets. FortiOS provides multiple layers of security including a hardened kernel layer providing protection for the FortiGate system, a network security layer providing security for end-customers’ network infrastructures, and application
content protection providing security for end-customers’ workstations and applications. FortiOS directs the operations of processors and ASICs as well as providing system management functions such as command-line and graphical user interfaces.
We make available updates to the FortiOS through our FortiCare support services. FortiOS also enables advanced, integrated routing and switching, allowing end-customers to deploy FortiGate devices within a wide variety of networks, as well as
providing a direct replacement solution option for legacy switching and routing equipment. The FortiOS implements a suite of commonly used routing protocols as well as address translation technologies allowing the FortiGate appliance to integrate
and operate in a wide variety of network environments. Our technology permits seamless integration into existing network infrastructures with minimal disruption. Additional features include Virtual Domain, or VDOM, capabilities and traffic queuing
and shaping enabling administrators to set the appropriate configurations and policies that meet







their infrastructure needs. FortiOS also provides capabilities for logging of traffic for forensic analysis purposes which are particularly important for regulatory compliance initiatives like
PCI DSS. FortiOS’s packet classification, queue disciplines, policy enforcement, congestion management, and other traffic optimization functionality are designed to help control network traffic in order to optimize performance.

Security and Networking Functions

Our FortiOS incorporates the following seven core security and networking technologies:



•Firewall. Our firewall technology delivers high performance network and application firewalling, including the ability to enforce policies based
on the application behavior. Our technology identifies traffic patterns and links them to the use of specific applications, such as instant messaging and peer-to-peer applications, permitting application access control. By coupling application
intelligence with firewall technology, the FortiGate platform is able to deliver real-time security with integrated application content level inspection, thereby simplifying security deployments.



•Virtual Private Network. Our advanced VPN technology provides secure communications between multiple networks and hosts, through both secure
socket layer, or SSL, and IPsec VPN technologies, leveraging our custom FortiASIC to provide hardware acceleration for high-performance communications and data privacy. Benefits include the ability to enforce complete content inspection and
multi-threat security as part of VPN communications, including antivirus, Intrusion Prevention System, or IPS, and Web filtering. Additional features include traffic optimization providing prioritization for traffic across VPNs.



•Antivirus. Our antivirus technology provides protection against malware, including viruses, spyware and trojans. Our FortiGuard security
subscription services provide updates to signatures to maintain a high level of accuracy and detection capabilities in our products.



•Intrusion Prevention System. Our IPS technology provides protection against current and emerging network level threats. In addition to
signature-based detection, we perform anomaly-based detection whereby our system alerts users to traffic that fits a specific attack behavior profile. This behavior is then analyzed by our FortiGuard Labs team to identify threats as they emerge and
generate new signatures that will be incorporated into our FortiGuard services.



•Web Filtering. Our Web filtering automation technology works in concert with our research team to collect, analyze and categorize websites to
provide real-time protection through website ratings and categorization.

Our Web filtering technology is a
pro-active defense feature that identifies known locations of malware and blocks access to these malicious sources. In addition, the technology enables administrators to enforce policies based on website content categories, ensuring users are not
accessing content that is inappropriate for their work environment. The technology restricts access to denied categories based on the policy by comparing each Web address request to a Fortinet hosted database.



•Antispam. We employ a variety of antispam techniques to detect and block spam. These techniques include a hosted service performing algorithmic
validations of messages against known spam messages, sophisticated reputation service designed to evaluate and track valid email sources and destinations, intelligent image scanning to evaluate the validity of images and dynamic heuristic rules to
allow messages to be evaluated based on content within each message. These techniques can be combined to identify and block spam with high accuracy catch-rates and to minimize false positives. We test all filter, rule and definition updates against
a large test database of messages to safeguard against inadvertent filtering of legitimate messages.



•WAN Acceleration. Our storage-enabled and storage-ready FortiGate appliances provide the ability to accelerate network traffic across the wide
area network by implementing a combination of application content caching and protocol optimization techniques. Combined with our VPN technologies, end-customers can take advantage of low-cost public network infrastructures to extend their network
reach while experiencing high-performance for their network traffic with comprehensive privacy and security.

In addition to the seven core security and networking functions mentioned above, we also incorporate additional technologies within FortiGate appliances that differentiate our UTM solution, including:



•Application Control.Our application control technology provides the ability to define granular network-based application policies giving
end-customers additional control over application access. By designing and implementing a dynamic application behavior detection engine, FortiGate appliances can detect unique applications regardless of the underlying protocol. Many applications
have migrated to Web-based interfaces, enabling opportunities to carry additional malicious threats. By identifying the application based on the characteristics of the traffic and behavior, policies can be set to control which Web applications are
allowed or denied thereby reducing the opportunity for both known and new potentially malicious applications to penetrate the infrastructure.







•Data Leakage Prevention (DLP).Our DLP technology provides the ability to define rules based on corporate policies, and consequently detect and
prevent confidential data from being distributed outside of the corporate network. By leveraging the inspection capabilities within FortiOS, these DLP policies are able to identify and stop the transmission of confidential data within various
application content. Additional capabilities include the identification of the source where known confidential data is being originated from, thereby allowing administrative action to take place. Traffic that has been identified based on these
corporate policies can be archived for further analysis.



•Traffic optimization.Our traffic optimization technology combines quality of service techniques with traffic shaping to provide better service
to selected network traffic based on customer policies without causing interruptions to other traffic.



•SSL inspection.Our SSL inspection technology provides the ability to decrypt SSL application content for processing by the FortiOS. The ability
to inspect encrypted SSL content enables our customers to ensure protection from malware that would be otherwise hidden from traditional security products, and enforce the full complement of security and networking features available within FortiOS.

Products

Our core product offerings consist of our FortiGate UTM appliance family, along with our FortiManager central management appliance and FortiAnalyzer central logging and reporting appliance, both of which
are typically purchased to complement a FortiGate deployment.

FortiGate

Our flagship FortiGate appliances offer a set of security and networking functions, including firewall, VPN, antivirus, intrusion prevention,
Web filtering, antispam and WAN acceleration. All FortiGate appliances are based on our proprietary operating system, FortiOS, and substantially all FortiGate models include our proprietary FortiASICs to accelerate content and network security
features implemented within FortiOS. FortiGate appliances can be centrally managed through both embedded Web-based and command line interfaces, as well as through FortiManager which provides a central management architecture for thousands of
FortiGate appliances.







By combining multiple network security functions in our purpose-built security platform, the
FortiGate provides high quality protection capabilities and deployment flexibility while reducing the operational burden and costs associated with managing multiple point products. Through FortiGuard security subscription services, our products
enable end-customers to add security functionality as required by their evolving business needs and the changing threat landscape. By purchasing FortiGuard security subscription services, end-customers obtain coverage and access to regular updates
for antivirus, IPS, Web filtering and antispam functions for their FortiGate appliances. With over 30 models in the FortiGate product line, FortiGate is designed to address security requirements for small-to-mid sized businesses, remote offices,
large enterprises, and service providers.

Each FortiGate appliance runs our FortiOS operating system, and substantially all
include our FortiASIC CP. The significant differences between each model are the performance and scalability targets each model is designed to meet, while the security features and associated services offered are common throughout all models.

The FortiGate-30 through -100 series models are designed for perimeter protection for small- to mid-sized businesses and
remote offices and as customer premises equipment for service providers. Optional wireless LAN, or WLAN, integration is available for the FortiGate-50, -60 and -80 models, marketed as FortiWiFi, delivering additional network access and security for
wireless environments.

The FortiGate-200 through -800 series models are designed for perimeter deployment in mid-sized to
large enterprise networks. These products offer increased capacity and scalability designed to provide high network performance while delivering the same broad security suite as all FortiGate models. Additionally, the FortiGate-310 and -620 models
provide hardware modularity, allowing end-customers the flexibility to customize solutions to their requirements, as well as permitting us the opportunity to produce new modules to sell into existing end-customer deployments.

FortiGate
System Virtualization (VDOM)







Fortinet Management and Analysis Appliances

The table below presents the capabilities of our FortiManager and FortiAnalyzer appliances, which are typically sold in conjunction with a
large FortiGate deployment:



ProductFeature HighlightsFortiGuard Services AvailableFortiManager(Centralized management appliance)•Configuration management•FortiOS upgrade management•Caching of FortiGuard updates•Not applicableFortiAnalyzer(Centralized reporting and analysis appliance)•Network event correlation•Content archiving•Vulnerability management services

FortiManager

Our FortiManager appliances provide a central management solution for our FortiGate appliances, including the wide variety of network and security features offered within FortiOS. One FortiManager appliance is capable of effectively
managing thousands of FortiGate units, and also provides central management for FortiClient software. FortiManager facilitates the coordination of policy-based provisioning, device configuration and operating system revision management, as well as
network security monitoring and device control.







FortiAnalyzer

Our FortiAnalyzer appliances are network logging, analyzing, and reporting appliances that securely aggregate content and log data from our
FortiGate and other products as well as third-party devices to enable network logging, analysis and reporting. Additional functions such as vulnerability assessments and traffic analysis provide additional value for customers seeking to control and
monitor their network infrastructure and security policies. A full range of content and log data, including traffic, event, virus, attack, Web content, and email data may be archived, filtered and mined for compliance or historical analysis
purposes. The appliance comes with a suite of standard reports as well as the ability to customize reports.

Additional Fortinet
Solutions

We also offer other appliances and software that protect our end-customers from security threats to other
critical areas in the enterprise, such as messaging, Web-based traffic and databases, and employees’ computers or handheld devices.



ProductFeature HighlightsFortiGuard Services AvailableFortiMail(Email antispam and
security appliance)•Inbound and outbound email spam protection•Email antivirus protection•Email content archiving•Antispam•AntivirusFortiDB(Database security
appliance)•Database vulnerability assessment•Activity monitoring and auditing for database transactions•Database discovery•Database policy updatesFortiClient(Endpoint security
software)•Antivirus•Antispam•Personal firewall•IPsec VPN•Web content filtering•Data loss prevention•WAN acceleration•Antivirus•Antispam•Web filteringFortiWeb(Web application
firewall appliance)•XML IPS and validation•SSL acceleration•Server load balancing•Not applicableFortiScan(Endpoint
vulnerability management appliance)•Vulnerability assessment and remediation•Patch management•Network device inventory (hardware, OS and applications)•Vulnerability management services

FortiMail

Our FortiMail appliances provide protection against threats conveyed by messaging applications, including blended threats such as a coordinated, single attack comprised of spam, viruses and worms. These systems offer flexibility to support
a variety of existing deployments with minimal change to existing infrastructure. The FortiMail systems utilize a customized operating system designed to inspect and clean both inbound and outbound email traffic. FortiMail detects security threats
through sophisticated antispam, antivirus and anti-malware engines. Additional functionality designed to eliminate deployment barriers and increase system value includes email routing, system virtualization, and archiving.

FortiDB

Our FortiDB appliance provides a comprehensive solution for database security assessment, identifying potential vulnerabilities that otherwise could be exploited by attackers. This solution is able to discover databases within a network
infrastructure allowing administrators to confirm known databases and identify potentially harmful unknown or unauthorized databases. The ability to evaluate and report on database software and database server vulnerabilities provides the database
administrator with a comprehensive list of security concerns and recommended actions to remediate them ensuring a security-hardened database environment.







FortiClient

Our FortiClient product is an endpoint software solution designed to be used in connection with our FortiGate appliances to provide security
features for enterprise computers and mobile devices. The feature set includes personal firewall, IPsec VPN, antivirus, Web filtering, WAN acceleration, DLP and antispam. FortiClient is supported by FortiGuard security subscription services to help
ensure endpoints are protected on a real-time basis against current and emerging threats. FortiClient software is available for Microsoft Windows XP, Microsoft Vista, Microsoft Windows Mobile and Symbian operating systems.

FortiWeb

Our FortiWeb appliance provides Web application firewalls and networking features designed to protect, balance, and accelerate Web applications. The FortiWeb is designed for medium and large enterprises, cloud service providers and consumer
Internet and e-commerce companies, and can significantly reduce the deployment time and complexities of introducing Web applications. The FortiWeb applies our industry leading threat research to protect Web application servers, improving the
security of confidential information and aiding in legislative and PCI DSS compliance. FortiWeb goes beyond traditional Web application firewalls to provide XML security enforcement, application acceleration, and server load balancing.







FortiScan

Our FortiScan appliance provides endpoint vulnerability management, inventory (asset and software) industry compliance evaluation, patch
management and remediation, auditing and reporting. These tasks are important for enterprises to assess and ensure the defensive capabilities of their endpoints. The ability to provide agent-less and agent-based vulnerability assessment allows for
flexibility in deployment with minimal impact on endpoint configurations. Additionally, administrators are able to remediate vulnerabilities found within endpoints from a central location without user participation simplifying security and
compliance initiatives.

Services

FortiGuard Security Subscription Services

Security requirements are
dynamic due to the constantly changing nature of threats. Using automated processes, our FortiGuard Labs team, comprised of over 100 professionals, identifies emerging threats, collects threat samples, and replicates, reviews and characterizes
attacks. Based on this research, we develop updates for virus signatures, attack definitions, scanning engines, and other security solution components to distribute to end-customers through our FortiGuard global distribution network. Our FortiGuard
security subscription services are designed to allow us to quickly deliver new threat detection capabilities to end-customers worldwide as new threats evolve. End-customers purchase FortiGuard security subscription services in advance, typically for
a one-year term, to obtain coverage and access to regular updates for antivirus, intrusion prevention, Web filtering and antispam functions for our FortiGate appliances, antivirus, Web filtering and antispam functions for our FortiClient software,
antivirus and antispam functions for our FortiMail appliances. We provide FortiGuard services 24 hours a day, seven days a week.



•Antivirus. Through our FortiGuard Antivirus service, we provide updates for several of our network appliance products and endpoint software with
the latest antivirus defenses against evolving threats. We add or update a large number of antivirus signatures each week to help protect against evolving malware threats, such as viruses, spyware, and worms. In addition to antivirus signatures, our
products utilize “anomaly-based detection” techniques through which detection occurs by recognizing data patterns that do not conform to what is considered a typical signature to defend against an additional set of unknown threats.



•Intrusion Prevention System. Through our FortiGuard IPS service, we provide end-customers with the latest defenses against suspicious
network activity. We also offer end-customers the ability to define their own detection profiles and signatures for use with their FortiGate products.



•Web Filtering. Through our FortiGuard Web Filtering service, we deliver updates to the hosted Web filtering database to regulate Web activities,
allowing end-customers to meet human resources and corporate internet usage policies and educational compliance requirements and help block access to harmful or non-productive websites. Our researchers use a combination of automation tools and
targeted research analysis to gather and review website URLs and to rate and categorize URLs into categories on a real-time basis.



•Antispam. The FortiGuard antispam service is the delivery mechanism for antispam signature updates for FortiGate, FortiMail and FortiClient
products. We updated our antispam databases based on real-time data collected from decoy email addresses and add a large number of new antispam signatures weekly to augment our current database of antispam signatures.



•Database Policies for FortiDB. Through our FortiGuard FortiDB database service, we deliver updates to policies utilized by our FortiDB
appliance. These updates typically consist of changes to our many FortiDB policies that cover known exploits, configuration weaknesses, OS issues, operational risks, and data access privileges. FortiDB uses the policies to generate actionable
reports so that organizations can ensure databases conform to corporate standard configurations, implement tests for custom applications, or conduct penetration testing of databases.



•Vulnerability Management. Through our FortiGuard Vulnerability and Compliance Management, or FortiGuard-VCM, service, we deliver vulnerability
database updates for our FortiAnalyzer and FortiScan products. These updates help organizations minimize the risk of vulnerabilities by enabling our FortiScan products to quickly discover vulnerabilities, measure the potential risk of these
vulnerabilities, and then provide the information necessary to mitigate these risks.

FortiCare Technical
Support Services

Our FortiCare services are our technical support services for the software, firmware and hardware in our
products. In addition to our standard support service offering, we offer a premium service that offers faster response times and dedicated support oriented towards major accounts.







For our standard technical support offering for our products, channel partners often provide
first level support to the end-customer, especially for small and mid-sized end-customers, and we typically provide second and third level support to our end-customers. We also provide knowledge management tools and customer self-help portals to
help augment our support capabilities in an efficient and scalable manner. We provide technical support to partners and end-customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week through regional technical support managers located worldwide. Our service
representatives work with our end-customers to qualify and characterize the issue at hand, and to efficiently route the FortiCare case to the appropriate specialized customer service engineer. In addition to post sales support activities, our
support organization places emphasis on service readiness by coordinating with our product management team to ensure the attainment of defined pre-requisite quality levels for our products and services prior to release.

Training Services

We offer training services to our end-customers and channel partners, through our training department and authorized training partners. These services are designed to help educate end-customers and partners regarding implementation, use and
functionality, and maintenance and support of our products. We have also implemented a training certification program to ensure an understanding of our products and services. As of December 31, 2009, more than 13,000 individuals have
participated in our training programs.

Professional Services

We offer professional services to end-customers primarily for large implementations where expert technical resources are required. Our
professional services consultants help in the design of deployments of our products and work closely with end-customer engineers, managers and other project team members to implement our products according to design, utilizing network analysis
tools, attack simulation software and scripts.







Customers

We sell our security solutions through channel partners to end-customers of various sizes—from small businesses to large enterprises and service providers—and across a variety of industries
including telecommunications, government, financial services, retail, education, technology, healthcare and manufacturing. An end-customer deployment may involve one of our appliances or thousands, depending on our end-customers’ size and
security requirements. As of December 31, 2009, we had shipped over 500,000 appliances to more than 5,000 channel partners and 75,000 end-customers worldwide, including a majority of the 2009 Fortune Global 100.

During fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, one channel partner, Alternative Technology, Inc., a subsidiary of Arrow Electronics, Inc., accounted
for approximately 12% of total revenue.

Our end-customers deploy our products to provide security for a wide variety of
network environments. Our network deployment scenarios include protection for core infrastructures, remote / branch offices, data centers, switching infrastructures, perimeter deployments and endpoints.

The following examples illustrate typical deployment scenarios for our FortiGate and related appliances:

Large Enterprise Deployment

The following diagram represents a large enterprise data center deployment using our FortiGate products. The FortiGate appliance is deployed in the data center to provide security segmentation within the
company’s enterprise networks. In this scenario, our products enable the segmentation of the network into three parts: (i) the Web server segment that connects corporate Web servers to public Internet users; (ii) the email server
segment that connects internal corporate email servers providing access to enterprise end-users; and (iii) the LAN, providing network access to enterprise end-users. The FortiGate appliance allows administrators the ability to deploy a tailored
set of features within each network segment. In this scenario, the customer has deployed firewall, antivirus, and IPS for the Web server segment, firewall, antispam and antivirus for the email server segment and firewall, DLP, application control,
Web filtering, IPS and antivirus for the LAN segment. End- customer deployments may vary with the number and diversity of features deployed.









Distributed Enterprise Deployment

The following diagram represents a distributed enterprise deployment comprised of a main corporate office and multiple remote locations using
our FortiGate products. The FortiGate appliances are deployed in both the remote offices and the corporate office locations to provide secure remote access between locations using IPsec VPN. Additionally, the remote locations utilize multiple
security technologies including firewall, antivirus, antispam, IPS and Web filtering. The addition of WAN acceleration provides additional benefits by improving network performance between the remote locations and the main corporate office. In this
example, the distributed enterprise implementation consists of high-end FortiGate deployments at the corporate headquarters and entry-level FortiGate deployments at other remote locations which complete the VPN connectivity and WAN acceleration
across the distributed enterprise and provide core network firewall, antivirus and IPS protection for all locations.









Service Provider Deployment

The following diagram represents a service provider hosted security offering using our FortiGate products. The high-end FortiGate appliance
is deployed in the service provider’s data center to deliver security for customers subscribing to the service provider’s internet services. A typical deployment is implemented with our VDOM technology, which enables service providers the
ability to utilize the FortiGate’s security virtualization capabilities across hundreds of customers leveraging a single appliance while simulating multiple appliances. In this scenario, the service provider is able to deliver tailored security
offerings based on the customer’s specific requirements. Customer A is subscribing to firewall, antispam, antivirus and Web filtering. Customer B is subscribing to antispam, firewall and antivirus. Customer C is subscribing to application
control, WAN optimization and Web filtering. This deployment enables additional revenue opportunities for the service provider without additional equipment purchases.



Sales and Marketing

We primarily sell our products and services directly to distributors who sell to resellers and service providers, who, in turn, sell to our end-customers. In certain cases, we sell directly to government
focused resellers, very large service providers and major systems integrator partners who have large purchasing power and unique customer deployment demands. As of December 31, 2009, our distribution channel program had approximately 5,000
channel partners worldwide. We work with many of the world’s leading technology distributors, including Arrow Electronics, Inc., Ingram Micro Inc. and Tech Data Corporation.

We support our channel partners with a team of experienced channel account managers, sales professionals and sales engineers who provide
business planning, joint marketing strategy, and pre-sales and operational sales support. Additionally, our sales team often helps drive and support large enterprise and service provider sales through a direct touch model. Our sales professionals
and engineers typically work alongside our channel partners and directly engage with end-customers to address their unique security and deployment requirements. Our sales cycle for an initial end-customer purchase typically ranges from three to six
months but can be longer especially for large enterprises, service providers and government customers. To support our broadly dispersed global channel and end-customer base, we have sales offices in over 30 countries around the world.







Our marketing strategy is focused on building our brand and driving end-customer demand for
our security solutions. We execute this strategy by leveraging a combination of internal marketing professionals and a network of regional and global channel partners. Our internal marketing organization is responsible for branding, product
marketing, channel marketing and sales support programs. We focus our resources on programs, tools and activities that can be leveraged by partners worldwide to extend our marketing reach, such as sales tools and collateral, product awards and
technical certifications, training, regional seminars and conferences, webinars and various other demand-generation activities.

Manufacturing and Suppliers

The components included in our products are sourced from
various suppliers by us or more frequently by our contract manufacturers. Some of the components important to our business, including central processing units from Intel, AMD, RMI and VIA and network chips from Broadcom, Marvell and Intel, are
available from a limited or sole source of supply.

We have no long-term contracts related to the manufacturing of our ASICs
or other components that guarantee any capacity or pricing terms.

Research and Development

We focus our research and development efforts on developing new products and systems, and adding new features to existing products and
systems. Our development strategy is to identify features, products and systems for both software and hardware that are, or are expected to be, needed by our end-customers. Our success in designing, developing, manufacturing and selling new or
enhanced products will depend on a variety of factors, including the identification of market demand for new products, product selection, timely implementation of product design and development, product performance, effective manufacturing and
assembly processes and sales and marketing.

As of December 31, 2009, our research and development organization had
headcount of 412 people predominantly in Canada, China, and the United States. Our research and development expense in fiscal 2009 was $42.2 million, in fiscal 2008 was $37.0 million and in fiscal 2007 was $27.6 million.

Intellectual Property

We rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. As of December 31, 2009, we had 35 issued U.S. patents, 5 issued Chinese
patents, 96 patent applications pending for examination in the United States and 26 patent applications pending for examination in China, 19 of which are related to U.S. applications. We purchased most of our issued U.S. patents and many of our
pending U.S. patent applications from other entities. We also license software from third parties for integration into our products, including open source software and other software available on commercially reasonable terms.

Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use
information that we regard as proprietary. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. However, we cannot
assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States, and many foreign
countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the United States.







Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent
claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In particular, leading companies in the networking industry have extensive patent portfolios. From time-to-time, third parties, including certain of these leading
companies, have asserted and may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us, our channel partners or our end-customers. Successful claims of infringement by a third party could prevent us from distributing
certain products or performing certain services or require us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights), royalties or other fees. Even if third parties may offer a license
to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, operating results or financial condition to be materially and
adversely affected. We typically indemnify our end-customers, distributors and certain resellers against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property of third parties.

Competition

The markets for our products are extremely competitive
and are characterized by rapid technological change. The principal competitive factors in our markets include the following:



•product performance, features, effectiveness, interoperability and reliability;



•technological expertise;



•price of products and services and total cost of ownership;



•brand recognition;



•customer service and support;



•sales and distribution capabilities;



•compliance with industry standards and certifications;



•size and financial stability of operations; and



•breadth of product line.

Our competitors include networking companies such as Cisco Systems, Inc., and Juniper Networks, Inc., security vendors such as Check Point Software Technologies Ltd., McAfee, Inc., and SonicWALL, Inc.,
and other point solution security vendors.

We believe we compete favorably based on our products’ performance,
reliability and breadth, and our ability to add and integrate new networking and security features and based on our technological expertise. Several competitors are significantly larger, have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution,
customer support and other resources, are more established than we are, and have significantly better brand recognition. Some of these larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings and leverage their relationships based on other
products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products. Based in part on these competitive pressures, we may lower prices or attempt to add incremental features and functionality.







Conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of
technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. The development and market acceptance of alternative technologies could decrease the demand for our products or render them obsolete. Our competitors may introduce products that are less
costly, provide superior performance or achieve greater market acceptance than our products. In addition, our larger competitors often have broader product lines and market focus, are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in
capital spending by end-customers in these markets, and will therefore not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. The above competitive pressures are likely to continue to adversely impact our business. We may not be able to compete
successfully in the future, and competition may harm our business.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, our total headcount was 1,223 people including payrolled contractors. We had 412 in research and development,
417 in sales and marketing, 249 in services and support, 40 in manufacturing operations, and 105 in a general and administrative capacity. As of December 31, 2009, our headcount was 288 people in the United States, 386 in Canada, 79 in France,
216 in China and 254 in other countries.

None of our U.S. employees is represented by a labor union with respect to his or
her employment with us; however, our employees in France, Spain and Italy are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good.

Facilities

Our
corporate headquarters are located at 1090 Kifer Road, Sunnyvale, California in an office consisting of approximately 107,000 square feet. The lease for this office expires in September 2013. We sublease approximately 23,000 square
feet of this space pursuant to a sublease that expires in December 2011.

In addition to our headquarters, we
lease approximately 14,000 square feet of data center space and a total of approximately 65,000 square feet of office space in several buildings in Burnaby, Canada under various leases that expire between January
2012 and July 2015, approximately 16,000 square feet of office space in Ottawa, Canada under a lease that expires in February 2014, approximately 15,500 square feet of office space in Sophia, France under a lease that
expires in December 2013, and approximately 26,000 square feet of office space in Beijing, China under a lease that expires in August 2011. We also lease sales and support offices in Australia, Austria,
Belgium, Egypt, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Philippines, Poland, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, United Arab Emirates, and the
United Kingdom. We believe that our existing properties are in good condition and are sufficient and suitable for the conduct of our business.

Available Information

Our web site is located at www.fortinet.com, and our investor relations web site
is located at http://investor.fortinet.com. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our investor relations web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may also access all of our public filings through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F
Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations web site. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or
announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, as part of our investor relations web site. The contents of these web sites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into
this report or in any other report or document we file.



