ITEM 1.    Business



Overview





We complement our FortiGate product line with a family of FortiManager appliances, which enable end-customers to manage the system configuration and security functions of multiple FortiGate appliances from a centralized console, as well as FortiAnalyzer appliances, which enable collection, analysis and archiving of content and log
 data generated by our products. We also offer other appliances and software that provide additional protection, such as: (i) FortiMail, a family of multi-featured, high performance messaging security appliances, (ii) FortiDB, a family of appliances that provide centrally managed database-specific security, (iii) FortiClient, a software product that provides endpoint security for desktops, laptops and mobile devices and that is primarily used in conjunction with our FortiGate appliances, (iv) FortiWeb, a family of appliances that provide security for Web-based applications, (v) FortiAP, a family of secure wireless access points, (vi) FortiScan, an appliance designed to provide endpoint vulnerability assessment and remediation, (vii) FortiSwitch, a family of Ethernet switches, and (viii) FortiBridge, a family of bypass appliances to help ensure network availability.



In October 2010 we began shipping virtual appliances for the FortiGate and FortiManager product lines. The new virtual appliances help secure network infrastructures with the same functionality as the traditional physical appliances in their respective product lines. They can be used in conjunction with traditional Fortinet appliances (such as FortiGate, FortiManager, and FortiAnalyzer) to help ensure the visibility, management, and protection of physical and virtual environments.



As ofDecember 31, 2010, we had shipped over 675,000 appliances to more than 5,000 channel partners and 100,000 end-customers worldwide, including a majority of the2010Fortune Global 100.



We were incorporated in Delaware in November 2000. Our principal executive office is located at 1090 Kifer Road, Sunnyvale, California 94086 and our telephone number at that location is (408) 235-7700.



Technology and Architecture



Our proprietary FortiASIC, hardware architecture, FortiOS operating system and associated security and networking functions combine to form a platform that integrates security features and enables our products to perform sophisticated security processing for networks with high throughput requirements.



FortiASIC



Our FortiASIC family of ASICs is comprised of three lines of processors: FortiASIC content processor, or CP, the FortiASIC network processor, or NP, and the FortiASIC system-on-a-chip, or SOC. These custom ASICs are designed to enhance the sophisticated security processing capabilities implemented in software by accelerating the computation-intensive tasks such as firewall policy enforcement or IPS anomaly detection. This architecture provides the flexibility of implementing accelerated processing of new threat detection without requiring a new ASIC release. The FortiASIC CP is currently included in most of our entry-level and all of our mid-range and high-end FortiGate appliances. The FortiASIC NP is currently included in some of our mid-range and high-end FortiGate appliances, delivering further accelerated firewall and VPN performance. The FortiASIC SOC









is currently included in our entry-level FortiGate-60C and FortiWiFi-60C appliances.



FortiOS





Our FortiOS incorporates the following seven core security and networking technologies:



•Firewall. Our firewall technology delivers high performance network and application firewalling, including the ability to enforce policies based on application behavior and content. Our technology identifies traffic patterns indepe
ndent of port or protocol used, and links them to the use of specific applications, enabling visibility and control over application behavior (explained in more detail below). By coupling application intelligence with firewall technology, the FortiGate platform is able to deliver real-time security with integrated application content level inspection, thereby simplifying security deployments.



•Virtual Private Netwo
rk. Our advanced VPN technology provides secure communications between multiple networks and hosts, through both secure socket layer, or SSL, and IPsec VPN technologies, leveraging our custom FortiASIC to provide hardware acceleration for high-performance communications and data privacy.



•Antivirus. Ou
r antivirus technology provides protection against malware, including viruses, spyware and trojans.



•Intrusion Prevention System. Our IPS technology provides protection against current and emerging network level threats.



•Web Filtering. Our Web filtering automation technology works in concert with our research team to collect, analyze and categorize websites to provide real-time protection through website ratings and categorization. Our Web filtering technology is a pro-active defense feature that identifies known locations of malware and blocks access to these malicious sources.



•Antispam. We employ a variety of antispam techniques to detect and block spam. These techniques include a hosted service performing algorithmic validations of messages against known spam messages, sophisticated reputation service designed to evaluate and track valid email sources and destinations, intelligent image scanning to evaluate the validity of images and dynamic heuristic rules to allow messages to be evaluated based on content within each message.



•WAN Acceleration. Our storage-enabled and storage-ready FortiGate appliances provide the ability to accelerate network traffic across the wide area network by implementing a combination of application content caching and protocol optimization techniques.

;

In addition to the seven core security and networking functions mentioned above, we also incorporate additional technologies within FortiGate appliances that differentiate our UTM solution, including:



•Application Control.Our application control techn
ology provides the ability to define granular network-based application policies giving end-customers additional control over application access.











•Data Leakage Prevention (DLP).Our DLP technology provides the ability to define rules based on corporate policies, and consequently detect and prevent confidential data from being distributed outside of the corporate network.



•Traffic optimization.Our traffic optimization technology combines quality of service techniques with traffic shaping to provide better service to selected network traffic based on customer policies without causing interruptions to other traffic.



•SSL inspection.Our SSL inspection technology provides the ability to decrypt SSL application content for processing by the FortiOS. The ability to inspect encrypted SSL content enables our customers to ensure protection from malware that would be otherwise hidden from traditional security products, and enforce the full complement of security and networking features available within FortiOS.



•Vulnerability Management. Our vulnerability management technology enables the FortiGate platform to perform network scans to discover systems on a network, identity vulnerabilities and recommend steps for remediation. The FortiGate devices can store the results of the scans locally, or send the results from multiple FortiGate devices to a central FortiAnalyzer for aggregation and analysis.



•Wireless Controller. Our wireless controller technology provides the ability to deploy FortiAP wireless access points to create a secure wireless network. FortiAP access points tunnel all wireless traffic to FortiGate or FortiWiFi platforms, enabling end-customers to use a single security platform to manage all wired and wireless network traffic.



Products



Our core product offerings consist of our FortiGate UTM appliance family, along with our FortiManager central management appliance and FortiAnalyzer central logging and rep
orting appliance, both of which are typically purchased to complement a large FortiGate deployment.



FortiGate



Our flagship FortiGate appliances offer a set of security and networking functions, including firewall, VPN, antivirus, intrusion prevention, application controls, Web filtering, antispam and WAN acceleration. All FortiGate appliances are based on our proprietary operating system, FortiOS, and substantially all FortiGate models include our proprietary FortiASICs to accelerate content and network security fea
tures implemented within FortiOS. FortiGate appliances can be centrally managed through both embedded Web-based and command line interfaces, as well as through FortiManager which provides a central management architecture for thousands of FortiGate appliances.



By combining multiple network security functions in our purpose-built security platform, the FortiGate provides high quality protection capabilities and deployment flexibility while reducing the operational burden and costs associated with managing multiple point products. Through FortiGuard security subscription services, our products enable end-customers to add security functionality as required by their evolving business needs and the changing threat landscape. By purchasing FortiGuard security subscription serv
ices, end-customers obtain coverage and access to regular updates for antivirus, application control, IPS, Web filtering and antispam functions for their FortiGate appliances. With over 30 models in the FortiGate product line, FortiGate is designed to address security requirements for small-to-mid sized businesses, remote offices, large enterprises, and service providers.



Each FortiGate appliance runs our FortiOS operating system, and substantially all include our FortiASIC CP. The significant differences between each model are the performance and scalability targets each model is designed to meet, while the security features and associated services offered are common throughout all models.



The FortiGate-30 through -100 series models are designed for perimeter protection for small- to mid-sized businesses, remote offices of large distributed organizations and as customer premises equipment for service providers. Optional wireless LAN, or WLAN, integration is available for the FortiGate-50, -60 and -80 models, marketed as FortiWiFi, delivering additional network access and security for wireless environments.



The FortiGate-200 through -800 series models are designed for perimeter deployment in mid-sized to large enterprise networks. These products offer increased capacity and scalability designed to p
rovide high network performance while delivering the same broad security suite as all FortiGate models. Additionally, the FortiGate-310 and -620 models provide hardware









modularity, allowing end-customers the flexibility to customize solutions to their requirements.





FortiGate System Virtualization (VDOM)



In addition to providing network and content level security, FortiOS also offers system virtualization capabilities—the ability to “divide” a security appliance into multiple separately provisioned and managed instances. This capability is currently deployed in substantially all of our FortiGate products as 
our virtual domain, or VDOM, feature, where administrators have the ability to segment a single FortiGate appliance platform into multiple FortiGate instances. Network security system virtualization, using our VDOM feature, provides isolation between each virtual system, giving administrators flexibility in configuration and traffic management capabilities for each virtual instance.



Fortinet Management and Analysis Appliances



Our FortiManager and FortiAnalyzer appliances are typically sold in conjunction with a lar
ge FortiGate deployment.



FortiManager



Our FortiManager appliances provide a central management solution for our FortiGate appliances, including the wide variety of network and security features offered within FortiOS. One FortiManager appliance is capable of effectively managing thousands of FortiGate units, and also provides central management for FortiClient software. FortiManager facilitates the coordination of policy-based provisioning, device configuration and operating system revision management, as well as ne
twork security monitoring and device control.



FortiAnalyzer



Our FortiAnalyzer appliances are network logging, analyzing, and reporting appliances that securely aggregate content and log data from our FortiGate devices and other Fortinet products as well as third-party devices to enable network logging, analysis and reporting. Additional functions such as vulnerability assessments and traffic analysis provide additional value for customers seeking to control and monitor their network infrastructure and security polic
ies. A full range of content and log data, including traffic, event, virus, attack, Web content, and email data may be archived, filtered and mined for compliance or historical analysis purposes. The appliance comes with a suite of standard reports as well as the ability to customize reports.



Additional Fortinet Solutions



We also offer other appliances and software that protect our end-customers from security threats to other critical areas in the enterprise, such as messaging, Web-based applications and databases, 
and employees’ computers or mobile devices.



FortiMail



Our FortiMail appliances provide protection against threats conveyed by messaging applications, including blended threats such as a coordinated, single attack comprised of spam, viruses and worms. These systems offer flexibility to support a









variety of existing deployments with minimal change to existing infrastructure. The FortiMail systems utilize a customized operating system designed to inspect and clean both inbound and outbound email traffic. FortiMail detects security threats through sophisticated antispam, antivirus and anti-malware engines. Additional functionality designed to eliminate deployment barriers and increase system value includes email routing, system virtualization, and archiving.



FortiDB



Our FortiDB appliance provides a comprehensive solution for database security assessment, identifying potential vulnerabilities that otherwise could be exploited by attackers. This solution is able to discover databases within a network infrastructure allowing administrators to confirm known databases and identify potentially harmful unknown or unauthorized databases. The ability to evaluate and report on database software and database server vulnerabilities provides the database administrator with a comp
rehensive list of security concerns and recommended actions to remediate them ensuring a security-hardened database environment.



FortiClient



Our FortiClient product is an endpoint software solution designed to be used in connection with our FortiGate appliances to provide security features for enterprise computers and mobile devices. The feature set includes personal firewall, IPsec VPN, antivirus, Web filtering, WAN acceleration, DLP and
 antispam. FortiClient is supported by FortiGuard security subscription services to help ensure endpoints are protected on a real-time basis against current and emerging threats. FortiClient software is available for Microsoft Windows XP, Microsoft Vista, Microsoft Windows Mobile and Symbian operating systems.



FortiWeb



Our FortiWeb appliances provide Web application firewalls and networking features designed to protect, bal
ance, and accelerate Web applications. The FortiWeb is designed for medium and large enterprises, cloud service providers and consumer Internet and e-commerce companies, and can significantly reduce the deployment time and complexities of introducing Web applications. The FortiWeb applies our industry leading threat research to protect Web application servers, improving the security of confidential information and aiding in legislative and PCI DSS compliance. FortiWeb goes beyond traditional Web application firewalls to provide XML security enforcement, application acceleration, and server load balancing.



FortiScan



Our FortiScan appliance provides endpoint vulnerability management, inventory (asset and software) industry compliance evaluation, patch management and remediation, auditing and reporting. These tasks are important for enterprises to assess and ensure the defensive capabilities of their endpoints. The ability to provide agent-less and agent-based vulnerability assessment allows for flexibility in deployment with minimal impact on endpoint configurations. Additionally, administrators are able to remediate vulnerabilities found within endpoints from a central location without user participation simplifying security and compliance initiatives.



FortiBridge



Our FortiBridge bypass appliances ensure availability of network resources in the event of power loss or failure of Fortinet and third-party devices. This function enables organizations that have already deployed high availability security infrastructure (where a system fails over to either an active or standby unit) to provide additional protection of network connectivity. FortiBridge appliances preserve network availability in the event of a power failure or a device malfunction, bypassing the device altogether with a fail-open solution.



FortiSwitch



Our FortiSwitch Ethernet switches provide Gigabit Ethernet (GbE) switching with 10-Gigabit Ethernet uplinks for large, high-performance network, and power over Ethernet (POE) support for small offices and remote offices that have deployed wireless-enabled devices. These features enable a wide range of network environments to take advantage of Fortinet's high-speed, low latency switching technology.



FortiAP



Our FortiAP wireless access points provide secure WiFi client access. FortiAPs tunnel all wireless traffic to a FortiGate or FortiWiFi via the integrated wireless controller technology in FortiOS. FortiGate or FortiWiFi platforms provide centralized









management of multiple FortiAP access points. This product allows organizations to deploy a broad, integrated security solution for all wireless and wired traffic.

Services



FortiGuard Security Subscription Services



Security requirements are dynamic due to the constantly changing nature of threats. Using automated processes, our FortiGuard Labs team, comprised of over 100 professionals, identifies emerging threats, collects threat samples, and replicates, reviews and characterizes attacks. Based on this research, we develop updates for virus signatures, attack definitions, scanning engines, and other security solution components to distribute to end-customers through our FortiGuard global distribution network. Our FortiGuard security subscription services are designed to allow us to quickly deliver new threat detection capabilities to end-customers worldwide as new threats evolve. End-customers purchase FortiGuard security subscription services in advance, typically for a one-year term, to obtain cove
rage and access to regular updates for antivirus, application control, intrusion prevention, Web filtering, and antispam functions for our FortiGate appliances; antivirus, Web filtering and antispam functions for our FortiClient software; antivirus and antispam functions for our FortiMail appliances; vulnerability management for our FortiAnalyzer and FortiScan appliances, database functions for our FortiDB appliance, and web functions for our FortiWeb appliances. We provide FortiGuard services 24 hours a day, seven days a week.



FortiCare Technical Support Services



Our FortiCare services are our technical support services for the software, firmware and hardware in our products. In addition to our standard support service offering, we offer a premium service that offers faster response times and dedicated support oriented towards major accounts.



For our standard technical support offering for our products, channel partners often provide first level support to the end-customer, especially for small and mid-sized end-customers, and we typically provide second and third level support to our end-customers. We also provide knowledge management tools and customer self-help portals to help augment our support capabilities in an efficient and scalable manner. We provide techni
cal support to partners and end-customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week through regional technical support managers located worldwide.



Training Services



We offer training services to our end-customers and channel partners, through our training department and authorized training partners. We have also implemented a training certification program to ensure an understanding of our products and services. As ofDecember 
31, 2010, more than 20,000 individuals have participated in our training programs.



Professional Services



We offer professional services to end-customers primarily for large implementations where expert technical resources are required. Our professional services consultants help in the design of deployments of our products and work closely with end-customer engineers, managers and other project team members to implement our products according to desig
n, utilizing network analysis tools, attack simulation software and scripts.



Customers



We sell our security solutions through channel partners to end-customers of various sizes—from small businesses to large enterprises and service providers—and across a variety of industries including telecommunications, government, financial services, retail, education, technology, healthcare and manufacturing. An end-customer deployment may involve one of our appliances or thousands, depending on our end-customers&rsq
uo; size and security requirements. As ofDecember 31, 2010, we had shipped over 675,000 appliances to more than 5,000 channel partners and 100,000 end-customers worldwide, including a majority of the2010Fortune Global 100.



During fiscal 2009 and 2008, one channel partner, Alternative Technology, Inc., a subsidiary of Arrow Electronics, Inc., accounted for approximately 12% of total revenue. During fiscal 2010, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of total reven
ue.











Sales and Marketing



We primarily sell our products and 
services directly to distributors who sell to resellers and service providers, who, in turn, sell to our end-customers. In certain cases, we sell directly to government focused resellers, very large service providers and major systems integrator partners who have large purchasing power and unique customer deployment demands. As ofDecember 31, 2010, our distribution channel program had more than 5,000 channel partners worldwide. We work with many of the world’s leading technology distributors, including Arrow Electronics, Inc., Ingram Micro Inc. and Tech Data Corporation.



We support our channel partners with a tea
m of experienced channel account managers, sales professionals and sales engineers who provide business planning, joint marketing strategy, and pre-sales and operational sales support. Additionally, our sales team often helps drive and support large enterprise and service provider sales through a direct touch model. Our sales professionals and engineers typically work alongside our channel partners and directly engage with end-customers to address their unique security and deployment requirements. Our sales cycle for an initial end-customer purchase typically ranges from three to six months but can be longer especially for large enterprises, service providers and government customers. To support our broadly dispersed global channel and end-customer base, we have sales offices in over 30 countries around the world.



Our marketing strategy is focused on building our brand and driving end-customer demand for our security solutions. We execute this strategy by leveraging a combination of internal marketing professionals and a network of regional and global channel partners. Our internal marketing organization is responsible for branding, product marketing, channel marketing and sales support programs. We focus our resources on programs, tools and activities that can be leveraged by partners worldwide to extend our marketing reach, such as sales tools and collateral, product awards and technical certifications, training, regional seminars and conferences, webinars and various other demand-generation activities.



Manufacturing and Suppliers



We outsource the manufacturing of our security appliance products to a variety of contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers. Our current manufacturing partners include Flextronics International Ltd., Micro Star International, Ltd., Creation Technologies, Inc. and a number of additional Taiwan-based manufacturers. We submit purchase orders to our contract manufacturers that describe the type and quantities of our products to be manufactured, the delivery date and other delivery terms. Once our products are manufactured, they are sent to either our headquarters in Sunnyvale, California, or to our logistics partner in Taoyuan City, Taiwan, where accessory packaging and quality-contr
ol testing are performed. We use one third-party logistics provider that accounted for a material portion of our shipments in fiscal


and in fiscal


. We believe that outsourcing our manufacturing and a substantial portion of our logistics enables us to conserve capital, better adjust manufacturing volumes to meet changes in demand and more quickly deliver products, while allowing us to focus resources on our core competencies. Our proprietary FortiASIC, which is the key to the performance of our appliances, is fabricated by contract manufacturers in foundries operated by UMC and TSMC. Faraday (using UMC’s foundry) and K-Micro (using TSMC’s foundry) manufacture our ASICs on a purchase order b
asis. Accordingly, they are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and the prices we are charged for the fabrication of our ASICs could be increased on short notice.



The components included in our products are sourced from various suppliers by us or more frequently by our contract manufacturers. Some of the components important to our business, including central processing units from Intel, AMD, RMI and VIA and network chips from Broadcom, Marvell and Intel, are available from a limited or sole source of supply.



We have no long-term contracts related to the manufacturing of our ASICs or other components that guarantee any capacity or pricing terms.



Research and Development



We focus our research and development efforts on developing new products and systems, and adding new features to existing products and systems. Our development strategy is to identify features, products and systems for both software and hardware that are, or are expected to be, needed by our end-customers. Our success in designing, developing, manufactu
ring and selling new or enhanced products will depend on a variety of factors, including the identification of market demand for new products, product selection, timely implementation of product design and development, product performance, effective manufacturing and assembly processes and sales and marketing.



As ofDecember 31, 2010, our research and development organization had headcount of 428 people predominantly in Canada, China, and the United States. Our research and development expense in fiscal2010was$49.8 million, in fiscal2009was$42.2 millionand in fiscal2008was$37.0 million.











Intellectual Property



We rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. As ofDecember 31, 2010, we had 55 issued U.S. patents, 11 issued Chinese patents, 1 issued Japanese patent, 94 patent applications pending for examination in the United States and 19 patent applications pending for examination in China. We also license software from third parties for integration into our products, including open source software and other software available on commercially reasonable terms.



Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements w
ith our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. However, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the United States.



Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In particular, leading companies in the networking industry have extensive patent portfolio
s. From time-to-time, third parties, including certain of these leading companies, have asserted and may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us, our channel partners or our end-customers. Successful claims of infringement by a third party could prevent us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or require us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights), royalties or other fees. Even if third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, operating results or financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. We typically indemnify our end-customers, distributors and certain resellers against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property of third parties.



Competition



The markets for our products are extremely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change. The principal competitive factors in our markets include the following:



•product performance, features, effectiveness, inter
operability and reliability;



•technological expertise;



•price of products and services and total cost of ownership;



•brand recognition;



•customer service and support;



•sales and distribution capabilities;



•compliance
 with industry standards and certifications;



•size and financial stability of operations; and



•breadth of product line.



Our competitors include networking companies such a
s Cisco Systems, Inc., and Juniper Networks, Inc., security vendors such as Check Point Software Technologies Ltd., McAfee Inc. (pending acquisition by Intel, Inc.), and SonicWALL, Inc. (acquired by Thoma Bravo), and other point solution security vendors.



We believe we compete favorably based on our products’ performance, reliability and breadth, and our ability to add and integrate new networking and security features and based on our technological expertise. Several competitors are significantly larger, have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, customer support and other resources, are more established than we are, and have significantly better brand recognition. Some of these larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings and l
everage their relationships based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products. Based in part on these competitive pressures, we may lower prices or attempt









to add incremental features and functionality.



Conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. The development and market acceptance of alternative technologies could decrease the demand for our products or render them obsolete. Our competitors may introduce products that are less costly, provide superior performance or achieve greater market acceptance than our products. In addition, our larger competitors often have broader product lines and market focus, are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by end-customers in these markets, and will therefore not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. The above competitive pressures are likely to continue to impact our business. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and competition may harm our business.



Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2010, our total headcount was 1,336 people including payrolled contractors. We had 428 in research and development, 486 in sales and marketing, 283 in services and support, 31 in manufacturing operations, and 108 in a general and administrative capacity. As ofDecember 31, 2010, our headcount was 314 people in the United States, 430 in Canada, 83 in France, 216 in China and 293 in other countries.



None of our U.S. employees are represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment with us; however, our employees in France, Spain and Italy are represented by collective bargaining agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good.



Available Information



Our web site is located at www.fortinet.com, and our investor relations web site is located at http://investor.fortinet.com. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our investor relations web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may also access all of our public filings through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC&
rsquo;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations web site. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, as part of our investor relations web site. The contents of these web sites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file.





