10-K


a05-21685_110k.htm

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON,
D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 2005

Commission
file number 1-4121

DEERE & COMPANY

(Exact name of
registrant as specified in its charter)

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT

TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO
SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.

Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).

Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

Yes

o

No

ý

The aggregate quoted
market price of voting stock of registrant held by nonaffiliates at April 30,
2005 was $15,107,184,789.  At November 30,
2005, 236,348,154 shares of common stock, $1 par value, of the registrant were
outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

.
Portions of the proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be
held on February 22, 2006 are incorporated by reference in Part III.

PART I

ITEM
1.

BUSINESS.

Products

Deere & Company
(Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively called John Deere) have operations
which are categorized into four major business segments.

The

agricultural equipment

segment manufactures and distributes a full line of farm equipment and related
service parts -- including tractors; combine, cotton and sugarcane harvesters;
tillage, seeding and soil preparation machinery; sprayers; hay and forage
equipment; material handling equipment; and integrated agricultural management
systems technology.

The

commercial and consumer
equipment

segment manufactures and distributes equipment, products
and service parts for commercial and residential uses — including tractors for
lawn, garden, commercial and utility purposes; mowing equipment, including walk-behind
mowers; golf course equipment; utility vehicles (including those commonly
referred to as all-terrain vehicles, or “ATVs”); landscape products and
irrigation equipment; and other outdoor power products.

The

construction and forestry

segment manufactures, distributes to dealers and sells at retail a broad range
of machines and service parts used in construction, earthmoving, material
handling and timber harvesting — including backhoe loaders; crawler dozers and
loaders; four-wheel-drive loaders; excavators; motor graders; articulated dump
trucks; landscape loaders; skid-steer loaders; and log skidders, feller
bunchers, log loaders, log forwarders, log harvesters and related attachments.

The products and services produced by the segments
above are marketed primarily through independent retail dealer networks and
major retail outlets.

The

credit

segment
primarily finances sales and leases by John Deere dealers of new and used
agricultural, commercial and consumer, and construction and forestry equipment.
In addition, it provides wholesale financing to dealers of the foregoing equipment,
provides operating loans, finances retail revolving charge accounts, offers
certain crop risk mitigation products and invests in wind energy development.

John Deere also provides
managed health care plans. John Deere’s worldwide agricultural equipment;
commercial and consumer equipment; and construction and forestry operations are
sometimes referred to as the “Equipment Operations.”  The credit, health care and certain
miscellaneous service operations are sometimes referred to as “Financial
Services.”

Additional information is
presented in the discussion of business segment and geographic area results on pages 17
and 18. The John Deere enterprise has manufactured agricultural machinery since
1837. The present Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1958.

The Company’s Internet
address is http://www.JohnDeere.com. Through that address, the Company’s annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available free of charge
as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The information contained on the Company’s website is not
included in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


Market
Conditions and Outlook

Company equipment sales
are expected to increase by 1 to 3 percent for full-year 2006 and by 11 to 14
percent for the first quarter. Production levels are expected to be down slightly
for the year but up about 4 percent in the first quarter. The Company intends
to sell its health care operations for a gain of approximately $225 million
after-tax.  Based on the above, net income
is forecast to be around $1.7 billion (approximately $1.5 billion excluding the
gain on the sale of the health care operations) for the year and in a range of
$175 million to $200 million for the first quarter.

Agricultural Equipment

.
Although the farm sector is expected to remain in solid financial condition,
industry sales in the United States and Canada are forecast to be down 5 to 10
percent in 2006. Factors contributing to the decline include concerns over
higher farm input costs, especially for fuel and fertilizer, the absence of United
States tax incentives which helped sales in the first part of 2005, and
slightly lower cash receipts. Farmers are expected to benefit from debt levels
that remain well under control and from rising land values.

In other parts of the
world, industry retail sales in Western Europe are forecast to be down about 5
percent for the year. Concerns over higher input costs, government policies and
the future direction of farm subsidies are expected to put downward pressure on
sales in the region for the year. In South America, industry sales are forecast
to be down about 5 percent as a result of a relatively strong Brazilian
currency, a reduction in soybean acreage in Brazil and concerns regarding
foot-and-mouth disease.

Based on these factors
and market conditions, worldwide sales of John Deere agricultural equipment are
forecast to be down 2 to 4 percent for the year. Company sales are expected to
benefit from a number of newly introduced products, including a line of
more-powerful and fuel-efficient large tractors.

Commercial & Consumer
Equipment

. Sales of John Deere commercial and consumer
equipment are forecast to be up 10 to 12 percent for the year with benefit from
newly introduced products, an assumed return to more normal weather patterns
and a full year of sales from the division’s recent landscapes-business
acquisition. Division sales are also expected to be helped by an expanded
presence of John Deere products in the mass channel.

Construction & Forestry

.  Markets for construction equipment are
forecast to experience further growth in 2006 as a result of United States
economic conditions conducive to a healthy level of construction spending,
especially in the nonresidential sector. On this basis, contractors and rental
companies are expected to continue updating and expanding their fleets.
Forestry equipment markets are projected to remain near last year’s level in
the United States and Canada and to be lower in Europe. In this environment,
Deere’s worldwide sales of construction and forestry equipment are forecast to
rise by 5 to 7 percent for fiscal 2006.

Financial Services

.
Full-year net income for the Company’s Financial Services operations is
forecast to be about $565 million (approximately $340 million excluding the
gain on the sale of the health care operations).  Net income for the credit operations is
expected to improve due to growth in the credit portfolio.

2005 Consolidated Results Compared
with 2004

The Company had net
income in 2005 of $1,447 million, or $5.87 per share diluted ($5.95 basic),
compared with $1,406 million, or $5.56 per share diluted ($5.69 basic), in
2004. Net sales and revenues increased 10 percent to $21,931 million in 2005,
compared with $19,986 million in 2004. Net sales of the Equipment Operations
increased 10 percent in 2005 to $19,401 million from $17,673 million last year.
Net sales in the United States and Canada rose 10 percent in 2005. Outside the
United States and Canada, net sales increased by 6 percent excluding currency
translation, and by 10 percent on a reported basis.


The Company’s Equipment
Operations had net income of $1,096 million in 2005, compared with $1,097
million in 2004. Net income decreased primarily due to higher selling and
administrative expenses, increased manufacturing overhead costs related to
production system improvements, and higher research and development costs.  These factors were partially offset by the
margin on higher shipments and lower retirement benefit costs.  Improved price realization offset higher raw
material costs. In addition, this year’s results benefited from increased
interest and investment income, and a lower effective tax rate.

Net income of the Company’s
Financial Services operations in 2005 was $345 million, compared with $309
million in 2004. The increase was primarily due to growth in the credit
operations portfolio, a lower credit loss provision and increased underwriting
margins in health care. Additional information is presented in the following
discussion of the credit and “Other” operations.

Additional information on
2005 results is presented on pages 16 - 18.

EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS

Agricultural Equipment

Sales of agricultural
equipment, particularly in the United States and Canada, are affected by total
farm cash receipts, which reflect levels of farm commodity prices, acreage
planted, crop yields and the amount and timing of government payments. Sales
are also influenced by general economic conditions, farm land prices, farmers’
debt levels, interest rates, agricultural trends, energy costs and other input
costs associated with farming. Weather and climatic conditions can also affect
buying decisions of equipment purchasers.

Innovations to machinery
and technology also influence buying. For example, larger, more productive equipment
is well accepted where farmers are striving for more efficiency in their
operations.  The Company has developed a
comprehensive agricultural management systems approach using advanced
technology and global satellite positioning to enable farmers to better control
input costs and yields, to improve environmental management and to gather
information.

Large, cost-efficient,
highly-mechanized agricultural operations account for an important share of
worldwide farm output. The large-size agricultural equipment used on such farms
has been particularly important to John Deere. A large proportion of the
Equipment Operations’ total agricultural equipment sales in the United States
is comprised of tractors over 100 horsepower, self-propelled combines, self-propelled
cotton pickers, self-propelled forage harvesters and self-propelled sprayers.

Seasonality

.  Seasonal patterns in retail demand for
agricultural equipment result in substantial variations in the volume and mix
of products sold to retail customers during various times of the year. Seasonal
demand must be estimated in advance, and equipment must be manufactured in
anticipation of such demand in order to achieve efficient utilization of
manpower and facilities throughout the year. For certain equipment, the Company
offers early order discounts to retail customers. Production schedules are
based, in part, on these early order programs. The Equipment Operations incur
substantial seasonal variation in cash flows to finance production and
inventory of equipment.  The Equipment
Operations also incur costs to finance sales to dealers in advance of seasonal
demand. New combine and cotton harvesting equipment is sold under early order
programs with waivers of retail finance charges available to customers who take
delivery of machines during off-season periods. In the United States and
Canada, used equipment trade-ins, of which there are typically several
transactions for every new combine and cotton harvesting equipment sale, are
supported with a fixed pool of funds available to dealers which are then
responsible for all associated inventory and sale costs.

An important part of the
competition within the agricultural equipment industry during the past decade
has come from a diverse variety of short-line and specialty manufacturers with
differing manufacturing and marketing methods. Because of industry conditions,
especially the merger of certain large integrated


competitors and the
global capability of many competitors, the agricultural equipment business
continues to undergo significant change and may become even more competitive.

Commercial and Consumer Equipment

John Deere commercial and consumer equipment includes
front-engine lawn tractors, lawn and garden tractors, compact utility tractors,
utility tractors, zero-turning radius mowers, front mowers and a variety of
utility vehicles. A broad line of associated implements for mowing, tilling,
snow and debris handling, aerating, and many other residential, commercial,
golf and sports turf care applications are also included. The product line also
includes walk-behind mowers and other outdoor power products. Retail sales of
these commercial and consumer equipment products are influenced by weather
conditions, consumer spending patterns and general economic conditions.  To increase asset turnover and reduce the
average level of field inventories through the year the production and shipment
schedules of the Company’s product lines closely correspond to the seasonal
pattern of retail sales.

The division manufactures
and sells walk-behind mowers in Europe under the SABO brand as well as the John
Deere brand. The division also builds products for sale by mass retailers.
Since 1999, the Company has built products for sale through The Home Depot
stores and in 2006 will begin selling its products through Lowe’s stores.

John Deere Landscapes, Inc.,
a unit of the division, distributes irrigation equipment, nursery products and
landscape supplies primarily to landscape service professionals.

In addition to the
equipment manufactured by the commercial and consumer division, John Deere
purchases certain products from other manufacturers for resale.

Seasonality.

Retail demand for
the division’s equipment normally is higher in the second and third
quarters.  The division is pursuing a
strategy of building and shipping as close to retail demand as possible.  Consequently, production, shipping and retail
sales normally will be proportionately higher in the second and third quarters
of each year.

Construction and Forestry

John Deere construction,
earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment includes a broad range of
backhoe loaders, crawler dozers and loaders, four-wheel-drive loaders,
excavators, motor graders, articulated dump trucks, landscape loaders,
skid-steer loaders, log skidders, log feller bunchers, log loaders, log
forwarders, log harvesters and a variety of attachments.

Today, this segment
provides sizes of equipment that compete for over 90 percent of the estimated
total North American market for those categories of construction, earthmoving
and material handling equipment in which it competes. These construction,
earthmoving and material handling machines are distributed under the Deere
brand name. This segment also provides the most complete line of forestry
machines and attachments available in the world. These forestry machines and
attachments are distributed under the Deere, Timberjack and Waratah brand
names.  In addition to the equipment
manufactured by the Construction and Forestry division, John Deere purchases
certain products from other manufacturers for resale.

The prevailing levels of
residential, commercial and public construction and the condition of the forest
products industry influence retail sales of John Deere construction,
earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment. General economic
conditions, the level of interest rates and certain commodity prices such as
those applicable to pulp, paper and saw logs also influence sales.


The Company and Hitachi
have a joint venture for the manufacture of hydraulic excavators and track log
loaders in the United States and Canada. 
The Company also distributes Hitachi brands of construction and mining
equipment in North, Central and South America. The Company also has supply
agreements with Hitachi under which a range of construction, earthmoving,
material handling and forestry products manufactured by John Deere in the
United States, Canada, Finland and New Zealand are distributed by Hitachi in
certain Far East markets.

The division has a number
of initiatives in the rent-to-rent, or short-term rental, market for
construction, earthmoving and material handling equipment. These include
specially designed rental programs for John Deere dealers and expanded
cooperation with major, national equipment rental companies.

The Company also owns
Nortrax, Inc., Nortrax Investments, Inc. and Ontrac Holdings, Inc.
(collectively called Nortrax). Nortrax is an authorized John Deere dealer for
construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment in a
variety of markets in the United States and Canada.

Engineering
and Research

John Deere makes large
expenditures for engineering and research to improve the quality and
performance of its products, and to develop new products. Such expenditures
were $677 million or 3.5 percent of net sales of equipment in 2005, $612
million or 3.5 percent in 2004, and $577 million, or 4.3 percent in 2003.

Manufacturing

Manufacturing Plants

.
In the United States and Canada, the Equipment Operations own and operate 20
factory locations and lease and operate another three locations, which contain
approximately 29.5 million square feet of floor space. Of these 23 factories, 12
are devoted primarily to agricultural equipment, four to commercial and
consumer equipment, one to non-forestry construction equipment, one to
construction and forestry equipment, one to engines, two to hydraulic and power
train components and two to forestry equipment. Outside the United States and
Canada, the Equipment Operations own and operate:  agricultural equipment factories in Brazil, China,
France, Germany, India, Mexico, the Netherlands and Russia; engine factories in
Argentina, France, India and Mexico; a component factory in Spain; commercial
and consumer equipment factories in Germany and the Netherlands; and forestry
equipment factories in Finland and New Zealand. These factories outside the
United States and Canada contain approximately 11.3 million square feet of
floor space. The Equipment Operations also have financial interests in other
manufacturing organizations, which include agricultural equipment manufacturers
in China and the United States, an industrial truck manufacturer in South
Africa, the Hitachi joint venture that builds hydraulic excavators and track
log loaders in the United States and Canada and a venture that manufactures
transaxles and transmissions used in certain commercial and consumer equipment
division products.  In 2005, the
Equipment Operations announced plans to build an additional components factory
in China.

The engine factories
referred to above manufacture non-road, heavy duty diesel engines mostly for
the Company’s Equipment Operations; a significant number of these engines are
sold to global original equipment manufacturers.

John Deere’s facilities
are well maintained, in good operating condition and are suitable for their
present purposes. These facilities, together with both short-term and long-term
planned capital expenditures, are expected to meet John Deere’s manufacturing
needs in the foreseeable future.

Capacity is adequate to
satisfy the Company’s current expectations for retail market demand. The
Equipment Operations’ manufacturing strategy involves the implementation of
appropriate levels of technology and automation to allow manufacturing
processes to remain profitable at varying production levels. Operations are
also designed to be flexible enough to accommodate the product design changes
required to meet market


conditions. Common
manufacturing facilities and techniques are employed in the production of
components for agricultural, commercial and consumer and construction and
forestry equipment.

In order to utilize manufacturing facilities and
technology more effectively, the Equipment Operations pursue continuous
improvements in manufacturing processes. These include steps to streamline
manufacturing processes and enhance responsiveness to customers. The Company
has implemented flexible assembly lines that can handle a wider product mix and
deliver products when dealers and customers require them. Additionally,
considerable effort is being directed to manufacturing cost reduction through
process improvement, product design, advanced manufacturing technology,
enhanced environmental management systems, supply management and logistics as
well as compensation incentives related to productivity and organizational
structure. The Company continues to experience raw materials and fuel cost
pressures. The Company has offset and expects to continue to offset any
increased costs through the above-described cost reduction measures and through
pricing. Significant cost increases, if they occur, could have an adverse
effect on our operating results. The Equipment Operations also pursue external
sales of selected parts and components that can be manufactured and supplied to
third parties on a competitive basis.

Capital Expenditures.

The
agricultural equipment, commercial and consumer equipment and construction and
forestry operations’ capital expenditures totaled $465 million in 2005,
compared with $346 million in 2004, and $304 million in 2003. Provisions for
depreciation applicable to these operations’ property, plant and equipment
during these years were $349 million, $333 million and $306 million,
respectively. Capital expenditures for the Equipment Operations in 2006 are
currently estimated to be $580 million. The 2006 expenditures will relate
primarily to the modernization and restructuring of key manufacturing
facilities and will also relate to the development of new products. Future
levels of capital expenditures will depend on business conditions.

Patents and Trademarks

John Deere owns a
significant number of patents, licenses and trademarks. The Company believes
that, in the aggregate, the rights under these patents, licenses and trademarks
are generally important to its operations, but does not consider that any
patent, license, trademark or related group of them (other than its house
trademarks, which include but are not limited to the “John Deere” mark, the
leaping deer logo, the “Nothing Runs Like a Deere” slogan and green and yellow
equipment colors) is of material importance in relation to John Deere’s
business.

Marketing

In the United States and
Canada, the Equipment Operations distribute equipment and service parts through
the following facilities (collectively called sales branches):  one agricultural equipment and one commercial
and consumer equipment sales and administration office each supported by seven
agricultural equipment and commercial and consumer equipment sales branches; and
one construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment sales
and administration office.

In addition, the
Equipment Operations operate a centralized parts distribution warehouse in
coordination with several regional parts depots in the United States and Canada
and have an agreement with a third party to operate a high-volume parts
warehouse in Indiana.

The sales branches in the
United States and Canada market John Deere products at approximately 3033
dealer locations, most of which are independently owned. Of these,
approximately 1600 sell agricultural equipment, while 536 sell construction,
earthmoving, material handling and/or forestry equipment. Nortrax owns some of
the 536 locations. Commercial and consumer equipment is sold by most John Deere
agricultural equipment dealers, a few construction, earthmoving, material
handling and forestry equipment dealers, and about 897 commercial and consumer
equipment dealers, many of whom also handle competitive


brands and dissimilar
lines of products. In addition, certain lawn and garden product lines are sold
through various general and mass merchandisers, including The Home Depot and,
beginning in 2006, Lowe’s.

Outside the United States
and Canada, John Deere agricultural equipment is sold to distributors and
dealers for resale in over 160 countries. 
Sales branches are located in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Germany,
France, Hong Kong, Italy, Mexico Poland, Russia, South Africa, Spain,
Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and Uruguay.  Export sales branches are located in Europe
and the United States.  Associated
companies doing business in China also sell agricultural equipment. Commercial
and consumer equipment sales outside the United States and Canada occur
primarily in Europe and Australia. Construction, earthmoving, material handling
and forestry equipment is sold to distributors and dealers primarily by sales
offices located in the United States, Brazil, Singapore and Finland.  Some of these dealers are independently owned
while the Company owns others.

Trade Accounts and Notes
Receivable

Trade accounts and notes
receivable arise from sales of goods to dealers.  Most trade receivables originated by the
Equipment Operations are purchased by Financial Services. The Equipment
Operations compensate Financial Services at market rates of interest for these
receivables. Additional information appears in Note 8 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

FINANCIAL SERVICES

Credit Operations

United States and Canada

.  The Company’s credit subsidiaries
(collectively referred to as the Credit Companies) primarily provide and
administer financing for retail purchases from John Deere dealers of new
equipment manufactured by the Company’s agricultural equipment, commercial and
consumer equipment, and construction and forestry divisions and used equipment
taken in trade for this equipment. Deere & Company and John Deere
Construction & Forestry Company are referred to as the “sales
companies.” John Deere Capital Corporation (Capital Corporation), a United
States credit subsidiary, purchases retail installment sales and loan contracts
(retail notes) from the sales companies. These retail notes are acquired by the
sales companies through John Deere retail dealers in the United States. John
Deere Credit Inc., a Canadian credit subsidiary, purchases and finances retail
notes acquired by John Deere Limited, the Company’s Canadian sales branch.  The terms of retail notes and the basis on
which the Credit Companies acquire retail notes from the sales companies are
governed by agreements with the sales companies. The Credit Companies also
finance and service revolving charge accounts, in most cases acquired from and
offered through merchants in the agricultural, commercial and consumer, and
construction and forestry markets (revolving charge accounts).  Further, the Credit Companies finance and
service operating loans, in most cases offered through and acquired from farm
input providers or through direct relationships with agricultural producers
(operating loans).  Additionally, the
Credit Companies provide wholesale financing for inventories of John Deere
engines and John Deere agricultural, commercial and consumer, and construction
and forestry equipment owned by dealers of those products (wholesale
notes).  In the United States, the Credit
Companies also offer certain crop risk mitigation products and invest in wind
energy development.

Retail notes acquired by
the sales companies are immediately sold to the Credit Companies. The Equipment
Operations are the Credit Companies’ major source of business, but many retail
purchasers of John Deere products finance their purchases outside the John
Deere organization.

The Credit Companies
offer retail leases to equipment users in the United States. A small number of
leases are executed with units of local government. Leases are usually written
for periods of two to five years, and frequently contain an option permitting
the customer to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease term. Retail
leases are also offered in a generally similar manner to customers in Canada
through John Deere Credit Inc. and John Deere Limited.


The Credit Companies’
terms for financing equipment retail sales (other than smaller items financed
with unsecured revolving charge accounts) provide for retention of a security
interest in the equipment financed. The Credit Companies’ guidelines for
minimum down payments, which vary with the types of equipment and repayment
provisions, are generally not less than 20 percent on agricultural equipment,
10 percent on construction and forestry equipment and 10 percent on lawn and
grounds care equipment used for personal use. Finance charges are sometimes
waived for specified periods or reduced on certain John Deere products sold or
leased in advance of the season of use or in other sales promotions. The Credit
Companies generally receive compensation from the sales companies equal to a
competitive interest rate for periods during which finance charges are waived
or reduced on the retail notes or leases. The cost is accounted for as a
deduction in arriving at net sales by the Equipment Operations.

The Company has an
agreement with the Capital Corporation to make income maintenance payments to
the Capital Corporation such that its ratio of earnings before fixed charges to
fixed charges is not less than 1.05 to 1 for any fiscal quarter. For 2005 and
2004, the Capital Corporation’s ratios were 1.88 to 1 and 2.23 to 1,
respectively, and never less than 1.74 to 1 and 2.19 to 1 for any fiscal
quarter of 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company has also committed to
continue to own at least 51 percent of the voting shares of capital stock of
the Capital Corporation and to maintain the Capital Corporation’s consolidated
tangible net worth at not less than $50 million. The Company’s obligations to
make payments to the Capital Corporation under the agreement are independent of
whether the Capital Corporation is in default on its indebtedness, obligations
or other liabilities.  Further, the Company’s
obligations under the agreement are not measured by the amount of the Capital
Corporation’s indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities. The Company’s
obligations to make payments under this agreement are expressly stated not to
be a guaranty of any specific indebtedness, obligation or liability of the
Capital Corporation and are enforceable only by or in the name of the Capital
Corporation. No payments were necessary under this agreement in 2005 or 2004.

Outside the United States and
Canada

.  The Credit
Companies offer equipment financing products in Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Finland, France (through a joint venture), Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Mexico,
New Zealand, Portugal (through a cooperation agreement), South Africa (through
a joint venture), Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Retail sales financing
outside of the United States and Canada is affected by a variety of customs and
regulations.

The Credit Companies also
offer to select customers insured international export financing for the
purchase of John Deere Products.

Additional information on
the Credit Companies appears on pages 17, 18, and 20.

Health Care

In 1985, the Company
formed John Deere Health Care, Inc. to commercialize the Company’s
expertise in the field of health care benefit management, which had been
developed from efforts to manage its own health care costs. John Deere Health
Care currently provides health benefit management programs and related
administrative services in Illinois, Iowa, Tennessee and Virginia for companies,
government entities and individuals as a third-party administrator through its
health maintenance organization subsidiary, John Deere Health Plan, Inc.
or through its health and accident insurance subsidiary, John Deere Health
Insurance, Inc. At October 31, 2005, approximately 480,000
individuals were enrolled in these programs, of which approximately 90,000 were
John Deere employees, retirees and their dependents.

The Company recently
announced that it has agreed to sell John Deere Health Care to UnitedHealthcare
for approximately $500 million.  The
transaction is subject to certain state and federal regulatory approvals but is
projected to close by April 1, 2006.


ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The Company is subject to
a wide variety of state, federal and international environmental laws, rules and
regulations. These laws, rules and regulations may affect the way the
Company conducts its operations, and failure to comply with these regulations
could lead to fines and other penalties. The Company is also involved in the
evaluation and clean-up of a limited number of sites that it owns. Management
does not expect that these matters will have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial position or results of operations of the Company. With
respect to acquired properties, the Company cannot be certain that it has
identified all adverse environmental conditions. The Company expects that it
will acquire additional properties in the future.

EMPLOYEES

At October 31, 2005,
John Deere had approximately 47,400 full-time employees, including
approximately 27,000 employees in the United States and Canada. From time to
time, John Deere also retains consultants, independent contractors, and
temporary and part-time workers.  Unions
are certified as bargaining agents for approximately 39

percent
of John Deere’s United States employees. Most of the Company’s United States
production and maintenance workers are covered by a collective bargaining
agreement with the United Auto Workers (UAW), with an expiration date of September 30,
2009.

Unions also represent the
majority of employees at John Deere manufacturing facilities outside the United
States.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
REGISTRANT

Following are the names
and ages of the executive officers of the Company, their positions with the
Company and summaries of their backgrounds and business experience. All
executive officers are elected or appointed by the Board of Directors and hold
office until the annual meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual
meeting of stockholders in each year.


ITEM
2.

PROPERTIES.

See “Manufacturing” in
Item 1.

The Equipment Operations
own 14 facilities housing sales branches, one centralized parts depot, regional
parts depots, transfer houses and warehouses throughout the United States and
Canada. These facilities contain approximately 4.6 million square feet of floor
space. The Equipment Operations also own and occupy buildings housing sales
branches, one centralized parts depot and regional parts depots in Australia,
Brazil, Europe and New Zealand. These facilities contain approximately 1.3
million square feet of floor space.

Deere & Company
administrative offices, research facilities and certain facilities for health
care activities, all of which are owned by John Deere, together contain about 2.4
million square feet of floor space and miscellaneous other facilities total 1.0
million square feet.

Overall, the Company owns
approximately 49.7 million square feet of facilities and leases approximately 8.9
million additional square feet in various locations.

ITEM
3.

LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS.

The Company is subject to
various unresolved legal actions which arise in the normal course of its
business, the most prevalent of which relate to product liability (including
asbestos-related liability), retail credit, software licensing, patent and
trademark matters. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the
outcome of these unresolved legal actions or the range of possible loss, the
Company believes these unresolved legal actions will not have a material effect
on its financial statements.

ITEM
4.

SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

None.

PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.

(a)

The
Company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. See the
information concerning quoted prices of the Company’s common stock and the
number of stockholders in the second table and the sentence following it, and
the data on dividends declared and paid per share in the first table, under the
caption “Supplemental Information (Unaudited)” in Note 27 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

.

(b)

Not
applicable


(c)           The Company’s purchases of its common
stock during the fourth quarter of 2005 were as follows:

ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES

(1).

On
  December 1, 2004, the Company’s board of directors authorized the
  repurchase of up to $1 billion of Company common stock.

(2).

Total
  shares purchased in September 2005 included approximately 67 thousand
  shares received from officers to exercise certain stock option awards and
  approximately 17 thousand shares received from these officers to pay the
  associated payroll taxes. All the shares were valued at the market price of
  $62.53 per share.

On November 30,
2005, the Company’s board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to 26
million additional shares of common stock. 
As with the previous plan, repurchases under this plan will be made from
time to time, at the Company’s discretion, in the open market or though
privately-negotiated transactions.


ITEM 6.

SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA.

Financial Summary

*In 2002 and 2001, the Company had special charges of $46 million, or
$.18 per share, and $217 million, or $.91 per share, respectively, related to
costs of closing and restructuring certain facilities in both years and a
voluntary early-retirement program in 2001.

ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

See the information under
the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on pages 16 - 24.

ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

The Company is exposed to
a variety of market risks, including interest rates and currency exchange
rates. The Company attempts to actively manage these risks. See the information
under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on page 24 and in Note 25 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

See the consolidated
financial statements and notes thereto and supplementary data on pages 25
- - 50.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES
IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

The Company’s
principal executive officer and its principal financial officer have concluded
that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“the Act”))
were effective as of October 31, 2005, based on the evaluation of these
controls and procedures required by Rule 13a-15(b) or 15d-15(b) of
the Act.


Management’s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

The Company’s management is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting. Deere & Company’s internal control system was designed to
provide reasonable assurance to the Company’s management and board of directors
regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial
statements.

All internal control systems, no matter how well
designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined
to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial
statement preparation and presentation.

Deere & Company’s management assessed the
effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting as of October 31,
2005. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth in Internal
Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that assessment,  management believes that, as of October 31,
2005, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective.

The Company’s independent registered public accounting
firm has issued an audit report on management’s assessment of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting.  That report is included herein.

ITEM 9B.               OTHER INFORMATION

Not applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10.                DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
OF THE REGISTRANT.

The information regarding
directors in the proxy statement dated January 12, 2006 (proxy statement),
under the captions “Election of Directors,” “Directors Continuing in Office”
and in the third paragraph under the caption “Committees - The Audit Review
Committee,” is incorporated herein by reference. Information regarding
executive officers is presented in Item 1 of this report under the caption
“Executive Officers of the Registrant.”

The Company has adopted a
code of ethics that applies to its principal executive officer, principal
financial officer and principal accounting officer.  This code of ethics and the Company’s corporate
governance policies are posted on the Company’s website at
http://www.JohnDeere.com. The Company intends to satisfy disclosure
requirements regarding amendments to or waivers from its code of ethics by
posting such information on this website. The charters of the Audit Review,
Corporate Governance and Compensation committees of the Company’s Board of
Directors are available on the Company’s website as well. This information is
also available in print free of charge to any person who requests it.

ITEM 11.                EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

The information in the
proxy statement under the captions “Compensation of Executive Officers” and “Compensation
of Directors” is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM
12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP
OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

(a)

Securities
authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans.

Equity compensation plan information in the proxy
statement, under the caption “Equity Compensation Plan Information,” is
incorporated herein by reference.

(b)

Security
ownership of certain beneficial owners.

The information on the security ownership of certain
beneficial owners in the proxy statement under the caption “Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” is incorporated herein by
reference.

(c)

Security
ownership of management.

The information on shares of common stock of the
Company beneficially owned by, and under option to (i) each director, (ii) certain
named executive officers and (iii) the directors and officers as a group,
contained in the proxy statement under the captions “Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,” “Compensation of Executive
Officers-Summary Compensation Table” and “Compensation of Executive
Officers-Aggregated Option/SAR Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal
Year-End Option/SAR Values” is incorporated herein by reference.

(d)

Change
in control.

None.

ITEM
13.

CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

None.

ITEM 14.                PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND
SERVICES

The information in the
proxy statement under the caption “Fees Paid to the Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm” is incorporated herein by reference

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


Financial
Statement Schedules Omitted

The following schedules for the Company and
  consolidated subsidiaries are omitted because of the absence of the
  conditions under which they are required: I, III, IV and V.


MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS
ENDED OCTOBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003

OVERVIEW

Organization

The company’s Equipment
Operations generate revenues and cash primarily from the sale of equipment to
John Deere dealers and distributors.  The
Equipment Operations manufacture and distribute a full line of agricultural
equipment; a variety of commercial and consumer equipment; and a broad range of
construction and forestry equipment.  The
company’s Financial Services primarily provide credit services and managed
health care plans.  The credit operations
primarily finance sales and leases of equipment by John Deere dealers and trade
receivables purchased from the Equipment Operations.  The health care operations provide managed
health care services for the company and certain outside customers.  The information in the following discussion
is presented in a format that includes information grouped as the Equipment
Operations, Financial Services and consolidated.  The company also views its operations as
consisting of two geographic areas, the U.S. and Canada, and outside the U.S. and
Canada.

Trends and Economic Conditions

The company’s businesses are
currently affected by the following key trends and economic conditions.  Although the farm sector is expected to
remain in solid financial condition, industry sales in the U.S. and Canada are
forecast to be down 5 to 10 percent in 2006. 
In other parts of the world, industry retail sales in Western Europe and
South America are each forecast to be down approximately 5 percent for the year.  The company’s agricultural equipment sales
were up 9 percent for 2005 and are forecast to be down approximately 2 to 4
percent in 2006.  The company’s
commercial and consumer equipment sales declined 4 percent in 2005 reflecting
the impact of unfavorable weather conditions. 
Sales of commercial and consumer equipment are forecast to be up 10 to
12 percent in 2006 benefiting primarily from newly introduced products and an
assumed return to more normal weather patterns. 
Markets for construction equipment are forecast to experience further
growth in 2006 as a result of U.S. economic conditions.  On this basis, contractors and rental
companies are expected to continue updating and expanding their fleets.  Forestry equipment markets are projected to
remain near last year’s level in the U.S.  and Canada and to be lower in Europe.  The company’s construction and forestry sales
increased 24 percent in 2005 and are forecast to increase 5 to 7 percent in
2006.  Net income for the company’s
credit operations is expected to improve due to growth in the credit portfolio.

Items
of concern include the availability and price of raw materials that require a
high content of natural gas and petroleum, and large tires used on some
agricultural and construction equipment. 
Another item of uncertainty affecting farm cash receipts is the
potential impact on farm subsidies and farmer confidence in both Europe and the
U.S. as a result of the negotiations at the World Trade Organization and budget
pressures in both regions.  Producing
engines that continue to meet high performance standards, yet also comply with
increasingly stringent emissions regulations is one of the company’s major
priorities.  There is also risk related
to the success of new product introduction initiatives and customer acceptance
of new products.

The
company’s 2005 results reflect its strategies for building a business that can
produce strong levels of cash flow in all types of conditions.  In addition to producing record earnings for
the year, the company continued to bring advanced new products to market and
fund its global growth plans.  In 2005, the
company also returned approximately $1.2 billion to stockholders through share
repurchases and dividends.  Consistent
with the company’s focus on disciplined asset management, inventories have been
controlled by substantial production cutbacks. 
This helps set the stage for the successful introduction of important
new products in 2006.

2005 COMPARED WITH 2004

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS

Worldwide net income in 2005
was $1,447 million, or $5.87 per share diluted ($5.95 basic), compared with
$1,406 million, or $5.56 per share diluted ($5.69 basic), in 2004.  Net sales and revenues increased 10 percent
to $21,931 million in 2005, compared with $19,986 million in 2004.  Net sales of the Equipment Operations
increased 10 percent in 2005 to $19,401 million from $17,673 million last year.  Net sales in the U.S. and Canada rose 10
percent in 2005.  Outside the U.S. and
Canada, net sales increased by 6 percent excluding currency translation, and by
10 percent on a reported basis.

Worldwide
Equipment Operations, which exclude the Financial Services operations, had an
operating profit of $1,842 million in 2005, compared with $1,905 million in
2004.  Operating profit decreased
primarily due to higher selling and administrative expenses, increased
manufacturing overhead costs related to production system improvements, and
higher research and development costs.  These
factors were partially offset by the margin on higher shipments and lower
retirement benefit costs.  Improved price
realization offset higher raw material costs.

The
Equipment Operations’ net income was $1,096 million in 2005, compared with
$1,097 million in 2004.  The same
operating factors mentioned above affected these results.  However, the decrease in operating profit was
substantially offset by increased interest and investment income, and a lower
effective tax rate.

Net
income of the company’s Financial Services operations in 2005 was $345 million,
compared with $309 million in 2004.  The
increase was primarily due to growth in the credit operations portfolio, a
lower credit loss provision and increased underwriting margins in health care.  Additional information is presented in the
following discussion of the credit and “Other” operations.

The
cost of sales to net sales ratio for 2005 was 78.2 percent, compared to 76.8
percent last year.  The increase was
primarily due to higher raw material costs and increased manufacturing overhead
costs, partially offset by improved price realization and lower retirement
benefit costs.

Finance
and interest income increased this year primarily due to growth in the credit
operations portfolio and higher financing rates.  Health care premium revenue decreased due to
lower enrollment, while claims costs are lower due to unusually high claims in
the prior year and the lower enrollment this year.


Other income increased this
year primarily due to an increase in service income, increased investment
income from marketable securities due to investments made by the Equipment
Operations and other miscellaneous gains, partially offset by lower gains on
retail note sales and a gain on the sale of an equipment rental company last
year.  Research and development costs
increased this year due to a higher level of new product development and
exchange rate fluctuations.  Selling, administrative
and general expenses increased primarily due to increased marketing expenses, acquisitions
of businesses and exchange rate fluctuations. 
Interest expense increased due to higher average borrowings and
borrowing rates.  Other operating
expenses were higher primarily as a result of an increase in service expenses.

The
company has several defined benefit pension plans and defined benefit health
care and life insurance plans.  The
company’s postretirement benefit costs for these plans in 2005 were $538
million, compared to $596 million in 2004. 
The long-term expected return on plan assets, which is reflected in
these costs, was an expected gain of 8.5 percent in both years, or $744 million
in 2005, compared to $671 million in 2004. 
The actual return was a gain of $1,057 million in 2005, compared to a
gain of $654 million in 2004.  In 2006, the
expected return will be approximately 8.4 percent.  The total unrecognized losses related to the
plans at October 31, 2005 and 2004 were $3,969 million and $5,149 million,
respectively.  The company expects the
decrease in postretirement benefit costs in 2006 to be approximately $75
million pretax, compared with 2005, caused by an increase in the discount rate
assumptions and increased funding.  The
company makes any required contributions to the plan assets under applicable
regulations and voluntary contributions from time to time based on the company’s
liquidity and ability to make tax-deductible contributions.  Total company contributions to the plans were
$859 million in 2005 and $1,852 million in 2004, which include direct benefit
payments for unfunded plans.  These
contributions also included voluntary contributions to the U.S. plan assets of
$556 million in 2005 and $1,551 million in 2004.  Total company contributions in 2006 are
expected to be approximately $960 million, including voluntary contributions to
U.S. plan assets of approximately $875 million. 
See the following discussion of “Critical Accounting Policies” for
postretirement benefit obligations.

BUSINESS SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA
RESULTS

The following discussion
relates to operating results by reportable segment and geographic area.  Operating profit is income before external
interest expense, certain foreign exchange gains or losses, income taxes and
corporate expenses.  However, operating
profit of the credit segment includes the effect of interest expense and
foreign exchange gains or losses.

Worldwide Agricultural Equipment
Operations

The agricultural equipment
segment had an operating profit of $970 million in 2005, compared with $1,072
million in 2004.  Net sales increased 9
percent this year due to improved price realization, higher shipments and the
translation effect of currency exchange rates. 
The decrease in operating profit was primarily a result of increases in
manufacturing overhead costs, research and development costs, and selling and
administrative expenses.  Partially
offsetting these factors were the margin on higher shipments and lower
retirement benefit costs.  Improved price
realization offset the increase in raw material costs.

Worldwide Commercial and Consumer
Equipment Operations

The commercial and consumer
equipment segment had an operating profit of $183 million in 2005, compared
with $246 million in 2004.  Net sales
decreased 4 percent for the year reflecting the impact of unfavorable weather
conditions on the sale of consumer riding equipment during the critical selling
season.  The lower operating profit was
primarily due to lower shipments and production volumes in response to a weaker
retail environment.  Improved price
realization more than offset an increase in raw material costs.

Worldwide Construction and Forestry
Operations

The construction and
forestry segment had an operating profit of $689 million in 2005, compared with
$587 million in 2004.  Sales increased 24
percent for the year reflecting strong activity at the retail level.  The operating profit improvement was
primarily due to higher sales and efficiencies related to stronger production
volumes.  Improved price realization
offset the impact of higher raw material costs. 
The results last year included a $30 million pretax gain from the sale
of an equipment rental company.

Worldwide Credit Operations

The operating profit of the
credit operations was $491 million in 2005, compared with $466 million in 2004.  The increase in operating profit was primarily
due to growth in the portfolio, as well as a lower credit loss provision, partially
offset by lower financing spreads and lower gains on retail note sales.  Total revenues of the credit operations
increased 13 percent in 2005, primarily reflecting the larger portfolio and
higher average finance rates.  The
average balance of receivables and leases financed was 19 percent higher in
2005, compared with 2004.  An increase in
average borrowings and higher interest rates in 2005 resulted in a 44 percent
increase in interest expense, compared with 2004.  The credit operations’ ratio of earnings to
fixed charges was 1.86 to 1 in 2005, compared to 2.12 to 1 in 2004.

Worldwide Other Operations

The company’s other
operations, which consisted primarily of the health care operations, had an
operating profit of $41 million in 2005, compared with $5 million last year.  The increase was primarily due to an improved
underwriting margin.  Last year’s margins
were adversely affected by unusually high claims costs.

Equipment Operations in U.S.  and Canada

The equipment operations in
the U.S. and Canada had an operating profit of $1,298 million in 2005, compared
with $1,284 million in 2004.  The
increase was primarily due to the margin on higher shipments and lower retirement
benefit costs.  Partially offsetting
these factors were increases in manufacturing overhead costs, selling and
administrative expenses, and research and development costs.  Improved price realization offset the
increase in raw material costs.  Sales
increased due to higher shipments, reflecting strong retail demand in
construction and forestry equipment, and improved price realization in all
equipment segments.  Sales increased 10
percent in 2005 while the physical volume increased 5 percent, compared to 2004.

Equipment Operations outside U.S.  and Canada

The equipment operations
outside the U.S. and Canada had an operating profit of $544 million in 2005, compared
with $621 million in 2004.  The decrease
was primarily due to the effects of


increases in manufacturing
overhead costs, selling and administrative expenses, and research and
development costs.  Improved price
realization substantially offset the increase in raw material costs.  Sales increased from the translation effect
of currency exchange rates, increased volume and improvements in price
realization.  Sales were 10 percent
higher than last year, while the physical volume increased 3 percent in 2005, compared
with 2004.

MARKET CONDITIONS AND OUTLOOK

Company equipment sales are
expected to increase by 1 to 3 percent for fiscal year 2006 and by 11 to 14
percent for the first quarter, compared to the same periods in 2005.  Production levels are expected to be down
slightly for the year, but up about 4 percent in the quarter.  As previously announced, the company will
sell its health care operations for a gain of approximately $225 million
after-tax (see Note 27).  Based on the
above, net income is forecast to be around $1.7 billion (approximately $1.5
billion excluding the gain on the sale of the health care operations) for the
year and in a range of $175 million to $200 million for the first quarter.

Agricultural
Equipment.

Although the farm sector is expected to
remain in solid condition, industry sales in the U.S. and Canada are forecast
to be down 5 to 10 percent in 2006.  Factors
contributing to the decline include concerns over higher farm input costs,
especially for fuel and fertilizer, the absence of U.S. tax incentives which
helped sales in the first part of 2005, and slightly lower cash receipts.  Farmers are expected to benefit from debt
levels that remain well under control and from rising land values.

In
other parts of the world, industry retail sales in Western Europe are forecast
to be down about 5 percent for the year. 
Concerns over higher input costs, government policies and the future
direction of farm subsidies are expected to put downward pressure on sales in
the region for the year.  In South
America, industry sales are forecast to be down about 5 percent as a result of
a relatively strong Brazilian currency, a reduction in soybean acreage in
Brazil and concerns regarding foot-and-mouth disease.

Based
on these factors and market conditions, worldwide sales of the company’s agricultural
equipment are forecast to be down 2 to 4 percent for the year.  Company sales are expected to benefit from a
number of newly introduced products, including a line of more powerful and fuel
efficient large tractors.

Commercial
and Consumer Equipment.

Sales of the company’s commercial and
consumer equipment are forecast to be up 10 to 12 percent for the year with the
benefit from newly introduced products, an assumed return to more normal
weather patterns and a full year of sales from the segment’s recent
landscapes-business acquisition (see Note 1). 
Segment sales are also expected to be helped by an expanded presence of
the company’s products in the mass channel.

Construction
and Forestry.

Markets for construction equipment are
forecast to experience further growth in 2006 as a result of U.S. economic
conditions conducive to a healthy level of construction spending, especially in
the nonresidential sector.  On this
basis, contractors and rental companies are expected to continue updating and expanding
their fleets.  Forestry equipment markets
are projected to remain near last year’s level in the U.S. and Canada and to be
lower in Europe.  In this environment,
the company’s worldwide sales of construction and forestry equipment are
forecast to rise by 5 to 7 percent for fiscal 2006.

Financial
Services.

Fiscal year net income in 2006 for the
company’s Financial Services operations, which primarily include its credit and
health care operations, is forecast to be about $565 million (approximately
$340 million excluding the gain on the sale of the health care operations).  Net income for the credit operations is
expected to improve due to growth in the credit portfolio.

SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT

Safe
Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:

Statements under “Overview,” “Market
Conditions and Outlook” and other statements herein that relate to future
operating periods are subject to important risks and uncertainties that could
cause actual results to differ materially. 
Some of these risks and uncertainties could affect particular lines of
business, while others could affect all of the company’s businesses.

Forward
looking statements involve certain factors that are subject to change, including
for the company’s agricultural equipment segment the many interrelated factors
that affect farmers’ confidence, including worldwide demand for agricultural
products, world grain stocks, weather and soil conditions, harvest yields, prices
realized for commodities and livestock, crop production expenses (most notably
fuel and fertilizer costs), availability of transport for crops, the growth of
non-food uses for some crops, real estate values, available acreage for
farming, the land ownership policies of various governments, changes in
government farm programs, international reaction to such programs, animal
diseases (including bovine spongiform encephalopathy, commonly known as “mad
cow” disease and avian flu), crop pests and diseases (including Asian rust), and
the level of farm product exports (including concerns about genetically
modified organisms).  The success of the
fall harvest and the prices realized by farmers for their crops especially
affect retail sales of agricultural equipment in the winter.

Factors
affecting the outlook for the company’s commercial and consumer equipment
segment include weather conditions, general economic conditions in these
markets, consumer confidence, consumer borrowing patterns, consumer purchasing
preferences, housing starts, and spending by municipalities and golf courses.

The
number of housing starts, interest rates and consumer spending patterns are
especially important to sales of the company’s construction equipment.  The levels of public and non-residential
construction also impact the results of the company’s construction and forestry
segment.  Prices for pulp, lumber and
structural panels are important to sales of forestry equipment.

All
of the company’s businesses and its reported results are affected by general
economic conditions in and the political stability of global markets in which
the company operates; production, design and technological difficulties, including
capacity and supply constraints and prices, including for supply commodities
such as steel and rubber; the success of new product introduction initiatives
and customer acceptance of new products; oil and energy prices and supplies; the
availability and cost of freight; trade, monetary and fiscal policies of
various countries, wars and other international conflicts and the threat
thereof; actions by the U.S. Federal Reserve Board and other central banks; actions
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission; actions by environmental
regulatory agencies, including those related to engine emissions and the risk
of global warming; actions by other regulatory bodies; actions by rating
agencies;


capital market disruptions; inflation
and deflation rates, interest rate levels and foreign currency exchange rates; customer
borrowing and repayment practices, and the number of customer loan
delinquencies and defaults; actions of competitors in the various industries in
which the company competes, particularly price discounting; dealer practices
especially as to levels of new and used field inventories; labor relations; changes
to accounting standards; the effects of terrorism and the response thereto; and
legislation affecting the sectors in which the company operates.  Company results are also affected by changes
in the level of employee retirement benefits, changes in market values of
investment assets and the level of interest rates, which impact retirement
benefit costs, and significant changes in health care costs.  Other factors that could affect results are
changes in company declared dividends, acquisitions and divestitures of
businesses, common stock issuances and repurchases, and the issuance and
retirement of company debt.

The
company’s outlook is based upon assumptions relating to the factors described
above, which are sometimes based upon estimates and data prepared by government
agencies.  Such estimates and data are
often revised.  The company, however, undertakes
no obligation to update or revise its outlook, whether as a result of new
developments or otherwise.  Further
information concerning the company and its businesses, including factors that
potentially could materially affect the company’s financial results, is
included in other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

2004 COMPARED WITH 2003

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS

Worldwide net income in 2004
was $1,406 million, or $5.56 per share diluted ($5.69 basic), compared with
$643 million, or $2.64 per share diluted ($2.68 basic), in 2003.  Net sales and revenues increased 29 percent
to $19,986 million in 2004, compared with $15,535 million in 2003.  Net sales of the Equipment Operations
increased 32 percent in 2004 to $17,673 million from $13,349 million in 2003.  Net sales increased primarily due to higher
shipments.  Net sales in the U.S. and
Canada rose 33 percent in 2004.  Outside
the U.S. and Canada, net sales increased by 20 percent in 2004, excluding
currency translation, and by 30 percent on a reported basis.

Worldwide
Equipment Operations, which exclude the Financial Services operations, had an operating
profit of $1,905 million in 2004, compared with $708 million in 2003.  Operating profit increased primarily due to
increased shipments and price realization. 
The increase in operating profit was partially offset by a larger
provision for employee bonuses and higher raw material costs.  The larger provision for bonuses was driven
by the strong performance in the Equipment Operations.

The
Equipment Operations’ net income was $1,097 million in 2004, compared with $305
million in 2003.  The same operating
factors mentioned above affected these results. 
In addition, the results in 2004 benefited from a lower effective tax
rate and a decrease in interest expense.

Net
income of the company’s Financial Services operations in 2004 was $309 million,
compared with $330 million in 2003.  The
decrease was primarily due to higher administrative costs, lower credit margins
and increased medical claims costs.  Additional
information is presented in the following discussion of the credit and “Other” operations.

The
cost of sales to net sales ratio for 2004 was 76.8 percent, compared to 80.5
percent in 2003.  The decrease in the
ratio was primarily due to manufacturing efficiencies related to higher
production and sales, and improved price realization.  Partially offsetting these factors were the
higher employee performance bonus provision and increased costs for raw
material, such as steel and rubber.

Finance
and interest income decreased in 2004 primarily due to a decrease in rental
income on operating leases and lower average finance rates.  Health care premiums and fees increased,
compared to 2003, primarily due to higher insured enrollment, while health care
claims and costs increased primarily due to higher medical costs and an
increase in enrollment.  Other income
increased in 2004 primarily due to service income related to Nortrax, Inc., Nortrax
Investments, Inc. and Ontrac Holdings, Inc. 
(collectively called Nortrax), which were consolidated in 2004, and a
gain from the sale of the company’s 49 percent ownership in Sunstate Equipment
Co., LLC, an equipment rental company.  Selling,
administrative and general expenses were higher in 2004 primarily due to a
higher employee performance bonus provision, the consolidation of Nortrax and
foreign currency exchange rate effects.  Other
operating expenses increased primarily as a result of the consolidation of
Nortrax and an increase in service expense.

The
company has several defined benefit pension plans and defined benefit health
care and life insurance plans.  The
company’s postretirement benefit costs for these plans in 2004 were $596
million, compared to $593 million in 2003. 
The long-term expected return on plan assets, which is reflected in
these costs, was an expected gain of 8.5 percent in both years, or $671 million
in 2004, compared to $597 million in 2003. 
The actual return was a gain of $654 million in 2004, compared to a gain
of $1,050 million in 2003.  The total
unrecognized losses related to the plans at October 31, 2004 and 2003 were
$5,149 million and $4,794 million, respectively.  Total company contributions to the plans were
$1,852 million in 2004 and $745 million in 2003, which include direct benefit
payments for unfunded plans.  These
contributions also included voluntary contributions to the U.S. plan assets of
$1,551 million in 2004 and $475 million in 2003.  See the following discussion of “Critical
Accounting Policies” for postretirement benefit obligations.

BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS

Worldwide Agricultural Equipment
Operations

The agricultural equipment
segment had an operating profit of $1,072 million in 2004, compared with $329
million in 2003.  Net sales increased 31
percent in 2004 primarily due to higher shipments, reflecting strong retail
demand, as well as the translation effect of exchange rates and improved price
realization.  The operating profit
improvement was primarily due to higher worldwide sales, efficiencies related
to stronger production volumes, and improved price realization.  Offsetting these factors were the higher provision
for performance bonuses and increased raw material costs.


Worldwide Commercial and Consumer
Equipment Operations

The commercial and consumer
equipment segment had an operating profit of $246 million in 2004, compared
with $227 million in 2003.  Net sales
increased 16 percent in 2004 primarily due to higher volumes.  The improved operating profit was primarily
due to higher sales and production volumes. 
Partially offsetting these factors were an increase in the performance
bonus provision in addition to higher costs for freight and raw materials.

Worldwide Construction and Forestry
Operations

The construction and
forestry segment had an operating profit of $587 million in 2004, compared with
$152 million in 2003.  Sales increased 54
percent in 2004.  The increase in sales
was primarily due to higher volumes.  The
operating profit improvement was primarily due to higher sales, efficiencies
related to stronger production volumes, and improved price realization.  Partially offsetting these factors were a
larger performance bonus provision and higher raw material costs.  The results in 2004 also included a $30
million pretax gain from the sale of an equipment rental company.

Worldwide Credit Operations

The operating profit of the
credit operations was $466 million in 2004, compared with $474 million in 2003.  Operating profit in 2004 was lower than in
2003 due primarily to higher administrative costs, partly related to a higher
provision for performance bonuses in connection with the overall company
profitability, and lower margins.  Partially
offsetting these factors was a lower provision for credit losses, reflecting
solid portfolio quality.  Total revenues
of the credit operations decreased 4 percent in 2004, primarily reflecting
lower rental income from operating leases related to the lower level of leases,
and lower average finance rates.  The
average balance of receivables and leases financed was 2 percent higher in
2004, compared with 2003.  A decrease in
funding rates in 2004 resulted in a 3 percent decrease in interest expense, compared
with 2003.  The credit operations’ ratio
of earnings to fixed charges was 2.12 to 1 in 2004, compared to 2.07 to 1 in
2003.

Worldwide Other Operations

The company’s other
operations, which consisted primarily of the health care operations, had an
operating profit of $5 million in 2004, compared with $30 million in 2003.  The decrease was primarily due to increased
medical claims costs and a higher performance bonus provision related to
overall company profitability.

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

The discussion of capital
resources and liquidity has been organized to review separately, where
appropriate, the company’s Equipment Operations, Financial Services operations
and the consolidated totals.

EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS

The company’s equipment
businesses are capital intensive and are subject to seasonal variations in
financing requirements for inventories and certain receivables from dealers.  The Equipment Operations sell most of their
trade receivables to the company’s credit operations.  As a result, the seasonal variations in
financing

requirements of
the Equipment Operations have decreased. 
To the extent necessary, funds provided from operations are supplemented
by external financing sources.

Cash
provided by operating activities during 2005 was $1,661 million primarily due
to net income adjusted for non-cash provisions and an increase in accounts
payable and accrued expenses.  The
operating cash flows, a decrease in receivables from Financial Services of
$1,133 million, a decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $1,016 million, proceeds
from maturities and sales of marketable securities of $1,016 million, and
proceeds from the issuance of common stock of $154 million (which were the
result of the exercise of stock options) were used primarily to purchase
marketable securities of $3,175 million, repurchase common stock for $919
million, fund purchases of property and equipment of $467 million, pay
dividends to stockholders of $290 million and acquire businesses for $170
million.

Over
the last three years, operating activities have provided an aggregate of $4,248
million in cash.  In addition, proceeds
from maturities and sales of marketable securities were $1,016 million,
proceeds from the issuance of common stock were $579 million and the proceeds
from sales of businesses were $163 million. 
The aggregate amount of these cash flows was used mainly to purchase
marketable securities of $3,175 million, fund purchases of property and
equipment of $1,116 million, repurchase common stock for $1,112 million, pay
dividends to stockholders of $747 million, increase receivables from Financial
Services by $473 million, decrease borrowings by $433 million and acquire businesses
for $373 million.  Cash and cash
equivalents also decreased $1,306 million over the three-year period.

Trade
receivables held by the Equipment Operations increased by $92 million during
2005.  The Equipment Operations sell a
significant portion of their trade receivables to the credit operations (see
following consolidated discussion).

Inventories
increased by $136 million in 2005.  Most
of these inventories are valued on the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method.  The ratios of inventories on a first-in, first-out
(FIFO) basis, which approximates current cost, to fiscal year cost of sales
were 22 percent at October 31, 2005 and 2004.

Total
interest-bearing debt of the Equipment Operations was $3,101 million at the end
of 2005, compared with $3,040 million at the end of 2004 and $3,304 million at
the end of 2003.  The ratio of total debt
to total capital (total interest-bearing debt and stockholders’ equity) at the
end of 2005, 2004 and 2003 was 31 percent, 32 percent and 45 percent, respectively.

During
2005, the Equipment Operations retired $77 million of long-term borrowings.

Capital
expenditures for the Equipment Operations in 2006 are estimated to be
approximately $580 million.

FINANCIAL SERVICES

The Financial Services’ credit
operations rely on their ability to raise substantial amounts of funds to
finance their receivable and lease portfolios. 
Their primary sources of funds for this purpose are a combination of
commercial paper, term debt, securitization of retail notes through secured
financings or sales, and equity capital.


Cash
flows from the company’s Financial Services operating activities were $585
million in 2005.  Cash provided by
financing activities totaled $2,770 million in 2005, representing primarily a
$2,372 million increase in long-term borrowings and a $1,718 million increase
in short-term borrowings, partially offset by a $1,177 million decrease in
borrowings from the Equipment Operations and the payment of $167 million of
dividends to Deere & Company.  The
cash provided by operating and financing activities was used primarily to
increase receivables and leases.  Cash
used by investing activities totaled $3,310 million in 2005, primarily due to
receivable and lease acquisitions exceeding collections and sales of equipment
on operating leases by $3,302 million.  Cash
and cash equivalents also increased $48 million.

Over
the last three years, the Financial Services operating activities have provided
$1,933 million in cash.  In addition, an
increase in borrowings of $4,485 million, the sale of receivables of $4,407
million and the sale of equipment on operating leases of $1,352 million have
provided cash inflows.  These amounts
have been used mainly to fund receivable and lease acquisitions, which exceeded
collections by $11,202 million, and the payment of dividends to Deere &
Company of $859 million.  Cash and cash
equivalents also increased $138 million over the three-year period.

Receivables
and leases increased by $3,057 million in 2005, compared with 2004.  Acquisition volumes of receivables and leases
increased 9 percent in 2005, compared with 2004.  The volumes of wholesale notes, leases, trade
receivables, retail notes and revolving charge accounts increased approximately
23 percent, 16 percent, 11 percent, 5 percent and 5 percent, respectively.  The credit operations had proceeds from sales
of receivables of $133 million during 2005, compared with $2,334 million in
2004 (see Note 10).  At October 31, 2005
and 2004, net receivables and leases administered, which include receivables
previously sold but still administered, were $20,298 million and $18,620
million, respectively.

Trade
receivables held by the credit operations decreased by $144 million in 2005.  The Equipment Operations sell a significant
portion of their trade receivables to the credit operations (see following
consolidated discussion).

Total
external interest-bearing debt of the credit operations was $15,522 million at
the end of 2005, which included $1,474 million of secured borrowings, compared
with $11,508 million at the end of 2004 and $11,447 million at the end of 2003.  Total external borrowings have increased
generally corresponding with the level of the receivable and lease portfolio, the
level of cash and cash equivalents and the change in payables owed to the
Equipment Operations.  The credit
subsidiaries’ ratio of total interest-bearing debt to total stockholder’s
equity was 7.2 to 1 at the end of 2005, 6.4 to 1 at the end of 2004 and 5.6 to
1 at the end of 2003.  The ratio of total
interest-bearing debt, excluding secured borrowings, to stockholder’s equity
was 6.5 to 1 at October 31, 2005.

The
credit operations utilize a revolving bank conduit facility, special purpose
entity (SPE), to securitize floating rate retail notes.  This facility has the capacity, or “purchase
limit, “of up to $2 billion in secured financings or sales outstanding at any
time.  Multiple bank conduits participate
in this facility, which has no final maturity date.  Instead, upon the credit operations’ request
each bank conduit may elect to renew its commitment on an

annual basis. 
If this facility is not renewed, the credit operations would liquidate
the securitizations as the retail notes are collected.  At October 31, 2005 $1,755 million was
outstanding under the facility of which $695 million was recorded on the
balance sheet (see Note 10).

During
2005, the credit operations issued $3,805 million and retired $1,433 million of
long-term borrowings, which were primarily medium-term notes.

Capital
expenditures for Financial Services in 2006 are estimated to be approximately
$290 million, primarily related to the company’s wind energy entities (see Note
1).

CONSOLIDATED

Sources of liquidity for the
company include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, funds from
operations, the issuance of commercial paper and term debt, the securitization
of retail notes through secured financings or sales, and committed and
uncommitted bank lines of credit.

Because
of the multiple funding sources that have been and continue to be available to
the company, the company expects to have sufficient sources of liquidity to
meet its funding needs.  The company’s
worldwide commercial paper outstanding at October 31, 2005 and 2004 was
approximately $2.2 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, while the total cash
and cash equivalents position was $2.3 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively.  The company has for many years accessed
diverse funding sources, including short-term and long-term unsecured debt
capital markets globally, as well as public and private securitization markets in
the U.S. and Canada.

The
company also has access to bank lines of credit with various U.S. and foreign
banks.  Some of the lines are available
to both Deere & Company and John Deere Capital Corporation.  Worldwide lines of credit totaled $2,594
million at October 31, 2005, $272 million of which were unused.  For the purpose of computing unused credit
lines, commercial paper and short-term bank borrowings, excluding secured
borrowings and the current portion of long-term borrowings, were considered to
constitute utilization.  Included in the
total credit lines at October 31, 2005 were long-term credit facility
agreements of $1,250 million, expiring in February 2009, and $625 million,
expiring in February 2010, for a total of $1,875 million long-term.

The
credit agreement requires the Equipment Operations to maintain a ratio of total
debt to total capital (total debt and stockholders’ equity excluding
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)) of 65 percent or less at the end
of each fiscal quarter.  At October 31,
2005, the ratio was 31 percent.  Under
this provision, the company’s excess equity capacity and retained earnings
balance free of restriction at October 31, 2005 was $5,208 million.  Alternatively under this provision, the
Equipment Operations had the capacity to incur additional debt of $9,673
million at October 31, 2005.

To
access public debt capital markets, the company relies on credit rating agencies
to assign short-term and long-term credit ratings to the company’s securities
as an indicator of credit quality for fixed income investors.  A security rating is not a recommendation by
the rating agency to buy, sell or hold company securities.  A credit rating agency may change or withdraw
company ratings based on its assessment of the company’s current and


future ability to meet
interest and principal repayment obligations. 
Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and
reduced access to debt capital markets.

The
senior long-term and short-term debt ratings and outlook currently assigned to
unsecured company securities by the rating agencies engaged by the company are
as follows:

Marketable
securities increased by $2,203 million during 2005.  This is primarily due to the Equipment
Operations investing a portion of their cash and cash equivalents into
marketable securities in 2005.  The
Equipment Operations marketable securities are in addition to those held by the
Financial Services operations.

Trade
accounts and notes receivable primarily arise from sales of goods to dealers.  Trade receivables decreased by $89 million in
2005.  The ratios of trade accounts and
notes receivable at October 31 to fiscal year net sales were 16 percent in
2005, compared with 18 percent in 2004.  Total
worldwide agricultural equipment trade receivables decreased $64 million, commercial
and consumer equipment receivables decreased $92 million and construction and
forestry receivables increased $67 million. 
The collection period for trade receivables averages less than 12 months.  The percentage of trade receivables
outstanding for a period exceeding 12 months was 2 percent at October 31, 2005
and 2004.

Stockholders’
equity was $6,852 million at October 31, 2005, compared with $6,393
million at October 31, 2004.  The
increase of $459 million resulted primarily from net income of $1,447 million, partially
offset by an increase in treasury stock of $703 million and dividends declared
of $293 million.

OFF-BALANCE-SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

The company’s credit
operations have periodically securitized and sold retail notes to special
purpose entities (SPEs) in securitizations of retail notes.  The credit operations used these SPEs in a
manner consistent with conventional practices in the securitization industry to
isolate the retail notes for the benefit of securitization investors.  The use of the SPEs enabled these operations
to access the highly liquid and efficient securitization markets for the sales
of these types of financial assets.  The
amounts of funding the company chooses to obtain from securitizations reflect
such factors as capital market accessibility, relative costs of funding sources
and assets available for securitization. 
The company’s total exposure to recourse provisions related to
securitized retail notes, which were sold in prior periods, was $151 million
and the total assets held by the SPEs related to these securitizations were $1,923
million at October 31, 2005.

At
October 31, 2005, the company had guaranteed approximately $40 million of
residual values for two operating leases related to an administrative office
and a manufacturing building.  The
company is obligated at the end of each lease term to pay to the lessor any
reduction in market value of the leased

property up to the guaranteed residual value.  The company recognizes the expense for these
future estimated lease payments over the terms of the operating leases and had
accrued losses of $10 million related to these agreements at October 31, 2005.  The leases have terms expiring in 2006 and
2007.

At
October 31, 2005, the company had approximately $145 million of guarantees
issued primarily to banks outside the U.S. related to third-party receivables
for the retail financing of John Deere equipment.  The company may recover a portion of any
required payments incurred under these agreements from repossession of the
equipment collateralizing the receivables. 
At October 31, 2005, the company had accrued losses of
approximately $2 million under these agreements.  The maximum remaining term of the receivables
guaranteed at October 31, 2005 was approximately eight years.

The
company’s credit operations offer crop insurance products through a managing
general agency agreement (MGA) with an insurance company.  The credit operations have guaranteed certain
obligations under the MGA, including the obligation to pay the insurance
company for any uncollected premiums.  At
October 31, 2005, the maximum exposure for uncollected premiums was
approximately $14 million.  Substantially
all of the insurance risk under the MGA has been mitigated by public (U.S. Department
of Agriculture) and private reinsurance. 
In the event of a complete crop failure on every policy and the default
of all the public and private reinsurance, the company would be required to
reimburse the insurance company approximately $633 million at October 31, 2005.  The company believes the likelihood of this
event is extremely remote.  At October 31,
2005, the company’s accrued probable losses are approximately $.1 million under
this agreement.

AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

Most of the company’s
contractual obligations to make payments to third parties are debt obligations.  In addition, the company has
off-balance-sheet obligations for purchases of raw materials, services and
property and equipment along with agreements for future lease payments.  The payment schedule for these
contractual obligations in millions of dollars is as follows:

*

Principal payments.

**

See Note 16.


CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The preparation of the
company’s consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues
and expenses.  Changes in these estimates
and assumptions could have a significant effect on the financial statements.  The accounting policies below are those
management believes are the most critical to the preparation of the company’s
financial statements and require the most difficult, subjective or complex
judgments.  The company’s other
accounting policies are described in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Sales Incentives

At the time a sale to a
dealer is recognized, the company records an estimate of the future sales
incentive costs for allowances and financing programs that will be due when the
dealer sells the equipment to a retail customer.  The estimate is based on historical data, announced
incentive programs, field inventory levels and settlement volumes.  The final cost of these programs and the
amount of accrual required for a specific sale is fully determined when the
dealer sells the equipment to the retail customer.  This is due to numerous programs available at
any particular time and new programs that may be announced after the company
records the sale.  Changes in the mix and
types of programs affect these estimates, which are reviewed quarterly.

The
sales incentive accruals at October 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $592
million, $540 million and $444 million, respectively.  The increases in 2005 and 2004 were primarily
due to the increases in sales.

The
estimation of the sales incentive accrual is impacted by many assumptions.  One of the key assumptions is the historical
percentage of sales incentive costs to settlements from dealers.  Over the last five fiscal years, this percent
has varied by approximately plus or minus .5 percent, compared to the average
sales incentive costs to settlements percentage during that period.  Holding other assumptions constant, if this
cost experience percentage were to increase or decrease .5 percent, the sales
incentive accrual at October 31, 2005 would increase or decrease by
approximately $25 million.

Product
Warranties

At the time a sale to a
dealer is recognized, the company records the estimated future warranty costs.  The company generally determines its total
warranty liability by applying historical claims rate experience to the
estimated amount of equipment that has been sold and is still under warranty
based on dealer inventories and retail sales. 
The historical claims rate is primarily determined by a review of
five-year claims costs and current quality developments.  Variances in claims experience and the type
of warranty programs affect these estimates, which are reviewed quarterly.

The
product warranty accruals at October 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $535
million, $458 million and $389 million, respectively.  The increases in 2005 and 2004 were primarily
due to the increases in sales volume and special warranty programs.

Estimates
used to determine the product warranty accruals are significantly affected by
the historical percentage of warranty claims costs to sales.  Over the last five fiscal years, this loss experience
percent has varied by approximately plus or minus .2 percent, compared to the
average warranty costs to sales percentage during that period.  Holding other assumptions constant, if this
estimated cost experience percentage were to increase or decrease .2 percent, the
warranty accrual at October 31, 2005 would increase or decrease by
approximately $55 million.

Postretirement
Benefit Obligations

Pension obligations and
other postretirement employee benefit (OPEB) obligations are based on various
assumptions used by the company’s actuaries in calculating these amounts.  These assumptions include discount rates, health
care cost trend rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, retirement
rates, mortality rates and other factors. 
Actual results that differ from the assumptions and changes in
assumptions affect future expenses and obligations.

The
pension net assets (liabilities) recognized on the balance sheet at October 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003 were $1,986 million, $1,894 million and $(1,419) million, respectively.  The OPEB liabilities on these dates were $2,455
million, $2,623 million and $2,385 million, respectively.  The increase in the pension net assets and
decrease in the OPEB liability during 2005 were primarily related to voluntary
company contributions to plan assets.  The
change from a pension liability to a pension asset during 2004 was primarily
due to the elimination of certain minimum pension liabilities as a result of
voluntary company contributions and the return on plan assets during 2004.

The
effect of hypothetical changes to selected assumptions on the company’s major U.S.
retirement benefit plans would be as follows in millions of dollars:

*

Projected benefit obligation (PBO) for pension
plans and accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) for OPEB plans.

**

Pretax impact on service cost, interest cost
and amortization of gains or losses.

Allowance
for Credit Losses

The allowance for credit
losses represents an estimate of the losses expected from the company’s
receivable portfolio.  The level of the
allowance is based on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including
historical loss experience by product category, portfolio duration, delinquency
trends, economic conditions and credit risk quality.  The adequacy of the allowance is assessed
quarterly.  Different assumptions or
changes in economic conditions would result in changes to the allowance for
credit losses and the provision for credit losses.


The
total allowance for credit losses at October 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was
$194 million, $201 million and $207 million, respectively.  The decreases in 2005 and 2004 were primarily
due to improved credit quality and delinquency trends.

The
assumptions used in evaluating the company’s exposure to credit losses involve
estimates and significant judgment.  The
historical loss experience on the receivable portfolios represents one of the
key assumptions involved in determining the allowance for credit losses.  Over the last five fiscal years, the average
loss experience has fluctuated between 2 basis points and 15 basis points in
any given fiscal year over the applicable prior period.  Holding other estimates constant, a 5 basis
point increase or decrease in estimated loss experience on the receivable
portfolios would result in an increase or decrease of approximately $9 million
to the allowance for credit losses at October 31, 2005.

Operating
Lease Residual Values

The carrying value of
equipment on operating leases is affected by the estimated fair values of the
equipment at the end of the lease (residual values).  Upon termination of the lease, the equipment
is either purchased by the lessee or sold to a third party, in which case the
company may record a gain or a loss for the difference between the estimated
residual value and the sales price.  The
residual values are dependent on current economic conditions and are reviewed
quarterly.  Changes in residual value
assumptions would affect the amount of depreciation expense and the amount of
investment in equipment on operating leases.

The
total operating lease residual values at October 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
were $812 million, $803 million and $913 million, respectively.  The changes in 2005 and 2004 were primarily
due to the changes in the level of operating leases.

Estimates
used in determining end of lease market values for equipment on operating
leases significantly impact the amount and timing of depreciation expense.  If future market values for this equipment
were to decrease 5 percent from the company’s present estimates, the total
impact would be to increase the company’s depreciation on equipment on
operating leases by approximately $40 million. 
This amount would be charged to depreciation expense during the remaining
lease terms such that the net investment in operating leases at the end of the
lease terms would be equal to the revised residual values.  Initial lease terms generally range from
three to five years.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT RISK INFORMATION

The company is naturally
exposed to various interest rate and foreign currency risks.  As a result, the company enters into
derivative transactions to manage certain of these exposures that arise in the
normal course of business and not for the purpose of creating speculative
positions or trading.  The company’s
credit operations manage the relationship of the types and amounts of their
funding sources to their receivable and lease portfolio in an effort to
diminish risk due to interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations, while
responding to favorable financing opportunities.  Accordingly, from time to time, these
operations enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage their interest
rate exposure.  The company also has
foreign currency exposures at some of its foreign and domestic operations
related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the local
currencies.  The company has entered into
agreements related to the management of these currency transaction risks.  The credit risk under these interest rate and
foreign currency agreements is not considered to be significant.

Interest
Rate Risk

Quarterly, the company uses
a combination of cash flow models to assess the sensitivity of its financial
instruments with interest rate exposure to changes in market interest rates.  The models calculate the effect of adjusting
interest rates as follows.  Cash flows
for financing receivables are discounted at the current prevailing rate for
each receivable portfolio.  Cash flows
for marketable securities are primarily discounted at the treasury yield curve.  Cash flows for borrowings are discounted at
the treasury yield curve plus a market credit spread for similarly rated
borrowers.  Cash flows for securitized
borrowings are discounted at the industrial composite bond curve for similarly
rated borrowers.  Cash flows for interest
rate swaps are projected and discounted using forecasted rates from the swap
yield curve at the repricing dates.  The
net loss in these financial instruments’ fair values which would be caused by
decreasing the interest rates by 10 percent from the market rates at October 31,
2005 and 2004 would have been approximately $39 million and $42 million, respectively.

Foreign
Currency Risk

In the Equipment Operations,
it is the company’s practice to hedge significant currency exposures.  Worldwide foreign currency exposures are
reviewed quarterly.  Based on the
Equipment Operations anticipated and committed foreign currency cash inflows
and outflows for the next twelve months and the foreign currency derivatives at
year end, the company estimates that a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of
the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies through 2006 would decrease the
2006 expected net cash inflows by $48 million. 
At last year end, a hypothetical 10 percent weakening of the U.S. dollar
under similar assumptions and calculations indicated a potential $18 million
adverse effect on the 2005 net cash inflows.

In
the Financial Services operations, the company’s policy is to hedge the foreign
currency risk if the currency of the borrowings does not match the currency of
the receivable portfolio.  As a result, a
hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the value of the

U.S. dollar relative to all other foreign currencies would not have a material
effect on the Financial Services cash flows.


DEERE & COMPANY

STATEMENT OF

CONSOLIDATED
INCOME

For the
Years Ended October 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

(In millions of dollars and
shares except per share amounts)

The notes to consolidated
financial statements are an integral part of this statement.


DEERE & COMPANY

CONSOLIDATED

BALANCE SHEET

As of October 31,
2005 and 2004

(In millions of dollars
except per share amounts)

The notes to consolidated
financial statements are an integral part of this statement.


DEERE & COMPANY

STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED

CASH
FLOWS

For the
Years Ended October 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

(In millions of dollars)

The notes to consolidated
financial statements are an integral part of this statement.


DEERE & COMPANY

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN CONSOLIDATED

STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

For the
Years Ended October 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005

(In millions of dollars)

The notes to consolidated
financial statements are an integral part of this statement.


NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The following are
significant accounting policies in addition to those included in other notes to
the consolidated financial statements.

Principles
of Consolidation

The consolidated financial
statements represent the consolidation of all companies in which Deere &
Company has a controlling interest. Deere & Company records its
investment in each unconsolidated affiliated company (generally 20 to 50
percent ownership) at its related equity in the net assets of such affiliate.
Other investments (less than 20 percent ownership) are recorded at cost. Consolidated
retained earnings at October 31, 2005 include undistributed earnings of
the unconsolidated affiliates of $10 million. Dividends from unconsolidated
affiliates were $2 million in 2005, $22 million in 2004 and $3 million in 2003
(see Note 6).

Certain
special purpose entities (SPEs) related to the securitization of financing
receivables for secured borrowings, which are also variable interest entities
(VIEs), are consolidated since the company is the primary beneficiary for these
VIEs. Certain other SPEs related to the securitization and sale of financing
receivables, which are also VIEs, are not consolidated since the company does
not control these entities, and they either meet the requirements of qualified
special purpose entities, or the company is not the primary beneficiary.  In addition, the specified assets in these
unconsolidated VIEs related to securitizations are not the only source of
payment for specified liabilities or other interests of these VIEs and, therefore,
do not require consolidation (see Note 10).

Certain
amounts for prior years have been reclassified to conform with 2005 financial
statement presentations.

Structure
of Operations

Certain information in the notes and related commentary are presented
in a format which includes data grouped as follows:

Equipment Operations

—

Includes the company’s agricultural
equipment, commercial and consumer equipment and construction and forestry
operations with Financial Services reflected on the equity basis.

Financial Services

—

Includes the company’s credit, health care
and certain miscellaneous service operations.

Consolidated

—

Represents the consolidation of the Equipment
Operations and Financial Services.  References
to “Deere & Company” or “the company” refer to the entire enterprise.

Use of
Estimates in Financial Statements

The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts and related disclosures. 
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Revenue
Recognition

Sales of equipment and
service parts to dealers are recorded when title and all risk of ownership are
transferred to the independent dealer based on the agreement in effect with the
dealer.  In the U.S. and most
international locations, this transfer occurs primarily when goods are shipped
to the dealer.  In Canada and some other
international locations, certain goods are shipped to dealers on a consignment
basis under which title and risk of ownership are not transferred to the
dealer.  Accordingly, in these locations,
sales are not recorded until a retail customer has purchased the goods.  In all cases, when a sale is recorded by the
company, no significant uncertainty exists surrounding the purchaser’s
obligation to pay. No right of return exists on sales of equipment.  Service parts returns are estimable and
accrued at the time a sale is recognized. The company makes appropriate
provisions based on experience for costs such as doubtful receivables, sales
incentives and product warranty.

Financing
revenue is recorded over the lives of the related receivables using the
interest method.  Deferred costs on the
origination of financing receivables are recognized as a reduction in finance
revenue over the expected lives of the receivables using the interest method.  Income from operating leases is recognized on
a straight-line basis over the scheduled lease terms.  Health care premiums and fees are recognized
as earned over the terms of the policies or contracts.

Sales
Incentives

At the time a sale to a
dealer is recognized, the company records an estimate of the future sales
incentive costs for allowances and financing programs that will be due when the
dealer sells the equipment to a retail customer.  The estimate is based on historical data, announced
incentive programs, field inventory levels and settlement volumes.

Product
Warranties

At the time a sale to a
dealer is recognized, the company records the estimated future warranty costs.  These costs are usually estimated based on
historical warranty claims (see Note 20).

Securitization
of Receivables

Certain financing
receivables are periodically transferred to SPEs in securitization transactions
(see Note 10).  For securitizations that
qualify as sales of receivables, the gains or losses from the sales are recognized
in the period of sale based on the relative fair value of the portion sold and
the portion allocated to retained interests. The retained interests are
recorded at fair value estimated by discounting future cash flows.  Changes in these fair values are recorded
after-tax in other comprehensive income, which is part of stockholders’ equity.  Other-than-temporary impairments are recorded
in net income.  For securitizations that
qualify as collateral for secured borrowings, no gains or losses are recognized
at the time of securitization.  These
receivables remain on the balance sheet and are classified as “Restricted
financing receivables - net.” The company recognizes finance income over the
lives of these receivables using the interest method.

Shipping and
Handling Costs

Shipping and handling costs
related to the sales of the company’s equipment are included in cost of sales.

Advertising
Costs

Advertising costs are
charged to expense as incurred.  This
expense was $157 million in 2005, $151 million in 2004 and $144 million in
2003.

Depreciation
and Amortization

Property and equipment, capitalized
software and other intangible assets are depreciated over their estimated
useful lives using the straight-line method. 
Equipment on operating leases is depreciated over the terms of the
leases using the straight-line method. Property and equipment expenditures for
new and revised products, increased capacity and the replacement or major
renewal of significant items are capitalized. 
Expenditures for maintenance, repairs and minor renewals are generally
charged to expense as incurred.


Receivables
and Allowances

All financing and trade
receivables are reported on the balance sheet at outstanding principal adjusted
for any charge-offs, the allowance for credit losses and doubtful accounts, and
any deferred fees or costs on originated financing receivables.  Allowances for credit losses and doubtful
accounts are maintained in amounts considered to be appropriate in relation to
the receivables outstanding based on collection experience, economic conditions
and credit risk quality.

Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets and Goodwill

The company evaluates the
carrying value of long-lived assets (including property and equipment, goodwill
and other intangible assets) when events and circumstances warrant such a
review. Goodwill is also reviewed for impairment by reporting unit annually.  If the carrying value of the long-lived asset
is considered impaired, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the
carrying value exceeds the fair market value of the asset.

Derivative
Financial Instruments

It is the company’s policy
that derivative transactions are executed only to manage exposures arising in
the normal course of business and not for the purpose of creating speculative
positions or trading. The company’s credit operations manage the relationship
of the types and amounts of their funding sources to their receivable and lease
portfolio in an effort to diminish risk due to interest rate and foreign
currency fluctuations, while responding to favorable financing opportunities.  The company also has foreign currency
exposures at some of its foreign and domestic operations related to buying, selling
and financing in currencies other than the local currencies.

All
derivatives are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet.  Each derivative is designated as either a
cash flow hedge or a fair value hedge, or remains undesignated.  Changes in the fair value of derivatives that
are designated and effective as cash flow hedges are recorded in other
comprehensive income and reclassified to the income statement when the effects
of the item being hedged are recognized in the income statement.  Changes in the fair value of derivatives that
are designated and effective as fair value hedges are recognized currently in
net income and offset to the extent the hedge was effective by the fair value
changes in the hedged item.  Changes in
the fair value of undesignated hedges are recognized currently in the income
statement.  All ineffective changes in
derivative fair values are recognized currently in net income.

All
designated hedges are formally documented as to the relationship with the
hedged item as well as the risk-management strategy.  Both at inception and on an ongoing basis the
hedging instrument is assessed as to its effectiveness.  If and when a derivative is determined not to
be highly effective as a hedge, or the underlying hedged transaction is no
longer likely to occur, or the derivative is terminated the hedge accounting
discussed above is discontinued and any past or future changes in the
derivative’s fair value that will not be effective as an offset to the income
effects of the item being hedged are recognized currently in the income
statement (see Note 25 for further information).

Health Care
Claims and Reserves

Health care claims and
reserves include liabilities for unpaid claims based on estimated costs of
settling the claims using past experience adjusted for current trends.

Foreign
Currency Translation

The functional currencies
for most of the company’s foreign operations are their respective local
currencies.  The assets and liabilities
of these operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the end of the period
exchange rates, and the revenues and expenses are translated at
weighted-average rates for the period. The gains or losses from these
translations are included in other comprehensive income, which is part of
stockholders’ equity. Gains or losses from transactions denominated in a
currency other than the functional currency of the subsidiary involved and
foreign exchange forward contracts and options are included in net income or
other comprehensive income.  The total
foreign exchange pretax net loss for 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $7 million, $26
million and $6 million, respectively.

New
Accounting Standard Adopted

In 2005, the company adopted
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No.153, Exchanges of
Nonmonetary Assets an amendment of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion
No.29.  This Statement eliminated the
exception to fair value accounting for nonmonetary exchanges of similar
productive assets and replaced it with an exception for nonmonetary exchanges
that do not have commercial substance.  Commercial
substance is defined as a transaction that is expected to significantly change
future cash flows as a result of the exchange. 
The effect of the adoption did not have a material effect on the company’s
financial position or net income.

New
Accounting Standards to be Adopted

In December 2004, the
FASB issued Statement No.123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment.  This Statement eliminated the alternative of
accounting for share-based compensation under APB Opinion No.25.  The revised standard generally requires the
recognition of the cost of employee services for share-based compensation based
on the grant date fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued.  The effective date for the company is the
beginning of fiscal year 2006.  The
expected impact of the adoption on the company’s net income in fiscal year 2006
will be an expense of approximately $50 million after-tax.

In
November 2004, the FASB issued Statement No.151, Inventory Costs an
amendment of ARB No.43, Chapter 4.  This
Statement clarifies that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling
costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current-period
charges.  It also requires that
allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on
the normal capacity of the production facilities.  The effective date is the beginning of fiscal
year 2006.  In May 2005, the FASB
issued Statement No.154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement
of APB Opinion No.20 and FASB Statement No.3. 
This statement requires voluntary changes in accounting principles to be
recorded retrospectively for prior periods presented rather than a cumulative
adjustment in the current period.  This
treatment would also be required for new accounting pronouncements if there are
no specific transition provisions.  The
accounting for changes in estimates in the current period and the accounting
for errors as restatements of prior periods has not changed.  The effective date is the beginning of fiscal
year 2007.  The adoption of these


Statements is not expected
to have a material effect on the Company’s financial position or net income.

Stock-Based
Compensation

In 2005 and prior years, the
company used the intrinsic value method of accounting for its plans in
accordance with APB Opinion No.25.  No
compensation expense for stock options was recognized under this method since
the options’ exercise prices were not less than the market prices of the stock
at the dates the options were awarded (see Note 22).  The stock-based compensation expense
recognized in earnings relates to restricted stock awards.  For disclosure purposes under FASB Statement
No.123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, a binomial lattice options
pricing model was used in 2005 to calculate the “fair values” of stock options,
replacing the Black-Scholes model that was used in 2004 and 2003.  The company believes the binomial lattice
option pricing model provides a better estimate of the option’s fair value.  Based on these models, the weighted-average
fair values of stock options awarded during 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $19.97, $12.40
and $9.55 per option, respectively.  For
the pro-forma disclosure information, the compensation cost of the stock
options that vest from one to three years was recognized on a straight-line
basis over the three-year vesting period.

Pro
forma net income and net income per share, as if the fair value method in FASB
Statement No.123 had been used for stock-based compensation, and the
assumptions used were as follows with dollars in millions except per share
amounts:

* Weighted-averages

Acquisitions

In June 2005, the
company acquired United Green Mark, Inc., an entity engaged in the wholesale
distribution of irrigation, nursery, lighting and landscape material, mainly in
California.  The cost of the acquisition
was approximately $118 million, including approximately $91 million of goodwill.  The preliminary values assigned to major
assets and liabilities related to this acquisition in addition to goodwill were
approximately $29 million for trade receivables, $20 million for inventories, $4
million for other assets and $26 million for liabilities.  This entity is included in the commercial and
consumer equipment operations.

In
September 2005, the company acquired an additional 48 percent ownership
interest in John Deere Equipment Private Ltd., a tractor manufacturer located
in India.  This acquisition increases the
company’s ownership percentage to 98 percent. 
The cost of the acquisition was $48 million, which includes goodwill of
approximately $44 million.  The
preliminary values assigned to major assets and liabilities related to this
acquisition in addition to goodwill were approximately $10 million for trade
receivables, $11 million for inventories, $18 million for property and
equipment, $12 million for other assets, $18 million for accounts payable and
accrued expenses, and $29 million for borrowings.  This entity is included in the agricultural
equipment operations.

During
2005, the company made investments in the ownership of certain wind energy
entities and created a business unit to provide project development, debt
financing and other services to those interested in harvesting the wind.  The aggregate amount of these investments was
not material.  This business unit is
included in the credit operations.

The
goodwill generated in all these acquisitions were the result of the future cash
flows and related fair values of the entities acquired exceeding the fair
values of the entities identifiable assets and liabilities.  Certain long-lived assets are still being
evaluated.  The results of these
operations have been included in the company’s financial statements since the
date of the acquisition.  The pro forma
results of operations as if the acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of
the fiscal year would not differ significantly from the reported results.

2.  CASH FLOW
INFORMATION

For purposes of the
statement of consolidated cash flows, the company considers investments with
original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.  Substantially all of the company’s short-term
borrowings, excluding the current maturities of long-term borrowings, mature or
may require payment within three months or less.

The
Equipment Operations sell most of their trade receivables to Financial Services.  These intercompany cash flows are eliminated
in the consolidated cash flows.

All
cash flows from the changes in trade accounts and notes receivable (see Note 8)
are classified as operating activities in the Statement of Consolidated Cash
Flows as these receivables arise from the sale of equipment to the company’s
customers.  Cash flows from financing receivables
(see Note 9) that are related to the sale of equipment to the company’s
customers are also included in operating activities.  The remaining financing receivables are
related to the financing of equipment sold by an independent dealer and are included
in investing activities.

The
company had non-cash operating and investing activities not included in the
Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows for the transfer of inventory to equipment
under operating leases of approximately $256 million,$208 million and $157
million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.


Cash payments for interest
and income taxes consisted of the following in millions of dollars:

* Includes interest
compensation to Financial Services for financing trade receivables.

3.  PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

The company has several
defined benefit pension plans covering its U.S. employees and employees in
certain foreign countries.

The company also has several defined benefit
health care and life insurance plans for retired employees in the U.S. and
Canada.  The company uses an October 31
measurement date for these plans.

The worldwide components of
net periodic pension cost

and
the assumptions related to the cost consisted of the following in millions of
dollars and in percents:

The worldwide components of
net periodic postretirement benefits cost and the assumptions related to the
cost consisted of the following in millions of dollars and in percents:

A
worldwide reconciliation of the funded status of the benefit plans and the
assumptions related to the obligations at October 3l in millions of
dollars follow:

The
total accumulated benefit obligations for all pension plans at October 31,
2005 and 2004 was $8,037 million and $7,954 million, respectively.

The
accumulated benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets for pension plans
with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $831 million
and $160 million, respectively, at October 31, 2005 and $732 million and
$141 million, respectively, at October 31, 2004.  The projected benefit obligations and fair
value of plan assets for pension plans with projected benefit obligations in
excess of plan assets were $947 million and $204 million, respectively, at October 31,
2005 and $4,725 million and $3,773 million, respectively, at October 31, 2004.


The
benefits expected to be paid from the benefit plans, which reflect expected
future years of service, and the Medicare subsidy expected to be received are
as follows in millions of dollars.

* Medicare Part D subsidy.

The
company expects to contribute approximately $160 million to its pension plans
and approximately $800 million to its health care and life insurance plans in
2006, which include direct benefit payments on unfunded plans.  These expected contributions also include
voluntary contributions to the U.S. pension plans of approximately $115 million
and the health care plans of approximately $760 million during 2006.

The
annual rates of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits
(the health care cost trend rates) used to determine benefit obligations at October 31,
2005 were assumed to be 8.0 percent for 2006 graded down evenly to 5.0 percent
for 2009 and all future years.  The
obligations at October 31, 2004 assumed 9.0 percent for 2005 graded down
evenly to 5.0 percent for 2009.  An
increase of one percentage point in the assumed health care cost trend rate
would increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations at October 31,
2005 by $658 million and the aggregate of service and interest cost component
of net periodic postretirement benefits cost for the year by $56 million.  A decrease of one percentage point would decrease
the obligations by $579 million and the cost by $48 million.

The
discount rate assumptions used to determine the postretirement obligations at October 31,
2005 were based on the Hewitt Yield Curve (HYC), which was designed by Hewitt
Associates to provide a means for plan sponsors to value the liabilities of
their postretirement benefit plans.  The
HYC is a hypothetical double A yield curve represented by a series of
annualized individual discount rates.  Each
bond issue underlying the HYC is required to have a rating of Aa or better by
Moody’s Investor Service, Inc. or a rating AA or better by Standard &
Poor’s.  Prior to using the HYC rates, the
discount rate assumptions for the postretirement expenses in 2005, 2004 and
2003 and the obligations at October 31, 2004 were based on investment
yields available on AA rated long-term corporate bonds.

The
following is the percentage allocation for plan assets at October 31:

* Allocation affected by a
contribution at year end temporarily held in debt securities.

The
primary investment objective is to maximize the growth of the pension and
health care plan assets to meet the projected obligations to the beneficiaries
over a long period of time, and to do so in a manner that is consistent with
the company’s earnings strength and risk tolerance.  Asset allocation policy is the most important
decision in managing the assets and it is reviewed regularly.  The asset allocation policy considers the
company’s financial strength and long-term asset class risk/return expectations
since the obligations are long-term in nature. 
On an on-going basis, the target allocations for pension assets are
approximately 58 percent for equity securities, 17 percent for debt securities,
4 percent for real estate and 21 percent for other and for health care assets
are approximately 54 percent for equity securities, 26 percent for debt
securities, 3 percent for real estate and 17 percent for other.  The assets are well diversified and are
managed by professional investment firms as well as by investment professionals
who are company employees.

The
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects management’s
expectations of long-term average rates of return on funds invested to provide
for benefits included in the projected benefit obligations.  The expected return is based on the outlook
for inflation, fixed income returns and equity returns, while also considering
historical returns, asset allocation and investment strategy.  Although not a guarantee of future results, the
average annual return of the company’s U.S. pension fund was 10 percent during
the past ten years and 11 percent during the past 20 years.

In
2005, the company created certain Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association
trusts (VEBAs) for the funding of postretirement health care benefits.  The future expected asset returns for these
VEBAs are lower than the expected return on the other pension and health care
plan assets due to investment in a higher proportion of short-term liquid
securities.  These assets are in addition
to the other postretirement health care plan assets that have been funded under
Section 401(h) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and maintained in a
separate account in the company’s pension plan trust.

See
Note 23 for defined contribution plans related to employee investment and
savings.

4.  INCOME TAXES

The provision for income
taxes by taxing jurisdiction and by significant component consisted of the
following in millions of dollars:

Based
upon location of the company’s operations, the consolidated income before
income taxes in the U.S. in 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $1,275 million, $1,253
million and $428 million,


respectively, and in foreign countries was $881 million, $861 million
and $543 million, respectively.  Certain
foreign operations are branches of Deere & Company and are, therefore,
subject to U.S., as well as foreign income tax regulations.  The pretax income by location and the
preceding analysis of the income tax provision by taxing jurisdiction are, therefore,
not directly related.

A
comparison of the statutory and effective income tax provision and reasons for
related differences in millions of dollars follow:

In
October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) was signed
into law.  The Act introduced a special
one-time dividends received deduction on the repatriation of certain foreign
earnings to a U.S. taxpayer (repatriation provision), provided certain criteria
are met.  The deduction is 85 percent of
certain foreign earnings that are repatriated. 
During 2005, the company recognized a tax benefit of approximately $15
million, related to the repatriation of foreign earnings under the Act.

At
October 31, 2005, accumulated earnings in certain subsidiaries outside the
U.S. totaled $692 million for which no provision for U.S. income taxes or
foreign withholding taxes has been made, because it is expected that such
earnings will be reinvested overseas indefinitely.  Determination of the amount of unrecognized
deferred tax liability on these unremitted earnings is not practical.

Deferred
income taxes arise because there are certain items that are treated differently
for financial accounting than for income tax reporting purposes.  An analysis of the deferred income tax assets
and liabilities at October 31 in millions of dollars follows:

Deere &
Company files a consolidated federal income tax return in the U.S., which
includes the wholly-owned Financial Services subsidiaries.  These subsidiaries account for income taxes
generally as if they filed separate income tax returns.

At
October 31, 2005, certain tax loss and tax credit carryforwards for $93
million were available with $58 million expiring from 2006 through 2023 and $35
million with an unlimited expiration date.

5.  OTHER INCOME
AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES

The major components of
other income and other operating expenses consisted of the following in
millions of dollars:

*      Includes securitization
sales (none in 2005) and other sales of receivables.

**   Includes gain from the sale of
a rental equipment company in 2004.

6.  UNCONSOLIDATED
AFFILIATED COMPANIES

Unconsolidated affiliated companies are companies in which Deere &
Company generally owns 20 percent to 50 percent of the outstanding voting
shares.  Deere & Company does
not control these companies and accounts for its investments in them on the
equity basis.  The investments in these
companies primarily consist of Deere-Hitachi Construction Machinery Corporation
(50 percent ownership), Bell Equipment Limited (32 percent ownership) and
A&I Products (36 percent ownership). 
The unconsolidated affiliated companies primarily manufacture or market
equipment.  Deere & Company’s
share of the income of these companies is reported in the consolidated income
statement under “Equity in Income (Loss) of Unconsolidated Affiliates.”  The investment in these companies is reported
in the consolidated balance sheet under “Investments in Unconsolidated
Affiliates.”

Combined
financial information of the unconsolidated affiliated companies in millions of
dollars is as follows:


7.  MARKETABLE
SECURITIES

All marketable securities
are classified as available-for-sale, with unrealized gains and losses shown as
a component of stockholders’ equity.  Realized
gains or losses from the sales of marketable securities are based on the
specific identification method.

The
amortized cost and fair value of marketable securities at October 31 in
millions of dollars follow:

The
contractual maturities of debt securities at October 31, 2005 in millions
of dollars follow:

Actual
maturities may differ from contractual maturities because some securities may
be called or prepaid.  Proceeds from the
sales of available-for-sale securities were $943 million in 2005, $34 million
in 2004 and $20 million in 2003.  Realized
gains and losses, unrealized gains and losses, and the increase (decrease) in
the net unrealized gains or losses were not material in those years.  The unrealized losses that have been
continuous for over twelve months were also not material.  The unrealized losses at October 31, 2005
and 2004 were primarily the result of an increase in interest rates affecting
the fair value of certain debt securities.

8.  TRADE
ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE

Trade accounts and notes
receivable at October 31 consisted of the following in millions of dollars:

At
October 31, 2005 and 2004, dealer notes included in the previous table
were $398 million and $411 million, and the allowance for doubtful trade
receivables was $54 million and $56 million, respectively.

The
Equipment Operations sell a significant portion of newly originated trade
receivables to the credit operations and provide compensation to the credit
operations at market rates of interest for these receivables.

Trade
accounts and notes receivable primarily arise from sales of goods to dealers.  Under the terms of the sales to dealers, interest
is charged to dealers on outstanding balances, from the earlier of the date
when goods are sold to retail customers by the dealer or the expiration of
certain interest-free periods granted at the time of the sale to the dealer, until
payment is received by the company.  Dealers
cannot cancel purchases after the equipment is shipped and are responsible for
payment even if the equipment is not sold to retail customers.  The interest-free periods are determined
based on the type of equipment sold and the time of year of the sale.  These periods range from one to 12 months for
most equipment.  Interest-free periods
may not be extended.  Interest charged
may not be forgiven and interest rates, which exceed the prime rate, are set
based on market factors.  The company
evaluates and assesses dealers on an ongoing basis as to their credit
worthiness and generally retains a security interest in the goods associated
with these trade receivables.  The
company is obligated to repurchase goods sold to a dealer upon cancellation or
termination of the dealer’s contract for such causes as change in ownership,
closeout of the business or default.  The
company may also in certain circumstances repurchase goods sold to a dealer in
order to satisfy a request for goods from another dealer.

Trade
accounts and notes receivable have significant concentrations of credit risk in
the agricultural, commercial and consumer, and construction and forestry
sectors as shown in the previous table.  On
a geographic basis, there is not a disproportionate concentration of credit
risk in any area.

9.  FINANCING
RECEIVABLES

Financing receivables at October 31
consisted of the following in millions of dollars:

(continued)


Financing
receivables have significant concentrations of credit risk in the agricultural,
commercial and consumer, and construction and forestry sectors as shown in the
previous table.  On a geographic basis, there
is not a disproportionate concentration of credit risk in any area.  The company retains as collateral a security
interest in the equipment associated with retail notes, wholesale notes and
financing leases.

Financing
receivables at October 31 related to the company’s sales of equipment (see
Note 2) that were included in the table above were unrestricted and consisted
of the following in millions of dollars:

*

These retail notes generally arise from sales
of equipment by company-owned dealers or through direct sales.

Financing
receivable installments, including unearned finance income, at October 31
are scheduled as follows in millions of dollars:

The
maximum terms for retail notes are generally seven years for agricultural
equipment, seven years for commercial and consumer equipment and five years for
construction and forestry equipment.  The
maximum term for financing leases is generally five years, while the average
term for wholesale notes is less than 12 months.

At
October 31, 2005 and 2004, the unpaid balances of receivables previously
sold by the credit operations were $2,019 million and $3,398 million, respectively.  The receivables sold are collateralized by
security interests in the related equipment sold to customers.  At October 31, 2005 and 2004, worldwide
financing receivables administered, which include financing receivables previously
sold but still administered, totaled $16,346 million and $14,631million, respectively.

Generally
when financing receivables become approximately 120 days delinquent, accrual of
finance income is suspended and the estimated uncollectible amount is written
off to the allowance for credit losses.  Accrual
of finance income is resumed when the receivable becomes contractually current
and collection doubts are removed.  Investments
in financing receivables on non-accrual status at October 31, 2005 and
2004 were $74 million and $65 million, respectively.

Total
financing receivable amounts 60 days or more past due were $34 million at October 31,
2005, compared with $41 million at October 31, 2004.  These past-due amounts represented .24
percent of the receivables financed at October 31, 2005 and .36 percent at
October 31, 2004.  The allowance for
doubtful financing receivables represented .97 percent and 1.28 percent of
financing receivables outstanding at October 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  In addition, at October 31, 2005 and
2004, the company’s credit operations had $184 million of deposits withheld
from dealers and merchants available for potential credit losses.  An analysis of the allowance for doubtful
financing receivables follows in millions of dollars:

10.  SECURITIZATION OF FINANCING RECEIVABLES

Secured
Borrowings

Beginning in 2005, the
credit operations’ new securitizations of financing receivables (retail notes)
held by special purpose entities (SPEs) met the criteria for secured borrowings
rather than sales of receivables under FASB Statement No.140, Accounting for
Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities.  The borrowings related to these
securitizations of retail notes are included in short-term borrowings on the
balance sheet as shown in the following table. 
The securitized retail notes are classified as “Restricted financing
receivables - net” on the balance sheet. 
The total restricted assets on the balance sheet related to these
securitizations include the restricted financing receivables less an allowance
for credit losses, and other assets


representing restricted cash
as shown in the following table.  In
addition to the restricted assets, the creditors of an unconsolidated SPE
involved in secured borrowings and sales of receivables related to a $2.0
billion revolving bank conduit facility have recourse to a reserve fund held by
the SPE totaling approximately $42 million as of October 31, 2005.  A portion of the previous transfers of retail
notes to this facility qualified as sales of receivables.  As a result, this reserve fund is also
included in the maximum exposure to losses for receivables that have been sold,
discussed below.  The company recognizes
finance income on these restricted retail notes using the interest method and
provides for credit losses incurred over the lives of the retail notes in the
allowance for credit losses.

The
total components of consolidated restricted assets related to securitization
borrowings at October 31 were as follows in millions of dollars:

The components of
consolidated secured liabilities related to securitizations at October 31
were as follows in millions of dollars:

A
portion of the restricted retail notes totaling $816 million on the balance
sheet were transferred to SPEs that are not consolidated since the company is
not the primary beneficiary, however, the transfers qualified as secured
financings rather than as sales.  The
borrowings related to these restricted retail notes included above are the
obligations to these SPEs that are payable as the retail notes are liquidated.  The remaining restricted retail notes
totaling $650 million were transferred to a SPE that has been consolidated
since the company is the primary beneficiary. 
This SPE is not a qualified SPE under FASB Statement No.140 and, therefore,
not exempt from consolidation.  These
restricted retail notes are the primary assets of the consolidated SPE.  The borrowings included above for the
consolidated SPE are obligations to the creditors of the SPE that are also
payable as the retail notes are liquidated. 
SPEs utilized in securitizations of retail notes differ from other
entities included in the company’s consolidated statements because the assets
they hold are legally isolated.  For
bankruptcy analysis purposes, John Deere Capital Corporation (Capital
Corporation), which is included in the company’s credit operations, has sold
the receivables to the SPEs in a true sale and the SPEs are separate legal
entities from the Capital Corporation.  Use
of the assets held by the SPEs are restricted by terms of the governing documents.  Repayment of the secured borrowings depends
primarily on cash flows generated by the restricted assets and the reserve fund
mentioned above.  At October 31, 2005,
the maximum remaining term of the restricted receivables included in the
restricted assets was approximately six years.

Sales of
Receivables

Prior to 2005 the company
periodically sold receivables to special purpose entities (SPEs) in
securitizations of retail notes.  It
retains interest-only strips, servicing rights, and in some cases, reserve
accounts and subordinated certificates, all of which are retained interests in
the securitized receivables.  The
retained interests are carried at estimated fair value in “Other receivables” or
“Other assets” on the balance sheet.  Gains
or losses on sales of the receivables depended in part on the previous carrying
amount of the financial assets involved in the transfer, allocated between the
assets sold and the retained interests based on their relative fair values at
the date of transfer.  The company
generally estimates fair values based on the present value of future expected
cash flows using management’s key assumptions as discussed below.  The company retains the rights to certain
future cash flows and in the U.S. transactions receives annual servicing fees
approximating 1 percent of the outstanding balance.  No significant balances for servicing assets
or liabilities exist because the benefits received for servicing are offset by
the costs of providing the servicing.  The
company’s maximum exposure under recourse provisions related to securitizations
at October 31, 2005 and 2004 was $151 million and $218 million, respectively.  The recourse provisions include the fair
value of the retained interests and all other recourse obligations
contractually specified in the securitization agreements.  The company does not record the other
recourse obligations as liabilities as they are contingent liabilities that are
remote at this time.  Except for this
exposure, the investors and securitization trusts have no recourse to the
company for failure of debtors to pay when due. 
The company’s retained interests are subordinate to investors’ interests,
and their values are subject to certain key assumptions as shown below.  The total assets of the unconsolidated SPEs
related to these securitizations at October 31, 2005 and 2004 were $1,923
million and $3,441 million, respectively.

Pretax
gains in millions of dollars on securitized retail notes sold (none in 2005)
and key assumptions used to initially determine the fair value of the retained
interests were as follows:

Cash flows
received from securitization trusts for retail notes sold in millions of
dollars were as follows:

Components of retained
interests in securitized retail notes sold at October 31 in millions of
dollars follow:


The
total retained interests, weighted-average life, weighted-average current key
economic assumptions and the sensitivity analysis showing the hypothetical
effects on the retained interests from immediate 10 percent and 20 percent
adverse changes in those assumptions with dollars in millions were as follows:

These
sensitivities are hypothetical changes in fair value and cannot be extrapolated
because the relationship of the changes in assumption to the changes in fair
value may not be linear.  Also, the
effect of a variation in a particular assumption is calculated without changing
any other assumption, whereas changes in one factor may result in changes in
another.  Accordingly, no assurance can
be given that actual results would be consistent with the results of these
estimates.

Principal
balances of owned, securitized retail notes sold and total managed retail notes;
past due amounts; and credit losses (net of recoveries) as of and for the years
ended October 31, in millions of dollars follow:

The amount of actual and
projected future credit losses as a percent of the original balance of
securitized retail notes sold (expected static pool losses) were as follows:

11.  OTHER RECEIVABLES

Other receivables at October 31
consisted of the following in millions of dollars:

The
credit operations’ receivables related to securitizations are equal to the
present value of payments to be received for certain retained interests and
deposits made with other entities for recourse provisions under the retail note
sales agreements.

12.  EQUIPMENT ON OPERATING LEASES

Operating leases arise
primarily from the leasing of John Deere equipment to retail customers.  Initial lease terms generally range from 36
to 60 months.  Net equipment on operating
leases totaled $1,336 million and $1,297 million at October 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively.  The equipment is
depreciated on a straight-line basis over the terms of the leases.  The accumulated depreciation on this
equipment was $436 million and $468 million at October 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  The corresponding depreciation expense was
$237 million in 2005, $239 million in 2004 and $273 million in 2003.

Future
payments to be received on operating leases totaled $628 million at October 31,
2005 and are scheduled as follows in millions of dollars: 2006 – $266, 2007 –
$182, 2008 – $109, 2009 – $54 and 2010 – $17.

13.  INVENTORIES

Most inventories owned by
Deere & Company and its United States equipment subsidiaries are
valued at cost, on the “last-in, first-out” (LIFO) basis.  Remaining inventories are generally valued at
the lower of cost, on the “first-in, first-out” (FIFO) basis, or market.  The value of gross inventories on the LIFO
basis represented 61 percent of worldwide gross inventories at FIFO value on October 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively.  If all
inventories had been valued on a FIFO basis, estimated inventories by major
classification at October 31 in millions of dollars would have been as
follows:


14.  PROPERTY
AND DEPRECIATION

A summary of property and equipment at October 31 in millions of
dollars follows:

Leased
property under capital leases amounting to $23 million and $13 million at October 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively, is included in property and equipment.

Property
and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.  Total property and equipment additions in
2005, 2004 and 2003 were $524 million, $365 million and $320 million and
depreciation was $357 million, $342 million and $319 million, respectively.  Financial Services property and equipment
additions included above were $47 million, $18 million and $6 million in 2005, 2004
and 2003 and depreciation was $8 million in all three years.  The increase in Financial Services additions
in 2005 was primarily due to the wind energy entities (see Note 1).

Capitalized
software is stated at cost less accumulated amortization and the estimated
useful life is three years.  The amounts
of total capitalized software costs, including purchased and internally
developed software, classified as “Other Assets” at October 31, 2005 and
2004 were $339 million and $315 million, less accumulated amortization of $264
million and $240 million, respectively.  Amortization
of these software costs was $41 million, in 2005 and $38 million in 2004 and
2003.

The
cost of compliance with foreseeable environmental requirements has been accrued
and did not have a material effect on the company’s financial position or
results of operations.

15.  GOODWILL
AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS-NET

The amounts of goodwill by
operating segment were as follows in millions of dollars:

*

The changes in goodwill between years for
agricultural equipment and commercial and consumer equipment were primarily due
to acquisitions (see Note 1).  The
remaining changes are primarily due to fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates.

The components of other
intangible assets are as follows in millions of dollars:

Other
intangible assets, excluding the intangible pension asset, are stated at cost
less accumulated amortization and are being amortized over 17 years or less on
the straight-line basis.  The intangible
pension asset is remeasured and adjusted annually.  The amortization of other intangible assets
is not significant.

16.  SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

Short-term borrowings at October 31
consisted of the following in millions of dollars:

The
notes payable related to securitizations for Financial Services are secured by
restricted financing receivables (retail notes) on the balance sheet (see Note
10).  Although these notes payable are
classified as short-term since payment is required if the retail notes are
liquidated early, the payment schedule for these borrowings based on the
expected liquidation of the retail notes in millions of dollars is as follows: 2006
- - $567, 2007 - $397, 2008 - $272, 2009 - $171, 2010 - $60 and later years $7.


The
weighted-average interest rates on total short-term borrowings, excluding
current maturities of long-term borrowings, at October 31, 2005 and 2004
were 3.9 percent and 2.8 percent, respectively. 
All of the Financial Services’ short-term borrowings represent obligations
of the credit subsidiaries.

Lines
of credit available from U.S. and foreign banks were $2,594 million at October 31,
2005.  Some of these credit lines are
available to both Deere & Company and the Capital Corporation.  At October 31, 2005, $272 million of
these worldwide lines of credit were unused. 
For the purpose of computing the unused credit lines, commercial paper
and short-term bank borrowings, excluding secured borrowings and the current
maturities of long-term borrowings, were considered to constitute utilization.

Included
in the above lines of credit are long-term credit facility agreements for $1,250
million, expiring in February 2009, and $625 million, expiring in February 2010,
for a total of $1,875 million long-term. 
The agreements are mutually extendable and the annual facility fee is
not significant.  The credit agreements
have various requirements of the Capital Corporation, including the maintenance
of its consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed charges at not less than 1.05 to
1 for each fiscal quarter and the ratio of senior debt, excluding secured
borrowings, to total stockholder’s equity at not more than 8 to 1 at the end of
any fiscal quarter.  The credit
agreements also require the Equipment Operations to maintain a ratio of total
debt to total capital (total debt and stockholders’ equity excluding
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)) of 65 percent or less at the end
of each fiscal quarter according to accounting principles generally accepted in
the U.S. in effect at October 31, 2004. 
At October 31, 2005, the ratio was 31 percent.  Under this provision, the company’s excess
equity capacity and retained earnings balance free of restriction at October 31,
2005 was $5,208 million.  Alternatively
under this provision, the Equipment Operations had the capacity to incur
additional debt of $9,673 million at October 31, 2005.  All the requirements of the credit agreements
have been met during the periods included in the financial statements.

Deere &
Company has an agreement with the Capital Corporation pursuant to which it has
agreed to continue to own at least 51 percent of the voting shares of capital
stock of the Capital Corporation and to maintain the Capital Corporation’s
consolidated tangible net worth at not less than $50 million.  This agreement also obligates Deere &
Company to make income maintenance payments to the Capital Corporation such
that its consolidated ratio of earnings before fixed charges to fixed charges
is not less than 1.05 to 1 for any fiscal quarter.  Deere & Company’s obligations to
make payments to the Capital Corporation under the agreement are independent of
whether the Capital Corporation is in default on its indebtedness, obligations
or other liabilities.  Further, the
company’s obligations under the agreement are not measured by the amount of the
Capital Corporation’s indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities.  Deere & Company’s obligations to
make payments under this agreement are expressly stated not to be a guaranty of
any specific indebtedness, obligation or liability of the Capital Corporation
and are enforceable only by or in the name of the Capital Corporation.  No payments were required under this
agreement during the periods included in the financial statements.

17.  ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES

Accounts payable and accrued expenses at October 31 consisted of
the following in millions of dollars:

*

Primarily trade receivable valuation accounts
which are reclassified as accrued expenses by the Equipment Operations as a
result of their trade receivables being sold to Financial Services.

18.  LONG-TERM BORROWINGS

Long-term borrowings at October 31
consisted of the following in millions of dollars:

(continued)


*

Includes fair value adjustments related to
interest rate swaps.

**

All interest rates are as of year end.

All
of the Financial Services’ long-term borrowings represent obligations of the
credit subsidiaries.

The
approximate principal amounts of the Equipment Operations’ long-term borrowings
maturing in each of the next five years in millions of dollars are as follows: 2006
– $272, 2007 – $7, 2008 – $2, 2009 – $17 and 2010 – $506.

The approximate principal
amounts of the credit subsidiaries’ long-term borrowings maturing in each of
the next five years in millions of dollars are as follows: 2006 – $2,811, 2007
– $3,004, 2008 – $2,235, 2009 – $1,311 and 2010 – $563.

19. LEASES

At October 31, 2005, future
minimum lease payments under capital leases amounted to $20 million as follows:
2006 – $12, 2007 – $1, 2008 – $1, 2009 – $1, 2010 – $1 and later years $4. Total
rental expense for operating leases was $111 million in 2005, $102 million in
2004 and $98 million in 2003.  At October 31,
2005, future minimum lease payments under operating leases amounted to $358
million as follows: 2006 – $93, 2007 – $88, 2008 – $44, 2009 – $35, 2010 – $24
and later years $74. See Note 20 for operating leases with residual value
guarantees.

20.
CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS

The company generally
determines its total warranty liability by applying historical claims rate
experience to the estimated amount of equipment that has been sold and is still
under warranty based on dealer inventories and retail sales.  The historical claims rate is primarily
determined by a review of five-year claims costs and current quality
developments.

A
reconciliation of the changes in the warranty liability in millions of dollars
follows:

The
company has guaranteed certain recourse obligations on financing receivables
that it has sold.  If the receivables
sold are not collected, the company would be required to cover those losses up
to the amount of its recourse obligation. 
At October 31, 2005, the maximum amount of exposure to losses under
these agreements was $153 million.  The
estimated credit risk associated with sold receivables totaled $10 million at October 31,
2005.  This risk of loss is recognized
primarily in the related retained interests recorded on the company’s balance
sheet (see Note 10).  The company may
recover a portion of any required payments incurred under these agreements from
the repossession of the equipment collateralizing the receivables.  At October 31, 2005, the maximum
remaining term of the receivables guaranteed was approximately five years.

At
October 31, 2005, the company had approximately $145 million of guarantees
issued primarily to overseas banks related to third-party receivables for the
retail financing of John Deere equipment. 
The company may recover a portion of any required payments incurred
under these agreements from repossession of the equipment collateralizing the
receivables.  At October 31, 2005, the
company had accrued losses of approximately $2 million under these agreements.  The maximum remaining term of the receivables
guaranteed at October 31, 2005 was approximately eight years.

At
October 31, 2005, the company had guaranteed approximately $40 million of
residual values for two operating leases related to an administrative office
and a manufacturing building.  The
company is obligated at the end of each lease term to pay to the lessor any
reduction in market value of the leased property up to the guaranteed residual
value.  The company recognizes the
expense for these future estimated lease payments over the terms of the
operating leases and had accrued losses of $10 million related to these
agreements at October 31, 2005.  The
leases have terms expiring in 2006 and 2007.

The
credit operations’ subsidiary, John Deere Risk Protection, Inc., offers crop
insurance products through a managing general agency agreement (MGA) with an
insurance company (Insurance Carrier) rated “Excellent” by A.M. Best
Company.  As a managing general agent, John
Deere Risk Protection, Inc. will receive commissions from the Insurance Carrier
for selling crop insurance to producers. 
The credit operations have guaranteed


certain obligations under
the MGA, including the obligation to pay the Insurance Carrier for any
uncollected premiums.  At October 31,
2005, the maximum exposure for uncollected premiums was approximately $14
million.  Substantially all of the credit
operations’ crop insurance risk under the MGA has been mitigated by public and
private reinsurance.  All private
reinsurance companies are rated “Excellent” or higher by A.M. Best Company.  In the event of a complete crop failure on
every policy written under the MGA in 17 states and the default of the U.S. Department
of Agriculture and a syndicate of highly rated reinsurance companies on their
reinsurance obligations, the credit operations would be required to reimburse
the Insurance Carrier for the maximum exposure under the MGA of approximately
$633 million at October 31, 2005.  The
credit operations believe that the likelihood of the occurrence of
substantially all of the events that give rise to the exposure under this MGA
is extremely remote and as a result, at October 31, 2005, the credit
operations have accrued probable losses of approximately $.1 million under the
MGA.

At
October 31, 2005, the company had commitments of approximately $314
million for the construction and acquisition of property and equipment.  The company had $17 million of restricted
investments related to conducting the health care business in various states at
October 31, 2005.

The
company also had other miscellaneous contingent liabilities totaling
approximately $40 million at October 31, 2005, for which it believes the
probability for payment is primarily remote.

John
Deere B.V., located in the Netherlands, is a consolidated indirect wholly-owned
finance subsidiary of the company.  The
debt securities of John Deere B.V., including those which are registered with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, are fully and unconditionally
guaranteed by the company.  These
registered debt securities due in 2006 totaled $250 million at October 31,
2005 and are included on the consolidated balance sheet.

The
company is subject to various unresolved legal actions which arise in the
normal course of its business, the most prevalent of which relate to product
liability (including asbestos related liability), retail credit, software
licensing, patent and trademark matters. 
Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of
these unresolved legal actions or the range of possible loss, the company
believes these unresolved legal actions will not have a material effect on its
financial statements.

21.  CAPITAL STOCK

Changes in the common stock
account in millions were as follows:

The
number of common shares the company is authorized to issue is 600 million and
the number of authorized preferred shares, none of which has been issued, is 9
million.

A
reconciliation of basic and diluted net income per share follows in millions, except
per share amounts:

All
stock options outstanding were included in the computation during 2005, 2004
and 2003.

22.  STOCK OPTION AND RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS

The company issues stock
options and restricted stock to key employees under plans approved by
stockholders.  Restricted stock is also
issued to nonemployee directors under a plan approved by stockholders.  Options are generally awarded with the
exercise price equal to the market price and become exercisable in one to three
years after grant.  Options generally
expire 10 years after the date of grant. 
According to these plans at October 31, 2005, the company is
authorized to grant an additional 5.4 million shares related to stock options
or restricted stock.

During
the last three fiscal years, shares under option in millions were as follows:

*

Weighted-averages

Options
outstanding and exercisable in millions at October 31, 2005 were as
follows:

* Weighted-averages


In
2005, 2004, and 2003, the company granted 268, 879, 241, 860 and 196, 294
shares of restricted stock awards with weighted-average fair values of $69.36, $61.83
and $45.29 per share, respectively.  The
total compensation expense for the restricted stock plans, which is being
amortized over the restricted periods, was $15 million, $8 million and $4
million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

23.  EMPLOYEE INVESTMENT AND SAVINGS PLANS

The company has defined
contribution plans related to employee investment and savings plans primarily
in the U.S. Company contributions and costs under these plans were $81 million
in 2005, $43 million in 2004 and $25 million in 2003.

24.  OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ITEMS

Other comprehensive income
items under FASB Statement No.130, Reporting Comprehensive Income, are
transactions recorded in stockholders’ equity during the year, excluding net
income and transactions with stockholders. 
Following are the items included in other comprehensive income (loss)
and the related tax effects in millions of dollars:

*               Reclassification of
realized gains or losses to net income were not material.

25.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The fair values of financial
instruments which do not approximate the carrying values in the financial
statements at October 31 in millions of dollars follow:

*  See Note 16.

Fair Value
Estimates

Fair values of the long-term
financing receivables with fixed rates were based on the discounted values of
their related cash flows at current market interest rates.  The fair values of the remaining financing
receivables approximated the carrying amounts.

Fair
values of long-term borrowings and short-term secured borrowings with fixed
rates were based on the discounted values of their related cash flows at
current market interest rates.  Certain
long-term borrowings have been swapped to current variable interest rates.  The carrying values of these long-term
borrowings include adjustments related to fair value hedges.

Derivatives

All derivative instruments
are recorded at fair values and classified as either other assets or accounts
payable and accrued expenses on the balance sheet (see Note 1).

Interest
Rate Swaps

The company enters into
interest rate swap agreements primarily to more closely match the fixed or
floating interest rates of the credit operations’ borrowings to those of the
assets being funded.


Certain
interest rate swaps were designated as hedges of future cash flows from
commercial paper and variable interest rate borrowings.  The effective portion of the fair value gains
or losses on these cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income
and subsequently reclassified into interest expense as payments are accrued and
the swaps approach maturity.  These
amounts offset the effects of interest rate changes on the related borrowings.  The amount of the gain recorded in other
comprehensive income at October 31, 2005 that is expected to be
reclassified to interest expense in the next 12 months if interest rates remain
unchanged is approximately $4 million after-tax.  These swaps mature in up to 44 months.

Certain
interest rate swaps were designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate, long-term
borrowings.  The effective portion of the
fair value gains or losses on these swaps were offset by fair value adjustments
in the underlying borrowings.

Any
ineffective portions of the gains or losses on all cash flow and fair value
interest rate swaps designated as hedges were recognized currently in interest
expense and were not material.  The
amounts of gains or losses reclassified from unrealized in other comprehensive
income to realized in earnings as a result of the discontinuance of cash flow
hedges were not material.  There were no
components of cash flow or fair value hedges that were excluded from the
assessment of effectiveness.

The
company has certain interest rate swap agreements that are not designated as
hedges under FASB Statement No.133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities, and the fair value gains or losses are recognized currently
in earnings.  These instruments relate to
swaps that are used to facilitate certain borrowings.

Foreign
Exchange Forward Contracts, Swaps and Options

The company has entered into
foreign exchange forward contracts, swaps and purchased options in order to
manage the currency exposure of certain receivables, liabilities, borrowings
and expected inventory purchases that were not designated as hedges under FASB
Statement No.133.  The fair value gains
or losses from these foreign currency derivatives are recognized currently in
cost of sales or other operating expenses, generally offsetting the foreign
exchange gains or losses on the exposures being managed.

The
company has designated certain foreign exchange forward contracts and options
as cash flow hedges of expected inventory purchases.  The effective portion of the fair value gains
or losses on these cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income
and subsequently reclassified into cost of sales as the inventory costs are
recognized in cost of sales.  These
amounts offset the effect of the changes in foreign exchange rates on the
related inventory purchases.  The amount
of the loss recorded in other comprehensive income that is expected to be
reclassified to cost of sales in the next 12 months is approximately $1 million
after-tax.  These contracts mature in up
to 12 months.

The
company has designated cross currency interest rate swaps as fair value hedges
of certain long-term borrowings.  The
effective portion of the fair value gains or losses on these swaps is offset by
fair value adjustments in the underlying borrowings in interest expense.  The company has also designated foreign
exchange forward contracts and currency swaps as cash flow hedges of long-term
borrowings.  The effective portion of the
fair value gains or losses on these forward contracts and swaps is recorded in
other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified into other operating
expenses as payments are accrued and these instruments approach maturity.  This offsets the exchange rate effects on the
borrowing being hedged included in other operating expenses.

Any
ineffective portions of the gains or losses on all cash flow and fair value
foreign exchange contracts, swaps or options designated as hedges were
recognized currently in earnings and were not material.  The amounts of gains or losses reclassified
from unrealized in other comprehensive income to realized in earnings as a
result of the discontinuance of cash flow hedges were not material.  There were no components of cash flow or fair
value hedges that were excluded from the assessment of effectiveness.

26.  SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA DATA FOR THE
YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003

The company’s operations are
organized and reported in four major business segments described as follows:

The
agricultural equipment segment manufactures and distributes a full line of farm
equipment and related service parts – including tractors; combine, cotton and
sugarcane harvesters; tillage, seeding and soil preparation machinery; sprayers;
hay and forage equipment; material handling equipment; and integrated
agricultural management systems technology.

The
commercial and consumer equipment segment manufactures and distributes
equipment, products and service parts for commercial and residential uses –
including tractors for lawn, garden, commercial and utility purposes; mowing
equipment, including walk-behind mowers; golf course equipment; utility
vehicles (including those commonly referred to as all-terrain vehicles, or “ATVs”);
landscape products and irrigation equipment; and other outdoor power products.

The
construction and forestry segment manufactures, distributes to dealers and
sells at retail a broad range of machines and service parts used in
construction, earthmoving, material handling and timber harvesting – including
backhoe loaders; crawler dozers and loaders; four-wheel-drive loaders; excavators;
motor graders; articulated dump trucks; landscape loaders; skid-steer loaders; and
log skidders, feller bunchers, log loaders, log forwarders, log harvesters and
related attachments.

The
products and services produced by the equipment segments are marketed primarily
through independent retail dealer networks and major retail outlets.

The
credit segment primarily finances sales and leases by John Deere dealers of new
and used agricultural, commercial and consumer, and construction and forestry
equipment.  In addition, it provides
wholesale financing to dealers of the foregoing equipment, provides operating
loans, finances retail revolving charge accounts, offers certain crop risk
mitigation products and invests in wind energy development.

Certain
operations do not meet the materiality threshold of FASB Statement No.131, Disclosures
about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, and have been grouped
together as “Other”.  The “Other” information
primarily consists of the health care operations, as well as certain
miscellaneous operations.

Because
of integrated manufacturing operations and common administrative and marketing
support, a substantial number of allocations must be made to determine
operating


segment and geographic area
data.  Intersegment sales and revenues
represent sales of components and finance charges which are generally based on
market prices.

Information
relating to operations by operating segment in millions of dollars follows.  In addition to the following unaffiliated
sales and revenues by segment, intersegment sales and revenues in 2005, 2004 and
2003 were as follows: agricultural equipment net sales of $105 million, $88
million and $61 million, construction and forestry net sales of $13 million, $11
million and $9 million, and credit revenues of $237 million, $216 million and
$209 million, respectively.

*

Other revenues are primarily health care operations’ premiums and fee
revenue and the Equipment Operations’ revenues for finance and interest income,
and other income as disclosed in Note 28, net of certain intercompany
eliminations.

*

Operating profit of the credit business segment includes the effect of
its interest expense and foreign exchange gains or losses.  The “Other” operating profit includes health
care’s investment income.

*               Does not include finance rental
income for equipment on operating leases.

**             Includes interest income from
Equipment Operations for financing trade receivables.

*

Includes
interest compensation to credit operations for financing trade receivables.

*

Includes
depreciation for equipment on operating leases.

*

Corporate
assets are primarily the Equipment Operations’ prepaid pension costs, deferred
income tax assets, marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents as disclosed in Note 28, net of certain
intercompany eliminations.


The
company views and has historically disclosed its operations as consisting of
two geographic areas, the U.S. and Canada, and outside the U.S. and Canada, shown
below in millions of dollars.  No
individual foreign country’s net sales and revenues were material for
disclosure purposes.

*

The percentages
indicate the approximate proportion of each amount that relates to the U.S. only
and are based upon a three-year average for 2005, 2004 and 2003.

27.
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

Quarterly information with
respect to net sales and revenues and earnings is shown in the following
schedule.  Such information is shown in
millions of dollars except for per share amounts.

Net income per share for each quarter must be
computed independently.  As a result, their
sum may not equal the total net income per share for the year.

Common stock per share sales prices from New
York Stock Exchange composite transactions quotations follow:

At
October 31, 2005, there were 29, 326 holders of record of the company’s $1
par value common stock.

Dividend
and Other Events

The board of directors, at
its meeting on November 30, 2005, increased the quarterly cash dividend by
more than 25 percent to $.39 per share, payable on February 1, 2006, to
stockholders of record on December 31, 2005.  The board of directors also authorized the
repurchase of up to 26 million additional shares of the company’s common stock.  Repurchases of common stock under this plan
will be made from time to time, at the company’s discretion, in the open market
or through privately negotiated transactions.

On
December 6, 2005, the company announced it has signed an agreement to sell
all of the stock of its wholly-owned subsidiary, John Deere Health Care, Inc., to
UnitedHealthcare for approximately $500 million.  The company is projecting to close the sale
by April 1, 2006.  As of October 31,
2005, John Deere Health Care, Inc. had total assets of approximately $375
million consisting primarily of marketable securities and $250 million of
liabilities consisting primarily of accounts payable and accrued expenses, and
health care claims and reserves.  The
company anticipates that a gain on the sale of approximately $350 million
pretax or $225 million after-tax will be recognized.


28.
SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATING DATA

INCOME
STATEMENT

For the
Years Ended October 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

(In millions of dollars)

*

Deere & Company with Financial Services on the equity basis.

The supplemental
consolidating data is presented for informational purposes.  The “Equipment Operations” (Deere &
Company with Financial Services on the Equity Basis) reflect the basis of
consolidation described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.  The consolidated group data in the “Equipment
Operations” income statement reflect the results of the agricultural equipment,
commercial and consumer equipment and construction and forestry operations.  The supplemental “Financial Services” data
represent primarily Deere & Company’s credit and health care
operations.  Transactions between the “Equipment
Operations” and “Financial Services” have been eliminated to arrive at the
consolidated financial statements.


BALANCE
SHEET

As of October 31,
2005 and 2004

(In millions of dollars
except per share amounts)

*

Deere & Company with Financial Services on the equity basis.

The supplemental
consolidating data is presented for informational purposes.  The “Equipment Operations” (Deere &
Company with Financial Services on the Equity Basis) reflect the basis of
consolidation described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.  The supplemental “Financial Services” data
represent primarily Deere & Company’s credit and health care
operations.  Transactions between the “Equipment
Operations” and “Financial Services” have been eliminated to arrive at the
consolidated financial statements.


STATEMENT
OF CASH FLOWS

For the
Years Ended October 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

(In millions of dollars)

*

Deere & Company with Financial Services on the equity basis.

**

Primarily
related to pension and other postretirement benefits in 2004.

The
supplemental consolidating data is presented for informational purposes.  The “Equipment Operations” (Deere &
Company with Financial Services on the Equity Basis) reflect the basis of
consolidation described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.  The supplemental “Financial Services” data
represent primarily Deere & Company’s credit and health care
operations.  Transactions between the “Equipment
Operations” and “Financial Services” have been eliminated to arrive at the
consolidated financial statements.


DEERE &
COMPANY

SELECTED FINANCIAL
DATA

(Dollars in millions except
per share amounts)


REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Deere & Company:

We have audited the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets of Deere & Company and subsidiaries (the
“Company”) as of October 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related statements of
consolidated income, changes in consolidated stockholders’ equity and
consolidated cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October
31, 2005.  Our audits also included the
financial statement schedule listed in the Index under Part III, Item
15(2).  We also have audited management’s
assessment, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting, that the Company maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of October 31, 2005, based on criteria established in

Internal Control - Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  The Company’s management is responsible for
these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on these financial statements and financial statement schedule, an opinion on
management’s assessment, and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial
reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audit of financial statements included
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  Our audit of
internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding
of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s
assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances.  We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control
over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of,
the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors,
management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the


reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because of the inherent limitations
of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of
collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements
due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.  Also, projections of any evaluation of the
effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future
periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of the Company as of October 31, 2005
and 2004, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended October 31, 2005, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Also, in our opinion, such financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein. 
Also in our opinion, management’s assessment that the Company maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2005, is
fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control - Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of October 31, 2005, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control - Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Chicago, Illinois

December 16, 2005


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  20 December 2005

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
date indicated..

Each person signing below also hereby appoints Robert W. Lane, Nathan
J. Jones and James H. Becht, and each of them singly, his or her lawful
attorney-in-fact with full power to execute and file any and all amendments to
this report together with exhibits thereto and generally to do all such things
as such attorney-in-fact may deem appropriate to enable Deere &
Company to comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
and all requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission.



SCHEDULE II

DEERE & COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS


INDEX TO EXHIBITS



*Incorporated by reference. Copies of these exhibits are
available from the Company upon request.

58