10-K


d10k.htm

FORM 10-K

FORM 10-K

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended October 31, 2002

Commission file number 1-4121

DEERE & COMPANY

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

36-2382580

(State of incorporation)

(IRS Employer

Identification
No.)

One John Deere Place, Moline, Illinois


(309) 765-8000

(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

(Telephone Number)

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the act

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the act: None

Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).  Yes

x

No

¨

The aggregate quoted market price of voting stock of registrant held by nonaffiliates at April 30, 2002 was $10,560,188,172. At November 30, 2002, 239,259,511 shares of
common stock, $1 par value, of the registrant were outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

. Portions of the proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on February 26, 2003 are incorporated by reference in Part
III.

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

Products

Deere & Company (Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively called John Deere) have operations which are categorized into four
major business segments.

The

agricultural equipment

segment manufactures and distributes a full line of
farm equipment and service parts — including tractors; combine, cotton and sugarcane harvesters; tillage, seeding and soil preparation machinery; sprayers; hay and forage equipment; material handling equipment; and integrated agricultural
management systems technology.

The

commercial and consumer equipment

segment manufactures and distributes
equipment and service parts for commercial and residential uses — including small tractors for lawn, garden, commercial and utility purposes; riding and walk-behind mowers; golf course equipment; utility vehicles; landscape and irrigation
equipment; and other outdoor power products.

The

construction and forestry

segment manufactures and
distributes a broad range of machines and service parts used in construction, earthmoving, material handling and timber harvesting — including backhoe loaders; crawler dozers and loaders; four-wheel-drive loaders; excavators; motor graders;
articulated dump trucks; landscape loaders; skid-steer loaders; and log skidders, feller bunchers, loaders, forwarders, harvesters and related attachments.

The products and services produced by the segments above are marketed primarily through independent retail dealer networks and major retail outlets.

The

credit

segment primarily finances sales and leases by John Deere dealers of new and used agricultural, commercial and consumer,
and construction and forestry equipment. In addition, it provides wholesale financing to dealers of the foregoing equipment, provides operating loans and finances retail revolving charge accounts.

John Deere is also engaged in special technologies operations and provides managed health care plans. John Deere’s worldwide agricultural equipment;
commercial and consumer equipment; construction and forestry; and special technologies operations are sometimes referred to as the “Equipment Operations.” The credit and health care operations are sometimes referred to as “Financial
Services.”

Additional information is presented in the discussion of business segment and geographic area results on pages

and

17. The John Deere enterprise has manufactured agricultural machinery since 1837. The present Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1958.

Market Conditions and Outlook

Based on the market conditions outlined below, net
equipment sales for the first quarter of 2003 are currently forecast to be up 20 to 25 percent from the same period last year, with company-wide net income from zero to $50 million. The Company expects equipment sales for the full year to be up 8 to
10 percent and enterprise net income to be in a range of $500 million to $600 million. This includes the favorable impact of approximately $53 million, after tax, from the first-quarter adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, eliminating goodwill expense.


The Company’s yearly earnings estimate also includes higher pension and post-retirement benefit
expense of between $250 million to $300 million pretax, as the Company is modifying its assumptions to reflect recent trends in medical inflation, interest rates and equity returns. This compares with an increase in that expense in 2002 of
approximately $115 million, before special items.

Agricultural Equipment

.  Although commodity prices softened this
fall, they remain well above year-ago levels and are helping support positive fundamentals in the global farm sector. In the United States and Canada, however, machinery sales have continued to lag mainly due to dry-weather conditions and poor crop
production in many key areas. In addition, while recently enacted legislation is generally supportive of higher farm income, some farmers are feeling near-term cash flow pressure due to the absence of emergency government payments. As a result, the
Company believes that retail activity may be slow early in 2003 but will gather momentum in conjunction with spring planting and be higher for the year. In other areas, the Company’s sales in Western Europe are expected to grow in 2003 as the
Company builds on last year’s strong response to newly introduced products and further increases its presence in this important region. The Company’s sales in Australia are expected to be down due to drought conditions, while South
American sales are forecast to be about the same as last year due to the uncertain economic situation in Brazil. As a result of these factors, worldwide sales of John Deere agricultural equipment are forecast to be up about 8 percent for the year.

Commercial and Consumer Equipment

.  Shipments of John Deere commercial and consumer equipment are projected to be up
about 15 percent for the year. Supporting the improved outlook is a recent strengthening in retail activity as well as the expected success of the new 100-series line of John Deere lawn tractors that will be available in the spring. Because of the
Company’s efforts in 2001 and 2002 to reduce field inventories, sales are also expected to benefit from producing more in line with retail demand.

Construction and Forestry.

The Company believes that construction equipment markets will continue to be pressured by lagging business investment and general weakness in sales to independent rental companies. Global
forestry markets are expected to remain sluggish as well. In this environment, the Company’s sales of construction and forestry equipment are forecast to be up about 2 percent for the year. In May 2002, under a new marketing agreement with
Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Ltd., of Japan (Hitachi), the Company began distributing Hitachi brand construction equipment in the United States and Canada and mining equipment in all of the Americas. Excluding these sales from both years, the
division sales are expected to decline approximately 2 percent.

Credit Operations.

Credit results for 2003 are
expected to benefit from lower write-offs, growth in the loan portfolio and stable margins. On this basis, net income for the year is projected to increase more than 20 percent, to about $300 million.

2002 Consolidated Results Compared with 2001

The Company had net income in 2002 of $319 million, or $1.33 per share diluted ($1.34 basic), compared with a net loss of $64 million, or $.27 per share diluted ($.27 basic), in 2001. Special charges of $46 million, or $.18 per share
diluted, in 2002 and $217 million, or $.91 per share diluted, in 2001, had a negative impact on the results for both years. These charges were related to the costs of closing and restructuring certain facilities in both years and a voluntary
early-retirement program last year. Excluding these costs, income in 2002 more than doubled to $365 million, or $1.51 per share diluted, compared with income of $153 million, or $.64 per share diluted, in 2001. Better price realization as well as
the favorable impact of the Company’s broad-based cost and expense reduction initiatives were the primary drivers of the improved results in 2002. In addition, favorable customer response to new products contributed to achieving higher sales
and more efficient production levels. These factors, in conjunction with a $323 million reduction in trade receivables


and inventories helped generate consolidated cash flow from operations of $1.9 billion for the year,
well above 2001 levels. Net sales and revenues were $13,947 million in 2002, compared to $13,293 million in 2001. Net sales of the Equipment Operations were $11,703 million this year compared to $11,077 million last year.

The Company’s Equipment Operations, which exclude the Financial Services operations, had net income of $78 million in 2002, compared to a net loss of $238
million in 2001. Before special items, the income was $124 million in this year compared to a loss of $23 million last year. Income before special items increased primarily due to improved price realization, cost and expense reductions, higher sales
of agricultural and commercial and consumer equipment, and the absence of losses from the Homelite consumer products business, which was sold. In addition, the 2002 results benefited from lower interest expense. Partially offsetting these factors
were the compensation to credit for financing trade receivables, higher new product start-up costs, and costs associated with Nortrax, Inc., a venture involved in the ownership and development of several construction equipment dealer locations. Also
having a negative effect were higher postretirement benefit costs, lower production and sales from core construction and forestry operations in Davenport and Dubuque, Iowa, and a higher tax rate.

Net income of the Company’s Financial Services operations in 2002 was $262 million, compared to $192 million in 2001. Additional credit operations information is presented on pages

17, 20 and 21. Health care premiums and fees and related health care claims and costs increased this year, compared to last year, primarily from increases in enrollment, premium increases and medical cost inflation.

EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS

Agricultural
Equipment

Sales of agricultural equipment, particularly in the United States and Canada, are affected by total farm cash receipts,
which reflect levels of farm commodity prices, acreage planted, crop yields and government payments. Sales are also influenced by general economic conditions, farm land prices, farmers’ debt levels, interest rates, agricultural trends and the
levels of costs associated with farming. Weather and climatic conditions can also affect buying decisions of equipment purchasers.

Innovations to machinery and technology also influence buying. For example, larger, more productive equipment is well accepted where farmers are striving for more efficiency in their operations. The Company has developed a
comprehensive agricultural management systems approach using advanced technology and global satellite positioning that should enable farmers to better control input costs and yields and to improve environmental management.

Large, cost-efficient, highly-mechanized agricultural operations account for an important share of worldwide farm output. The large-size agricultural equipment
used on such farms has been particularly important to John Deere. A large proportion of the Equipment Operations’ total agricultural equipment sales in the United States is comprised of tractors over 100 horsepower, self-propelled combines,
self-propelled cotton pickers and self-propelled forage harvesters.

Seasonality

.  Seasonal patterns in retail demand
for agricultural equipment result in substantial variations in the volume and mix of products sold to retail customers during various times of the year. Seasonal demand must be estimated in advance, and equipment must be manufactured in anticipation
of such demand in order to achieve efficient utilization of manpower and facilities throughout the year. For certain equipment, the Company offers early order discounts to retail customers. Production schedules are based, in part, on these early
order programs. The Equipment Operations incur substantial seasonal indebtedness with related interest expense to finance production and inventory of equipment. The Equipment Operations also incur costs to finance sales to dealers in advance of
seasonal demand. The Equipment Operations often encourage early


retail sales decisions for both new and used equipment, by waiving retail finance charges or offering low-rate financing, during off-season periods and in early order promotions.

An important part of the competition within the agricultural equipment industry during the past decade has come from a diverse variety of short-line
and specialty manufacturers with differing manufacturing and marketing methods. Because of industry conditions, especially the merger of certain large integrated competitors, the agricultural equipment business continues to undergo significant
change and may become more competitive.

Commercial and Consumer Equipment

John Deere commercial and consumer equipment includes rear-engine riding mowers, front-engine lawn tractors, lawn and garden tractors, compact utility tractors, utility tractors, front
mowers and small utility vehicles. A broad line of associated implements for mowing, tilling, snow and debris handling, aerating, and many other residential, commercial, golf and sports turf care applications are also included. The product line also
includes walk-behind mowers and other outdoor power products. Retail sales of commercial and consumer equipment products are influenced by weather conditions, consumer spending patterns and general economic conditions.

The division sells walk-behind mowers in Europe under the SABO brand name and commercial mowing equipment under the Roberine brand name. The division also builds
products for sale by mass retailers. Since 1999, the Company has built products for sale through The Home Depot stores.

John Deere
Landscapes, Inc., a unit of the division, distributes irrigation equipment, nursery products and landscape supplies primarily to landscape service professionals.

In 2002, the segment announced a realignment of its manufacturing operations in order to improve asset utilization and lower costs. As part of this effort, the Company closed facilities in Williamsburg, Virginia, and
Jeffersonville, Indiana, and streamlined operations at its facility in Horicon, Wisconsin. The Williamsburg production of Gator

®

Utility Vehicles was moved to the Company’s facilities in Welland, Ontario, and Fuquay-Varina, North Carolina, where some of the Gator

®

Utility Vehicle line had been produced, and to the Horicon facility. The Jeffersonville production of Great Dane

TM

commercial mowing equipment was moved to the Company’s primary turf care equipment plant in Fuquay-Varina,
North Carolina. In 2001, the segment announced plans to exit the consumer handheld products business. Affected by this decision were consumer products operations in the southeastern United States and Mexico. The company sold its hand-held consumer
products operations in Chihuahua, Mexico and other United States facilities related to this business. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the restructuring costs and employee reductions for the segment.

In addition to the equipment manufactured by the commercial and consumer division, John Deere purchases certain products from other
manufacturers for resale.

Construction and Forestry

John Deere construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment includes a broad range of backhoe loaders, crawler dozers and loaders, four-wheel-drive loaders, excavators, motor
graders, articulated dump trucks, landscape loaders, skid-steer loaders, log skidders, log feller bunchers, log loaders, log forwarders, log harvesters, and a variety of attachments.

Today, this segment provides sizes of equipment that compete for over 90 percent of the estimated total North American market for those categories of construction, earthmoving and material handling


equipment in which it competes. These construction, earthmoving and material handling machines are distributed under the Deere brand name. This
segment also provides the most complete line of forestry machines and attachments available in the world. These forestry machines and attachments are distributed under both the Deere and Timberjack brand names. In addition to the equipment
manufactured by the Construction and Forestry division, John Deere purchases certain products from other manufacturers for resale.

The
prevailing levels of residential, commercial and public construction and the condition of the forest products industry influence retail sales of John Deere construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment. General economic
conditions, the level of interest rates and certain commodity prices such as those applicable to pulp, paper and saw logs also influence sales.

The Company and Hitachi have a joint venture for the manufacture of hydraulic excavators and track log loaders in the United States and Canada. Beginning in May 2002, the Company began distributing Hitachi brands of construction and
mining equipment in North, Central and South America. As part of the new arrangement, sales formerly split between the Company and Hitachi are now reported solely by the Company. The Company also has supply agreements with Hitachi under which a
range of construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry products manufactured by John Deere in the United States, Canada, Sweden, Finland and New Zealand are distributed by Hitachi in Japan and other Far East markets.

The division has a number of initiatives in the rent-to-rent, or short-term rental, market for construction, earthmoving and material handling
equipment. These include specially designed rental programs for John Deere dealers, expanded cooperation with major national equipment rental companies and direct participation in the rent-to-rent market through the Company’s minority ownership
in Sunstate Equipment Co., LLC and majority ownership of Shanghai Deere Rental Equipment Co. Ltd. in China.

The Company also has a
minority ownership interest in Nortrax Inc., a venture involved in the ownership and development of several Deere construction-equipment dealers. Nortrax Inc. is, among other things, an authorized John Deere dealer for construction, earthmoving,
material handling and forestry equipment in a variety of markets in North America.

In 2002, the Company completed the transfer of the
engineering, production and marketing of its skid-steer loader product line from its facility in Loudon, Tennessee, to the Company’s factory in Dubuque, Iowa. In 2001, the Company also announced plans to reduce manufacturing and marketing costs
in the construction and forestry segment. These plans included employee separations and the closing or sale of certain forestry equipment operations. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statement for more information on the restructuring costs
and employee reductions for the segment.

Engineering and Research

John Deere makes large expenditures for engineering and research to improve the quality and performance of its products, and to develop new products. Such expenditures were $528 million, or
4.5 percent of net sales of equipment in 2002, $590 million, or 5.3 percent in 2001 and $542 million, or 4.9 percent in 2000.

Manufacturing

Manufacturing Plants

.  In the United States and Canada, the Equipment Operations
own and operate 23 factory locations and lease and operate another location, which contain approximately 29.9 million square feet of floor space. Of these 24 factories, ten are devoted primarily to agricultural equipment, five to commercial and
consumer equipment, two to non-forestry construction equipment, one to engines, two to hydraulic and power train components, one to special technology equipment and three to forestry equipment.


Overseas, the Equipment Operations own and operate: agricultural equipment factories in France, Germany,
Mexico, The Netherlands, Brazil and South Africa (a factory in Argentina ceased operations on October 31, 2002); engine factories in Argentina, France and Mexico; a component factory in Spain; commercial and consumer equipment factories in Germany
and The Netherlands; and forestry equipment factories in Finland, Sweden and New Zealand. These overseas factories contain approximately 10.6 million square feet of floor space. The Equipment Operations also have financial interests in other
manufacturing organizations, which include agricultural equipment manufacturers in China, India and the United States, an industrial truck manufacturer in South Africa and the Hitachi joint venture that builds hydraulic excavators and track log
loaders in the United States and Canada.

John Deere’s facilities are well maintained, in good operating condition and are suitable
for their present purposes. These facilities, together with planned capital expenditures, are expected to meet John Deere’s manufacturing needs in the foreseeable future.

Capacity is adequate to satisfy anticipated retail demand. The Equipment Operations’ manufacturing strategy involves the implementation of appropriate levels of technology and automation to allow
manufacturing processes to remain viable at varying production levels. Operations are also designed to be flexible enough to accommodate the product design changes required to meet market conditions. Common manufacturing facilities and techniques
are employed in the production of components for agricultural, commercial and consumer and construction and forestry equipment.

In order
to utilize manufacturing facilities and technology more effectively, the Equipment Operations pursue continuous improvements in manufacturing processes. These include steps to streamline manufacturing processes and enhance customer responsiveness.
The Company has implemented flexible assembly lines that can handle a wider product mix and deliver products at the times when dealers and customers require them. Additionally, considerable effort is being directed to manufacturing cost reduction
through process improvement, product design, advanced manufacturing technology, enhanced environmental management systems, supply management and compensation incentives related to productivity and organizational structure. The Equipment Operations
also pursue external sales of selected parts and components that can be manufactured and supplied to third parties on a competitive basis

.

Capital Expenditures.

The agricultural equipment, commercial and consumer equipment and construction and forestry operations’ capital expenditures totaled $351 million in 2002, compared with $480 million in
2001 and $399 million in 2000. Provisions for depreciation applicable to these operations’ property, plant and equipment during these years were $296 million, $295 million and $280 million, respectively. Capital expenditures for these
operations in 2003 are currently estimated to approximate $430 million. The 2003 expenditures will be primarily related to the modernization and restructuring of key manufacturing facilities and will also be related to the development of new
products. Future levels of capital expenditures will depend on business conditions.

Patents and Trademarks

John Deere owns a significant number of patents, licenses and trademarks which have been obtained over a period of years. The Company believes that,
in the aggregate, the rights under these patents, licenses and trademarks are generally important to its operations, but does not consider that any patent, license, trademark or related group of them (other than its house trademarks) is of material
importance in relation to John Deere’s business.

Marketing

In the United States and Canada, the Equipment Operations, excluding certain consumer product lines, distribute equipment and service parts through the following facilities (collectively called sales
branches):


one agricultural equipment sales and administration office supported by seven agricultural equipment sales branches; one construction,
earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment sales and administration office; and one commercial and consumer equipment sales and administration office.

In addition, the Equipment Operations operate a centralized parts distribution warehouse in coordination with several regional parts depots in the United States and Canada and have an agreement with a third party to operate
a high-volume parts warehouse in Indiana.

The sales branches in the United States and Canada market John Deere products at approximately
3,200 dealer locations, most of which are independently owned. Of these, approximately 1,600 sell agricultural equipment, while 569 sell construction, earthmoving, material handling and/or forestry equipment. Nortrax Inc., an entity in which the
Company has a minority interest, owns some of the 569. Commercial and consumer equipment is sold by most John Deere agricultural equipment dealers, a few construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment dealers, and about 1,030
commercial and consumer equipment dealers, many of whom also handle competitive brands and dissimilar lines of products. In addition, certain lawn and garden product lines are sold through various general and mass merchandisers, including The Home
Depot.

Outside North America, John Deere agricultural equipment is sold to distributors and dealers for resale in over 160 countries.
Sales branches are located in Germany, France, Italy, Russia, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, South Africa, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, Australia and Hong Kong. Export sales branches are located in Europe and the United States.
Associated companies doing business in China also sell John Deere agricultural equipment. Commercial and consumer equipment sales overseas occur primarily in Europe and Australia. Outside the United States and Canada, construction, earthmoving,
material handling and forestry equipment is sold to distributors and dealers primarily by sales offices located in the United States, Singapore and Finland. Some of these dealers are independently owned while the Company owns others.

Trade Accounts and Notes Receivable

Trade accounts and notes receivable arise from sales of goods to dealers. To further align its capital structure and incentives with its goals to reduce asset intensity, in the fourth quarter of 2002, Financial Services began
purchasing from the Equipment Operations trade receivable portfolios originated in Europe. In 2003, Financial Services anticipates continuing to purchase trade receivable portfolios originated in Europe. These European trade receivables are expected
to total the equivalent of about $300 million to $500 million. This move mirrors a similar arrangement in the United States that the Company announced last year. A significant portion of newly originated trade receivables from these European
countries will be sold to Financial Services on an ongoing basis. The Equipment Operations will compensate Financial Services at market rates of interest for these receivables. Additional information appears in Notes 1 and 8 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Special Technologies Group

The Special Technologies Group (STG) consists of four operating units that offer a range of electronic, wireless-communication, information-system and Internet-related products and services to the
Company and outside customers. STG’s purpose is to integrate advanced technology into John Deere equipment and to make such advancements directly available to customers through a variety of business relationships and ventures. One STG unit,
Phoenix International, makes electronic devices that control and monitor a variety of mobile-equipment functions. Another, AGRIS Corporation, is the world’s leading supplier of information-management systems for agribusinesses. NavCom develops
systems for tracking the exact position of vehicles, and for transmitting data to and from vehicles on the move. John Deere Information Systems provides information-technology products and services to John Deere dealers.


FINANCIAL SERVICES

Credit Operations

United States and Canada

.  The Company’s
credit subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Credit Companies) primarily provide and administer financing for retail purchases from John Deere dealers of new equipment manufactured by the Company’s agricultural equipment, commercial and
consumer equipment, and construction and forestry divisions and used equipment taken in trade for this equipment. Deere & Company and John Deere Construction & Forestry Company are referred to as the “sales companies.” John Deere
Capital Corporation (Capital Corporation), a United States credit subsidiary, purchases retail installment sales and loan contracts (retail notes) from the sales companies. These retail notes are acquired by the sales companies through John Deere
retail dealers in the United States. John Deere Credit Inc., a Canadian credit subsidiary, purchases and finances retail notes acquired by John Deere Limited, the Company’s Canadian sales branch. The terms of retail notes and the basis on which
the Credit Companies acquire retail notes from the sales companies are governed by agreements with the sales companies. The Credit Companies also finance and service revolving charge accounts, in most cases acquired from and offered through
merchants in the agricultural, commercial and consumer and construction and forestry markets (revolving charge accounts). Further, the Credit Companies finance and service operating loans, in most cases acquired from and offered through farm input
providers, and provide insured international export financing generally involving John Deere products (operating loans). Additionally, the Credit Companies provide wholesale financing for inventories of John Deere engines and John Deere
agricultural, commercial and consumer, and construction and forestry equipment owned by dealers of those products (wholesale notes).

Retail notes acquired by the sales companies are immediately sold to the Credit Companies. The Equipment Operations are the Credit Companies’ major source of business, but many retail purchasers of John Deere products finance
their purchases outside the John Deere organization.

The Credit Companies offer retail leases to equipment users in the United States. A
small number of leases are executed with units of local government. Leases are usually written for periods of two to five years, and frequently contain an option permitting the customer to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease term. Retail
leases are also offered in a generally similar manner to customers in Canada through John Deere Credit Inc. and John Deere Limited.

The
Credit Companies’ terms for financing equipment retail sales (other than smaller items financed with unsecured revolving charge accounts) provide for retention of a security interest in the equipment financed. The Credit Companies’
guidelines for minimum down payments, which vary with the types of equipment and repayment provisions, are generally not less than 20 percent on agricultural and construction and forestry equipment and 10 percent on lawn and grounds care equipment
used for personal use. Finance charges are sometimes waived for specified periods or reduced on certain John Deere products sold or leased in advance of the season of use or in other sales promotions. The Credit Companies generally receive
compensation from the sales companies equal to a competitive interest rate for periods during which finance charges are waived or reduced on the retail notes or leases. The cost is accounted for as a deduction in arriving at net sales by the
Equipment Operations.

The Company has an agreement with the Capital Corporation to make income maintenance payments to the Capital
Corporation such that its ratio of earnings before fixed charges to fixed charges is not less than 1.05 to 1 for any fiscal quarter. For 2002 and 2001, the Capital Corporation’s ratios were 1.97 to 1 and 1.53 to 1, respectively. The Company has
also committed to continue to own at least 51 percent of the voting shares of capital stock of the Capital Corporation and to maintain the Capital Corporation’s consolidated tangible net worth at not less than $50 million. The Company’s
obligations to make payments to the Capital Corporation under the agreement are independent of whether the Capital Corporation is in default on its


indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities. Further, the Company’s obligations under the
agreement are not measured by the amount of the Capital Corporation’s indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities. The Company’s obligations to make payments under this agreement are expressly stated not to be a guaranty of any specific
indebtedness, obligation or liability of the Capital Corporation and are enforceable only by or in the name of the Capital Corporation. No payments were necessary under this agreement in 2001 or 2002.

Overseas

. The Credit Companies offer equipment financing products in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Finland, France (through a joint venture), Germany,
Italy (through a cooperation agreement), Luxembourg, Mexico, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Retail sales financing outside of the United States and Canada is affected by a diversity of customs and regulations.

Additional information on the Credit Companies appears on pages

17, 20 and

21.

Health Care

In 1985, the Company formed John Deere Health Care, Inc.
to commercialize the Company’s expertise in the field of health care, which had been developed from efforts to manage its own health care costs. John Deere Health currently provides health management programs and related administrative
services, through its health maintenance organization subsidiary, John Deere Health Plan, Inc., for companies located in Illinois, Iowa, Tennessee and Virginia. At October 31, 2002, approximately 516,000 individuals were enrolled in these programs,
of which approximately 71,000 were John Deere employees, retirees and their dependents.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The Company is subject to a wide variety of state, federal and international environmental laws, rules and regulations. These laws, rules and
regulations may affect the way the Company conducts its operations, and failure to comply with these regulations could lead to fines and other penalties. The Company is also involved in the evaluation and clean-up of a limited number of sites that
it owns. Management does not expect that these matters will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or results of operations of the Company. With respect to recently acquired properties, the Company cannot be certain
that it has identified all adverse environmental conditions. The Company expects that it will acquire additional properties in the future.

EMPLOYEES

At October 31, 2002, John Deere had approximately 43,000 full-time employees, including approximately
26,900 employees in the United States and Canada. From time to time, John Deere also retains consultants, independent contractors, and temporary and part-time workers. Unions are certified as bargaining agents for approximately 40% percent of John
Deere’s United States employees. Most of the Company’s United States production and maintenance workers are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the United Auto Workers (UAW), with an expiration date of September 30, 2003.

The majority of employees at John Deere manufacturing facilities in Canada and overseas are also represented by unions.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Following are the names and ages of the executive officers of the Company, their positions with the Company and summaries of their backgrounds and business experience. All executive officers are elected or appointed by the Board of
Directors and hold office until the annual meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in each year.


*Effective on January 1, 2003, Michael P. Orr is retiring as President, Financial Services
Division, Samuel R. Allen will become President, Global Financial Services and Corporate Human Resources and John J. Jenkins will assume responsibility for John Deere Health.

**SAP is a supplier of enterprise resource planning software

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

See “Manufacturing” in Item 1.

The Equipment Operations own 15 facilities housing sales branches, one centralized parts depot, regional parts depots, transfer houses and warehouses throughout the United States and Canada. These facilities contain
approximately 5.2 million square feet of floor space. The Equipment Operations also own and occupy buildings housing sales branches, one centralized parts depot and regional parts depots in Australia, Brazil, Europe and New Zealand. These facilities
contain approximately 1.0 million square feet of floor space.

Deere & Company administrative offices, research facilities and
certain facilities for health care activities, all of which are owned by John Deere, together contain about 2.4 million square feet of floor space and miscellaneous other facilities total .6 million square feet.


Overall, the Company owns approximately 49.6 million square feet of facilities and leases additional
square feet in various locations.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

The Company is subject to various unresolved legal actions which arise in the normal course of its business, the most prevalent of which relate to product liability (including asbestos-related
liability), retail credit, software licensing, patent and trademark matters. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal actions or the range of possible loss, the Company believes these unresolved
legal actions will not have a material effect on its financial statements.

The Company is involved in an administrative proceeding with
the California Air Resources Board regarding a small engine emissions problem caused by manufacturing and distribution errors. In resolving this matter, the Company paid a fine of $100,000 and provided (at a cost of approximately $136,000) an
exchange program to remove old, pre-regulation handheld products from use in California.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF
SECURITY HOLDERS.

None.

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

The Company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Chicago Stock Exchange and
the Frankfurt (Germany) Stock Exchange. See the information concerning quoted prices of the Company’s common stock and the number of stockholders in the second table and the sentence following it, and the data on dividends declared and paid per
share in the first table, under the caption “Supplemental Information (Unaudited)” in Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements

.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

Financial Summary

*In 2002 and 2001, the Company had special charges of $46 million, or $.18 per share, and
$217 million, or $.91 per share, respectively, related to costs of closing and restructuring certain facilities in both years


and a voluntary early-retirement program in 2001.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

See the information under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on pages

16 through

23.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

The Company is exposed to a variety of market risks, including interest rates and currency exchange rates. The Company attempts to actively manage these risks. See the information under
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on pages

22 and 23.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

See the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and supplementary data on pages

24 through

47.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
               DISCLOSURE.

Not applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

The information regarding
directors in the proxy statement dated January 16, 2003 (proxy statement), under the captions “Election of Directors” and “Directors Continuing in Office,” is incorporated herein by reference. Information regarding executive
officers is presented in Item 1 of this report under the caption “Executive Officers of the Registrant.”

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION.

The information in the proxy statement under the captions “Compensation of Executive Officers” and
“Compensation of Directors” is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT AND RELATED                  STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

(a)

Securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans.

Equity compensation plan information in the proxy statement, under the caption “Equity Compensation Plan Information,” is incorporated herein by reference.

(b)

Security ownership of certain beneficial owners.

The information on the security ownership of certain beneficial owners in the proxy statement under the caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management” is incorporated herein by reference.


(c)

Security ownership of management.

The information on shares of common stock of the Company beneficially owned by, and under option to (i) each director, (ii) certain named executive officers and (iii) the directors and officers as a
group, contained in the proxy statement under the captions “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,” “Compensation of Executive Officers-Summary Compensation Table” and “Compensation of Executive
Officers-Aggregated Option/SAR Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Option/SAR Values” is incorporated herein by reference.

(d)

Change in control.

None.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

The information in the proxy statement under the caption “Certain Business Relationships” is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

(a)

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.

The Company’s principal executive officer and its principal financial officer, after an evaluation on December 13, 2002, have concluded that, as of such date, the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were adequate and effective to ensure that material information relating to the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries would be made known to them by others within those entities. “Disclosure
controls and procedures” are defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(c) and 15d-14(c).

(b)

Changes in internal controls.

There were no significant changes in the Company’s internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures subsequent to the
date of their evaluation.

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.


(a) (2)

Schedule to Consolidated Financial Statements

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended

October 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


(a) (3)

Exhibits

See the “Index to Exhibits” on pages 55 through 57 of this report.

Certain instruments relating to long-term borrowings, constituting less than 10 percent of registrant’s total assets, are not filed as exhibits herewith pursuant
to Item 601(b)4(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K. Registrant agrees to file copies of such

instruments upon request of the Commission.

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K

Financial Statement Schedules Omitted

The following schedules for the Company and consolidated subsidiaries are omitted because of the absence of the conditions
under which they are required: I, III, IV and V.


(THIS
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.)


MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000

Deere & Company and its subsidiaries manufacture, distribute and finance a full line of agricultural equipment; a variety of commercial and consumer equipment; a broad range of equipment for
construction and forestry; and other technological products and services. The company also provides credit services and managed health care plans. Additional information on the structure of these operations and the business segments is presented in
Notes 1 and 27 to the consolidated financial statements.

2002 COMPARED WITH 2001

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS

Worldwide net income
in 2002 was $319 million, or $1.33 per share diluted ($1.34 basic), compared with a net loss of $64 million, or $.27 per share diluted ($.27 basic), in 2001. Special charges of $46 million, or $.18 per share diluted, in 2002 and $217 million, or
$.91 per share diluted, in 2001, had a negative impact on the results for the respective years. These charges were related to the costs of closing and restructuring certain facilities in both years and a voluntary early-retirement program last year
(see Note 2). Excluding these costs, income in 2002 more than doubled to $365 million, or $1.51 per share diluted, compared with income of $153 million, or $.64 per share diluted, in 2001. Better price realization as well as the favorable impact of
the company’s broad-based cost and expense reduction initiatives were the primary drivers of the improved results in 2002. In addition, favorable customer response to new products contributed to achieving higher sales and more efficient
production levels. These factors, in conjunction with a $323 million reduction in trade receivables and inventories helped generate consolidated cash flow from operations of $1.9 billion for the year, well above 2001 levels.

Net sales and revenues increased


percent to $13,947 million in 2002, compared with $13,293 million in 2001, primarily due to
higher net sales. Net sales of the Equipment Operations increased 6 percent in 2002 to $11,703 million from $11,077 million last year. The sales increase reflected higher overseas sales of agricultural equipment, especially in Europe, the impact of
acquisitions net of divestitures and higher sales of commercial and consumer equipment. Sales were down for construction and forestry equipment (excluding acquisitions) and also for agricultural equipment in the United States and Canada. Overseas
sales rose by 19 percent in 2002 due to higher agricultural equipment sales mainly in Europe. Without the effect of foreign exchange rate changes, overseas sales would have been up 18 percent for the year.

Worldwide Equipment Operations, which exclude the Financial Services operations, had an operating profit of $401 million in 2002, compared
with an operating loss of $46 million in 2001. Excluding costs of the special items noted above, the Equipment Operations had an operating profit of $473 million in 2002, compared to $295 million in 2001. Excluding special items, operating profit
increased primarily due to improved price realization, cost and expense reductions, higher sales of agricultural and commercial and consumer equipment, and the absence of losses from the Homelite consumer products business, which was sold. Partially
offsetting these factors were the compensation to credit for financing trade receivables (see Note l), higher new product start-up costs, and costs associated with Nortrax, a venture involved in the ownership and development of several construction
equipment dealer locations. Also having a negative impact on this year’s results were higher postretirement benefit costs, before special items, as well as lower sales and production volumes at core construction and forestry manufacturing
facilities in Dubuque and Davenport, Iowa.

The Equipment Operations’ net income was $78 million in 2002,
compared with a net loss of $238 million in 2001 (see Note 29). Before special items, the income was $124 million in 2002, compared with a loss of $23 million in 2001. The same operating factors mentioned above affected these results. In addition,
the 2002 results benefited from lower interest expense, while a higher tax rate had a negative effect.

Net income
of the company’s Financial Services operations in 2002 was $262 million, compared with $192 million in 2001 (see Note 29). The increase was primarily due to the income earned on the trade receivables financed by the credit operations, increased
gains on the sales of retail notes and improved interest rate spreads. Additional information is presented in the following discussion of the credit operations. Health care premiums and fees and related health care claims and costs increased this
year, compared to last year, primarily from increases in enrollment, premium increases and medical cost inflation.

The cost of sales to net sales ratio for 2002 was 82.0 percent, compared to 84.6 percent last year. Before special items, the ratio was 81.4 percent this year, compared to 82.3 percent last year. The decrease in the ratio excluding
special items was primarily due to the higher level of production and improved price realization, partially offset by higher costs related to new product start-up, Nortrax and postretirement benefits.

Research and development expenses decreased this year, compared to last year when the company was introducing an
unprecedented number of new products. Interest expense decreased this year due primarily to lower average borrowing rates. Other operating expenses increased this year, primarily as a result of losses from the Argentine operations related to the
peso devaluation. Other income increased, compared to last year, primarily due to increased gains from sales of retail notes and the receipt of fire insurance settlements.

BUSINESS SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA RESULTS

The following discussion of
operating results by reportable segment and geographic area relates to information in Note 27. Operating profit is income before external interest expense, foreign exchange gains or losses, income taxes and corporate expenses. However, operating
profit of the credit segment includes the effect of interest expense and foreign exchange gains or losses.

Worldwide Agricultural
Equipment Operations

The agricultural equipment segment had an operating profit of $439 million in 2002, compared with $257 million
in 2001. Excluding the costs of special items, the operating profit was $451 million in 2002, compared with $354 million in 2001. Net sales increased 7 percent this year due to higher overseas sales, especially in Europe, where a record number of
new products were introduced last fall. Partially offsetting the increase were lower United States and Canada sales for the year.


The operating profit improvement before special items was primarily due to improved price realization and higher sales and production volumes, as well as cost and expense reductions. Partially offsetting these factors were the
compensation to credit for financing trade receivables and higher postretirement benefit costs. In addition, the 2002 results were negatively affected by higher new product start-up costs. Reflecting the segment’s commitment to more-disciplined
asset management, company-owned and field inventory levels were down $120 million for the year in spite of the impact of stronger foreign currency exchange rates.

Worldwide Commercial and Consumer Equipment Operations

The commercial and
consumer equipment segment had an operating profit of $79 million, compared with an operating loss of $165 million in 2001. Excluding the costs of special items, the operating profit was $103 million in 2002, compared with an operating loss of $5
million in 2001. Net sales increased 7 percent for the year or 6 percent without acquisitions and divestitures.

The operating profit improvement before special items was mainly due to the absence of losses from Homelite, higher sales, lower sales incentive costs, lower expenses and the receipt of fire insurance settlements. Partially
offsetting these factors was the compensation to credit for financing trade receivables. Company-owned and field inventory reductions totaled $204 million for the year.

Worldwide Construction and Forestry Operations

The construction and forestry
segment had an operating loss of $75 million in 2002, compared with an operating loss of $83 million in 2001. Excluding the costs of special items, the operating loss was $48 million in 2002, compared with break-even results in 2001. Sales decreased
1 percent for the year. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, sales decreased 6 percent. Production volumes at core facilities were down 8 percent for the year.

The deterioration in operating results before special items was primarily due to higher sales incentive costs, higher costs related to the investment in Nortrax, and the lower sales and production
volumes from core operations. Also having a negative impact on this year’s results were higher postretirement benefit costs. Partially offsetting these factors were cost and expense reductions.

Worldwide Credit Operations

The operating
profit of the credit operations was $386 million in 2002, compared with $274 million in 2001. Excluding the costs of special items, operating profit was $277 million in 2001. Operating profit in 2002 was higher than in 2001 due primarily to income
earned on trade receivables, increased gains on sales of retail notes and improved interest rate spreads, partially offset by an increase in the provision for credit losses and losses related to the peso devaluation in Argentina. Total revenues of
the credit operations increased 9 percent in 2002, primarily reflecting the intercompany interest compensation received from the Equipment Operations related to trade receivables financed (see Note 1). The average balance of receivables and leases
financed was 22 percent higher in 2002, compared with 2001, primarily due to the trade receivables mentioned above. A decrease in average borrowing rates in 2002 resulted in a 16 percent decrease in interest expense, compared with 2001. The credit
operations’ ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 1.85 to 1 in 2002, compared to 1.51 to 1 in 2001.

Worldwide Other Operations

The company’s other operations had an operating loss of $12 million in 2002, compared with $31 million last year. Excluding the
costs of special items, the operating loss was $3 million in 2002, compared with $30 million in 2001. Results for both years were adversely affected by costs related to the development of new products and goodwill amortization of the special
technologies operations. The decreased loss in 2002 was primarily due to cost and expense reductions in the technologies businesses and improved results of the health care operations mainly due to larger enrollment.

United States and Canada Equipment Operations

The United States and Canada equipment operations had an operating profit of $170 million in 2002, compared with an operating loss of $164 million in 2001. Excluding the costs of special items, the operating profit was $231 million,
compared with $168 million last year. The increase before special items was primarily due to improved price realization, lower costs and expenses, the absence of losses from Homelite, higher sales of commercial and consumer equipment and the receipt
of fire insurance settlements. Partially offsetting these items were the compensation to the credit operations for financing trade receivables, higher postretirement benefit costs, lower sales and production volumes at construction and forestry core
facilities, and higher costs related to the Nortrax investment. Sales increased 1 percent in 2002 while the physical volume of sales decreased 3 percent, compared to 2001.

Overseas Equipment Operations

The overseas equipment operations had an operating
profit of $231 million in 2002, compared with $118 million in 2001. Excluding the costs of special items, the operating profit was $242 million in 2002, compared with $127 million last year. The increase was primarily due to higher sales and
production volumes driven by favorable customer response to new products, especially in Europe. Lower expenses also benefited results. Partially offsetting these factors were higher start-up costs. Overseas sales were 19 percent higher than last
year, while the physical volume of sales increased 14 percent in 2002, compared with 2001.

MARKET CONDITIONS AND OUTLOOK

Based on the market conditions outlined below, net equipment sales for the first quarter of 2003 are currently forecast to be up 20
to 25 percent from the same period last year, with company-wide net income from zero to $50 million. The company expects equipment sales for the full year to be up 8 to 10 percent and enterprise net income to be in a range of $500 million to $600
million. This includes the favorable impact of approximately $53 million, after-tax, from the first-quarter adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, eliminating goodwill
expense.


The company’s yearly earnings estimate also includes higher pension and postretirement benefit expense of between $250 million to $300 million pretax, as the company is modifying its assumptions to reflect recent trends in
medical inflation, interest rates and equity returns.This compares with an increase in that expense in 2002 of approximately $115 million, before special items.

Agricultural Equipment:

Although commodity prices softened this fall, they remain well above year-ago levels and are helping support positive fundamentals in the global farm sector. In the United States and Canada,
however, machinery sales have continued to lag mainly due to dry weather conditions and poor crop production in many key areas. In addition, while recently enacted legislation is generally supportive of higher farm income, some farmers are feeling
near term cash flow pressure due to the absence of emergency government payments. As a result, the company believes that retail activity may be slow early in 2003 but will gather momentum in conjunction with spring planting and be higher for the
year. In other areas, the company’s sales in Western Europe are expected to grow in 2003 as the company builds on last year’s strong response to newly introduced products and further increases its presence in this important region.

The company’s sales in Australia are expected to be down due to drought conditions, while South American sales are forecast to be
about the same as last year due to the uncertain economic situation in Brazil. As a result of these factors, worldwide sales of John Deere agricultural equipment are forecast to be up about 8 percent for the year.

Commercial and Consumer Equipment:

Shipments of John Deere commercial and consumer equipment are projected to be up about 15 percent for the year.
Supporting the improved outlook is a recent strengthening in retail activity as well as the expected success of the new 100-series line of John Deere lawn tractors that will be available in the spring. Because of the company’s efforts in 2001
and 2002 to reduce field inventories, sales are also expected to benefit from producing more in line with retail demand.

Construction
and Forestry:

The company believes that construction equipment markets will continue to be pressured by lagging business investment and general weakness in sales to independent rental companies. Global forestry markets are expected to remain
sluggish as well. In this environment, the company’s sales of construction and forestry equipment are forecast to be up about 2 percent for the year. In May 2002, under a new marketing agreement with Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Ltd.,
the company began distributing Hitachi brand construction equipment in the United States and Canada and mining equipment in the Americas. Excluding these sales from both years, the segment’s sales are expected to decline approximately 2
percent.

Credit Operations:

Credit results for 2003 are expected to benefit from lower write-offs, growth in the loan portfolio
and stable margins. On this basis, net income for the year is projected to increase more than 20 percent, to about $300 million.

FASB
STATEMENT NO. 142

In June 2001, the FASB issued Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, which requires goodwill
related to acquisitions after June 30, 2001 to not be amortized and only written down for impairments. Upon adoption of Statement No. 142, the same accounting requirements will apply to goodwill related to acquisitions prior to June 30, 2001. The
Company will adopt this Statement in the first quarter of fiscal 2003. In 2002, the Company had goodwill amortization of $58 million pretax and $53 million after-tax. Except for the discontinuance of the amortization of goodwill, the company does
not expect the adoption of this statement to have a material effect on the company’s financial position or net income (see Note 1).

SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT

Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:

Statements under “Market Conditions and Outlook,” and other statements herein that relate to future operating periods are subject to important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Some of these
risks and uncertainties could affect particular lines of business, while others could affect all of the company’s businesses.

Forward looking statements involve certain factors that are subject to change, including for the company’s agricultural equipment segment the many interrelated factors that affect farmers’ confidence, including
worldwide demand for agricultural products, world grain stocks, prices realized for commodities and livestock, weather conditions, government farm programs, animal diseases, crop pests and harvest yields. Factors that are particularly important to
the company’s outlook for this segment include prices realized by farmers for their crops and livestock, which in turn are strongly impacted by weather and soil conditions and the level of farm product exports, as well as the level of payments
under United States government farm programs and political and economic developments in Brazil and other South American countries. Further outbreaks of “mad cow” or “foot-and-mouth” disease could also adversely affect livestock
and feed prices. Concerns pertaining to genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, may affect farm exports. The success of the fall harvest and the prices realized by farmers for their crops especially affect retail sales of agricultural equipment in
the winter.

Factors affecting the company’s outlook for its commercial and consumer equipment business
include general economic conditions in the United States, consumer confidence, consumer borrowing patterns and weather conditions. Another important assumption is continued consumer acceptance of the company’s new products. Sales of commercial
and consumer equipment during the winter are also affected by the amount and timing of snowfall.

The number of
housing starts is especially important to sales of the company’s construction equipment. The results of the company’s construction and forestry segment are also impacted by levels of public construction and non-residential construction.
Prices for pulp, lumber and structural panels are important to sales of forestry equipment.


All of the company’s businesses are affected by general economic
conditions in and the political stability of global markets in which the company operates (including Brazil, Argentina and other South American countries), monetary and fiscal policies of various countries, actions by the United States Federal
Reserve Board and other central banks, actions by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies, actions by rating agencies, capital market disruptions, investor sentiment, inflation and deflation rates, interest
rate levels and currency exchange rates; customer borrowing and repayment practices, and the number of customer loan delinquencies and defaults; actions of competitors in the various industries in which the company competes, particularly price
discounting; dealer practices especially as to levels of new and used field inventories; production and technological difficulties, including capacity and supply constraints; energy prices and supplies; labor relations; changes to accounting
standards; the effects of terrorism and the response thereto; wars and other international conflicts; and legislation affecting the sectors in which the company operates. Company results are also affected by significant changes in health care costs
and in market values of investment assets which impact pension expenses.

The company’s outlook is based upon
assumptions relating to the factors described above, which are sometimes based upon estimates and data prepared by government agencies. Such estimates and data are often revised. The company, however, undertakes no obligation to update or revise its
outlook, whether as a result of new developments or otherwise. Further information concerning the company and its businesses, including factors that potentially could materially affect the company’s financial results, is included in other
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

2001 COMPARED WITH 2000

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS

The company had a net loss in 2001
of $64 million, or $.27 per share diluted ($.27 basic). Affecting the results in 2001 were charges of $217 million, or $.91 per share diluted, related to early-retirement programs, the decision to exit the hand-held consumer products business and
the restructuring of certain construction and forestry manufacturing and marketing operations (see Note 2). Excluding these special items, income for 2001 was $153 million, or $.64 per share diluted, compared with net income of $486 million, or
$2.06 per share diluted ($2.07 basic), in 2000. In addition, results for 2001 were negatively affected by weakness in the company’s major markets and by deep production cutbacks, particularly during the fourth quarter, aimed at achieving more
efficient asset levels.

Net sales and revenues increased 1 percent to $13,293 million in 2001, compared with
$13,137 million in 2000, due to higher Financial Services revenues. Net sales of the Equipment Operations decreased 1 percent in 2001 to $11,077 million from $11,169 million in 2000. Sales decreased primarily due to lower shipments of commercial and
consumer equipment and construction and forestry equipment, as well as the impact of a stronger United States dollar. Partially offsetting these factors were higher sales of agricultural equipment and the inclusion of recent acquisitions. Compared
with 2000, overseas sales increased by 2 percent for 2001, primarily due to higher agricultural equipment sales and the full-year inclusion of Timberjack, acquired in April 2000. Partially offsetting these factors were the impact of the stronger
United States dollar and lower sales of commercial and consumer equipment and construction and forestry equipment (excluding Timberjack).

Worldwide Equipment Operations, which exclude the Financial Services operations and unconsolidated affiliates, had a net loss of $238 million in 2001. Excluding costs of the special items noted above, the Equipment
Operations had a loss of $23 million, compared with net income of $311 million in 2000. Results without special items were adversely affected by the manufacturing inefficiencies resulting from lower production volumes of the commercial and consumer
equipment and the construction and forestry segments, as well as fourth-quarter production cutbacks in the agricultural equipment segment. In addition, higher research and development costs and start-up costs associated with new products had a
negative impact on the results. Also having an adverse effect were the stronger United States dollar, higher interest costs and a less favorable tax rate. Partially offsetting these items were lower pension and postretirement benefit costs. Trade
receivables and inventories were also reduced by approximately $400 million in 2001, excluding acquisitions, with the bulk of the decline in the fourth quarter. The operating loss from Equipment Operations was $46 million in 2001. Before special
items, the operating profit for 2001 was $295 million, compared to $693 million in 2000.

Net income of the
company’s Financial Services operations in 2001 was $192 million, compared with $173 million in 2000. Finance and interest income increased in 2001, compared to the prior year, due to a larger average receivable and lease portfolio. Additional
information is presented in the discussion of the credit operations. Health care premiums and fees and related health care claims and costs increased in 2001, compared to 2000, primarily from increases in enrollment.

Interest expense increased in 2001, compared to 2000, due primarily to higher average borrowings. Other operating expenses increased in
2001, primarily as a result of an increase in the depreciation of equipment on operating leases, write-offs of certain investments in 2001 and increased cost of services. Other income increased in 2001, compared to 2000, primarily due to increased
sales of retail notes, increased service revenues and gains on the sales of certain property and equipment.

BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS

The agricultural equipment segment had an operating profit of $257 million in 2001. Excluding the costs of the early-retirement
programs, the operating profit was $354 million, compared with $400 million in 2000. Net sales were 6 percent higher in 2001. As planned, this segment implemented deep production cutbacks during the fourth quarter of 2001 to achieve more efficient
asset levels. Production of large tractors at the Waterloo manufacturing complex was shut down for six weeks in the quarter, while the output of combines, cotton pickers and other products were reduced as well. Factories in North America were idled
more than one fourth of the available days in the quarter. Excluding the


special items noted above, the decrease in the operating profit in 2001 was primarily due to
the lower sales and production volumes and related manufacturing inefficiencies during the fourth quarter, as well as start-up and other costs associated with the introduction of a record number of new products. Higher planned research and
development costs and the stronger United States dollar also had a negative impact on the results. Partially offsetting these items were lower pension and other postretirement benefit costs, as well as higher sales in 2001.

The commercial and consumer equipment segment had an operating loss of $194 million in 2001. Excluding the costs related to the decision
to exit the hand-held consumer products business and the early-retirement programs, the operating loss was $31 million, compared to an operating profit of $159 million in 2000. Net sales declined 10 percent in 2001 or 15 percent without
acquisitions. The decreases were due to lower retail sales and further dealer inventory reductions facilitated by planned, deep production cuts. Overall production volumes were approximately 40 percent lower in the fourth quarter of 2001 than a year
earlier. Before the previously mentioned special items, operating results declined due mainly to the impact of lower sales and production volumes and related manufacturing inefficiencies, in addition to start-up costs for new products and
facilities.

The construction and forestry segment had an operating loss of $54 million in 2001. Excluding costs
related to the restructuring of the marketing and manufacturing operations and the early-retirement programs, the operating profit was $26 million in 2001, compared to $191 million in 2000. Sales decreased 5 percent in 2001. Excluding Timberjack,
sales declined 16 percent, due to the difficult retail sales environment. Sales to independent rental companies were down significantly due to extreme weakness in the rental sector. Operating results deteriorated primarily due to the lower
production volumes and related manufacturing inefficiencies, higher sales incentive costs and higher losses from unconsolidated subsidiaries.

The operating profit of the credit operations was $274 million in 2001. Excluding early-retirement costs, operating profit was $277 million, compared with $254 million in 2000. Operating profit in 2001
was higher than in 2000 due primarily to higher earnings from a larger receivable and lease portfolio and improved interest rate spreads, partially offset by an increase in the provision for credit losses. Total revenues of the credit operations
increased 9 percent in 2001, reflecting the larger average portfolio, compared with 2000. The average balance of receivables and leases financed was 12 percent higher in 2001, compared with 2000. An increase in average borrowings in 2001 resulted in
a 3 percent increase in interest expense, compared with 2000. The credit operations’ ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 1.51 to 1 in 2001, compared to 1.49 to 1 in 2000. Depreciation expense on operating leases also increased in 2001.

The company’s other operations had an operating loss of $31 million in 2001. Excluding early-retirement
costs, the operating loss was $30 million, compared with an operating loss of $39 million in 2000. Results for both years was adversely affected by costs related to the development of new products and goodwill amortization of the special
technologies operations. The decreased loss in 2001 was primarily due to lower costs for the development of new products in special technologies and improved results of the health care operations.

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

The discussion of capital resources and liquidity has been organized to review separately, where appropriate, the company’s Equipment Operations, Financial Services operations and the consolidated totals.

EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS

The
company’s equipment businesses are capital intensive and are subject to large seasonal variations in financing requirements for inventories and certain receivables from dealers. At 2001 fiscal year end, the Equipment Operations began selling
most of its trade receivables to the company’s credit operations, which decreased the seasonal variations in financing requirements. To the extent necessary, funds provided from operations are supplemented by external borrowing sources.

In October 2001, the Equipment Operations in the United States sold $2.2 billion of trade receivables to Deere
Capital, Inc. (DCI), a wholly-owned subsidiary included in the credit operations and continued to sell trade receivables to the credit operations on an ongoing basis in 2002. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the overseas Equipment Operations also
began selling trade receivables to John Deere Finance S.A., a wholly-owned overseas subsidiary included in the credit operations (see Notes 1 and 26).

Cash provided by operating activities during 2002 was $1,388 million (see Note 29). The operating cash flows and $328 million increase in borrowings were used primarily to increase cash and cash
equivalents by $1,331 million, fund purchases of property and equipment of $355 million and the payment of dividends to stockholders of $209 million.

Over the last three years, operating activities have provided an aggregate of $4,557 million in cash. In addition, borrowings increased $1,591 million. The aggregate amount of these cash flows was used
mainly to fund purchases of property and equipment of $1,254 million, acquisitions of businesses for $959 million, an increase in the investment in Financial Services of $700 million and stockholders’ dividends of $621 million. Cash and cash
equivalents also increased $3,200 million over the three-year period.

Trade receivables held by the Equipment
Operations decreased by $141 million during 2002, primarily due to the overseas sales of trade receivables to the credit operations (see following consolidated discussion).

Inventories decreased by $134 million in 2002. Most of these inventories are valued on the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. The ratios of inventories valued on an
approximate current cost basis to the last 12 months’ cost of sales were 24 percent at October 31, 2002, compared to 27 percent at October 31, 2001.

Total interest-bearing debt of the Equipment Operations was $3,387 million at the end of 2002, compared with $2,984 million at the end of 2001 and $2,645 million at the end of 2000. The ratio of total
debt to total capital (total interest-bearing debt and stockholders’ equity) at the end of 2002, 2001 and 2000 was 52 percent, 43 percent and 38 percent, respectively. However, due to the increase in cash and cash equivalents, the ratio at the
end of


2002, 2001 and 2000 of net debt (interest-bearing debt
less cash and cash equivalents) to total net debt and stockholders’ equity was zero, 18 percent and 32 percent, respectively.

During 2002, the Equipment Operations issued $700 million of 6.95% global notes due in 2014 and entered into interest rate swaps related to these notes, which swapped the fixed rate to a variable rate of approximately 2.8%
at October 31, 2002. The Equipment Operations issued $8 million and retired $76 million of other long-term borrowings.

FINANCIAL
SERVICES

The Financial Services’ credit operations rely on their ability to raise substantial amounts of funds to finance their
receivable and lease portfolios. Their primary sources of funds for this purpose are a combination of borrowings and equity capital. Additionally, the credit operations periodically sell substantial amounts of retail notes.

Cash flows from the company’s Financial Services operating activities were $770 million in 2002 (see Note 29). Cash provided by
investing activities totaled $59 million in 2002, primarily due to sales of receivables of $2,968 million, partially offset by receivable acquisitions exceeding collections by $2,869 million. The cash provided by operating and investing activities
was used primarily to decrease total borrowings and pay dividends. Cash used by financing activities totaled $1,220 million in 2002, representing mainly a $1,990 million decrease in short-term borrowings, including borrowings from the Equipment
Operations, and the payment of $400 million of dividends, partially offset by a $1,170 million increase in long-term borrowings. Cash and cash equivalents also decreased $398 million.

Over the past three years, the Financial Services operating activities have provided $2,122 million in cash. In addition, the sale of receivables of $5,674 million, an
increase in borrowings of $3,827 million, the sale of equipment on operating leases of $1,216 million and a capital investment from the Equipment Operations of $700 million have provided cash inflows. These amounts have been used mainly to fund
receivable and lease acquisitions, which exceeded collections by $12,677 million, and dividends of $437 million.

Receivables and leases decreased by $562 million in 2002, compared with 2001. Acquisition volumes of receivables and leases increased 42 percent in 2002, compared with 2001. The volumes of trade receivables, wholesale notes,
operating loans, revolving charge accounts and retail notes increased approximately 200 percent, 25 percent, 16 percent, 11 percent and 1 percent, respectively. The credit operations also sold retail notes receiving proceeds of $2,968 million during
2002, compared with $1,728 million in 2001. At October 31, 2002 and 2001, net receivables and leases administered, which include receivables and leases previously sold but still administered, were $15,363 million and $14,950 million, respectively.

Trade receivables held by the credit operations decreased by $88 million in 2002 (see following consolidated
discussion).

Total external interest-bearing debt of the credit operations was $10,001 million at the end of
2002, compared with $9,776 million at the end of 2001 and $7,878 million at the end of 2000. Total external borrowings have increased generally corresponding with the level of the receivable and lease portfolio, the level of cash and cash
equivalents and the change in payables owed to the Equipment Operations. The credit subsidiaries’ ratio of total interest-bearing debt to total stockholder’s equity was 5.6 to 1 at the end of 2002, compared with 5.6 to 1 at the end of 2001
and 6.7 to 1 at the end of 2000.

During 2002, the credit operations issued $1,500 million of 7% global notes due
in 2012 and entered into interest rate swaps related to these notes, which swapped the fixed rate to a variable rate of approximately 2.8% at October 31, 2002. In 2002, the credit operations also issued $500 million of 4.5% global notes due in 2007
and entered into interest rate swaps related to $450 million of these notes, which swapped the fixed rate to a variable rate of approximately 2.5% as of October 31, 2002. During 2002, the credit operations retired $300 million of 7% notes due in
2002. The credit operations issued $1,865 million and retired $2,395 million of other long-term borrowings, which were primarily medium-term notes.

In December 2002, the credit operations issued $300 million of 3.1% medium-term notes due in 2005 and entered into interest rate swaps related to $150 million of these notes, which swapped the fixed
rate to a variable rate of 1.7% as of December 11, 2002.

CONSOLIDATED

Sources of liquidity for the company include cash and short-term investments, funds from operations, the issuance of commercial paper and term debt, the securitization and sale of retail
notes, and committed and uncommitted, unsecured bank lines of credit.

To access public debt capital markets, the
company relies on credit rating agencies to assign short-term and long-term credit ratings to the company’s securities as an indicator of credit quality for fixed income investors. A credit rating agency may change company ratings based on its
assessment of the company’s current and future ability to meet interest and principal repayment obligations. Such rating changes may impact the availability and cost of funds.

The short-term and long-term debt ratings assigned to company securities by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., Standard & Poor’s, Fitch Ratings and Dominion
Bond Rating Service Limited are investment grade ratings. On May 28, 2002, Standard & Poor’s lowered the senior long-term rating of the company to “A-” from “A,” and the short-term rating to “A-2” from
“A-1.” At the same time, Standard & Poor’s removed the ratings from CreditWatch, where they had been placed on March 11, 2002, and assigned a stable outlook. On May 24, 2002, Fitch Ratings affirmed the company’s “A”
senior long-term and “FI” short-term ratings, while maintaining a negative rating outlook. On March 8, 2002, Dominion Bond Rating Service confirmed the company’s Canadian “R-1 (low)” short-term and “A” long-term
ratings and placed a negative trend on the company’s Canadian long-term rating. On February 15, 2002, Moody’s Investors Service lowered the senior long-term rating of the company to “A-3” from “A-2,” and the short-term
rating to “Prime-2” from “Prime-1.” Moody’s assigned a stable outlook as part of this rating action. Lower credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to debt capital markets.


The company expects to have
sufficient sources of liquidity to meet its funding needs in both the Equipment Operations and Financial Services businesses. The company’s worldwide commercial paper outstanding at October 31, 2002 and 2001 was approximately $1.8 billion and
$3.2 billion, respectively, while the total cash and short-term investment position was $2.8 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. In addition, the company’s credit operations have for many years accessed diverse funding sources, including
short- and long-term unsecured debt capital markets in the United States, Canada, Europe and Australia, as well as public and private securitization markets in the United States and Canada. In order to further enhance its liquidity profile, the
company has decreased its commercial paper balances and increased its use of long-term debt since October 2001. Because of the multiple funding sources that have been and continue to be available to the company, the lowering of the company’s
credit ratings has not had, and is not expected to have, a material impact on its ability to fund its operations and maintain its liquidity.

The company maintains unsecured lines of credit with various United States and foreign banks. The discussion in Note 16 provides further information.

Trade accounts and notes receivable arise from sales of goods to dealers. Trade receivables decreased by $189 million in 2002. Total
worldwide agricultural equipment trade receivables decreased $70 million, commercial and consumer equipment receivables decreased $132 million, construction and forestry receivables increased $14 million and other equipment receivables decreased $1
million. The ratios of trade accounts and notes receivable at October 31 to fiscal year net sales were 23 percent in 2002, compared with 26 percent in 2001 and 28 percent in 2000. The collection period for trade receivables averages less than 12
months. The percentage of receivables outstanding for a period exceeding 12 months was 6 percent at October 31, 2002, compared with 11 percent at October 31, 2001 and 8 percent at October 31, 2000.

Stockholders’ equity was $3,163 million at October 31, 2002, compared with $3,992 million and $4,302 million at October 31, 2001 and
2000, respectively. The decrease of $829 million resulted primarily from a minimum pension liability adjustment of $1,016 million, dividends declared of $209 million and losses recorded in retained earnings of $32 million related to treasury stock
transactions, partially offset by net income of $319 million, a decrease in treasury stock of $83 million and an unrealized gain on derivatives of $25 million. The minimum pension liability adjustment was recorded based on FASB Statement No. 87,
Employers’ Accounting for Pensions, mainly due to a decrease in the market value of the pension assets. The treasury stock losses represent the difference between the cost of treasury shares and the proceeds from the issuance of these shares
primarily for the exercise of employee stock options.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The preparation of the company’s consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Changes in estimates and assumptions in the policies below could have a
significant effect on the financial statements.

Retirement Benefit Obligations

Pension and other postretirement benefit obligations are based on various assumptions used by the company’s actuaries in calculating these amounts. These
assumptions include discount rates, health care cost trend rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, retirement rates, mortality rates and other factors. Actual results that differ from the assumptions and changes in assumptions
affect future expenses and obligations. For more information concerning these costs and obligations see Note 3.

Allowance for Credit
Losses

The allowance for credit losses represents an estimate of the losses expected from the company’s receivable portfolio.
The level of the allowance is based on many factors, including collection experience, economic conditions and credit risk quality. The adequacy of the allowance is assessed quarterly. Different assumptions or changes in economic conditions would
result in changes to the credit allowance and the provision for credit losses.

Operating Lease Residual Values

The carrying value of equipment on operating leases is affected by the estimated fair values of the equipment at the end of the lease (residual
values). Upon termination of the lease, the equipment is either purchased by the lessee or sold to a third party, in which case the company may record a gain or a loss for the difference between the estimated residual value and the sale price. The
residual values are dependent on current economic conditions and are reviewed quarterly. Changes in residual value assumptions would affect the amount of depreciation expense and the amount of investment in equipment on operating leases.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT RISK INFORMATION

The company is naturally exposed to various interest rate and foreign currency risks. As a result, the company enters into derivative transactions to manage
certain of these exposures that arise in the normal course of business and not for the purpose of creating speculative positions or trading. The company’s credit operations manage the relationship of the types and amounts of their funding
sources to their receivable and lease portfolio in an effort to diminish risk due to interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations, while responding to favorable financing opportunities. Accordingly, from time to time, these operations enter into
interest rate swap agreements to manage their interest rate exposure. The company also has foreign currency exposures at some of its foreign and domestic operations related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the local
currencies. The company has entered into agreements related to the management of these currency transaction risks. The credit risk under these interest rate and foreign currency agreements is not considered to be significant. Additional detailed
financial instrument information is included in Note 25.


Interest Rate Risk

Quarterly, the company uses a combination of cash flow models to assess the sensitivity of its financial instruments with interest rate exposure to changes in
market interest rates. The models calculate the effect of adjusting interest rates as follows. Cash flows for financing receivables are discounted at the current prevailing rate for each receivable portfolio. Cash flows for borrowings are discounted
at the treasury yield curve plus a market credit spread for similarly rated borrowers. Cash flows for interest rate swaps are projected and discounted using forecasted rates from the swap yield curve at the repricing dates. The net loss in these
financial instruments’ fair values which would be caused by decreasing the interest rates by 10 percent from the market rates at October 31, 2002 and 2001 would have been approximately $35 million and $53 million, respectively.

Foreign Currency Risk

In the
Equipment Operations, it is the company’s practice to hedge significant currency exposures. Worldwide foreign currency exposures are reviewed monthly. Based on the Equipment Operations anticipated and committed foreign currency cash inflows and
outflows for the next twelve months and the foreign currency derivatives at year end, the company estimates that a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the United States dollar relative to all other currencies through 2003 would decrease the
2003 expected net cash inflows by $28 million. Similar assumptions and calculations indicated a potential $13 million adverse effect on the 2002 net cash inflows.

In the Financial Services operations, the company’s policy is to hedge the foreign currency risk if the currency of the borrowings does not match the currency of the
receivable portfolio. As a result, a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the value of the United States dollar relative to all other foreign currencies would not have a material effect on the Financial Services cash flows.


D

EERE

& C

OMPANY

STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME

For the Years Ended October 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000

(In millions of dollars except per share amounts)

The notes to consolidated financial statements are
an integral part of this statement.


D

EERE

& C

OMPANY

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

As of October 31, 2002 and 2001

(In millions of dollars except per share amounts)

The notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.


D

EERE

& C

OMPANY

STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS

For the Years Ended October 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000

(In millions of dollars)

The notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.


D

EERE

&

C

OMPANY

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN CONSOLIDATED STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

For the Years Ended October 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002

(in millions of dollars)

The notes to consolidated financial
statements are an integral part of this statement.

*Unamortized restricted stock includes restricted stock issued at market price net of
amortization to compensation expense.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The following are significant accounting policies in addition to those included in other notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements represent the consolidation of all companies in
which Deere & Company has a controlling interest. Deere & Company records its investment in each unconsolidated affiliated company (generally 20 to 50 percent ownership) at its related equity in the net assets of such affiliate. Other
investments (less than 20 percent ownership) are recorded at cost. Consolidated retained earnings at October 31, 2002 include undistributed earnings of the unconsolidated affiliates of $27 million. Dividends from unconsolidated affiliates were $2
million in 2002, $2 million in 2001 and $3 million in 2000 (see Note 6).

Special purpose entities (SPEs) related
to the sale and securitization of financing receivables are not consolidated since the company does not control these entities, and they either meet the requirements of qualified SPEs under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No.
140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, or the company is not the primary beneficiary of the SPE (see Note 10).

Certain amounts for prior years have been reclassified to conform with 2002 financial statement presentations.

Structure of Operations

Certain information in the notes and related
commentary are presented in a format which includes data grouped as follows:

Equipment
Operations

—These data include the company’s agricultural equipment, commercial and consumer equipment, construction and forestry, and special technologies operations with Financial Services reflected on the equity basis.

Financial Services

—These data include the company’s credit and health care operations.

Consolidated

—These data represent the consolidation of the Equipment Operations and Financial Services. References
to “Deere & Company” or “the company” refer to the entire enterprise.

Use of Estimates in Financial
Statements

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and related disclosures. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Revenue Recognition

Sales of equipment and service parts are recorded when title
and all risk of ownership are transferred to the independent dealer based on the agreement in effect with the dealer. In the United States and most international locations,

this transfer occurs when goods are shipped to the dealer. In Canada
and some other international locations, certain goods are shipped to dealers on a consignment basis under which title and risk of ownership are not transferred to the dealer. Accordingly, sales are not recorded until a retail customer has purchased
the goods. In all cases, when a sale is recorded by the company, no significant uncertainty exists surrounding the purchaser’s obligation to pay and no right of return exists. The company makes appropriate provisions based on experience for
costs such as doubtful receivables, sales incentives and product warranty.

Financing revenue is recorded over the
terms of the related receivables using the interest method. Income from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the scheduled lease terms. Health care premiums and fees are recognized as earned over the terms of the policies or
contracts.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

The company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets (including property and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) when events and circumstances warrant such a review. If the
carrying value of the long-lived asset is considered impaired, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair market value of those assets to be held and used, or the fair market value less costs to sell for
those assets to be sold.

Foreign Currency Translation

The functional currencies for most of the company’s foreign operations are their respective local currencies. The assets and liabilities of these operations are translated into United States
dollars at the end of the period exchange rates, and the revenues and expenses are translated at weighted-average rates for the period. The gains or losses from these translations are included in other comprehensive income, which is part of
stockholders’ equity. Gains or losses from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the subsidiary involved are included in net income.

New Accounting Standards

In 2001, the company adopted Emerging Issues Task Force
(EITF) Issue No. 00-10, Accounting for Shipping and Handling Fees and Costs. The Task Force reached a consensus that all shipping and handling amounts billed to a customer in a sale transaction should be classified as revenue. Prior to adoption, the
company offset the amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling with the related costs in costs of sales. The change increased sales and cost of sales in 2001 by $123 million, or 1 percent, with no effect on the company’s financial
position or net income. It was not considered practical to reclassify prior years since this information is captured by many different computer systems around the world. The increase in sales and cost of sales by quarter for 2001 is included in Note
28.

The following FASB Statements have been issued, but not adopted by the company. In 2001, the FASB issued
Statement No. 141, Business Combinations, and Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Statement 141 requires the purchase method of accounting for all business combinations and eliminates the pooling of interests method effective
June 30, 2001. Statement 142 requires goodwill related to acquisitions after June 30, 2001 not to be amortized and written down only for impairments. Upon adoption of this Statement, the same accounting will apply to goodwill related to acquisitions
prior to June 30, 2001. The company will adopt Statement 142 in the first quarter of fiscal 2003. The company’s amortization of goodwill during fiscal year 2002 was $58 million pretax and $53 million after-tax. In 2001, the FASB issued
Statement No. 143,


Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which requires legal
obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets to be recorded as increases in costs of the related assets. In 2001, the FASB issued Statement No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. This Statement
retains the previous cash flow test for impairment and broadens the presentation of discontinued operations. In 2002, the FASB issued Statement No. 146, Accounting for the Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. Statement No. 146 requires
companies to recognize liabilities and costs associated with exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002 when they are incurred, rather than when management commits to a plan to exit an activity. Except for the discontinuance of
the amortization of goodwill, the company does not expect the adoption of these Statements to have a material effect on the company’s financial position or net income.

Significant Events

In October 2001, the Equipment Operations in the United States
sold $2.2 billion of trade receivables to Deere Capital, Inc. (DCI), a wholly-owned Financial Services subsidiary of John Deere Capital Corporation. In 2002, these operations continued to sell a significant portion of newly originated trade
receivables to the credit operations. During 2002, the overseas Equipment Operations also began selling certain trade receivables to John Deere Finance S.A., a wholly-owned overseas Financial Services subsidiary of the Capital Corporation. The
Equipment Operations provided compensation to the credit operations at market rates of interest for these receivables during 2002. Although this arrangement had substantially no effect on consolidated net income, it did shift net income and
operating profit from the Equipment Operations to the credit operations due to the compensation in 2002. Responsibility for servicing these receivables in the United States was also transferred to the credit operations.

2.

SPECIAL ITEMS

In 2002
and the fourth quarter of 2001, the company announced certain actions aimed at increasing efficiency and reducing costs. Following are tables of the reserves and liabilities required during these periods and descriptions of these actions.


The
reserves and liabilities for special items at October 31 in millions of dollars and the number of employees to be terminated were as follows:

*

In addition to these reserves and accruals, the company recognized $3 million of early-retirement benefits and $11 million of other non-accruable restructuring
costs for a total of $72 million.

**

The decrease in the termination benefits liability is not proportional to the employees terminated since certain benefits related to past services are not paid
immediately upon termination.

The costs for special items in 2002 totaled $72 million consisting
of $71 million of cost of sales and $1 million of other expenses, as discussed below. The beginning liabilities and reserves shown above relate to special items shown in the following table for 2001.

In 2002, the company’s commercial and consumer equipment segment announced plans to close facilities in
Williamsburg, Virginia and Jeffersonville, Indiana and streamline operations at Horicon, Wisconsin. As a result of these actions, a cost of $38 million was recognized, partially offset set by $14 million of adjustments related to exiting the
hand-held consumer products business (see following discussion for 2001). The net restructuring cost of $24 million consisted of property and equipment write-downs of $6 million, inventory write-downs of $1 million, contract terminations of $8
million, termination benefits of $3 million for approximately 200 employees and other costs of $6 million.

In
2002, the construction and forestry segment announced plans to close the Loudon, Tennessee factory and relocate the skid- steer loader production to its Dubuque, Iowa facility. Primarily as a result of this closure, a total cost of $27 million was
recognized consisting of property and equipment write-downs of $14 million,


inventory write-downs of $1 million, contract terminations of $4
million, termination benefits of $4 million for approximately 400 employees and other costs of $4 million.

In
2002, the company’s agricultural equipment segment recognized $12 million of impairment and reorganization costs primarily in its Argentina operations consisting of property and equipment write-downs of $8 million, inventory write-downs of $2
million, termination benefits of $1 million for approximately 100 employees and other costs of $1 million. The company’s special technologies group recognized $9 million of costs primarily related to the closure of a facility in Springfield,
Illinois and the restructuring of Agris Corporation. These costs consisted of termination benefits of $4 million for approximately 200 employees, property and equipment write-downs of $1 million, inventory write-downs of $1 million and other costs
of $3 million.


The reserves and liabilities for special items at October 31 in millions of dollars and the number of employees to be terminated were as follows:


Employees to be terminated

1,000

*

In the fourth quarter of 2001, the company accrued voluntary early-retirement benefits based on acceptances to be paid from pension assets as pension payments
are made.

The costs for special items in 2001 totaled $344 million consisting of $255 million of
cost of sales and $89 million of selling, administrative and general expenses as discussed below.

In the fourth
quarter of 2001, the company announced plans to exit the hand-held consumer products business included in the commercial and consumer equipment segment. Affected by this decision were consumer products operations and employees primarily in the
southeastern United States and Mexico. The company sold its hand-held consumer products operations in Chihuahua, Mexico and other United States facilities related to this business. As a result, a total cost of $132 million was recognized consisting
of $15 million for termination benefits for approximately 700 employees, contract terminations of $27 million, product warranties and returns of $16 million, impairment write-downs of $33 million for inventory and $35 million for property and
equipment, and other costs of $6 million. The hand-held consumer products operations had revenues of $240 million and $235 million during 2001 and 2000, respectively. During the same periods, pretax operating losses were $72 million and $70 million,
excluding the restructuring costs as discussed above.

In the fourth quarter of 2001, the company also announced
plans to reduce manufacturing and marketing costs in the construction and forestry segment. These plans included employee separations, the closing or sale of certain forestry equipment operations in Bessemer, Alabama; Atlanta, Georgia; and
Woodstock, Ontario. As a result, a total cost of $23 million was recognized consisting of $11 million for termination benefits for approximately 300 employees, a write-off of goodwill of $5 million, impairment write-downs of property and equipment
of $3 million and other costs of $4 million.

During the fourth quarter of 2001, the
company also offered voluntary early-retirement programs primarily to certain United States employees whose age plus years of service equaled 80 or more by October 31, 2001. Based on acceptances received, the company recorded an expense of $189
million pretax for the cost of the special retirement benefits and related curtailment costs consisting of $132 million in cost of sales and $57 million in selling, administrative and general expenses. The voluntary early-retirement liability is
being paid from the pension assets over the remaining lives of the retirees and dependents as pension payments are made (see Note 3).

3.

PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

The company has several defined benefit pension plans covering its United States employees and employees in certain foreign countries. The company also has several defined benefit health care and life insurance plans for
retired employees in the United States and Canada.

The worldwide components of net periodic pension cost and the
significant assumptions consisted of the following in millions of dollars and in percents:


The worldwide components of net
periodic postretirement benefits cost and the significant assumptions consisted of the following in millions of dollars and in percents:

The total special early-retirement benefits were $3 million in 2002
and $189 million in 2001, including curtailments (see Note 2).

The annual rates of increase in the per capita
cost of covered health care benefits (the health care cost trend rates) used to determine 2002, 2001 and 2000 costs were assumed to be 5.0 percent for 2003 and all future years, 4.5 percent in 2002 and all future years and 4.5 percent for 2001 and
all future years, respectively. The annual rates of increase in the per capita cost for the October 31, 2002 health care obligations were 9.0 percent for 2003, 7.0 percent for 2004 and 5.0 percent for all future years. An increase of one percentage
point in the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations at October 31, 2002 by $438 million and the aggregate of service and interest cost component of net periodic postretirement benefits
cost for that year by $36 million. A decrease of one percentage point would decrease the obligations by $392 million and the cost by $32 million.

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects management’s expectations of long-term average rates of earnings on funds invested to provide for benefits included in the projected
benefit obligations. The return is based on the outlook for inflation, fixed income returns and equity returns, while also considering the plans’ historical returns, its asset allocation and investment strategy, as well as the views of
investment managers and other large pension plan sponsors. Although not a guarantee of future results, the average annual return of the company’s United States pension fund was 10.2 percent in the past ten years and 11.5 percent in the past 20
years. The expected long-term rate of return, which will be used beginning in fiscal year 2003, will be 8.5 percent for the United States plans. The discount rate assumption is based on investment yields available on AA rated long-term corporate
bonds.

A worldwide reconciliation of the funded status of the benefit plans at October 31 in millions of dollars
follows:

The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation
and fair value of plan assets for pension plans with the accumulated benefit obligations greater than plan assets at October 31, 2002 were $6,722 million, $6,375 million and $4,849 million, respectively, and at October 31, 2001 were $407 million,
$366 million and $29 million, respectively.


4. INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes by taxing jurisdiction and by significant component
consisted of the following in millions of dollars:

Based upon location of the company’s operations, the
consolidated income (loss) before income taxes in the United States in 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $327 million, $(227) million and $504 million, respectively, and in foreign countries was $276 million, $202 million and $274 million, respectively.
Certain foreign operations are branches of Deere & Company and are, therefore, subject to United States as well as foreign income tax regulations. The pretax income by location and the preceding analysis of the income tax provision by taxing
jurisdiction are, therefore, not directly related.

A comparison of the statutory and effective income tax
provision and reasons for related differences in millions of dollars follow:

At October 31, 2002, accumulated earnings in certain overseas
subsidiaries totaled $574 million for which no provision for United States income taxes or foreign withholding taxes has been made, because it is expected that such earnings will be reinvested overseas indefinitely. Determination of the amount of
unrecognized deferred tax liability on these unremitted earnings is not practical.

Deferred income taxes arise
because there are certain items that are treated differently for financial accounting than for income tax reporting purposes. An analysis of the deferred income tax assets and liabilities at October 31 in millions of dollars follows:

Deere & Company files a consolidated federal income tax return
in the United States, which includes the wholly-owned Financial Services subsidiaries. These subsidiaries account for income taxes generally as if they filed separate income tax returns.

At October 31, 2002, certain tax loss and tax credit carryforwards for $47 million were available with $2 million expiring from 2006 through 2008 and $45 million with an
unlimited expiration date.

5. OTHER INCOME AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES

The major components of other income and other operating expenses consisted of the following in millions of
dollars:

*

Includes securitizations and other sales of retail notes and leases.

**

Includes fire insurance settlements in 2002.

***

Includes Argentine peso devaluation losses in 2002.


6. UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATED COMPANIES

Unconsolidated affiliated companies are companies in which
Deere & Company generally owns 20 percent to 50 percent of the outstanding voting shares. Deere & Company does not control these companies and accounts for its investments in them on the equity basis. The investment in these companies
primarily consist of Deere-Hitachi Construction Machinery Corporation (50 percent ownership), Nortrax Inc. (40-41 percent ownership), Bell Equipment Limited (32 percent ownership) and Sunstate Equipment Co., LLC (46 percent ownership). These
companies manufacture, market or rent equipment. Deere & Company’s share of the income of these companies is reported in the consolidated income statement under “Equity in Income (Loss) of Unconsolidated Affiliates.” The
investment in these companies is reported in the consolidated balance sheet under “Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates.”

Summarized financial information of the unconsolidated affiliated companies in millions of dollars is as follows:

7. MARKETABLE SECURITIES

Marketable securities are currently held by the health care subsidiaries. All marketable securities are classified
as available-for-sale under FASB Statement No. 115, with unrealized gains and losses shown as a component of stockholders’ equity. Realized gains or losses from the sales of marketable securities are based on the specific identification method.

The amortized cost and fair value of marketable securities in millions of dollars follow:

The contractual maturities of debt securities at October 31, 2002
in millions of dollars follow:

Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because
some securities may be called or prepaid. Proceeds from the sales of available-for-sale securities were $34 million in 2002, $7 million in 2001 and $205 million in 2000. In 2002 and 2001, realized gains and losses were not significant. In 2000,
realized gains were $20 million and realized losses were $13 million. Proceeds in 2000 include the sale of securities that were previously transferred to Deere & Company from John Deere Insurance Group, Inc. prior to the sale of this subsidiary
in 1999. The increase (decrease) in the net unrealized gain after income taxes was $1 million, $4 million and $(5) million during 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

8. TRADE ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE

Trade accounts and notes receivable at October 31 consisted of the following in millions of dollars:

*

Restated due to transfer of production of skid-steer loaders from commercial and consumer to construction and forestry (see Note 27).

In 2002 and 2001, the Equipment Operations sold trade receivables to the credit operations (see Note 1).

At October 31, 2002 and 2001, dealer notes included in the previous table were $472 million and $583 million, and
the allowance for doubtful trade receivables was $45 million and $51 million, respectively.

Trade accounts and
notes receivable arise from sales of goods to dealers. Under the terms of the sales to dealers, interest is charged to dealers on outstanding balances, from the earlier of the date when goods are sold to retail customers by the dealer or the
expiration of certain interest-free periods granted at the time of the sale to the dealer, until payment is received by the company. Dealers cannot cancel purchases after goods are shipped and are responsible for payment even if the equipment is not
sold to retail customers. The interest-free periods are determined based on the type of equipment sold and the time of year of the sale. These periods range from one to 12 months for agricultural tractors, from one to eight months for most
construction and forestry equipment, and from one to 24 months for most other equipment. Interest-free periods may not be extended. Interest charged may not be forgiven and interest


rates, which exceed the prime rate, are set based on
market factors. The company evaluates and assesses dealers on an ongoing basis as to their credit worthiness and generally retains a security interest in the goods associated with these trade receivables. The company is obligated to repurchase goods
sold to a dealer upon cancellation or termination of the dealer’s contract for such causes as change in ownership, closeout of the business or default. The company may also in certain circumstances repurchase goods sold to a dealer in order to
satisfy a request for goods from another dealer.

Trade accounts and notes receivable have significant
concentrations of credit risk in the agricultural, commercial and consumer, and construction and forestry sectors as shown in the previous table. On a geographic basis, there is not a disproportionate concentration of credit risk in any area.

9. FINANCING RECEIVABLES

Financing receivables at October 31 consisted of the following in millions of dollars:

Financing receivables have significant concentrations of credit
risk in the agricultural, commercial and consumer, construction and forestry and recreational product business sectors as shown in the previous table. In 2001, the credit operations discontinued the financing of new recreational product retail
notes. On a geographic basis, there is not a disproportionate concentration of credit risk in any area. The company retains as collateral a security interest in the equipment associated with retail notes, wholesale notes and financing leases.

Financing receivable installments, including unearned finance income, at October 31 are scheduled as follows in
millions of dollars:

The maximum terms for retail notes are generally eight years for
agricultural equipment, six years for commercial and consumer equipment, five years for construction and forestry equipment, and 15 years for recreational products. The maximum term for financing leases is generally five years, while the maximum
term for wholesale notes is generally 12 months.

At October 31, 2002 and 2001, the unpaid balances of retail
notes and leases previously sold by the credit operations were $2,621 million and $1,647 million, respectively. The retail notes sold are collateralized by security interests in the related equipment sold to customers. At October 31, 2002 and 2001,
worldwide financing receivables administered, which include financing receivables and leases previously sold but still administered, totaled $11,689 million and $10,846 million, respectively.

Total financing receivable amounts 60 days or more past due were $57 million at October 31, 2002, compared with $61 million at October 31, 2001. These past-due amounts
represented .62 percent of the receivables financed at October 31, 2002 and .66 percent at October 31, 2001. The allowance for doubtful financing receivables represented 1.48 percent and 1.35 percent of financing receivables outstanding at October
31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. In addition, at October 31, 2002 and 2001, the company’s credit operations had $153 million and $148 million, respectively, of deposits withheld from dealers and merchants available for potential credit losses.
An analysis of the allowance for doubtful financing receivables follows in millions of dollars:

10. SALE AND SECURITIZATION OF FINANCING RECEIVABLES

The company periodically sells receivables to special purpose entities (SPEs) in
securitizations of retail notes. It retains interest-only strips, servicing rights, and in some cases cash reserve accounts, all of which are retained interests in the securitized receivables. Gains or losses on sales of the receivables depend in
part on the previous carrying amount of the financial assets involved in the transfer, allocated between the assets sold and the retained interests based on their relative fair values at the date of transfer.


The company generally estimates fair values based on
the present value of future expected cash flows using management’s key assumptions as discussed below. The company receives annual servicing fees approximating 1 percent of the outstanding balance, and rights to future cash flows. The
company’s maximum exposure under recourse provisions related to securitizations at October 31, 2002 and 2001 was $209 million and $176 million, respectively. Except for this exposure, the investors and securitization trusts have no recourse to
the company for failure of debtors to pay when due. The company’s retained interests, which are included in the recourse provisions, are subordinate to investors’ interests, and their values are subject to certain key assumptions as shown
below. The total assets and liabilities of the unconsolidated SPEs related to securitizations at October 31, 2002 were $2,720 million and $2,638 million, respectively.

The company recognized pretax gains on retail notes securitized during 2002 and 2001 of $71 million and $12 million, respectively. Key assumptions used to initially
determine the fair value of the retained interests in 2002 and 2001 included weighted-average maturities of 19 months and 20 months, average annual prepayment rates of 22 percent and 20 percent, expected annual credit losses of .42 percent and .30
percent, and discount rates on retained interests and subordinate tranches of 13 percent and 13 percent, respectively.

Cash flows received from securitization trusts in millions of dollars were as follows:



Proceeds from new securitizations

$

2,870

$


Servicing fees received



Other cash flows received



The total retained interests, weighted-average life,
weighted-average current key economic assumptions and the sensitivity analysis showing the hypothetical effects on the retained interests from immediate 10 percent and 20 percent adverse changes in those assumptions with dollars in millions were as
follows:

These sensitivities are hypothetical changes in fair value and
cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the changes in assumption to the changes in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption is calculated without changing any other assumption, whereas,
changes in one factor may result in changes in another. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that actual results would be consistent with the results of these estimates.

Principal balances of owned, securitized and managed retail notes; past due amounts; and credit losses (net of recoveries) in millions of dollars follow:

The amount of actual and projected future credit losses as a
percent of the original balance of retail notes securitized (expected static pool losses) were as follows:

Retail Notes Securitized In



Actual and Projected Losses (%) as of Year End:


.61%

.57%


.61%

11. OTHER RECEIVABLES

Other receivables at October 31 consisted of the following in millions of dollars:

The credit operations’ receivables related to securitizations
are equal to the present value of payments to be received for certain retained interests and deposits made with other entities for recourse provisions under the retail note sales agreements.

12. EQUIPMENT ON OPERATING LEASES

Operating leases arise primarily from the leasing of John Deere equipment to retail customers. Initial lease terms generally range from 36 to 60 months. Net equipment on operating leases totaled $1,609
million and $1,939 million at October 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the terms of the leases. The accumulated depreciation on this equipment was $614 million and $577 million at October
31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The corresponding depreciation expense was $316 million in 2002, $318 million in 2001 and $280 million in 2000.

Future payments to be received on operating leases totaled $645 million at October 31, 2002 and are scheduled as follows in millions of dollars: 2003—$293, 2004—$189, 2005—$102,
2006—$46 and 2007—$15.


13. INVENTORIES

Most inventories owned by Deere & Company and its United States equipment subsidiaries
are valued at cost, on the “last-in, first-out” (LIFO) basis. Remaining inventories are generally valued at the lower of cost, on the “first-in, first-out” (FIFO) basis, or market. The value of gross inventories on the LIFO basis
represented 72 percent and 70 percent of worldwide gross inventories at FIFO value on October 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. If all inventories had been valued on a FIFO basis, estimated inventories by major classification at October 31 in
millions of dollars would have been as follows:

14. PROPERTY AND DEPRECIATION

A summary of property and equipment at October 31 in millions of dollars follows:

Leased property under capital leases amounting to $12 million and
$15 million at October 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, is included in property and equipment.

Property and
equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Property and equipment additions in 2002, 2001 and 2000 were $358 million, $500 million and $422 million and depreciation was $310 million, $308 million and $292 million, respectively.
Property and equipment expenditures for new and revised products, increased capacity and the replacement or major renewal of significant items of property and equipment are capitalized. Expenditures for maintenance, repairs and minor renewals are
generally charged to expense as incurred. Most of the company’s property and equipment is depreciated using the straight-line method for financial accounting purposes. Depreciation for United States federal income tax purposes is computed using
accelerated depreciation methods.

Capitalized software is stated at cost less accumulated amortization. The
amount of total capitalized software costs, including purchased and internally developed software, classified as “Other Assets” at October 31, 2002 and 2001 was $238 million and $218 million, less accumulated of $170 million and $138
million, respectively. Amortization of these software costs was $38 million, $31 million and $29 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

The cost of compliance with foreseeable environmental requirements has been accrued and did not have a material effect on the company’s financial position or results of operations.

15. INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Net intangible assets consisted of the following in millions of dollars:

Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortization.
Intangible assets, excluding the intangible pension asset, are amortized over 30 years or less on the straight-line basis. Accumulated amortization was $233 million and $183 million at October 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The intangible pension
asset is remeasured and adjusted annually. The unamortized goodwill is reviewed annually or as events and circumstances change for potential impairment. Upon adoption of FASB Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, in the first
quarter of fiscal 2003, goodwill will no longer be amortized and will be written down only for impairments (see Note 1).

16.
SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

Short-term borrowings at October 31
consisted of the following in millions of dollars:

The weighted-average interest rates on total short-term borrowings,
excluding current maturities of long-term borrowings, at October 31, 2002 and 2001 were 2.8 percent and 3.3 percent, respectively. All of the Financial Services’ short-term borrowings represent obligations of the credit subsidiaries.


Unsecured lines of credit
available from United States and foreign banks were $4,406 million at October 31, 2002. Some of these credit lines are available to both Deere & Company and John Deere Capital Corporation. At October 31, 2002, $2,465 million of these worldwide
lines of credit were unused. For the purpose of computing the unused credit lines, commercial paper and short-term bank borrowings, excluding the current maturities of long-term borrowings, were considered to constitute utilization.

Included in the above lines of credit is a long-term committed credit agreement expiring in February 2006 for $2,150 million.
The agreement is mutually extendable and the annual facility fee is not significant. The credit agreement has various requirements of John Deere Capital Corporation, including the maintenance of its consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed charges at
not less than 1.05 to 1 for each fiscal quarter and the ratio of senior debt to total stockholder’s equity plus subordinated debt at not more than 8 to 1 at the end of any fiscal quarter. The credit agreement also contains a provision requiring
Deere & Company to maintain consolidated tangible net worth of $500 million according to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America in effect at October 31, 1998. Under this provision, $1,815 million of the
company’s retained earnings balance was free of restriction at October 31, 2002.

Deere & Company has an
agreement with John Deere Capital Corporation pursuant to which it has agreed to continue to own at least 51 percent of the voting shares of capital stock of the Capital Corporation and to maintain the Capital Corporation’s consolidated
tangible net worth at not less than $50 million. This agreement also obligates Deere & Company to make income maintenance payments to the Capital Corporation such that its consolidated ratio of earnings before fixed charges to fixed charges is
not less than 1.05 to 1 for any fiscal quarter. Deere & Company’s obligations to make payments to the Capital Corporation under the agreement are independent of whether the Capital Corporation is in default on its indebtedness, obligations
or other liabilities. Further, the company’s obligations under the agreement are not measured by the amount of the Capital Corporation’s indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities. Deere & Company’s obligations to make
payments under this agreement are expressly stated not to be a guaranty of any specific indebtedness, obligation or liability of the Capital Corporation and are enforceable only by or in the name of the Capital Corporation.

17. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES

Accounts payable and accrued expenses at October 31 consisted of the following in millions of dollars:

*

Includes trade receivable valuation accounts of $314 million and $354 million at October 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, reclassified as accrued expenses by
the Equipment Operations as a result of trade receivable sold to Financial Services (see  Note 1).


18. LONG-TERM BORROWINGS

Long-term borrowings at October 31 consisted of the following in millions of
dollars:

*

Includes fair value adjustments related to interest rate swaps.

**

All interest rates are as of year end.

All of the Financial Services’ long-term borrowings represent obligations of the credit subsidiaries.

The approximate amounts of the Equipment Operations’ long-term borrowings maturing in each of the next five years in millions of dollars are as follows: 2003—$16, 2004—$262,
2005—$27, 2006—$272 and 2007—$1. The approximate amounts of the credit subsidiaries’ long-term borrowings maturing in each of the next five years in millions of dollars are as follows: 2003—$2,471, 2004—$1,744,
2005—$444, 2006—$858 and 2007—$754.

19. LEASES

At October 31, 2002, future minimum lease payments under capital leases totaled $11 million. Total rental expense
for operating leases was $95 million in 2002, $90 million in 2001 and $73 million in 2000. At October 31, 2002, future minimum lease payments under operating leases amounted to $345 million as follows: 2003—$84, 2004—$57, 2005—$45,
2006—$32, 2007—$48 and later years $79. See Note 20 for operating leases with residual value guarantees.

20. COMMITMENTS
AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

At October 31, 2002, the
company’s maximum exposure under all financing receivable and lease recourse provisions was $211 million. At October 31, 2002, the company had commitments of approximately $88 million for construction and acquisition of property and equipment.
The company had indemnification agreements totaling $34 million related to various performance bonds, pledged assets of $25 million, primarily outside the United States, as collateral for borrowings, and $15 million of restricted investments related
to conducting the health care business in various states at October 31, 2002. The company also had other miscellaneous contingent liabilities totaling less than $25 million at October 31, 2002.

At October 31, 2002, the company had guaranteed approximately $80 million of residual values for five operating leases related to certain buildings. The company is
obligated at the end of each lease term to pay to the lessor any reduction in market value of the leased property up to the guaranteed residual value. The company recognizes the expense for these future estimated lease payments over the lives of the
operating leases. The leases have terms expiring from 2004 to 2007 and are with various major financial institutions.

The company has certain minority ownership interests in unconsolidated affiliates in which the majority owners have put options to require the company to purchase their interests. These puts could be exercised over a two-year window
which begins December 2004 to March 2005 and total approximately $170 million to $250 million, depending on whether they are exercised on the first or last day of the period. If the company’s rating on its senior unsecured debt falls below Baa3
from Moody’s Investors Service or BBB- from Standard & Poor’s, these puts could be exercised immediately for approximately $150 million. A discussion of the company’s debt ratings is included in Management’s Discussion and
Analysis under Capital Resources and Liquidity. The company also has call options to acquire the majority owners’ interests. These calls can be exercised over a two-year window beginning December 2003 to March 2004 and total approximately $165
million to $260 million, depending on whether they are exercised on the first or last day of the period.


John Deere B.V., located in the
Netherlands, is a consolidated indirect wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the company. The debt securities of John Deere B.V., including those which are registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, are fully and
unconditionally guaranteed by the company.

The company is subject to various unresolved legal actions which arise
in the normal course of its business, the most prevalent of which relate to product liability (including asbestos related liability), retail credit, software licensing, patent and trademark matters. Although it is not possible to predict with
certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal actions or the range of possible loss, the company believes these unresolved legal actions will not have a material effect on its financial statements.

21. CAPITAL STOCK

Changes in the common stock account in 2000, 2001 and 2002 in millions were as follows:

The number of common shares the company is authorized to issue is
600 million and the number of authorized preferred shares, none of which has been issued, is 9 million.

A
reconciliation of basic and diluted net income per share follows in millions, except per share amounts:

Stock options to purchase 2.8 million shares, 3.0 million shares
and 2.9 million shares during 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, were outstanding, but not included in the preceding diluted per share computation because the options’ exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the
company’s common stock during the related periods.

22. STOCK OPTION AND RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS

The company issues stock options and restricted stock to key employees under plans
approved by stockholders. Restricted stock is also issued to nonemployee directors under a plan approved by stockholders. Options are generally awarded with the exercise price equal to the market price and become exercisable in one to three years
after grant. Certain other options have been awarded with the

exercise prices greater than the market price and become exercisable in one year or longer after grant, depending
on the achievement of company performance goals. Options generally expire 10 years after the date of grant. According to these plans at October 31, 2002, the company is authorized to grant an additional 5.8 million shares related to stock options or
restricted stock.

The company has retained the intrinsic value method of accounting for its plan in accordance
with APB Opinion No. 25, and no compensation expense for stock options was recognized under this method. For disclosure purposes under FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, the Black-Scholes option pricing model was used
to calculate the “fair values” of stock options on the date the options were awarded. Based on this model, the weighted-average fair values of stock options awarded during 2002, 2001 and 2000 with the exercise price equal to the market
price were $11.42, $12.06 and $12.06 per option, respectively.

Pro forma net income and earnings per share, as if
the fair value method in FASB Statement No. 123 had been used to account for stock-based compensation, and the assumptions used were as follows:

*

Weighted-averages

During the last three fiscal years, shares under option in millions were as follows:

*

Weighted-averages


Options outstanding and
exercisable in millions at October 31, 2002 were as follows:

*

Weighted averages

In 2002, 2001, and 2000, the company granted 12,711, 44,001 and 53,956 shares of restricted stock with weighted-average fair values of $48.43, $41.96 and $37.55 per share, respectively. The total compensation expense for the
restricted stock plans, which is being amortized over the restricted periods, was $2 million, none and $9 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The amortization in 2001 was offset by decreases in estimates of restricted stock to be issued.

23. EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE AND SAVINGS PLANS

The company maintains the following significant plans for eligible United States employees:

John Deere Savings and Investment Plan, for salaried employees

John Deere Stock Purchase Plan, for salaried employees

John Deere Tax Deferred Savings Plan, for wage employees

Company contributions under these plans
were $21 million in 2002, $34 million in 2001 and $27 million in 2000.

24. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ITEMS

Other comprehensive income items under FASB Statement No. 130 are transactions
recorded in stockholders’ equity during the year, excluding net income and transactions with stockholders. Following are the items included in other comprehensive income (loss) and the related tax effects in millions of dollars:

25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The fair values of financial instruments which do not approximate the carrying values in the financial statements
at October 31 in millions of dollars follow:

Fair Value Estimates

Fair values of the long-term financing receivables with fixed rates were based on the discounted values of their related cash flows at current market interest rates. The
fair values of the remaining financing receivables approximated the carrying amounts.

Fair values of long-term
borrowings with fixed rates were based on the discounted values of their related cash flows at current market interest rates. Certain long-term borrowings have been swapped to current variable interest rates. The carrying values of these long-term
borrowings include adjustments related to fair value hedges under FASB Statement No. 133, which was adopted in 2001.

Derivatives

It is the company’s policy that derivative transactions are executed only to manage exposures arising in
the normal course of business and not for the purpose of creating speculative positions or trading.


The company’s credit operations manage the
relationship of the types and amounts of their funding sources to their receivable and lease portfolio in an effort to diminish risk due to interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations, while responding to favorable financing opportunities. The
company also has foreign currency exposures at some of its foreign and domestic operations related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the local currencies.

Interest Rate Swaps

The company enters into interest rate
swap agreements primarily to more closely match the fixed or floating interest rates of the credit operations’ borrowings to those of the assets being funded.

Certain interest rate swaps were designated as hedges of future cash flows from commercial paper and variable interest rate borrowings. The effective portion of the fair
value gains or losses on these cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified into interest expense as payments are accrued and the swaps approach maturity. These amounts offset the effects of interest rate
changes on the related borrowings. The amount of the loss recorded in other comprehensive income at October 31, 2002 that is expected to be reclassified to earnings in the next 12 months if interest rates remain unchanged is approximately $26
million after-tax. These swaps mature in up to 55 months.

Certain interest rate swaps were designated as fair
value hedges of fixed-rate, long-term borrowings. The effective portion of the fair value gains or losses on these swaps were offset by fair value adjustments in the underlying borrowings.

Any ineffective portions of the gains or losses on all cash flow and fair value interest rate swaps designated as hedges were recognized immediately in interest expense and
were not material. The amounts of gains or losses reclassified from unrealized in other comprehensive income to realized in earnings as a result of the discontinuance of cash flow hedges were not material. There were no components of cash flow or
fair value hedges that were excluded from the assessment of effectiveness.

The company has certain interest rate
swap agreements that are not designated as hedges under FASB Statement No. 133 and the fair value gains or losses are recognized directly in earnings. These instruments relate to swaps that are used to facilitate securitization transactions and
certain borrowings.

Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts, Swaps and Options

The company has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts, swaps and purchased options in order to manage the currency exposure of certain receivables,
liabilities, borrowings and expected inventory purchases. These derivatives were not designated as hedges under FASB Statement No. 133. The fair value gains or losses from these foreign currency derivatives are recognized directly in earnings,
generally offsetting the foreign exchange gain or losses on the exposures being managed.

The company has
designated cross currency interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of certain long-term borrowings. The effective portion of the fair value gains or losses on these swaps are offset by fair value adjustments in the underlying borrowings and the
ineffectiveness was not material. The company has also designated foreign exchange forward contracts and currency swaps as cash flow hedges of long-term borrowings. The effective portion of the fair value gains or losses on these forward contracts
and swaps is recorded in other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified into earnings as payments are accrued and these instruments approach maturity. This will offset the exchange rate effects on the borrowing being hedged and the
ineffectiveness was not material.

26.    CASH FLOW INFORMATION

For purposes of the statement of consolidated cash flows, the company considers investments with
original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Substantially all of the company’s short-term borrowings, excluding the current maturities of long-term borrowings, mature within three months or less.

In 2002 and 2001, the Equipment Operations cash flows from operations had a positive cash flow included in their decrease in receivables
related to the sale of trade receivables to Financial Services (see Notes 1 and 29). The Financial Services cash flows from investing activities had an offsetting cash outflow included in their cost of receivables acquired. These intercompany cash
flows have been eliminated in the consolidated cash flows.

Cash payments for interest and income taxes consisted
of the following in millions of dollars:

*

Includes interest compensation to Financial Services for financing trade receivables.

27.    SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA DATA FOR THE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000

The company’s operations are organized and reported in four major business segments described as follows
(Also see Part I, Item 1, of the company’s Form 10-K):

The agricultural equipment segment manufactures and
distributes a full line of farm equipment and service parts—including tractors; combine, cotton and sugarcane harvesters; tillage, seeding and soil preparation machinery; sprayers; hay and forage equipment; material handling equipment; and
integrated agricultural management systems technology.

The commercial and consumer equipment segment
manufacturers and distributes equipment and service parts for commercial and residential uses—including small tractors for lawn, garden, commercial and utility purposes; riding and walk-behind mowers; golf course equipment; utility vehicles;
landscape and irrigation equipment; and other outdoor power products. As of November 1, 2001, the design, manufacture and distribution of skid-steer loaders were transferred from the commercial and consumer equipment segment to the construction and
forestry segment and the information for both segments has been restated for 2001 and 2000.


The construction and forestry
segment manufactures and distributes a broad range of machines and service parts used in construction, earthmoving, material handling and timber harvesting—including backhoe loaders; crawler dozers and loaders; four-wheel-drive loaders;
excavators; motor graders; articulated dump trucks; landscape loaders; skid-steer loaders; and log skidders, feller bunchers, loaders, forwarders, harvesters and related attachments.

The products and services produced by the equipment segments are marketed primarily through independent retail dealer networks and major retail outlets.

The credit segment primarily finances sales and leases by John Deere dealers of new and used agricultural, commercial and
consumer, and construction and forestry equipment. In addition, it provides wholesale financing to dealers of the foregoing equipment, provides operating loans and finances retail revolving charge accounts.

Certain operations do not meet the materiality threshold of FASB Statement No. 131 and have been grouped together as “Other”
segments. These include the special technologies group and health care.

Corporate assets are primarily the
Equipment Operations’ prepaid pension costs, deferred income tax assets, other receivables and cash and cash equivalents as disclosed in the financial statements in Note 29, net of certain intercompany eliminations.

Because of integrated manufacturing operations and common administrative and marketing support, a substantial number of allocations must
be made to determine operating segment and geographic area data. Intersegment sales and revenues represent sales of components and finance charges which are generally based on market prices. Overseas operations are defined to include all activities
of divisions, subsidiaries and affiliated companies conducted outside the United States and Canada.

Information
relating to operations by operating segment in millions of dollars follows with related comments included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis. In addition to the following unaffiliated sales and revenues by segment, intersegment sales and
revenues in 2002, 2001, and 2000 were as follows: agricultural equipment net sales of $54 million, $76 million and $94 million and credit revenues of $167 million, $22 million and $4 million, respectively.

*

In 2002, operating profit (loss) of the agricultural equipment, commercial and consumer equipment, construction and forestry, credit and other segments includes
expense for special items of $12 million, $24 million, $27 million, none and $9 million, respectively, for a total of $72 million. In 2001, the expense for special items was $97 million, $160 million, $83 million, $3 million and $1 million,
respectively, for a total of $344 million (see Note 2).

**

Years 2001 and 2000 were restated for sales of $140 million and $192 million, operating losses of $29 million and $8 million and identifiable assets of $63
million and $160 million, respectively, for the transfer of the production of skid-steer loaders from commercial and consumer equipment to construction and forestry. Other insignificant restatements of segment information for this transfer were also
made.

***

Operating profit of the credit business segment includes the effect of interest expense, which is the largest element of its operating costs, and foreign
exchange gains or losses. Operating profit of the “other” category includes health care investment income.

*

Includes interest compensation to credit for financing trade receivables in 2002.

(continued)


The company also evaluates its equipment segments based on
Operating Return on Operating Assets (OROA). For purposes of this calculation, operating assets consist of average identifiable assets during the year with inventory at standard cost, which approximates FIFO cost. A summary of average operating
assets and OROA for the equipment segments with dollars in millions were as follows:

In addition, the company evaluates its equipment segments and
Financial Services utilizing a financial metric referred to as Shareholder Value Added (SVA). Each of the equipment segments is assessed a pretax cost of assets, which is 12 percent of the segment’s average identifiable operating assets during
the year with inventory at standard cost. Financial Services is assessed a pretax cost of equity, which is approximately 19 percent of its average equity during the year excluding the allowance for doubtful receivables. The cost of assets or equity,
as applicable, is deducted from the operating profit or added to the operating loss of the equipment segments or Financial Services to determine the amount of SVA. For this purpose, the operating profit of Financial Services is net income before
income taxes and changes to the allowance for doubtful receivables (see Note 29).

A reconciliation of the
Financial Services’ (credit and health care) SVA components with dollars in millions follows:


The Shareholder Value Added (Lost) for each of the equipment segments and Financial Services in millions of dollars were as follows:

The company views and has historically disclosed its operations as
consisting of two geographic areas, the United States and Canada, and overseas, shown below in millions of dollars. Operating income for these areas has been disclosed in addition to the requirements under FASB Statement No. 131. No individual
foreign country’s net sales and revenues were material for disclosure purposes. The percentages shown in the captions for net sales and revenues indicate the approximate proportion of each amount that relates to the United States only. The
percentages are based upon a three-year average for 2002, 2001 and 2000.

28. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

Quarterly information with respect to net sales and revenues and earnings is shown in the
following schedule. Such information is shown in millions of dollars except for per share amounts.

*

In the fourth quarter of 2001, the company adopted EITF Issue No. 00-10, Accounting for Shipping and Handling Fees and Costs. The increases in net sales and
cost of sales in 2001 from the adoption of the new standard were $25 million in the first quarter, $33 million in the second quarter, $34 million in the third quarter, $31 million in the fourth quarter and $123 million for the year (see Note 1).

Common stock per share sales prices from New York Stock Exchange composite transactions
quotations follow:

At October 31, 2002, there were 31,238 holders of record of the
company’s $1 par value common stock.

Dividend and Other Events

A quarterly cash dividend of $.22 per share was declared at the board of directors’ meeting held on December 4, 2002, payable on February 1, 2003.

In December 2002, the company’s credit operations issued $300 million of 3.1% medium-term notes due in 2005 and entered
into interest rate swaps related to $150 million of these notes, which swapped the fixed rate to a variable rate of 1.7% as of December 11, 2002.


29. SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATING DATA

INCOME STATEMENT

For the Years Ended October 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000

(in millions of dollars)

*

Deere & Company with Financial Services on the equity basis.

The supplemental consolidating data is presented for informational purposes. The “Equipment Operations” (Deere & Company with Financial Services
on the Equity Basis) reflect the basis of consolidation described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. The consolidated group data in the “Equipment Operations” income statement reflect the results of the agricultural
equipment, commercial and consumer equipment, construction and forestry and special technologies group operations. The supplemental “Financial Services” data represents Deere & Company’s credit and health care operations.
Transactions between the “Equipment Operations” and “Financial Services” have been eliminated to arrive at the consolidated financial statements.


29. SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATING DATA (continued)

BALANCE SHEET

As of October 31, 2002 and 2001

(In millions of dollars except per share amounts)

*

Deere & Company with Financial Services on the equity basis.

The supplemental consolidating data is presented for informational purposes. The “Equipment
Operations” (Deere & Company with Financial Services on the Equity Basis) reflect the basis of consolidation described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. The supplemental “Financial Services” data represent Deere
& Company’s credit and health care operations. Transactions between the “Equipment Operations” and “Financial Services” have been eliminated to arrive at the consolidated financial statements.


29. SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATING DATA (continued)

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

For the Years Ended October 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000

(In millions of dollars)

*

Deere & Company with Financial Services on the equity basis.

The supplemental consolidating data is presented for informational purposes. The “Equipment Operations” (Deere & Company with Financial Services
on the Equity Basis) reflect the basis of consolidation described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. The supplemental “Financial Services” data represent Deere & Company’s credit and health care operations.
Transactions between the “Equipment Operations” and “Financial Services” have been eliminated to arrive at the consolidated financial statements.


D

EERE

& C

OMPANY

SELECTED FINANCIAL
DATA

(Dollars in millions except per share amounts)


[Letterhead]

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Two Prudential
Plaza

180 North Stetson Avenue

Chicago, Illinois 60601

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

Deere & Company:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Deere & Company and subsidiaries as of October 31, 2002 and 2001 and the related
statements of consolidated income, changes in consolidated stockholders’ equity and consolidated cash flows for each of the three years in period ended October 31, 2002. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the
Index under Part IV, Item 14(a)(2). These financial statements and the financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial
statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Deere & Company and subsidiaries at October 31, 2002 and 2001 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2002 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Chicago, Illinois

November 19, 2002


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:    19 December 2002

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Each person signing below also hereby appoints Robert W. Lane, Nathan J. Jones and James H. Becht, and each of them singly, his or her lawful attorney-in-fact with full power to execute and file any
and all amendments to this report together with exhibits thereto and generally to do all such things as such attorney-in-fact may deem appropriate to enable Deere & Company to comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
all requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission.



CERTIFICATIONS

I, Robert W. Lane, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of
Deere & Company;

2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to
state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4. The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of the
Evaluation Date;

5. The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the
registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6. The registrant’s other
certifying officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether there were significant changes in internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation,
including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

Date: 19 December 2002

/s/ R. W. Lane

R. W. Lane

Principal Executive Officer


I, Nathan J. Jones, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Deere & Company;

2. Based on
my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this annual report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4. The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5. The registrant’s other certifying officers
and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial data and have identified for the registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6. The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether there were significant changes in internal controls or in other factors that could significantly
affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

Date: 19 December 2002

/s/ Nathan J. Jones

Nathan J. Jones

Principal Financial
Officer


SCHEDULE II

DEERE & COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the Years Ended October 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000

(in thousands of dollars)


INDEX TO EXHIBITS



*

Incorporated by reference. Copies of these exhibits are available from the Company upon request.

**

Compensatory plan or arrangement filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

57