Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements

Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or
market our products effectively.







operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”, “Unfavorable economic conditions in the countries in which we operate may have an adverse impact on our
business results or financial condition.” and “Our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.”

Our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products and improving the quality of existing products, and the effectiveness of our
advertising campaigns, marketing programs and product packaging. Although we devote significant resources to meet this goal, including the development of our Global Nutrition Group, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop
and launch successful new products or variants of existing products, to grow our nutrition business or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. In addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and
advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. Our failure to successfully launch new products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing
brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs.

Any damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.







Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in
developing and emerging markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where we operate.

Trade consolidation or the loss of any key customer could adversely affect our financial performance.

We must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including Wal-Mart, as well as other retailers, to effectively
compete. There is a greater concentration of our customer base around the world, generally due to the continued consolidation of retail trade and the loss of any of our key customers, including Wal-Mart, could have an adverse effect on our financial
performance. In addition, as retail ownership becomes more concentrated, retailers demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Further, as larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label
brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. Failure to appropriately respond to these trends or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce
our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our financial performance.







Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our
operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.

The conduct of our businesses, and the
production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well
as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. These laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or
social events. Such regulatory environment changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to advertising and deceptive marketing practices; accounting standards; taxation requirements, including taxes specifically targeting the
consumption of our products; competition laws; privacy laws; and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may
alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities.

Governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where we operate may also impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or
other restrictions. For example, studies are underway by various regulatory authorities and others to assess the effect on humans due to acrylamide in the diet. Acrylamide is a chemical compound naturally formed in a wide variety of foods when they
are cooked (whether commercially or at home), including french fries, potato chips, cereal, bread and coffee. It is believed that acrylamide may cause cancer in laboratory animals when consumed in significant amounts. Studies are also underway by
third parties to assess the health implications of carbonated soft drink consumption. If consumer concerns about acrylamide or carbonated soft drinks increase as a result of these studies, other new scientific evidence, or for any other reason,
whether or not valid, demand for our products could decline and we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of
operations.

We are also subject to Proposition 65 in California, a law which requires that a specific warning appear on any
product sold in California that contains a substance listed by that State as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. If we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our
products are sold, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere.

In many jurisdictions,
compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. Regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as
product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation.

In addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product
liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations of







businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours
and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. We cannot assure you that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our established
liabilities or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. See also “Item 1. Business—Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance.”

If we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or outsource certain functions
effectively, our business could suffer.

We depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness
of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could
be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or the loss of sensitive data through security breach or otherwise.

We have embarked on multi-year business transformation initiatives to migrate certain of our financial processing systems to
an enterprise-wide systems solution. There can be no certainty that these initiatives will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and efficiently and
(2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. In addition, the failure to either deliver the application on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to
business disruption and loss of customers and revenue.

In addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support
services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If the service providers
that we outsource these functions to do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. Depending on the function involved,
such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach or otherwise, or harm employee morale.

Our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information
or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets.

Unfavorable economic conditions in the countries in which we operate may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.

Many of the countries in which we operate, including the United States, have experienced and continue to experience
unfavorable







economic conditions. Our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by these unfavorable economic conditions, including: adverse changes in interest rates or tax rates; volatile
commodity markets; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace, potentially impairing our ability to access the capital markets on terms commercially acceptable to us; the effects of government initiatives to manage economic
conditions; reduced demand for our products resulting from a slow-down in the general global economy or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons or otherwise to regional, local or private label products or other economy products, or to
less profitable channels; or a decrease in the fair value of pension assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension plans. In addition, we cannot predict how current or worsening economic
conditions will affect our critical customers, suppliers and distributors and any negative impact on our critical customers, suppliers or distributors may also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.

Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.

We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our
consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars. In 2010, our operations outside of the U.S. generated a significant portion of our net revenue.
Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may therefore adversely impact our business results or financial condition. See also “Market Risks” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.

Our financial performance could suffer if we are
unable to compete effectively.

The food and beverage industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete
with major international food and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors. In many countries where we do business, including the
United States, The Coca-Cola Company, is our primary beverage competitor. We compete on the basis of brand recognition, price, quality, product variety, distribution, marketing and promotional activity, convenience, service and the ability to
identify and satisfy consumer preferences. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to gain or maintain share of sales or gross margins in the global market or in various local markets. This may have a material adverse impact on our
revenues and profit margins. See also “Unfavorable economic conditions in the countries in which we operate may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.”







Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages
of raw materials and other supplies.

Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our ability and that of our suppliers, business partners, including our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, independent
distributors and retailers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to adverse weather conditions, government action, natural disaster, fire,
terrorism, the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities, pandemic, strikes and other labor disputes or other reasons beyond our or their control, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to
mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore
our supply chain.







Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively
affect our business and operations.

If we are unable to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business.

Our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse
workforce. We compete to hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions or to hire and
retain a diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher
employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs.

A portion of our workforce belongs to unions. Failure to successfully renew
collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages could cause our business to suffer.

Many of our
employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements expire on various dates. Strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely
impact our operating results. The terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency.







Failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing
operations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

