Item 1A.  Risk Factors.

In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. The following information should be read together and in conjunction with “Forward-Looking Statements,” “Item 1. Business,” “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto. The risks below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock.

Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively, and any significant reduction in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

In general, changes in consumption in our product categories or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. Consumer preferences have been evolving, and are expected to continue to evolve, due to a variety of factors, including: the aging of the general population; consumer concerns or perceptions regarding the nutrition profile of certain of our products, including their caloric content, or perceptions (whether or not valid) regarding the health effects of ingredients or substances present in certain of our products, such as 4-MeI, acrylamide, artificial flavors and colors, artificial sweeteners, aspartame, caffeine, high-fructose corn syrup, saturated fat, sodium, sugar, trans fats or other product ingredients, substances or attributes, including genetically engineered ingredients; taxes or other restrictions imposed on our products; consumer concerns or perceptions regarding packaging materials, such as with respect to the environmental sustainability or chemical makeup thereof; changes in package or portion size; changes in social trends that impact travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns; changes in weather patterns or seasonal consumption cycles; negative publicity (whether or not valid) resulting from regulatory action, litigation against us or other companies in our industry or negative or inaccurate posts or comments in the media, including social media, about us, our products or advertising campaigns and marketing programs; consumer











perception of social media posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; consumer perception of our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties or the business practices of such parties; or a downturn in economic conditions. Any of these changes may reduce consumers’ willingness to purchase our products.

Our continued success is also dependent on our product and marketing innovation, including: maintaining a robust pipeline of new products; improving the quality of existing products; and the effectiveness of our product packaging and distribution, advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including our ability to successfully adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including through use of social media and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs.

Although we devote significant resources to the items mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop, launch and maintain successful new products or variants of existing products in a timely manner or our ability to correctly anticipate or effectively react to changes in consumer preference or develop and effectively execute advertising and marketing campaigns that appeal to customers and consumers. Our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands and may result in inventory write-offs and other costs that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Changes in, or failure to comply with, laws and regulations applicable to our products or our business operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.











In addition, studies are underway by third parties to assess the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in certain of our products, such as 4-MeI, acrylamide, caffeine, added sugars and sodium. If consumer concerns (whether or not valid) about the health implications of consumption of such ingredients or substances present in certain of our products increase as a result of these studies, new scientific evidence, new labeling, product or production requirements or other restrictions, or for any other reason, including adverse publicity (whether or not valid) as a result of any of the foregoing, or if we are required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold, demand for our products could decline, or we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to the conduct of our businesses due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws. In addition, regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or assets or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on the sales of products in our portfolio or could lead to damage to our reputation. Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, suppliers, or other third parties with whom we do business could take actions, intentional or not, that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines, penalties, disgorgement of profits or activity restrictions, any of which could result in adverse publicity or affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

In addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties











of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. We cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our established liabilities or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold in more than 200 countries and territories. As such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of various federal, state and local governments in the United States as well as to tax laws and regulations outside the United States. The imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other limitations on the sale of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products, could increase the cost of our products, reduce overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether or not valid) or leave consumers with the perception that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If one jurisdiction imposes new or increased taxes or limitations, other jurisdictions may follow, which may result in adverse publicity or increased concerns about the health implications of consumption of our products (whether or not valid).

In addition, we are subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing authorities with respect to income and non-income based taxes both within and outside the United States. Economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the adoption of new or reformed tax legislation or regulation, may make resolving tax disputes more difficult and the final resolution of tax audits and any related litigation could differ from our historical provisions and accruals, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our operations outside the United States generate a significant portion of our income and income tax associated with repatriation of foreign earnings to the United States could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, many of the countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, including countries in which we have significant operations, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws. Changes in how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings, including changes in how existing tax laws are interpreted or enforced, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.

Our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and other competitors. In many countries in which our products are sold, including the United States, our primary beverage competitor is The Coca-Cola Company. We also compete with other large companies in each of the beverage, food and snack categories, including DPSG, Kellogg Company, The Kraft Heinz Company, Mondelēz International, Inc., Monster Beverage Corporation, Nestlé S.A., Red Bull GmbH and Snyder’s-Lance, Inc.

Our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition, taste, price, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness. If we are unable to effectively promote our











existing products or introduce new products, if our advertising or marketing campaigns are not effective or if we are otherwise unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to grow or maintain sales, gross margins or category share in the global market or in various local markets or we may need to increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold.











Unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

In addition, some of the major financial institutions with which we execute transactions, including U.S. and non-U.S. commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks and other financial institutions, may be exposed to a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity, default or similar risks as a result of unfavorable economic conditions, changing regulatory requirements or other factors beyond our control. A ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a major financial institution, or changes in the regulatory environment, may limit the ability or willingness of financial institutions to enter into financial transactions with us, including to provide banking or related cash management services, or to extend credit on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all; may leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or exposed to certain currencies or price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials; or may result in a decline in the market value of our investments in debt securities, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies.

We and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our business. The principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. We also use water in the manufacturing of our products. Our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including PET and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. Fuel and natural gas are also important commodities for our businesses due to their use in our facilities and the vehicles delivering our products.

Some of these raw materials and supplies are sourced from countries experiencing civil unrest, political instability or unfavorable economic conditions, and some are available from a limited number of suppliers or are in short supply when seasonal demand is at its peak. The raw materials and energy, including fuel, that we use for the manufacturing, production and distribution of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by many factors, including changes in global











supply and demand, weather conditions, disease or pests, agricultural uncertainty, health epidemics or pandemics, governmental incentives and controls, political uncertainties, governmental instability or currency exchange rates. Shortage of some of these raw materials and other supplies, sustained interruption in their supply or an increase in their costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Many of our ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. The prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivatives. If commodity price changes result in unexpected or significant increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our product prices or effectively hedge against commodity price increases to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue, margins and operating results. In addition, certain of the derivatives used to hedge price risk do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities.

Water is also a limited resource in many parts of the world. The lack of available water of acceptable quality and increasing pressure to conserve water in areas of scarcity and stress may lead to: supply chain disruption, adverse effects on our operations, higher compliance costs, capital expenditures (including additional investments in the development of technologies to enhance water efficiency and reduce water consumption), higher production costs, the cessation of operations at, or relocation of, our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties, or damage to our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity initiatives or global operating model could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.











Business disruptions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Product contamination or tampering or issues or concerns with respect to product quality, safety and integrity could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We are a leading global beverage, food and snack company with brands that are respected household names throughout the world. Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products.  Our reputation or brand image could be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental practices for all of our operations and activities, including with respect to human rights and workplace safety, or failure











In addition, we operate globally, which requires us to comply with numerous local regulations, including, without limitation, anti-corruption laws, competition laws and tax laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. In the event that our employees engage in improper activities, we may be subject to enforcement actions, litigation, loss of sales or other consequences, which may cause us to suffer damage to our reputation in the United States or abroad. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. In addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and demand for water continues to rise. Our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to water use.

Further, the popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. As a result, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us, our products, policies, practices or advertising campaigns and marketing programs, our use of social media or of posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties, consumer perception of any of the foregoing, or failure by us to respond effectively to any of the foregoing, may also generate adverse publicity (whether or not valid) that could damage our reputation.

Damage to our reputation or brand image or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.

Failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or manage divestitures or refranchisings, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We regularly review our portfolio of businesses and evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures, refranchisings and other strategic transactions. Potential issues associated with these activities could include, among other things: our ability to realize the full extent of the expected returns, benefits, cost savings or synergies as a result of a transaction, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with a transaction; and diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations.

With respect to acquisitions, the following factors also pose potential risks: our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company, including integrating the acquired company’s











manufacturing, distribution, sales, accounting, financial reporting and administrative support activities and information technology systems with our company; our ability to successfully operate in new categories or territories; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting, environmental compliance, health and safety compliance and compliance with other regulations), procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between us and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures and avoiding increased operating expenses; consolidating sales and marketing operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition; and other unanticipated problems or liabilities, such as contingent liabilities and litigation.

With respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. Joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Business decisions or other actions or omissions of our joint venture partners may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us or otherwise damage our reputation and brands and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, acquisitions and joint ventures outside of the United States increase our exposure to risks associated with operations outside of the United States, including fluctuations in exchange rates and compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, and laws and regulations outside the United States.

With respect to divestitures and refranchisings, we may not be able to complete such transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all and may fail to achieve the anticipated benefits or cost savings from the divestiture or refranchising. Further, as divestitures and refranchisings may reduce our direct control over certain aspects of our business, any failure to maintain good relations with divested or refranchised businesses in our supply or sales chain may adversely impact our sales or business performance.

If an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, or if a divestiture or refranchising is not successfully completed or managed or does not result in the benefits or cost savings we expect, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.

A change in our estimates and underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses could result in an impairment charge, which could materially affect our results of operations.

We conduct impairment tests on various components of our portfolio annually, during our third quarter, or more frequently, if circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or that an other-than-temporary impairment exists. Any changes in our estimates or underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our divisions or in determining the fair value of any such division, including goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets, could adversely affect our results of operations. Factors that could result in an impairment include, but are not limited to: significant negative economic or industry trends or competitive operating conditions, significant changes in the nature and timing of decisions regarding assets or markets that do not perform consistent with our expectations, including factors we use to estimate future levels of sales, operating profit or cash flows. Future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized.











If we are unable to recruit, hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our continued growth requires us to recruit, hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. We compete to recruit and hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Our employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies and our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to retain, develop and motivate highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions, including the Chief Executive Officer, or to hire and retain a diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage or result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. Any of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

The loss of any key customer or changes to the retail landscape could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings.

We expect to maintain Tier 1 commercial paper access, which we believe will facilitate appropriate financial flexibility and ready access to global credit markets at favorable interest rates. Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, whether as a result of our actions or factors which are beyond our control, could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us, or at all. Further, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. Our borrowing costs and access to the commercial paper market could also be adversely affected if a credit rating agency announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade. An increase in our borrowing costs, limitations on our ability to access the global











capital and credit markets or a reduction in our liquidity could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against, or effectively respond to, cyberattacks or other cyber incidents or if our information systems, or those of our customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties, are otherwise disrupted.











If we are not able to successfully implement shared services or utilize information technology systems and networks effectively, our ability to conduct our business might be negatively impacted.

We have entered into agreements with third-party service providers to share certain information technology support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and may enter into agreements for shared services in other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. In addition, we utilize cloud-based services and systems and networks managed by third-party vendors to process, transmit and store information and to conduct certain of our business activities and transactions with employees, customers, consumers and other third parties. If any of these third-party service providers or vendors do not perform effectively, or if we fail to adequately monitor their performance, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings or we may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers and our reputation could be harmed. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breaches or otherwise, effects on financial reporting, litigation or remediation costs, or damage to our reputation, which could have a negative impact on employee morale.

We continue on our multi-year business transformation initiative to migrate certain of our systems, including our financial processing systems, to enterprise-wide systems solutions. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if we fail to achieve the expected benefits from this initiative, it may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently, and remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers or consumers. In addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers or consumers and revenue.

Fluctuations in exchange rates impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the United States, where the functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar, are translated into U.S. dollars. Our operations outside of the United States, particularly in Mexico, Russia, Canada, the United Kingdom and Brazil, generate a significant portion of our net revenue. In addition, we purchase many of the ingredients, raw materials and commodities used in our business in numerous markets and in numerous currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates, including as a result of currency controls or other currency exchange restrictions, have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Climate change or water scarcity, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change or water scarcity, may negatively affect our business and operations or damage our reputation.

There is concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. In the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, potatoes and various fruits. As demand for water access continues to increase around the world, we may be subject to decreased availability of water, deteriorated quality of water or less favorable pricing for water, which could adversely impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. The effects of climate change may also exacerbate challenges regarding the availability and quality of water. In addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain.











The increasing concern over climate change may result in new or increased regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases, or to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns. In the event that such regulation is more stringent than current regulatory obligations or the measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor and improve our energy efficiency and water conservation, we may experience disruptions in, or significant increases in our costs of, operation and delivery and we may be required to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. In particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. As a result, the effects of climate change or water scarcity could negatively affect our business and operations.

In addition, any perception (whether or not valid) of our failure to effectively respond to new, or changes in, legal or regulatory requirements concerning climate change or water scarcity could result in adverse publicity and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

There is also increased public focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, on these and other environmental sustainability matters, including deforestation and land use. Our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to our impact on the environment.

A portion of our workforce belongs to unions. Failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages, could cause our business to suffer.

Many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and other employees may seek to be covered by collective bargaining agreements. Strikes or work stoppages or other business interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms, which could impair manufacturing and distribution of our products or result in a loss of sales, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. The terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new collective bargaining agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency or to adapt to changing business needs or strategy.

If we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if we are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, the value of our products or brands could be reduced, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. These intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets that are important to our business and relate to a variety of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. We protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. If we fail to obtain or adequately protect our ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if, in the course of developing new products or improving the quality of existing products, we are found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, such finding could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations and may limit our ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products.











Potential liabilities and costs from litigation or legal proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal claims and proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including but not limited to litigation related to our advertising, marketing or commercial practices, product labels, claims and ingredients, intellectual property rights and environmental, employment and insurance matters. We evaluate legal claims to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses and establish reserves as appropriate. Litigation is inherently uncertain and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in litigation, or that our assessment of the materiality of these matters and the likely outcome or potential losses and established reserves will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such litigation. In the event that management’s assessment of claims and proceedings proves inaccurate or litigation that is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Defending ourselves from claims, including non-meritorious claims, may also require us to incur significant expense and devote significant resources, and may generate adverse publicity that may damage our reputation or brand image, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock.

Many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Such factors, some of which are beyond our control, may include, but are not limited to: unfavorable economic conditions; changes in financial or tax reporting and changes in accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results; investor perceptions of our business, strategies and performance or those of our competitors; actions by shareholders or others seeking to influence our business strategies; speculation by the media or investment community regarding our business, strategies and performance or those of our competitors; trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock; changes in our credit ratings; and the impact of our share repurchase programs or dividend policy. In addition, corporate actions, such as those we may or may not take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure and our strategy, including as a result of business, legal, regulatory and tax considerations, may not have the impact we intend and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. The above factors, as well as other risks included in this “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” could adversely affect the price of our common stock.



