Item 1A.  Risk Factors.

In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. The risks below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price.

Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively.

In general, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population; consumer concerns regarding the health effects of ingredients, such as 4-MeI, acrylamide, artificial sweeteners, caffeine, high-fructose corn syrup, saturated fat, trans fats, sodium, sugar, or other product ingredients or attributes, including genetically modified ingredients; changes in product packaging, including convenience packaging; changes in social trends that impact travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns; changes in weather patterns or seasonal consumption cycles; negative publicity (whether or not valid) resulting from regulatory action, litigation against us or other companies in our industry or









negative or inaccurate posts or comments in the media, including social media, about us, our products or advertising campaigns and marketing programs; consumer perception of social media posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; a downturn in economic conditions; taxes imposed on our products; or consumer perception of our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, joint venture partners or other third parties or the business practices of such parties. Any of these changes may reduce consumers’ willingness to purchase our products. See also “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”, “Imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance.”,“Our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.”, “Unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.” and “Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”

Our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products and improving the quality of existing products, and the effectiveness of our product packaging, advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including our ability to successfully adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, such as through use of social media and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs. Although we devote significant resources to the actions mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. In addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns and marketing programs are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. Our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs.  See also “Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”

Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.









the price we may charge for our products; laws regulating access to and use of water or utilities; and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment and wastewater discharge. New laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, including taxes or other limitations on the sale of our products, ingredients contained in our products or commodities used in the production of our products, may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities.

In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions as is compliance with anti-corruption laws. Regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees or suppliers could take actions that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions or financial penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business.

In addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. We cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our established liabilities or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

See also “Item 1. Business - Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance.”, “Imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance.”and “Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our









business in emerging and developing markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold.”

Imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance.

Our products are sold in more than 200 countries and territories.  As such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of various federal, state and local governments in the United States, as well as to tax laws and regulations outside the United States.  The imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other limitations on the sale of our products, ingredients contained in our products or commodities used in the production of our products, could increase the cost of our products, reduce overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether or not valid) or leave consumers with the perception that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs, resulting in an adverse impact on our financial performance.  For example, Mexico recently imposed a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages and a tax on certain foods that exceed specified caloric contents, and other jurisdictions have imposed or are considering the imposition of taxes and other limitations on the sale of certain of our products. If one jurisdiction imposes new or increased taxes, or withdraws tax benefits, other jurisdictions may follow.

In addition, we are subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing authorities with respect to income and non-income based taxes both within and outside the United States. Economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in jurisdictions in which we operate may make resolving tax disputes more difficult and the final resolution of tax audits and any related litigation could differ from our historical provisions and accruals resulting in an adverse impact on our financial performance.

Our operations outside the United States generate a significant portion of our net revenue and repatriation of foreign earnings to the United States, or changes in how United States multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings, could adversely affect our financial performance.  See also “Item 1. Business - Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance.” and “Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively.”, “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”, “Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in emerging and developing markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold.” and “Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”

Our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.

The food, snack and beverage industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with major international food, snack and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors. We compete with other large companies in each of the food, snack and beverage categories, including The Coca-Cola Company, ConAgra Foods, Inc., DPSG, Kellogg Company, Kraft Foods Group, Inc., Mondelēz International, Inc., Monster Beverage Corporation, Nestlé S.A., Red Bull GmbH and Snyder’s-Lance, Inc. In many countries where we do business, including the United States, our primary beverage competitor is The Coca-Cola Company. We compete on the basis of brand recognition, taste, price, quality, product variety, distribution, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or gross margins in the global market or in various local markets. This may have a material adverse impact on our









revenues and profit margins. See also “Unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.”

Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in emerging and developing markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold.

.

”









Unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.

Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies.









can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. See also “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”, “Unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.”, “Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations.” and “Market Risks”contained in “Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements.

Failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity initiatives or global operating model could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our productivity initiatives help fund our growth initiatives and contribute to our results of operations. We are implementing strategic plans that we believe will position our business for future success and growth by allowing us to achieve a lower cost structure and operate more efficiently in the highly competitive food, snack and beverage industries. In order to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts, it will be necessary to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited due to capital constraints. In addition, it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to continue to lead and execute our plans. Our future success and earnings growth depends in part on our ability to reduce costs and improve efficiencies. If we are unable to successfully implement our productivity initiatives, fail to implement these initiatives as timely as we anticipate or fail to identify and implement additional productivity opportunities in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, we continue to implement our global operating model to improve efficiency, decision making, innovation and brand management across the global PepsiCo organization. If we are unable to implement this model effectively, it may have a negative impact on our ability to deliver sustained or breakthrough innovation or to otherwise compete effectively.

Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our ability, and that of our suppliers, third parties, including our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint venture partners, independent distributors and retailers, to make, manufacture, distribute and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or transportation and distribution capabilities due to any of the following could impair the ability to make, manufacture, transport, distribute or sell our products: adverse weather conditions or natural disaster, such as a hurricane, earthquake or flooding; government action; fire; terrorism; outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; pandemic; industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; strikes and other labor disputes; or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and business partners. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.

Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. Product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling, misbranding, spoilage, allergens or contamination, even if untrue, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. If any of our products are mislabeled or become unfit for consumption, causes injury, illness or death, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject









Failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or manage divestitures or refranchisings, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and refranchisings. Potential issues associated with these activities could include, among other things: our ability to realize the full extent of the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the completion of an acquisition, divestiture or refranchising, or the formation of a joint venture, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with an acquisition, joint venture, divestiture or refranchising; and diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations. With respect to









If we are unable to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business.

Our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. We compete to hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions, including our Chief Executive Officer, or to hire and retain a diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs.

Trade consolidation or the loss of any key customer could adversely affect our financial performance.

We must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including Wal-Mart, as well as other retailers, to effectively compete. The loss of any of our key customers, including Wal-Mart, could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, our industry has been affected by increasing concentration of retail ownership, particularly in North America and Europe, which may impact our ability to compete as such retailers may demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Further, should larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. Failure to appropriately respond to any such actions or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our financial performance.









Our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings.

We expect to maintain Tier 1 commercial paper access which we believe will ensure appropriate financial flexibility and ready access to global credit markets at favorable interest rates.  Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, whether as a result of our actions or factors which are beyond our control, could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. Our borrowing costs and access to the commercial paper market could also be adversely affected if a credit rating agency announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade. See also “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Our business could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against a cybersecurity incident.

Our information systems could be compromised by unauthorized outside parties intent on extracting sensitive data or confidential information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes or by inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors. A cybersecurity incident resulting in a security breach, or failure to identify a cybersecurity threat, could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of sensitive data, confidential information or other assets as well as litigation, regulatory enforcement, violation of data privacy and security laws and regulations, remediation costs, damage to our reputation and loss of revenue resulting from unauthorized use of confidential information or failure to retain or attract customers and consumers following such an incident. See also “Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” and “If we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or share services for certain functions effectively, our business could suffer.”

If we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or share services for certain functions effectively, our business could suffer.

We depend on information technology, including cloud-based services, to enable and improve the effectiveness of our operations, to interface with our customers and consumers, to order and manage materials from suppliers, to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, to comply with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements, to collect and store sensitive data or confidential information and for digital marketing activities and electronic communication among our global operations and between our employees and the employees of our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint ventures, suppliers and other third parties. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if our systems are damaged, destroyed or shut down as a result of natural disasters, software, equipment or telecommunications failures, malicious or disruptive software, hackers or otherwise, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property, damage to our reputation, or the loss of sensitive or confidential data through security breach or otherwise.

We have embarked on a multi-year business transformation initiative to migrate certain of our financial processing systems to enterprise-wide systems solutions. There can be no certainty that this initiative will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to deliver the expected benefits may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently and remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could









result in the loss of customers. In addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue.

We have entered into agreements to share certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing, benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, to third-party service providers and may enter into agreements to share services for other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If these service providers do not perform, or do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers and our reputation could be harmed. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breach or otherwise, litigation or remediation costs, or damage to our reputation and could have a negative impact on employee morale.  See also “Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” and “Our business could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against a cybersecurity incident.”

Fluctuations in exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.

We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the United States are translated into U.S. dollars. Our operations outside of the U.S. generate a significant portion of our net revenue. Fluctuations in exchange rates may therefore adversely impact our business results or financial condition. See also “Market Risks” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 1 and 10 to our consolidated financial statements.

Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations.









and “Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”

A portion of our workforce belongs to unions. Failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages could cause our business to suffer.

Many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and other employees may seek to be covered by collective bargaining agreements. Strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. The terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency.

Our intellectual property rights could be infringed or challenged and reduce the value of our products and brands and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. These intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets that are important to our business and relate to a variety of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. We protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. If we fail to obtain or adequately protect our ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See also “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”

Potential liabilities and costs from litigation or legal proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal claims and proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including but not limited to litigation related to our advertising, marketing or commercial practices, product labels, claims and ingredients and environmental and insurance matters. Since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such claims or proceedings, or that management’s assessment of the materiality of these matters, including the reserves taken in connection therewith, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such claims or proceedings. In the event that management’s assessment of materiality of current claims and proceedings proves inaccurate or litigation that is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements, results of operations or cash flows. See also “Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”

Many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock and our financial performance.

Many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock and our financial performance. Such factors, some of which are beyond our control, may include, but are not limited to: unfavorable economic conditions; changes in financial or tax reporting and changes in accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results and investor perceptions of our performance; actions by shareholders or others seeking to influence our business strategies; and the impact of our share repurchase program. In addition, corporate actions, such as those we may or may not take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure, including as a result of business, legal and tax









considerations, may not have the impact we intend and may adversely affect the price of our common stock and our financial performance. The above factors, as well as other risks included in this Item 1A. Risk Factors, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and our financial performance.



