Item 1A.  Risk Factors.

You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. These risks, some of which have occurred and any of which may occur in the future, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our publicly traded securities. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may occur or become material in the future and adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our publicly traded securities. Therefore, historical operating results, financial and business performance, events and trends are often not a reliable indicator of future operating results, financial and business performance, events or trends.

Future demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate, market or distribute our products effectively, and any significant reduction in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We are a global food and beverage company operating in highly competitive categories and markets. To generate revenues and profits, we rely on continued demand for our products and therefore must understand our customers and consumers and sell products that appeal to them in the sales channel in which they prefer to shop or browse for such products. In general, changes in consumption in our product categories or consumer demographics can result in reduced demand for our products. Demand for our products depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to shifts in consumer trends and preferences, including increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are concerned with: health and wellness (including products that have less added sugars, sodium and saturated fat); convenience (including responding to changes in in-home and on-the-go consumption patterns and methods of distribution of our products to customers and consumers, including through e-commerce and hard discounters); or the location of origin or source of ingredients and products (including the environmental impact related to production and packaging of our products).

Consumer preferences continuously evolve, due to a variety of factors, including: changes in consumer demographics, including the aging of the general population and the emergence of the millennial and younger generations who have differing spending, consumption and purchasing habits; consumer concerns or perceptions regarding the nutrition profile of products, including the presence of added sugar, sodium and saturated fat in certain of our products; growing demand for organic, locally or sustainably sourced ingredients, or consumer concerns or perceptions (whether or not valid) regarding the health effects of ingredients or









Although we devote significant resources to the items mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop, launch, maintain or distribute successful new products or variants of existing products in a timely manner (including correctly anticipating or effectively reacting to changes in consumer preferences) or to develop and effectively execute advertising and marketing campaigns that appeal to customers and consumers, including through the use of digital technology. Our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products or effectively market or distribute our products can reduce demand for our products, result in inventory write-offs and erode our competitive and financial position and can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Changes in laws and regulations relating to the use or disposal of plastics or other product packaging can increase our costs, reduce demand for our products or otherwise have an adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations.









Certain of our food and beverage products are sold in plastic or other packaging designed to be recoverable for recycling but not all packaging is recovered, whether due to lack of infrastructure or otherwise. In addition, certain of our packaging is not currently recyclable, compostable or biodegradable. There is a growing concern with the accumulation of plastic, including microplastics, and other packaging waste in the environment, particularly in the world’s oceans and waterways. As a result, packaging waste that displays one or more of our brands has in the past and could continue to result in negative publicity (whether or not valid) or reduce consumer demand and overall consumption of our products, resulting in adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



While we continue to devote significant resources to increase the recyclability and sustainability of our packaging, the increased focus on reducing plastic waste has required and could continue to require us to increase capital expenditures, including requiring additional investments to minimize the amount of plastic across our packaging, including to increase the use of alternative packaging materials (e.g., glass and aluminum) in certain markets; increase the amount of recycled content in our packaging; and develop sustainable, bio-based packaging as a replacement for fossil fuel-based plastic packaging, including flexible film alternatives for our snacks packaging. Our failure to minimize our plastics use, increase the amount of recycled content in our packaging or develop sustainable packaging or consumers’ failure to accept such sustainable packaging has in the past and could continue to reduce consumer demand and overall consumption of our products and erode our competitive and financial position. Further, our reputation can be damaged for failure to achieve our sustainability goals with respect to our plastics use, including our goal to reduce 35% of virgin plastic content across our beverage portfolio by 2025, or if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to packaging or disposal of our products.

Changes in, or failure to comply with, laws and regulations applicable to our products or our business operations can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

The conduct of our business is subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as government entities and agencies outside the United States, including laws and regulations relating to the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, content, quality, safety, transportation, packaging, disposal, recycling and use of our products, as well as our employment and occupational health and safety practices and protection of personal information. In addition, in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special











The imposition of new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, including taxes, labeling, product, production, recovery or recycling requirements, or other limitations on, or pertaining to, the sale or advertisement of certain of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products, commodities used in the production of our products or use, disposal, recovery or recyclability of our products and their packaging, may further alter the way in which we do business and, therefore, may continue to increase our costs or liabilities or reduce demand for our products, resulting in adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If one jurisdiction imposes or proposes to impose new requirements or restrictions, other jurisdictions often follow. For example, if one jurisdiction imposes a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages or foods, or imposes a specific labeling or warning requirement, other jurisdictions may impose similar or other measures that impact the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products. The foregoing has in the past and could continue to result









in decreased demand for certain of our products, adverse publicity or increased concerns about the health implications of consumption of ingredients or substances in our products (whether or not valid).

In addition, studies (whether or not scientifically valid) have been and continue to be underway by third parties purporting to assess the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in certain of our products or packaging materials, such as 4-MeI, acrylamide, caffeine, pesticides (e.g., glyphosate), furfuryl alcohol, added sugars, sodium, saturated fat and plastic. Third parties have also published documents or studies claiming (whether or not valid) that taxes can address consumer consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages and foods high in sugar, sodium or saturated fat. The results of these studies and documents have contributed to or resulted in and could continue to contribute to or result in an increase in consumer concerns (whether or not valid) about the health implications of consumption of certain of our products, an increase in the number of jurisdictions that impose taxes on our products, or an increase in new labeling, product or production requirements or other restrictions on the manufacturing, sale or display of our products, resulting in reduced demand for our products, our Company being subject to lawsuits or new regulations that can adversely affect sales of our products, and other adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, suppliers, or other third parties with whom we do business can take actions, intentional or not, that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations or can fail to maintain required documentation sufficient to evidence our compliance with applicable laws or regulations. Failure to comply with such laws or regulations can subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines, injunctions, product recalls, penalties, disgorgement of profits or activity restrictions, any of which can adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, certain regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or assets or other sanctions, resulting in an adverse effect on the sales of products in our portfolio or damage to our reputation.

In addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. We cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our estimates or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

The imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes aimed at our products can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, new or increased taxes on the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products. These taxes vary in scope and form: some apply to all beverages, including non-caloric beverages, while others apply only to beverages with a caloric sweetener (e.g., sugar). Similarly, some measures apply a single tax rate per ounce/liter on beverages containing over a certain level of added sugar (or other sweetener) while others apply a graduated tax rate depending upon the amount of added sugar (or other sweetener) in the beverage and some apply a flat tax rate on beverages containing a particular substance or ingredient, regardless of the particular substance or ingredient levels. For example, Peru revised an existing threshold tax to become a graduated tax, effective June 2019, in which the per-ounce tax rate is tied to the amount of added sugar present in the beverage: the higher the amount of added sugar, the higher the per-









ounce tax rate, while Saudi Arabia expanded an existing flat tax rate of 50% on the retail price of carbonated soft drinks to include all sweetened beverages, including non-caloric beverages, effective December 2019. These tax measures, whatever their scope or form, have in the past and could continue to increase the cost of certain of our products, reduce consumer demand and overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether based on scientific fact or not) or leave consumers with the perception (whether or not valid) that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs, resulting in adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Significant additional labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of our products could reduce demand for such products and can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, product labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of certain of our products as a result of ingredients or substances contained in such products. These types of provisions have required that we provide a label that highlights perceived concerns about a product or warns consumers to avoid consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in our products. For example, in California in the United States, Proposition 65 requires a specific warning on or relating to any product that contains a substance listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects or other reproductive harm, unless the level of such substance in the product is below a safe harbor level established by the State of California.

In addition, a number of jurisdictions, both in and outside the United States, have imposed or are considering imposing labeling requirements, including color-coded labeling of certain food and beverage products where colors such as red, yellow and green are used to indicate various levels of a particular ingredient, such as sugar, sodium or saturated fat. The imposition or proposed imposition of additional product labeling or warning requirements has in the past and could continue to reduce overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether based on scientific fact or not) or leave consumers with the perception (whether or not valid) that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs, resulting in adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our business, financial condition or results of operations can suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.

Our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and economy brands and other competitors, including smaller companies developing and selling micro brands directly to consumers through e-commerce platforms or through retailers focused on locally-sourced products. In many countries in which our products are sold, including the United States, The Coca-Cola Company is our primary beverage competitor. Other beverage, food and snack competitors include, but are not limited to, Campbell Soup Company, Conagra Brands, Inc., Kellogg Company, Keurig Dr Pepper Inc., The Kraft Heinz Company, Link Snacks, Inc., Mondelēz International, Inc., Monster Beverage Corporation, Nestlé S.A. and Red Bull GmbH.

Our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition and loyalty, taste, price, value, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness and the continued acceleration of e-commerce and other methods of distributing and purchasing products. If we are unable to effectively promote our existing products or introduce new products, if our advertising or marketing campaigns are not effective, if we fail to invest in and incorporate technology and digital tools across all areas of our business (including the use of data analytics to enhance our ability to effectively market to consumers), if our competitors spend more aggressively than we do or if we are otherwise unable to effectively respond to pricing pressure or









compete effectively (including in distributing our products effectively and cost efficiently through all existing and emerging channels of trade, including through e-commerce and hard discounters), we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or category share or we may need to increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity or reinvestment initiatives or operating model can have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our business, financial condition or results of operations can be adversely affected as a result of political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold.

Political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have been and could continue to be difficult to predict, resulting in adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The results of elections, referendums or other political conditions (including government shutdowns) in these markets have in the past and could continue to impact how existing laws, regulations and government programs or policies are implemented or create uncertainty as to how such laws, regulations and government programs or policies may change, including with respect to tariffs, sanctions, climate change regulation, taxes, benefit programs, the movement of goods, services and people between countries, relationships between countries, customer or consumer perception of a particular country or its government and other matters, and has resulted in and could continue to result in exchange rate fluctuation, volatility in global stock markets and global economic uncertainty or adversely affect demand for our products. For example, the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union (commonly referred to as Brexit) is likely to lead to differing laws and regulations in the United Kingdom and European Union and further global economic, trade and regulatory uncertainty. Any changes in, or the imposition of,









new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations due to elections, referendums or other political conditions can have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our business, financial condition or results of operations can be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets.



Uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.











Our business and reputation can suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against, or effectively respond to, cyberattacks or other cyber incidents or if our information systems, or those of our customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties, are otherwise disrupted.

We depend on information systems and technology, some of which are provided by third parties, including public websites and cloud-based services, for many activities important to our business, including: to interface with our customers and consumers; to engage in marketing activities; to enable and improve the effectiveness of our operations; to order and manage materials from suppliers; to manage inventory; to manage and operate our facilities; to conduct research and development, including through the use of data analytics; to maintain accurate financial records; to achieve operational efficiencies; to comply with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements; to collect and store sensitive data and confidential information; to communicate electronically among our global operations and with our employees and the employees of our customers,









suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners and other third parties; and to communicate with our investors.

Further, our information systems and those of our third-party providers, and the information stored therein can be compromised, including through cyberattacks or other external or internal methods, resulting in unauthorized parties accessing or extracting sensitive data or confidential information. In the ordinary course of business, we receive, process, transmit and store information relating to identifiable individuals, primarily employees and former employees. Privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country or, within the United States, from state to state, and can create inconsistent or









conflicting requirements. Our efforts to comply with privacy and data protection laws, including with respect to data from residents of the European Union who are covered by the General Data Protection Regulation, which went into effect in May 2018, and residents of the State of California covered by the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, which went into effect on January 1, 2020, impose significant costs or challenges that are likely to increase over time. Failure to comply with existing or future data privacy laws and regulations can result in litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations.

We continue to devote significant resources to network security, backup and disaster recovery, enhancing our internal controls, and other security measures, including training, to protect our systems and data. In addition, our risk management program also includes periodic review and discussion by our Board of Directors of analyses of emerging cybersecurity threats and our plans and strategies to address them. However, these security measures and processes cannot provide absolute security or guarantee that we will be successful in preventing or responding to every such breach or disruption. In addition, due to the constantly evolving nature of these security threats, the form and impact of any future incident cannot be predicted.

Similar risks exist with respect to the cloud-based service providers and other third-party vendors that we rely upon for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and systems managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties and their vendors. The need to coordinate with various third-party vendors may complicate our efforts to resolve any issues that arise. As a result, we are subject to the risk that the activities associated with our third-party vendors may adversely affect our business even if the attack or breach does not directly impact our systems or information. Moreover, our increased use of mobile and cloud technologies has heightened these and other operational risks, as certain aspects of the security of such technologies are complex, unpredictable or beyond our control.

While we currently maintain insurance coverage that, subject to its terms and conditions, is intended to address costs associated with certain aspects of cyber incidents, network failures and data privacy-related concerns, this insurance coverage may not, depending on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding an incident, cover all losses or all types of claims that arise from an incident, or the damage to our reputation or brands that may result from an incident.

Our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials, energy and other supplies.

We and our business partners use various raw materials, energy and other supplies in our business. The principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit, oats, oranges and other fruits, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. Our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including PET and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. In addition, we continue to integrate recyclability into our product development process and support the increased use of recycled content, including recycled PET, in our packaging. Fuel, electricity and natural gas are also important commodities for our businesses due to their use in our and our business partners’ facilities and the vehicles delivering our products.

Some of these raw materials and supplies are sourced from countries experiencing civil unrest, political instability or unfavorable economic conditions, and some are available from a limited number of suppliers or a sole supplier or are in short supply when seasonal demand is at its peak. We cannot assure that we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers or that our contingency plans, including development of ingredients, materials or supplies to replace ingredients, materials or supplies sourced from such suppliers, will be effective in preventing disruptions that may arise from shortages or discontinuation of any ingredient that is sourced from such suppliers. In addition, increasing focus on climate









Water scarcity can have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



Business disruptions can have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.











Product contamination or tampering or issues or concerns with respect to product quality, safety and integrity can adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations.



Any damage to our reputation or brand image can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.









In addition, we operate globally, which requires us to comply with numerous local regulations, including, without limitation, anti-corruption laws, competition laws and tax laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. In the event that we or our employees or agents engage in or are believed to have engaged in improper activities, we have in the past and could continue to be subject to regulatory proceedings, including enforcement actions, litigation, loss of sales or other consequences, resulting in damage to our reputation in the United States or abroad. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal control or to provide accurate and timely financial information can also hurt our reputation.

Further, the popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. As a result, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us, our products, policies, practices, advertising campaigns and marketing programs or sponsorship arrangements; our use of social media or of posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; consumer perception of any of the foregoing, or failure by us to respond effectively to any of the foregoing, has in the past and could continue to also generate adverse publicity (whether or not valid) that can damage our reputation.

Damage to our reputation or brand image or loss of consumer confidence in our products or employees for any of these or other reasons has in the past and could continue to result in decreased demand for our products,









resulting in adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as requiring additional resources to rebuild our reputation.

Failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or effectively manage divestitures or refranchisings, can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We regularly review our portfolio of businesses and evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures, refranchisings and other strategic transactions. Issues associated with these activities have in the past and could continue to include, among other things: our ability to realize the full extent of the expected returns, benefits, cost savings or synergies as a result of a transaction, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with a transaction; and diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations.

With respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, resources or values as we do. Joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Business decisions or other actions or omissions of our joint venture partners have in the past and could continue to adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us or otherwise damage our reputation and brands and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

In addition, acquisitions and joint ventures outside of the United States increase our exposure to risks associated with operations outside of the United States, including fluctuations in exchange rates and compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and laws and regulations outside the United States.

With respect to divestitures and refranchisings, we have in the past and could continue to be unable to complete or effectively manage such transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all, resulting in failure to achieve the anticipated benefits or cost savings from the divestiture or refranchising. Further, as divestitures and refranchisings reduce our direct control over certain aspects of our business, any failure to maintain good relations with divested or refranchised businesses in our supply or sales chain can adversely impact our sales or business performance.

Acquisitions or joint ventures that are not successfully completed, integrated into our existing operations or managed effectively, or divestitures or refranchisings that are not successfully completed or managed









effectively or do not result in the benefits or cost savings we expect, have in the past and could continue to result in adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

A change in our estimates and underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses can result in an impairment charge that materially affects our results of operations.



Increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or disagreements with tax authorities can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Increases in income tax rates or other changes in income tax laws in any particular jurisdiction can reduce our after-tax income from such jurisdiction and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations outside the United States generate a significant portion of our income. In addition, existing tax laws in the United States and many of the other countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, including countries in which we have significant operations, have been and could in the future be subject to significant change. For example, in December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJ Act) was signed into law in the United States. While our accounting for the recorded impact of the TCJ Act is deemed to be complete, these amounts are based on prevailing regulations and currently available information, and additional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may continue to impact our recorded amounts in future periods. In addition, o

n May 19, 2019, a public referendum held in Switzerland passed the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (TRAF), effective January 1, 2020. Certain provisions of the TRAF were enacted in fiscal year 2019, resulting in adjustments to our deferred taxes. The future impact of the TRAF cannot currently be estimated and we continue to monitor and assess the impact of TRAF on our business and financial results.

For further information regarding the impact and potential impact of the TCJ Act and the TRAF, see “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Our Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements.

Additional changes in the U.S. tax regime or in how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings, including changes in how existing tax laws are interpreted or enforced, can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) has recommended changes to numerous long-standing international tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) project. These changes have been or are being adopted by many of the countries in which we do business.In connection with the OECD’s BEPS project, the OECD has undertaken a new project focused on “Addressing the Tax Challenges of the Digitalization of the Economy.” This project may impact all multinational businesses by reallocating where some profits are taxed and implementing a global model for minimum taxation. The increasingly complex









global tax environmenthas in the past and could continue to increase tax uncertainty, resulting in higher compliance costs and adverse effects on our provision for income taxes, results of operations and/or cash flow.

We are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the IRS and other taxing authorities with respect to income and non-income based taxes both within and outside the United States. In connection with the OECD’s BEPS project, companies are required to disclose more information to tax authorities on operations around the world, which may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in various countries. Economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the adoption of new or reformed tax legislation or regulation, may make resolving tax disputes more difficult and the final resolution of tax audits and any related litigation can differ from our historical provisions and accruals, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

If we are unable to recruit, hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it can have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our continued growth requires us to recruit, hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. We compete to recruit and hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Our employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies and our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to retain, develop and motivate highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Any unplanned turnover or unsuccessful implementation of our succession plans to backfill current leadership positions, including the Chief Executive Officer, or failure to hire and retain a highly skilled and diverse workforce, including with key capabilities such as e-commerce and digital marketing and data analytic skills, can deplete our institutional knowledge base, erode our competitive advantage or result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. Any of the foregoing can adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations.

The loss of, or a significant reduction in sales to, any key customer can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, hard discounters, e-commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. We must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including Wal-Mart, to compete effectively. Any inability to resolve a significant dispute with any of our key customers, a change in the business condition (financial or otherwise) of any of our key customers, even if unrelated to us, a significant reduction in sales to any key customer, or the loss of any of our key customers can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Disruption in the retail landscape, including rapid growth in the e-commerce channel and hard discounters, can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our industry has been affected by changes to the retail landscape, including the rapid growth in sales through e-commerce websites, mobile commerce applications and subscription services as well as the integration of physical and digital operations among retailers. We continue to make significant investments in attracting talent to and building our global e-commerce and digital capabilities. Although we are engaged in e-commerce with respect to many of our products, if we are unable to maintain and develop successful relationships with existing and new e-commerce retailers or otherwise adapt to the growing e-commerce landscape, while simultaneously maintaining relationships with our key customers operating in traditional retail channels, we may be disadvantaged in certain channels and with certain customers and consumers, which can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the growth in e-commerce and hard discounters may result in consumer price deflation, which may affect our relationships with key retail









customers. Further, the ability of consumers to compare prices on a real-time basis using digital technology puts additional pressure on us to maintain competitive prices. If these e-commerce and hard discounter retailers were to take significant additional market share away from traditional retailers and/or we fail to adapt to the rapidly changing retail and e-commerce landscapes, including finding ways to create more powerful digital tools and capabilities for our retail customers to enable them to grow their businesses, our ability to maintain and grow our profitability, share of sales or volume and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.



Our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets would be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings.



If we are not able to successfully implement shared services or utilize information technology systems and networks effectively, our ability to conduct our business may be negatively impacted.

We have entered into agreements with third-party service providers to utilize information technology support services and administrative functions in certain areas of our business, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions. We may enter into new or additional agreements for shared services in other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies as we continue to migrate to shared business service organizational models across our business









operations. In addition, we increasingly utilize cloud-based services and systems and networks managed by third-party vendors to process, transmit and store information and to conduct certain of our business activities and transactions with employees, customers, consumers and other third parties. Failure by these third-party service providers or vendors to perform effectively, or our failure to adequately monitor their performance (including compliance with service level agreements or regulatory or legal requirements), has in the past and could continue to result in our inability to achieve the expected cost savings, additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers, damage to our reputation or our being subject to litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations. Depending on the function involved, such errors can also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breaches or otherwise, incorrect or adverse effects on financial reporting, litigation or remediation costs, damage to our reputation or have a negative impact on employee morale. In addition, the management of multiple third-party service providers increases operational complexity and decreases our control.

We continue on our multi-year business transformation initiative to migrate certain of our systems, including our financial processing systems, to enterprise-wide systems solutions. These systems implementations are part of our ongoing global business transformation initiative, and we plan to continue implementing such systems throughout other parts of our businesses. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if we fail to achieve the expected benefits from this initiative, it may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently, and remain in step with the changing needs of our business, which can result in the loss of customers or consumers and revenue. In addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, can lead to business disruption and loss of customers or consumers and revenue. In connection with these implementations and resulting business process changes, we continue to enhance the design and documentation of business processes and controls, including our internal control over financial reporting processes, to maintain effective controls over our financial reporting. To date, this transition has not materially affected, and we do not expect it to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Fluctuations in exchange rates impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the United States, where the functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar, are translated into U.S. dollars. Our operations outside of the United States, particularly inMexico, Russia, Canada, the United Kingdom, China and Brazil, generate a significant portion of our net revenue. In addition, we purchase many of the ingredients, raw materials and commodities used in our business in numerous markets and in numerous currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates, including as a result of currency controls or other currency exchange restrictions have had, and could continue to have, an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Climate change or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect our business and operations or damage our reputation.

There is concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. In the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, oranges and other fruits and potatoes. Natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake, wildfire or flooding, may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain and unfavorably impact the demand for, or our consumers’ ability to purchase, our products.









Concern over climate change may result in new or increased regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. In the event that such regulation is more stringent than current regulatory obligations or the measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor and improve our energy efficiency, we may experience disruptions in, or significant increases in our costs of, operation and delivery and be required to make additional investments in facilities and equipment or relocate our facilities. In particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions can substantially increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. As a result, the effects of climate change can negatively affect our business and operations

In addition, any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the environment or perception (whether or not valid) of our failure to act responsibly with respect to the environment or to effectively respond to new, or changes in, legal or regulatory requirements concerning climate change can lead to adverse publicity, resulting in an adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations.

There is also increased focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors, customers and consumers on these and other environmental sustainability matters, including deforestation, land use, climate impact and recyclability or recoverability of packaging, including plastic. Our reputation can be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to our impact on the environment.

A portion of our workforce is represented by unions. Failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages, can cause our business to suffer.

Many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and other employees may seek to be covered by collective bargaining agreements. Strikes or work stoppages or other business interruptions can occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms or if we are unable to otherwise manage changes in, or that affect, our workforce, which can impair manufacturing and distribution of our products or lead to a loss of sales, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new collective bargaining agreements can also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency or to adapt to changing business needs or strategy.

If we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if we are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, the value of our products or brands, or our competitive position, can be reduced, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. These intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets that are important to our business and relate to a variety of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. We protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of third-party misuses of our intellectual property, although the laws of various jurisdictions have differing levels of protection of intellectual property. If we fail to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and trade secrets, including our ingredient formulas, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands, or our competitive position, can be reduced, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if, in the course of developing new products or improving the quality of existing products, we are found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly,









such finding can have an adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations and may limit our ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products.

Potential liabilities and costs from litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations can have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



Many factors can adversely affect the price of our publicly traded securities.





