Item 1A.  Risk Factors.

You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the factors described below could occur or continue to occur and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our publicly traded securities. The risks below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may occur or become material in the future and may also adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our publicly traded securities. Therefore, historical operating results, financial and business performance, events and trends may not be a reliable indicator of future operating results, financial and business performance, events or trends.









Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate, market or distribute our products effectively, and any significant reduction in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We are a global food and beverage company operating in highly competitive categories and markets. To generate revenues and profits, we rely on continued demand for our products and therefore must understand our customers and consumers and sell products that appeal to them in the sales channel in which they prefer to shop or browse for such products. In general, changes in consumption in our product categories or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. Demand for our products depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to shifts in consumer trends and preferences, including increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are concerned with: health and wellness (including products that have less added sugars, sodium and saturated fat); convenience (including responding to changes in in-home and on-the-go consumption patterns and methods of distribution of our products to customers and consumers); or the location of origin or source of the ingredients and products (including the environmental impact related to the production of our products).

Demand for our products is also dependent in part on product quality, product and marketing innovation and production and distribution, including our ability to: maintain a robust pipeline of new products; improve the quality of existing products; extend our portfolio of products in growing markets and categories; respond to cultural differences and regional consumer preferences (whether through developing or acquiring new products that are responsive to such preferences); monitor and adjust our use of ingredients (including to respond to applicable regulations); develop or acquire a broader portfolio of product choices, including by continuing to increase non-carbonated beverage offerings and other alternatives to traditional carbonated beverage offerings and, in some cases, reformulations of our traditional carbonated beverage offerings; develop sweetener alternatives and innovation; improve the production, packaging and distribution of our









products; respond to competitive product and pricing pressures and changes in distribution channels, including in the rapidly growing e-commerce channel; and implement effective advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including successfully adapting to a rapidly changing media environment through the use of social media and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs.

Although we devote significant resources to the items mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop, launch, maintain or distribute successful new products or variants of existing products in a timely manner (including to correctly anticipate or effectively react to changes in consumer preferences) or to develop and effectively execute advertising and marketing campaigns that appeal to customers and consumers. Our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products or effectively distribute our products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of our existing brands and may result in inventory write-offs and other costs that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Changes in, or failure to comply with, laws and regulations applicable to our products or our business operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.









products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, may result in higher compliance costs, capital expenditures and higher production costs, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations.

The imposition by any jurisdiction in the United States or outside the United States of new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, including taxes, labeling, product or production requirements or other limitations on, or pertaining to, the sale or advertisement of certain of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products or commodities used in the production of our products, may further alter the way in which we do business and, therefore, may continue to increase our costs or liabilities or reduce demand for our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If one jurisdiction imposes or proposes to impose new requirements or restrictions, other jurisdictions may follow and the requirements or restrictions, or proposed requirements or restrictions, may also result in adverse publicity (whether or not valid). For example, if one jurisdiction imposes a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages or foods, or imposes a specific labeling or warning requirement, other jurisdictions may impose similar or other measures that impact the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products. The foregoing may result in decreased demand for our products, adverse publicity or increased concerns about the health implications of consumption of ingredients or substances in our products (whether or not valid).

In addition, studies (whether or not scientifically valid) are underway by third parties purporting to assess the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in certain of our products, such as 4-MeI, acrylamide, caffeine, furfuryl alcohol, added sugars, sodium and saturated fat. Third parties have also published documents or studies claiming (whether or not valid) that taxes can address consumer consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages and other foods high in sugar, sodium or saturated fat. If, as a result of these studies and documents or otherwise, there is an increase in consumer concerns (whether or not valid) about the health implications of consumption of our products, an increase in the number of jurisdictions that impose taxes on our products, or an increase in new labeling, product or production requirements or other restrictions on the manufacturing, sale or display of our products, demand for our products could decline, or we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, suppliers, or other third parties with whom we do business could take actions, intentional or not, that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations or could fail to maintain required documentation sufficient to evidence our compliance with applicable laws or regulations. Violations of laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines, penalties, disgorgement of profits or activity restrictions, any of which could result in adverse publicity or affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or assets or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on the sales of products in our portfolio or could lead to damage to our reputation.

In addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. We cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters









will not exceed our estimates or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

The imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes aimed at our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Significant additional labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of our products may reduce demand for such products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, product labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of certain of our products as a result of ingredients or substances contained in such products. These types of provisions have required that we provide a label that highlights perceived concerns about a product or warns consumers to avoid consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in our products. For example, in California in the United States, Proposition 65 requires a specific warning on or relating to any product that contains a substance listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects or other reproductive harm, unless the level of such substance in the product is below a safe harbor level established by the State of California.

In addition, a number of jurisdictions, both in and outside the United States, have imposed or are considering imposing labeling requirements, including color-coded labeling of certain food and beverage products where colors such as red, yellow and green are used to indicate various levels of a particular ingredient, such as sugar, sodium or saturated fat. The imposition or proposed imposition of additional product labeling or warning requirements could reduce overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether based on scientific fact or not) or leave consumers with the perception (whether or not valid) that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs. Such factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Changes in laws and regulations relating to packaging or disposal of our products could continue to increase our costs and reduce demand for our products or otherwise have an adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations.

Certain of our products are sold in packaging designed to be recoverable for recycling but not all packaging









is recovered, whether due to low value, lack of infrastructure or otherwise. The United States and many other jurisdictions have imposed or are considering imposing regulations or policies designed to encourage recycling, including requiring that deposits or certain taxes or fees be charged in connection with the sale, distribution, marketing and use of certain packaging; extended producer responsibility policies which makes brand owners responsible for the costs of recycling products after consumers have used them; and adopting or extending product stewardship policies which could require brand owners to plan for and, if necessary, pay for the recycling or disposal of packaging after consumers have used them. In addition, these jurisdictions may elect to impose regulations or policies to ban the use of certain packaging, such as plastic beverage bottles. Compliance with these laws and regulations could continue to affect our costs or require changes in our distribution model, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to packaging or disposal of our products.

Our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.

Our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, as well as regional, local, and private label manufacturers, economy brands and other competitors. In many countries in which our products are sold, including the United States, The Coca-Cola Company is our primary beverage competitor. Other beverage, food and snack competitors include, but are not limited to, DPSG, Kellogg Company, The Kraft Heinz Company, Mondelēz International, Inc., Monster Beverage Corporation, Nestlé S.A., Red Bull GmbH and Snyder’s-Lance, Inc.

Our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition and loyalty, taste, price, value, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness and the continued acceleration of e-commerce and other methods of distributing and purchasing products. If we are unable to effectively promote our existing products or introduce new products, if our advertising or marketing campaigns are not effective or if we are otherwise unable to effectively respond to pricing pressure or compete effectively (including in distributing our products effectively and cost efficiently through all existing and emerging channels of trade, including through e-commerce and hard discounters), we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or category share or we may need to increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold.

Political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold may be difficult to predict and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The results of elections, referendums or other political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold could create uncertainty regarding how existing laws and regulations may change, including with respect to sanctions, climate change regulation, taxes, the movement of goods, services and people between countries and other matters, and could result in exchange rate fluctuation, volatility in global stock markets and global economic uncertainty. For example, there is continued uncertainty surrounding the United Kingdom’s pending withdrawal from the European Union, including how the United Kingdom will interact with other European Union countries following its departure. Any changes in, or the imposition of new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations due to elections,









referendums or other political conditions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial conditions and results of operations.

Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets.

Uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Many of the countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed and sold have experienced and may, from time to time, continue to experience uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions, such as recessions or economic slowdowns. Our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions in the United States and globally, including: adverse changes in interest rates, tax laws or tax rates; volatile commodity markets, including speculative influences; highly-inflationary









economies, devaluation, fluctuation or demonetization; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace due to legislation or economic conditions; the effects of government initiatives, including demonetization, austerity or stimulus measures to manage economic conditions and any changes to or cessation of such initiatives; the effects of any default by or deterioration in the creditworthiness of the countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold or of countries that may then impact countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold; reduced demand for our products resulting from volatility in general global economic conditions or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons or otherwise to regional, local or private label products or other lower-cost products, or to less profitable sales channels; or a decrease in the fair value of pension or post-retirement assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension or post-retirement plans. In addition, we cannot predict how current or future economic conditions will affect our customers, consumers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties and any negative impact on any of the foregoing may also have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against, or effectively respond to, cyberattacks or other cyber incidents or if our information systems, or those of our customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties, are otherwise disrupted.

We depend on information systems and technology, some of which are provided by third parties, including public websites and cloud-based services, for many activities important to our business, including: to interface with our customers and consumers; to engage in marketing activities; to enable and improve the effectiveness of our operations; to order and manage materials from suppliers; to manage inventory; to manage our facilities; to conduct research and development; to maintain accurate financial records; to achieve operational efficiencies; to comply with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements; to collect and store sensitive data and confidential information; to communicate electronically among our global operations and with our employees and the employees of our customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners and other third parties; and to communicate with our investors.

As with other global companies, we are regularly subject to cyberattacks. Cyberattacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, are constantly evolving in nature, are becoming more sophisticated and are being made by groups and individuals (including criminal hackers, hacktivists, state-sponsored









institutions, terrorist organizations and individuals or groups participating in organized crime) with a wide range of expertise and motives (including monetization of corporate, payment or other internal or personal data, theft of trade secrets and intellectual property for competitive advantage and leverage for political, social, economic and environmental reasons). Such cyberattacks and cyber incidents can take many forms including cyber extortion, denial of service, social engineering, such as impersonation attempts to fraudulently induce employees or others to disclose information or unwittingly provide access to systems or data, introduction of viruses or malware, such as ransomware through phishing emails, website defacement or theft of passwords and other credentials. Although we may incur significant costs in protecting against or remediating cyberattacks or other cyber incidents, no cyberattack or other cyber incident has, to our knowledge, had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations to date.

Further, our information systems and the information stored therein could be compromised by, and we could experience similar adverse consequences due to, unauthorized outside parties accessing or extracting sensitive data or confidential information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes (or demonstrating an ability to do so) or by inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, agents or third parties. We continue to devote significant resources to network security, backup and disaster recovery, and other security measures, including training, to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security or guarantee that we will be successful in preventing or responding to every such breach or disruption. In addition, due to the constantly evolving nature of these security threats, the form and impact of any future incident cannot be predicted.

Similar risks exist with respect to the cloud-based service providers and other third-party vendors that we rely upon for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and systems managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties and their vendors. The need to coordinate with various third-party vendors may complicate our efforts to resolve any issues that may arise. As a result,









we are subject to the risk that the activities associated with our third-party vendors may adversely affect our business even if the attack or breach does not directly impact our systems or information. Moreover, our increased use of mobile and cloud technologies could heighten these and other operational risks, as certain aspects of the security of such technologies may be complex, unpredictable or beyond our control.

While we currently maintain insurance coverage that, subject to its terms and conditions, is intended to address costs associated with certain aspects of cyber incidents, network failures and data privacy-related concerns, this insurance coverage may not, depending on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding an incident, cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise from an incident, or the damage to our reputation or brands that may result from an incident.

Our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials, energy, water and other supplies.

We and our business partners use various raw materials, energy, water and other supplies in our business. The principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit, oranges and other fruits, oats, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. We also use water in the manufacturing of our products. Our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including PET and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. Fuel, electricity and natural gas are also important commodities for our businesses due to their use in our and our business partners’ facilities and the vehicles delivering our products.









accounting treatment and, therefore, can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities.

Water is a limited resource in many parts of the world. The lack of available water of acceptable quality and increasing pressure to conserve water in areas of scarcity and stress may lead to: supply chain disruption; adverse effects on our operations; higher compliance costs; capital expenditures (including additional investments in the development of technologies to enhance water efficiency and reduce water consumption); higher production costs; the cessation of operations at, or relocation of, our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; or damage to our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Business disruptions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Product contamination or tampering or issues or concerns with respect to product quality, safety and integrity could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations.

Product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations (whether or not valid) of product quality issues, mislabeling, misbranding, spoilage, allergens, adulteration or contamination with respect to products in our portfolio may reduce demand for such products, and cause production and delivery disruptions or increase costs, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the products in our portfolio are mislabeled or become unfit for consumption or cause injury, illness or death, or if appropriate resources are not devoted to product quality and safety (particularly as we expand our portfolio into new categories) or to comply with changing food safety requirements, we could decide to, or be required to, recall products in our portfolio and/or we may be subject to liability or government action, which could result in payment of damages or fines, cause certain products in our portfolio to be unavailable for a period of time, result in destruction of product inventory, or result in adverse publicity (whether or not valid), which could reduce consumer demand and









brand equity. Moreover, even if allegations of product contamination or tampering or suggestions that our products were not fit for consumption are meritless, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against us or products in our portfolio or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. Our business could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in product quality, safety and integrity generally, even if such loss of confidence is unrelated to products in our portfolio. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if we do not have adequate insurance, if we do not have enforceable indemnification from suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties or if indemnification is not available, the liability relating to such product claims or disruption as a result of recall efforts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

In addition, we operate globally, which requires us to comply with numerous local regulations, including, without limitation, anti-corruption laws, competition laws and tax laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. In the event that we or our employees engage in or are believed to have engaged in improper activities, we may be subject to regulatory proceedings, including enforcement actions, litigation, loss of sales or other consequences, which may cause us to suffer damage to our reputation in the United States or abroad. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal control or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. In addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and demand









for water continues to rise. Our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to water use.

Further, the popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. As a result, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us, our products, policies, practices, advertising campaigns and marketing programs or sponsorship arrangements; our use of social media or of posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; consumer perception of any of the foregoing, or failure by us to respond effectively to any of the foregoing, may also generate adverse publicity (whether or not valid) that could damage our reputation.

Damage to our reputation or brand image or loss of consumer confidence in our products or employees for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.

Failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or effectively manage divestitures or refranchisings, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We regularly review our portfolio of businesses and evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures, refranchisings and other strategic transactions. Potential issues associated with these activities could include, among other things: our ability to realize the full extent of the expected returns, benefits, cost savings or synergies as a result of a transaction, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with a transaction; and diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations.

With respect to acquisitions, the following factors also pose potential risks: our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company, including integrating the acquired company’s manufacturing, distribution, sales, accounting, financial reporting and administrative support activities and information technology systems with our company; our ability to successfully operate in new categories or territories; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting, environmental compliance, health and safety compliance and compliance with other laws and regulations), procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between us and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures and avoiding increased operating expenses; consolidating sales and marketing operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; retaining existing distributors; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition; and other unanticipated problems or liabilities, such as contingent liabilities and litigation.

With respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, resources or values as we do. Joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Business decisions or other actions or omissions of our joint venture partners may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us or otherwise damage our reputation and brands and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

In addition, acquisitions and joint ventures outside of the United States increase our exposure to risks associated with operations outside of the United States, including fluctuations in exchange rates and









compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and laws and regulations outside the United States.

With respect to divestitures and refranchisings, we may not be able to complete or effectively manage such transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all and may fail to achieve the anticipated benefits or cost savings from the divestiture or refranchising. Further, as divestitures and refranchisings may reduce our direct control over certain aspects of our business, any failure to maintain good relations with divested or refranchised businesses in our supply or sales chain may adversely impact our sales or business performance.

If an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, or if a divestiture or refranchising is not successfully completed or managed or does not result in the benefits or cost savings we expect, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.

A change in our estimates and underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses could result in an impairment charge, which could materially affect our results of operations.

We conduct impairment tests on our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets annually, during our third quarter, or more frequently, if circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or that an other-than-temporary impairment exists. Any changes in our estimates or underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our reporting units or in determining the fair value of any such reporting unit, including goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets, could adversely affect our results of operations. Factors that could result in an impairment include, but are not limited to: significant negative economic or industry trends or competitive operating conditions; significant macroeconomic conditions that may result in a future increase in the weighted-average cost of capital used to estimate fair value; and significant changes in the nature and timing of decisions regarding assets or markets that do not perform consistent with our expectations, including factors we use to estimate future levels of sales, operating profit or cash flows. Future impairment charges could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods recognized.

Increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or disagreements with tax authorities could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.









interpretations and assumptions we have made, changes in Internal Revenue Service (IRS) interpretations, the issuance of new guidance, legislative actions, changes in accounting standards or related interpretations in response to the TCJ Act and future actions by states within the United States that have not currently adopted the TCJ Act. For further information regarding the potential impact of the TCJ Act, see “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Our Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements.

Additional changes in the U.S. tax regime or in how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings, including changes in how existing tax laws are interpreted or enforced, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the IRS and other taxing authorities with respect to income and non-income based taxes both within and outside the United States. Economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the adoption of new or reformed tax legislation or regulation, may make resolving tax disputes more difficult and the final resolution of tax audits and any related litigation could differ from our historical provisions and accruals, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, in connection with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project, companies are required to disclose more information to tax authorities on operations around the world, which may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in various countries.

Failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity initiatives or global operating model could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

If we are unable to recruit, hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our continued growth requires us to recruit, hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. We compete to recruit and hire new employees and then must train them and develop









their skills and competencies. Our employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies and our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to retain, develop and motivate highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Any unplanned turnover or unsuccessful implementation of our succession plans to backfill current leadership positions, including the Chief Executive Officer, or to hire and retain a highly skilled and diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage or result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations.

The loss of, or a significant reduction in sales to, any key customer or disruption in the retail landscape, including rapid growth in hard discounters and the e-commerce channel, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, hard discounters, e-commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. We must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including Wal-Mart, to compete effectively. Any inability to resolve a significant dispute with any of our key customers, a change in the business condition (financial or otherwise) of any of our key customers, even if unrelated to us, a significant reduction in sales to any key customer, or the loss of any of our key customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

In addition, our industry has been affected by changes to the retail landscape, including the rapid growth in sales through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications as well as the integration of physical and digital operations among retailers. We are making significant investments in attracting talent to and building our global e-commerce capabilities. Although we are engaged in e-commerce with respect to many of our products, if we are unable to maintain and develop successful relationships with existing and new e-commerce retailers or otherwise adapt to the growing e-commerce landscape, while simultaneously maintaining relationships with our key customers operating in traditional retail channels, we may be disadvantaged in certain channels and with certain customers and consumers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the growth in e-commerce may result in consumer price deflation, which may affect our relationships with key retail customers. If these e-commerce retailers were to take significant market share away from traditional retailers and/or we fail to adapt to the rapidly changing retail and e-commerce landscapes, our ability to maintain and grow our share of sales or volume and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.

Further, the retail landscape continues to be impacted by the increased consolidation of retail ownership and purchasing power, particularly in North America, Europe and Latin America, resulting in large retailers with increased purchasing power, which may impact our ability to compete in these areas. Such retailers may demand improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Further, should larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks, other distribution channels such as e-commerce, or private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. In addition, the growth of hard discounters that are focused on limiting the number of items they sell and selling predominantly private label brands may reduce our ability to sell our products through such retailers. Failure to appropriately respond to any of the foregoing, including failure to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers, could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space and product availability at our retailers, adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow our share of sales or volume, and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.









Our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings.

If we are not able to successfully implement shared services or utilize information technology systems and networks effectively, our ability to conduct our business may be negatively impacted.

We have entered into agreements with third-party service providers to utilize certain information technology support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and may enter into agreements for shared services in other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. In addition, we utilize cloud-based services and systems and networks managed by third-party vendors to process, transmit and store information and to conduct certain of our business activities and transactions with employees, customers, consumers and other third parties. If any of these third-party service providers or vendors do not perform effectively, or if we fail to adequately monitor their performance, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings or we may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers and our reputation could be harmed. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breaches or otherwise, adverse effects on financial reporting, litigation or remediation costs, or damage to our reputation, which could have a negative impact on employee morale.

We continue on our multi-year business transformation initiative to migrate certain of our systems, including our financial processing systems, to enterprise-wide systems solutions. These systems implementations are part of our ongoing global business transformation initiative, and we plan to continue implementing such systems throughout other parts of our businesses. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if we fail to achieve the expected benefits from this initiative, it may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently, and remain in step with the changing needs of our business, which could result in the loss of customers or consumers and revenue. In addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers or consumers and revenue. In connection with these implementations and resulting business process changes, we continue to enhance the design and documentation of business processes and controls, including our internal control over financial reporting processes, to maintain effective controls over our financial reporting. To date, this transition has not materially affected, and we do not expect it to materially affect, our internal









control over financial reporting.

Fluctuations in exchange rates impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the United States, where the functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar, are translated into U.S. dollars. Our operations outside of the United States, particularly inMexico, Russia, Canada, the United Kingdom and Brazil, generate a significant portion of our net revenue. In addition, we purchase many of the ingredients, raw materials and commodities used in our business in numerous markets and in numerous currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates, including as a result of currency controls or other currency exchange restrictions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Climate change, water scarcity or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change or water scarcity may negatively affect our business and operations or damage our reputation.

There is concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. In the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, oranges and other fruits and potatoes. Natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, such as a hurricane, earthquake or flooding, may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain and unfavorably impact the demand for, or our consumer’s ability to purchase, our products. The predicted effects of climate change may also exacerbate challenges regarding the availability and quality of water. As demand for water access continues to increase around the world, we may be subject to decreased availability of water, deteriorated quality of water or less favorable pricing for water, which could adversely impact our manufacturing and distribution operations.

Concern over climate change may result in new or increased regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases, or to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns. In the event that such regulation is more stringent than current regulatory obligations or the measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor and improve our energy efficiency and water conservation, we may experience disruptions in, or significant increases in our costs of, operation and delivery and we may be required to make additional investments in facilities and equipment or relocate our facilities. In particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. As a result, the effects of climate change or water scarcity could negatively affect our business and operations.

In addition, any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the environment or perception (whether or not valid) of our failure to act responsibly with respect to water use and the environment or to effectively respond to new, or changes in, legal or regulatory requirements concerning climate change or water scarcity could result in adverse publicity and could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations.

There is also increased focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors, customers and consumers on these and other environmental sustainability matters, including deforestation, land use, climate impact and water use. Our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to our impact on the environment.









A portion of our workforce is represented by unions. Failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages, could cause our business to suffer.

Many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and other employees may seek to be covered by collective bargaining agreements. Strikes or work stoppages or other business interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms or if we are unable to otherwise manage changes in, or that affect, our workforce, which could impair manufacturing and distribution of our products or result in a loss of sales, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. The terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new collective bargaining agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency or to adapt to changing business needs or strategy.

If we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if we are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, the value of our products or brands, or our competitive position, could be reduced, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Potential liabilities and costs from litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries and investigations, including but not limited to matters related to our advertising, marketing or commercial practices, product labels, claims and ingredients including sugar, sodium and saturated fat, our intellectual property rights, alleged infringement or misappropriation by us of intellectual property rights of others, environmental, privacy, employment, tax and insurance matters and matters relating to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We evaluate such matters to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses and establish reserves as appropriate. These matters are inherently uncertain and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in these matters, or that our assessment of the materiality of these matters and the likely outcome or potential losses and established reserves will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such matters. In the event that management’s assessment of actual or potential claims and proceedings proves inaccurate or litigation, claims, proceedings, inquiries or investigations that are material arise in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Responding to litigation, claims,









proceedings, inquiries, and investigations, even those that are ultimately non-meritorious, may also require us to incur significant expense and devote significant resources, and may generate adverse publicity that may damage our reputation or brand image, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Many factors may adversely affect the price of our publicly traded securities.

Many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock and publicly traded debt. Such factors, some of which are beyond our control, may include, but are not limited to: unfavorable economic conditions; changes in financial or tax reporting and changes in accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results; investor perceptions of our business, strategies and performance or those of our competitors; actions by shareholders or others seeking to influence our business strategies; speculation by the media or investment community regarding our business, strategies and performance or those of our competitors; developments relating to pending litigation, claims, investigations or inquiries; trading activity in our securities or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our securities; changes in our credit ratings; the impact of our share repurchase programs or dividend policy; and the outcome of referenda and elections. In addition, corporate actions, such as those we may or may not take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure and our strategy, including as a result of business, legal, regulatory and tax considerations, may not have the impact we intend and may adversely affect the price of our securities. The above factors, as well as the other risks included in this “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” could adversely affect the price of our securities.



