Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Demand for our products may be
adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively.

We are a consumer products company operating in highly competitive categories and rely on continued demand for our products. To generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our
customers and to consumers. Any significant changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position.
Our success depends on: our ability to anticipate and respond to shifts in consumer trends, including increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are increasingly concerned with health and wellness; our product quality; our
ability to extend our portfolio of convenient foods in growing markets; our ability to develop new products that are responsive to consumer preferences, including our “fun-for-you”, “good-for-you” and “better-for-you”
products; and our ability to respond to competitive product and pricing pressures. For example, our growth rate may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain or grow our current share of the liquid refreshment beverage market in North
America, or our current share of the snack market globally, or if demand for our products does not grow in emerging and developing markets.

In general, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the
aging of the general population; consumer concerns regarding the health effects of ingredients such as sodium, sugar or other product ingredients or attributes; changes in social trends that impact travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns;
changes in weather patterns or seasonal consumption cycles; negative







publicity (whether or not valid) resulting from regulatory action or litigation against us or other companies in our industry; a downturn in economic conditions; or taxes that would increase the
cost of our products to consumers. Any of these changes may reduce consumers’ willingness to purchase our products. See also “Our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.”, “Unfavorable economic
conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.”, “Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” and
“Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”

Our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products and improving
the quality of existing products, and the effectiveness of our product packaging, advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including our ability to successfully adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, such as through use of social media
and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs. Although we devote significant resources to the actions mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop and launch successful new products or variants of
existing products or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. In addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to
consumers. Our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of
existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs.

Our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to
compete effectively.

The food, snack and beverage industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete
with major international food, snack and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors. In many countries where we do business,
including the United States, The Coca-Cola Company is our primary beverage competitor. We also compete with other large companies in each of the food, snack and beverage categories, including Nestlé S.A., Kraft Foods Inc. and Dr Pepper
Snapple Group, Inc. We compete on the basis of brand recognition, taste, price, quality, product variety, distribution, marketing and promotional activity, convenience, service and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. If we are
unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or gross margins in the global market or in various local markets. This may have a material adverse impact on our revenues and profit margins. See also “Unfavorable
economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.”

Unfavorable economic conditions
may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.

Many of the countries in which we operate,
including the United States and several of the members of the European Union, have experienced and continue to experience







Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.







comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our
reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as
well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.

Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable
to grow our business in developing and emerging markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold.







Trade consolidation or the loss of any key customer could adversely affect our financial performance.

We must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including Wal-Mart, as well as other
retailers, to effectively compete. The loss of any of our key customers, including Wal-Mart, could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, in the event that retail ownership becomes more concentrated, retailers may demand
lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Further, should larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity
may be eroded. Failure to appropriately respond to any such actions or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our
financial performance.

Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating
costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.

Governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where we operate may also impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or
other restrictions. Studies are underway by third parties to assess the health implications of consumption of carbonated soft drinks as well as certain ingredients present in some of our products. In addition, third-party studies are also underway
to assess the effect on humans due to acrylamide in the diet. Acrylamide is a chemical compound naturally formed in a wide variety of foods when they are cooked (whether commercially or at home), including french fries, potato







chips, cereal, bread and coffee. Certain of these studies have found that it is probable that acrylamide causes cancer in laboratory animals when consumed in extraordinary amounts. If consumer
concerns about the health implications of consumption of carbonated soft drinks, certain ingredients present in some of our products or acrylamide increase as a result of these studies, other new scientific evidence, or for any other reason, whether
or not valid, demand for our products could decline and we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of
operations.

We are also subject to Proposition 65 in California, a law which requires that a specific warning appear on any
product sold in California that contains a substance listed by that State as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. If we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our
products are sold, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere.

In many jurisdictions,
compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. Regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as
product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our
employees or suppliers could take actions that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions which could have a material
adverse effect on our business.

In addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental
remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual
obligations of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential
exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. We cannot assure you that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our established liabilities or otherwise have an
adverse effect on our results of operations. See also “Item 1. Business – Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance.” and “Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in
developing and emerging markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold.” above.

If we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or outsource certain functions
effectively, our business could suffer.

We depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness
of our operations, to interface with our customers, to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements, and for digital







marketing activities and electronic communication among our locations around the world and between our personnel and the personnel of our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers and
suppliers. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers,
business disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property, or the loss of sensitive or confidential data through security breach or otherwise.

We have embarked on multi-year business transformation initiatives to migrate certain of our financial processing systems to enterprise-wide systems solutions. There can be no certainty that these
initiatives will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and efficiently and (2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result
in the loss of customers. In addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue.

In addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing
and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If the service providers that we outsource these functions to do not perform or do not
perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business
disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach or otherwise, litigation, or remediation costs and could have a negative impact on
employee morale.

Our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting confidential
information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets, litigation, remediation costs, damage to our reputation and loss of revenue resulting
from unauthorized use of confidential information or failure to retain or attract customers following such an event.

Fluctuations in
exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.

We hold assets and incur
liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the United States
are translated into U.S. dollars. Our operations outside of the U.S. generate a significant portion of our net revenue. Fluctuations in exchange rates may therefore adversely impact our business results or financial condition. See also “Market
Risks” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.







Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages
of raw materials and other supplies.

Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our ability, and that of our suppliers, business partners, including our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, independent
distributors and retailers, to make, manufacture, distribute and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to any of the following could impair our ability to make,
manufacture, distribute or sell our products: adverse weather conditions or natural disaster, such as a hurricane, earthquake or flooding; government action; fire; terrorism; the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; pandemic; industrial
accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; strikes and other labor disputes; or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and business partners. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or
potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.







Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively
affect our business and operations.

If we are unable to hire or retain key employees
or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business.

Our continued growth
requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. We compete to hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Any unplanned turnover or our failure to
develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions, including our Chief Executive Officer, or to hire and retain a diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. In
addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs.







A portion of our workforce belongs to unions. Failure to successfully renew collective bargaining
agreements, or strikes or work stoppages could cause our business to suffer.

Many of our employees are covered by
collective bargaining agreements. These agreements expire on various dates. Strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results.
The terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency.

Failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete divestitures, could have
an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.







Failure to successfully implement our global operating model could have an adverse impact on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

We recently created the Global Beverages Group and the Global
Snacks Group, both of which are focused on innovation, research and development, brand management and best-practice sharing around the world, as well as collaborating with our Global Nutrition Group to grow our nutrition portfolio. If we are unable
to successfully implement our global operating model, including retention of key employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.

Failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity plan could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We are implementing a strategic plan that we believe will position our business for future success and growth, to allow us to achieve a
lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food, snack and beverage industries. In order to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts, it will be necessary to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited
due to capital constraints. In addition, it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to continue to lead and execute our plan. Our future success and earnings growth depends in part on our ability to reduce costs and improve
efficiencies. If we are unable to successfully implement our productivity plan or fail to implement it as timely as we anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.

Our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings.

Our objective is to maintain credit ratings that provide us with ready access to global capital and credit
markets. Any downgrade of our current credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms
commercially acceptable to us or at all. In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, and
therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. Our borrowing costs and access to the commercial paper market could also be adversely affected if a credit rating agency announces that our ratings are under
review for a potential downgrade.

Our intellectual property rights could be infringed or challenged and reduce the value of our
products and brands and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We
possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. These intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents,







business processes and other trade secrets which are important to our business and relate to some of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation
of various equipment used in our businesses. We protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of
third-party misuses of our intellectual property. If we fail to obtain or adequately protect our ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes
the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See also “Changes in the
legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”

