Item 1A.  Risk Factors.

You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. Any of the factors described below could occur or continue to occur and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our publicly traded securities. The risks below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may occur or become material in the future and may also adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our publicly traded securities. Therefore, historical operating results, financial and business performance, events and trends may not be a reliable indicator of future operating results, financial and business performance, events or trends.

Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate, market or distribute our products effectively, and any significant reduction in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We are a global food and beverage company operating in highly competitive categories and markets. To generate revenues and profits, we rely on continued demand for our products and therefore must understand our customers and consumers and sell products that appeal to them in the sales channel in which they prefer to shop or browse for such products. In general, changes in consumption in our product categories or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. Demand for our products depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to shifts in consumer trends and preferences, including increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are concerned with: health and wellness (including products that have less added sugars, sodium and saturated fat); convenience (including responding to changes in in-home and on-the-go consumption patterns and methods of distribution of our products to customers and consumers, including through e-commerce and hard discounters); or the location of origin or source of ingredients and products (including the environmental impact related to production of our products).

Consumer preferences have been evolving, and are expected to continue to evolve, due to a variety of factors, including: changes in consumer demographics, including the aging of the general population and the emergence of the millennial and younger generations who have differing spending, consumption and purchasing habits; consumer concerns or perceptions regarding the nutrition profile of products, including the presence of added sugar, sodium and saturated fat in certain of our products; growing demand for organic or locally sourced ingredients, or consumer concerns or perceptions (whether or not valid) regarding the









Demand for our products is also dependent in part on product quality, product and marketing innovation and production and distribution, including our ability to: maintain a robust pipeline of new products; improve the quality of existing products; extend our portfolio of products in growing markets and categories (through acquisitions, such as SodaStream, and innovation, such as increasing non-carbonated beverage offerings and other alternatives to, or reformulations of, carbonated beverage offerings); respond to cultural differences and regional consumer preferences (whether through developing or acquiring new products that are responsive to such preferences); monitor and adjust our use of ingredients and packaging materials (including to respond to applicable regulations); develop sweetener alternatives and innovation; increase the recyclability or recoverability of our packaging; improve the production and distribution of our products; respond to competitive product and pricing pressures and changes in distribution channels, including in the e-commerce channel; and implement effective advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including successfully adapting to a rapidly changing media environment through the use of social media and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs.

Although we devote significant resources to the items mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop, launch, maintain or distribute successful new products or variants of existing products in a timely manner (including correctly anticipating or effectively reacting to changes in consumer preferences) or to develop and effectively execute advertising and marketing campaigns that appeal to customers and consumers. Our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products or effectively market or distribute our products could reduce demand for our products, result in inventory write-offs and erode our competitive and financial position and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Changes in laws and regulations relating to the use or disposal of plastics or other packaging of our products could continue to increase our costs, reduce demand for our products or otherwise have an adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations.

Certain of our food and beverage products are sold in plastic or other packaging designed to be recoverable for recycling but not all packaging is recovered, whether due to low value, lack of infrastructure or otherwise. In addition, certain of our packaging may currently not be recyclable, compostable or biodegradable. There is a growing concern with the accumulation of plastic and other packaging waste in the environment,









particularly in the world’s oceans and waterways. As a result, our branded packaging waste could result in negative publicity (whether or not valid) or reduce consumer demand and overall consumption of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

While we continue to devote significant resources to increase the recyclability and sustainability of our packaging, the increased focus on reducing plastic waste may require us to increase capital expenditures, including requiring additional investments to minimize the amount of plastic across our packaging; increase the amount of recycled content in our packaging; and develop sustainable, bio-based packaging as a replacement for fossil fuel-based plastic packaging, including flexible film alternatives for our snacks packaging. Our failure to minimize our plastics use, increase the amount of recycled content in our packaging or develop sustainable packaging or consumers’ failure to accept such sustainable packaging could reduce consumer demand and overall consumption of our products and erode our competitive and financial position. Further, our reputation could be damaged for failure to achieve our sustainability goals with respect to our plastics use, including our goal to use 25% recycled content in our plastic packaging by 2025, or if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to packaging or disposal of our products.

Changes in, or failure to comply with, laws and regulations applicable to our products or our business operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

The conduct of our business is subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as government entities and agencies outside the United States, including laws and regulations relating to the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, content, quality, safety, transportation, packaging, disposal, recycling and use of our products, as well as our employment and occupational health and safety practices and protection of personal information. In addition, in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions, as is compliance with anti-corruption laws. Many of these laws and regulations have differing or conflicting legal standards across the various markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold and, in certain markets, such as developing and emerging markets, may be less developed or certain. For example, products containing genetically engineered ingredients are subject to differing regulations and restrictions in the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, as is the packaging, disposal and recyclability of our products. For example, five provinces in Canada, covering most of the Canadian market, have









The imposition of new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, including taxes, labeling, product, production, recovery or recycling requirements, or other limitations on, or pertaining to, the sale or advertisement of certain of our products, ingredients or substances contained in, or attributes of, our products, commodities used in the production of our products or use, disposal, recovery or recyclability of our products and their packaging, may further alter the way in which we do business and, therefore, may continue to increase our costs or liabilities or reduce demand for our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If one jurisdiction imposes or proposes to impose new requirements or restrictions, other jurisdictions may follow. For example, if one jurisdiction imposes a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages or foods, or imposes a specific labeling or warning requirement, other jurisdictions may impose similar or other measures that impact the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products. The foregoing may result in decreased demand for our products, adverse publicity or increased concerns about the health implications of consumption of ingredients or substances in our products (whether or not valid).

In addition, studies (whether or not scientifically valid) have been and continue to be underway by third parties purporting to assess the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in certain of our products or packaging materials, such as 4-MeI, acrylamide, caffeine, glyphosate, furfuryl alcohol, added sugars, sodium, saturated fat and plastic. Third parties have also published documents or studies claiming (whether or not valid) that taxes can address consumer consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages and foods high in sugar, sodium or saturated fat. If, as a result of these studies and documents or otherwise, there is an increase in consumer concerns (whether or not valid) about the health implications of consumption of certain of our products, an increase in the number of jurisdictions that impose taxes on our products, or an increase in new labeling, product or production requirements or other restrictions on the manufacturing, sale or display of our products, demand for our products could decline, or we could be subject









to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, suppliers, or other third parties with whom we do business could take actions, intentional or not, that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations or could fail to maintain required documentation sufficient to evidence our compliance with applicable laws or regulations. Failure to comply with such laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines, injunctions, product recalls, penalties, disgorgement of profits or activity restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or assets or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on the sales of products in our portfolio or could lead to damage to our reputation.

In addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by us or our subsidiaries. Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. We cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our estimates or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

The imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes aimed at our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Significant additional labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of our products may reduce demand for such products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Certain jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, product labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or









sale of certain of our products as a result of ingredients or substances contained in such products. These types of provisions have required that we provide a label that highlights perceived concerns about a product or warns consumers to avoid consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in our products. For example, in California in the United States, Proposition 65 requires a specific warning on or relating to any product that contains a substance listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects or other reproductive harm, unless the level of such substance in the product is below a safe harbor level established by the State of California.

In addition, a number of jurisdictions, both in and outside the United States, have imposed or are considering imposing labeling requirements, including color-coded labeling of certain food and beverage products where colors such as red, yellow and green are used to indicate various levels of a particular ingredient, such as sugar, sodium or saturated fat. The imposition or proposed imposition of additional product labeling or warning requirements could reduce overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether based on scientific fact or not) or leave consumers with the perception (whether or not valid) that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs. Such factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.

Our beverage, food and snack products are in highly competitive categories and markets and compete against products of international beverage, food and snack companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographies, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and economy brands and other competitors. In many countries in which our products are sold, including the United States, The Coca-Cola Company is our primary beverage competitor. Other beverage, food and snack competitors include, but are not limited to, Campbell Soup Company, Conagra Brands, Inc., Kellogg Company, Keurig Dr Pepper Inc., The Kraft Heinz Company, Link Snacks, Inc., Mondelēz International, Inc., Monster Beverage Corporation, Nestlé S.A. and Red Bull GmbH.

Our beverage, food and snack products compete primarily on the basis of brand recognition and loyalty, taste, price, value, quality, product variety, innovation, distribution, advertising, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to anticipate and effectively respond to consumer preferences and trends, including increased consumer focus on health and wellness and the continued acceleration of e-commerce and other methods of distributing and purchasing products. If we are unable to effectively promote our existing products or introduce new products, if our advertising or marketing campaigns are not effective, if our competitors spend more aggressively than we do or if we are otherwise unable to effectively respond to pricing pressure or compete effectively (including in distributing our products effectively and cost efficiently through all existing and emerging channels of trade, including through e-commerce and hard discounters), we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or category share or we may need to increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity initiatives or operating model could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our future success and earnings growth depend, in part, on our ability to continue to reduce costs and improve efficiencies, including implementing shared business service organizational models. Our productivity initiatives help support our growth initiatives and contribute to our results of operations. We continue to implement productivity initiatives that we believe will position our business for long-term sustainable growth by allowing us to achieve a lower cost structure and operate more efficiently in the highly competitive beverage, food and snack categories and markets. We are also continuing to implement our initiatives to









Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold.

Political conditions in the markets in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold may be difficult to predict and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The results of elections, referendums or other political conditions (including government shutdowns) in these markets could impact how existing laws, regulations and government programs or policies are implemented or create uncertainty as to how such laws, regulations and government programs or policies may change, including with respect to tariffs, sanctions, climate change regulation, taxes, benefit programs, the movement of goods, services and people between countries and other matters, and could result in exchange rate fluctuation, volatility in global stock markets and global economic uncertainty or adversely affect demand for our products. For example, the United Kingdom’s pending withdrawal from the European Union (commonly referred to as Brexit) could lead to differing laws and regulations in the United Kingdom and European Union. Any changes in, or the imposition of new laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations due to elections, referendums or other political conditions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial conditions and results of operations.

Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets.









Uncertain or unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

In addition, some of the major financial institutions with which we execute transactions, including U.S. and non-U.S. commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks and other financial institutions may be









Our business and reputation could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against, or effectively respond to, cyberattacks or other cyber incidents or if our information systems, or those of our customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties, are otherwise disrupted.

We depend on information systems and technology, some of which are provided by third parties, including public websites and cloud-based services, for many activities important to our business, including: to interface with our customers and consumers; to engage in marketing activities; to enable and improve the effectiveness of our operations; to order and manage materials from suppliers; to manage inventory; to manage and operate our facilities; to conduct research and development; to maintain accurate financial records; to achieve operational efficiencies; to comply with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements; to collect and store sensitive data and confidential information; to communicate electronically among our global operations and with our employees and the employees of our customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners and other third parties; and to communicate with our investors.

If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and maintain our information technology infrastructure, including monitoring networks and systems, upgrading our security policies and









Further, our information systems and those of our third-party providers, and the information stored therein could be compromised, including through cyberattacks or other external or internal methods, resulting in unauthorized parties accessing or extracting sensitive data or confidential information. Failure to comply with data privacy laws could result in litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations.

We continue to devote significant resources to network security, backup and disaster recovery, enhancing our internal controls, and other security measures, including training, to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security or guarantee that we will be successful in preventing or responding to every such breach or disruption. In addition, due to the constantly evolving nature of these security threats, the form and impact of any future incident cannot be predicted.

Similar risks exist with respect to the cloud-based service providers and other third-party vendors that we rely upon for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, and systems managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties and their vendors. The need to coordinate with various third-party vendors may complicate our efforts to resolve any issues that may arise. As a result, we are subject to the risk that the activities associated with our third-party vendors may adversely affect our business even if the attack or breach does not directly impact our systems or information. Moreover, our increased use of mobile and cloud technologies could heighten these and other operational risks, as certain aspects of the security of such technologies may be complex, unpredictable or beyond our control.

While we currently maintain insurance coverage that, subject to its terms and conditions, is intended to address costs associated with certain aspects of cyber incidents, network failures and data privacy-related concerns, this insurance coverage may not, depending on the specific facts and circumstances surrounding an incident, cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise from an incident, or the damage to our reputation or brands that may result from an incident.









Our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials, energy, water and other supplies.

We and our business partners use various raw materials, energy, water and other supplies in our business. The principal ingredients we use in our beverage, food and snack products are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit, oats, oranges and other fruits, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. We also use water in the manufacturing of our products. Our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including PET and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. Fuel, electricity and natural gas are also important commodities for our businesses due to their use in our and our business partners’ facilities and the vehicles delivering our products.









Water is a limited resource in many parts of the world. The lack of available water of acceptable quality and increasing pressure to conserve water in areas of scarcity and stress may lead to: supply chain disruption; adverse effects on our operations; higher compliance costs; capital expenditures (including additional investments in the development of technologies to enhance water efficiency and reduce water consumption); higher production costs; the cessation of operations at, or relocation of, our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; or damage to our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Business disruptions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Product contamination or tampering or issues or concerns with respect to product quality, safety and integrity could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations.









also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in product quality, safety and integrity generally, even if such loss of confidence is unrelated to products in our portfolio. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if we do not have adequate insurance, if we do not have enforceable indemnification from suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties or if indemnification is not available, the liability relating to such product claims or disruption as a result of recall efforts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Any damage to our reputation or brand image could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

In addition, we operate globally, which requires us to comply with numerous local regulations, including, without limitation, anti-corruption laws, competition laws and tax laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold. In the event that we or our employees engage in or are believed to have engaged in improper activities, we may be subject to regulatory proceedings, including enforcement actions, litigation, loss of sales or other consequences, which may cause us to suffer damage to our reputation in the United States or abroad. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal control or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. In addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and demand for water continues to rise. Our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to water use.









Further, the popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. As a result, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us, our products, policies, practices, advertising campaigns and marketing programs or sponsorship arrangements; our use of social media or of posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, contract manufacturers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; consumer perception of any of the foregoing, or failure by us to respond effectively to any of the foregoing, may also generate adverse publicity (whether or not valid) that could damage our reputation.

Damage to our reputation or brand image or loss of consumer confidence in our products or employees for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.

Failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or effectively manage divestitures or refranchisings, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We regularly review our portfolio of businesses and evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures, refranchisings and other strategic transactions. Potential issues associated with these activities could include, among other things: our ability to realize the full extent of the expected returns, benefits, cost savings or synergies as a result of a transaction, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with a transaction; and diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations.

With respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, resources or values as we do. Joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Business decisions or other actions or omissions of our joint venture partners may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us or otherwise damage our reputation and brands and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

In addition, acquisitions and joint ventures outside of the United States increase our exposure to risks associated with operations outside of the United States, including fluctuations in exchange rates and compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and laws and regulations outside the United States.









With respect to divestitures and refranchisings, we may not be able to complete or effectively manage such transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all and may fail to achieve the anticipated benefits or cost savings from the divestiture or refranchising. Further, as divestitures and refranchisings may reduce our direct control over certain aspects of our business, any failure to maintain good relations with divested or refranchised businesses in our supply or sales chain may adversely impact our sales or business performance.

If an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed, integrated into our existing operations or managed effectively, or if a divestiture or refranchising is not successfully completed or managed effectively or does not result in the benefits or cost savings we expect, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.

A change in our estimates and underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses could result in an impairment charge, which could materially affect our results of operations.

We conduct impairment tests on our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets annually, during our third quarter, or more frequently if circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Any changes in our estimates or underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our reporting units or in determining the fair value of any such reporting unit, including goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets, could adversely affect our results of operations. Factors that could result in an impairment include, but are not limited to: significant negative economic or industry trends or competitive operating conditions; significant macroeconomic conditions that may result in a future increase in the weighted-average cost of capital used to estimate fair value; and significant changes in the nature and timing of decisions regarding assets or markets that do not perform consistent with our expectations, including factors we use to estimate future levels of sales, operating profit or cash flows. Future impairment charges could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods recognized.

Increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or disagreements with tax authorities could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Increases in income tax rates or other changes in income tax laws in any particular jurisdiction could reduce our after-tax income from such jurisdiction and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations outside the United States generate a significant portion of our income. In addition, the United States and many of the other countries in which our products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, including countries in which we have significant operations, have recently made or are actively considering changes to existing tax laws. For example, in December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJ Act) was signed into law in the United States. While our accounting for the recorded impact of the TCJ Act is deemed to be complete, these amounts are based on prevailing regulations and currently available information, and any additional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) could impact our recorded amounts in future periods. For further information regarding the impact and potential impact of the TCJ Act, see “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Our Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements.

Additional changes in the U.S. tax regime or in how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings, including changes in how existing tax laws are interpreted or enforced, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) has recommended changes to numerous long-standing international tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) project. These changes, to the extent adopted,









may increase tax uncertainty, result in higher compliance costs and adversely affect our provision for income taxes, results of operations and/or cash flow.

We are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the IRS and other taxing authorities with respect to income and non-income based taxes both within and outside the United States. In connection with the OECD’s BEPS project, companies are required to disclose more information to tax authorities on operations around the world, which may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in various countries. Economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the adoption of new or reformed tax legislation or regulation, may make resolving tax disputes more difficult and the final resolution of tax audits and any related litigation could differ from our historical provisions and accruals, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

If we are unable to recruit, hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our continued growth requires us to recruit, hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. We compete to recruit and hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Our employees are highly sought after by our competitors and other companies and our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to retain, develop and motivate highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Any unplanned turnover or unsuccessful implementation of our succession plans to backfill current leadership positions, including the Chief Executive Officer, or to hire and retain a highly skilled and diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage or result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations.

The loss of, or a significant reduction in sales to, any key customer could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, hard discounters, e-commerce retailers and authorized independent bottlers, among others. We must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including Wal-Mart, to compete effectively. Any inability to resolve a significant dispute with any of our key customers, a change in the business condition (financial or otherwise) of any of our key customers, even if unrelated to us, a significant reduction in sales to any key customer, or the loss of any of our key customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Disruption in the retail landscape, including rapid growth in hard discounters and the e-commerce channel, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our industry has been affected by changes to the retail landscape, including the rapid growth in sales through e-commerce websites, mobile commerce applications and subscription services as well as the integration of physical and digital operations among retailers. We continue to make significant investments in attracting talent to and building our global e-commerce capabilities. Although we are engaged in e-commerce with respect to many of our products, if we are unable to maintain and develop successful relationships with existing and new e-commerce retailers or otherwise adapt to the growing e-commerce landscape, while simultaneously maintaining relationships with our key customers operating in traditional retail channels, we may be disadvantaged in certain channels and with certain customers and consumers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the growth in e-commerce and hard discounters may result in consumer price deflation, which may affect our relationships with key retail









customers. Further, the ability of consumers to compare prices on a real-time basis using digital technology puts additional pressure on us to maintain competitive prices. If these e-commerce and hard discounter retailers were to take significant market share away from traditional retailers and/or we fail to adapt to the rapidly changing retail and e-commerce landscapes, our ability to maintain and grow our profitability, share of sales or volume and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.

Further, the retail landscape continues to be impacted by the increased consolidation of retail ownership and purchasing power, particularly in North America, Europe and Latin America, resulting in large retailers with increased purchasing power, which may impact our ability to compete in these areas. Such retailers may demand improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Further, should larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks, other distribution channels such as e-commerce, or private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. In addition, the growth of hard discounters that are focused on limiting the number of items they sell and selling predominantly private label brands may reduce our ability to sell our products through such retailers. Failure to appropriately respond to any of the foregoing, including failure to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers, could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space and product availability at our retailers, adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow our share of sales or volume, and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings.

If we are not able to successfully implement shared services or utilize information technology systems and networks effectively, our ability to conduct our business may be negatively impacted.

We have entered into agreements with third-party service providers to utilize information technology support services and administrative functions in certain areas of our business, including payroll processing, health and benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions. We may enter into new or additional agreements for shared services in other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies as we continue to migrate to shared business service organizational models across our business operations. In addition, we utilize cloud-based services and systems and networks managed by third-party vendors to process, transmit and store information and to conduct certain of our business activities and transactions with employees, customers, consumers and other third parties. If any of these third-party service









providers or vendors do not perform effectively, or if we fail to adequately monitor their performance (including compliance with service level agreements or regulatory or legal requirements), we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings, we may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers, our reputation could be harmed or we could be subject to litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breaches or otherwise, incorrect or adverse effects on financial reporting, litigation or remediation costs, or damage to our reputation, which could have a negative impact on employee morale. In addition, the management of multiple third-party service providers increases operational complexity and decreases our control.

We continue on our multi-year business transformation initiative to migrate certain of our systems, including our financial processing systems, to enterprise-wide systems solutions. These systems implementations are part of our ongoing global business transformation initiative, and we plan to continue implementing such systems throughout other parts of our businesses. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if we fail to achieve the expected benefits from this initiative, it may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently, and remain in step with the changing needs of our business, which could result in the loss of customers or consumers and revenue. In addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers or consumers and revenue. In connection with these implementations and resulting business process changes, we continue to enhance the design and documentation of business processes and controls, including our internal control over financial reporting processes, to maintain effective controls over our financial reporting. To date, this transition has not materially affected, and we do not expect it to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Fluctuations in exchange rates impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the United States, where the functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar, are translated into U.S. dollars. Our operations outside of the United States, particularly inMexico, Russia, Canada, the United Kingdom and Brazil, generate a significant portion of our net revenue. In addition, we purchase many of the ingredients, raw materials and commodities used in our business in numerous markets and in numerous currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates, including as a result of currency controls or other currency exchange restrictions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Climate change, water scarcity or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change or water scarcity may negatively affect our business and operations or damage our reputation.

There is concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. In the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, oranges and other fruits and potatoes. Natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or flooding, may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain and unfavorably impact the demand for, or our consumers’ ability to purchase, our products. The predicted effects of climate change may also exacerbate challenges regarding the availability and quality of water. As demand for water access continues to increase









around the world, we may be subject to decreased availability of water, deteriorated quality of water or less favorable pricing for water, which could adversely impact our manufacturing and distribution operations.

Concern over climate change may result in new or increased regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases, or to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns. In the event that such regulation is more stringent than current regulatory obligations or the measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor and improve our energy efficiency and water conservation, we may experience disruptions in, or significant increases in our costs of, operation and delivery and we may be required to make additional investments in facilities and equipment or relocate our facilities. In particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. As a result, the effects of climate change or water scarcity could negatively affect our business and operations.

In addition, any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the environment or perception (whether or not valid) of our failure to act responsibly with respect to water use and the environment or to effectively respond to new, or changes in, legal or regulatory requirements concerning climate change or water scarcity could result in adverse publicity and could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations.

There is also increased focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors, customers and consumers on these and other environmental sustainability matters, including deforestation, land use, climate impact, water use and recyclability or recoverability of packaging, including plastic. Our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to our impact on the environment.

A portion of our workforce is represented by unions. Failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages, could cause our business to suffer.

Many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and other employees may seek to be covered by collective bargaining agreements. Strikes or work stoppages or other business interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms or if we are unable to otherwise manage changes in, or that affect, our workforce, which could impair manufacturing and distribution of our products or result in a loss of sales, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. The terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new collective bargaining agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency or to adapt to changing business needs or strategy.

If we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if we are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, the value of our products or brands, or our competitive position, could be reduced, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. These intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets that are important to our business and relate to a variety of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. We protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of third-party misuses of our









intellectual property. If we fail to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and trade secrets, including our ingredient formulas, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands, or our competitive position, could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if, in the course of developing new products or improving the quality of existing products, we are found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, such finding could have an adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations and may limit our ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products.

Potential liabilities and costs from litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Many factors may adversely affect the price of our publicly traded securities.











