
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
================================================================================
               UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
     ACT OF 1934 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
                                      OR

[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 for the transition period from _________ to __________

                         Commission File Number 1-5231

                             MCDONALD'S CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

               Delaware                                       36-2361282
    (State or other jurisdiction of                        (I.R.S. Employer
     incorporation or organization)                       Identification No.)
 
            McDonald's Plaza
           Oak Brook, Illinois                                   60523
(Address of principal executive offices)                       (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (630) 623-3000

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                     None
                               (Title of Class)

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes   X    No  
    -----     -----      

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [_]

     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant is $32,223,113,320 and the number of shares of common stock
outstanding is 685,853,427 as of January 31, 1998.

     Documents incorporated by reference. Part III of this 10-K incorporates
information by reference from the registrant's 1998 definitive proxy statement
which will be filed no later than 120 days after December 31, 1997.
================================================================================


                                    PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
  McDonald's Corporation, the registrant, together with its subsidiaries, is
referred to herein as the "Company".
 
(A) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS
 
  In 1997, the Company reorganized its United States business into five
geographic divisions, each led by a newly appointed divisional president and
management team. The reorganization was designed to place management decision-
making and accountability closer to the Company's customers, restaurants and
franchisees.
 
  There have been no other significant changes to the Company's corporate
structure during 1997, nor material changes in the Company's method of
conducting business.
 
(B) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS
 
  Industry segment data for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
is included in Part II, Item 8, page 20 of this Form 10-K.
 
(C) NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
 
 General
 
  The Company develops, operates, franchises and services a worldwide system
of restaurants which prepare, assemble, package and sell a limited menu of
value-priced foods. These restaurants are operated by the Company or, under
the terms of franchise arrangements, by franchisees who are independent third
parties, or by affiliates operating under joint-venture agreements between the
Company and local businesspeople.
 
  The Company's franchising program is designed to assure consistency and
quality. The Company is selective in granting franchises and is not in the
practice of franchising to investor groups or passive investors. Under the
conventional franchise arrangement, franchisees supply capital--initially, by
purchasing equipment, signs, seating, and decor, and over the long term, by
reinvesting in the business. The Company shares the investment by owning or
leasing the land and building; franchisees then contribute to the Company's
revenues through payment of rent and service fees or royalties based upon a
percent of sales, with specified minimum payments. The conventional franchise
arrangement typically lasts 20 years and franchising practices are generally
consistent throughout the world. Further discussion regarding site selection
is included in Part I, Item 2, page 4 of this Form 10-K.
 
  Training begins at the restaurant with one-on-one instruction and
videotapes. Aspiring restaurant managers progress through a development
program of classes in management and basic and intermediate operations.
Assistant managers are eligible to attend the advanced operations and
management class at one of the five Hamburger University (H.U.) campuses in
the U.S., Germany, England, Japan or Australia. The curriculum at H.U.
concentrates on skills and practices essential to delivering customer
satisfaction and running a restaurant business.
 
  The Company's global brand is well-known. Marketing and promotional
activities are designed to nurture this brand image and differentiate the
Company from competitors by focusing on value, taste and customer
satisfaction. Funding for promotions is handled at the local restaurant level;
funding for regional and national efforts is handled through advertising
cooperatives. Franchised, Company-operated and affiliated restaurants
throughout the world make voluntary contributions to cooperatives which
purchase media. Production costs for certain advertising efforts are borne by
the Company.
 

 
 Products
 
  McDonald's restaurants offer a substantially uniform menu consisting of
hamburgers and cheeseburgers, including the Big Mac, Quarter Pounder with
Cheese and Arch Deluxe sandwiches, the Filet-O-Fish, Grilled Chicken Deluxe
and Crispy Chicken Deluxe, french fries, Chicken McNuggets, salads, milk
shakes, sundaes and cones, pies, cookies and a limited number of soft drinks
and other beverages. In addition, the restaurants sell a variety of products
during limited promotional time periods. McDonald's restaurants operating in
the United States are open during breakfast hours and offer a full breakfast
menu including the Egg McMuffin and the Sausage McMuffin with Egg sandwiches,
hotcakes and sausage; three varieties of biscuit sandwiches; and Apple-Bran
muffins. McDonald's restaurants in many countries around the world offer many
of these same products as well as other products and limited breakfast menus.
The Company tests new products on an ongoing basis.
 
  The Company, its franchisees and affiliates purchase food products and
packaging from numerous independent suppliers. Quality specifications for both
raw and cooked food products are established and strictly enforced.
Alternative sources of these items are generally available. Quality assurance
labs in the U.S., Europe and the Pacific work to ensure that the Company's
high standards are consistently met. The quality assurance process involves
ongoing testing and on-site inspections of suppliers' facilities.
Independently owned and operated distribution centers distribute products and
supplies to most McDonald's restaurants. The restaurants then prepare,
assemble and package these products using specially designed production
techniques and equipment to obtain uniform standards of quality.
 
 Trademarks and patents
 
  The Company has registered trademarks and service marks, some of which,
including "McDonald's", "Ronald McDonald" and other related marks, are of
material importance to the Company's business. The Company also has certain
patents on restaurant equipment which, while valuable, are not material to its
business.
 
 Seasonal operations
 
  The Company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material
degree.
 
 Working capital practices
 
  Information about the Company's working capital practices is incorporated
herein by reference to Management's Discussion and Analysis of the Company's
financial position and the consolidated statement of cash flows for the years
ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 in Part II, Item 7, pages 15 through
19, and Part II, Item 8, page 23 of this Form 10-K.
 
 Customers
 
  The Company's business is not dependent upon a single customer or small
group of customers.
 
 Backlog
 
  Company-operated restaurants have no backlog orders.
 
 Government contracts
 
  No material portion of the business is subject to renegotiation of profits
or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S.
government.
 
 Competition
 
  McDonald's restaurants compete with international, national, regional, and
local retailers of food products. The Company competes on the basis of price
and service and by offering quality food products. The Company's
 

 
competition in the broadest perspective includes restaurants, quick-service
eating establishments, pizza parlors, coffee shops, street vendors,
convenience food stores, delicatessens, and supermarket freezers.
 
  In the U.S., about 445,000 restaurants generate nearly $244 billion in
annual sales. McDonald's accounts for about 2.8% of those restaurants and
approximately 7.0% of those sales. No reasonable estimate can be made of the
number of competitors outside the U.S.; however, the Company's business in
foreign markets continues to grow.
 
 Research and development
 
  The Company operates research and development facilities in Illinois. While
research and development activities are important to the Company's business,
these expenditures are not material. Independent suppliers also conduct
research activities for the benefit of the McDonald's System, which includes
franchisees and suppliers, as well as McDonald's, its subsidiaries and joint
ventures.
 
 Environmental matters
 
  The Company is not aware of any federal, state or local environmental laws
or regulations which will materially affect its earnings or competitive
position, or result in material capital expenditures; however, the Company
cannot predict the effect on its operations of possible future environmental
legislation or regulations. During 1997, there were no material capital
expenditures for environmental control facilities and no such material
expenditures are anticipated.
 
 Number of employees
 
  During 1997, the Company's average number of employees worldwide, including
company-operated restaurant employees, was approximately 267,000.
 
(D) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS
 
  Financial information about foreign and domestic markets is incorporated
herein by reference from Management's Discussion and Analysis and Segment and
Geographic Information in Part II, Item 7, pages 8 through 19 and Part II,
Item 8, page 30, respectively, of this Form 10-K.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
  The Company identifies and develops sites that offer convenience to
customers and provide for long-term sales and profit potential. To assess
potential, the Company analyzes traffic and walking patterns, census data,
school enrollments and other relevant data. The Company's experience and
access to advanced technology aids in evaluating this information. In order to
ensure long-term occupancy and control of the related costs, the Company owns
restaurant sites and buildings or secures long-term leases. Restaurant
profitability for both the Company and franchisees is important; therefore,
ongoing efforts are made to lower average development costs through
construction and design efficiencies, standardization and by leveraging the
Company's global sourcing system. Additional information about the Company's
properties is included in Management's Discussion and Analysis and the related
financial statements and footnotes in Part II, Item 7, pages 8 through 19 and
Part II, Item 8, pages 22, 23, 25, 26, 28, 29 and 31 respectively, of this
Form 10-K.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  The Company has pending a number of lawsuits which have been filed from time
to time in various jurisdictions. These lawsuits cover a broad variety of
allegations spanning the Company's entire business. The following is a brief
description of the more significant of these categories of lawsuits and
government regulations.
 

 
The Company does not believe that any such claims or lawsuits will have a
material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.
 
FRANCHISING
 
  A substantial number of McDonald's restaurants are franchised to independent
businesspeople operating under arrangements with the Company. In the course of
the franchise relationship, occasional disputes arise between the Company and
its franchisees relating to a broad range of subjects including, without
limitation, quality, service and cleanliness issues, contentions regarding
grants or terminations of franchises, franchisee claims for additional
franchises or rewrites of franchises, and delinquent payments.
 
SUPPLIERS
 
  The Company and its affiliates and subsidiaries do not supply, with minor
exceptions outside the United States, food, paper, or related items to any
McDonald's restaurants. The Company relies upon independent suppliers which
are required to meet and maintain the Company's standards and specifications.
There are a number of such suppliers worldwide and on occasion disputes arise
between the Company and its suppliers on a number of issues including, by way
of example, compliance with product specifications and McDonald's business
relationship with suppliers.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
  Thousands of persons are employed by the Company and in restaurants owned
and operated by subsidiaries of the Company. In addition, thousands of
persons, from time to time, seek employment in such restaurants. In the
ordinary course of business, disputes arise regarding hiring, firing and
promotion practices.
 
CUSTOMERS
 
  McDonald's restaurants serve a large cross-section of the public and in the
course of serving so many people, disputes arise as to products, service,
accidents and other matters typical of an extensive restaurant business such
as that of the Company.
 
TRADEMARKS
 
  McDonald's has registered trademarks and service marks, some of which are of
material importance to the Company's business. From time to time, the Company
may become involved in litigation to defend and protect its use of such
registered marks.
 
GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS
 
  Local, state and federal governments have adopted laws and regulations
involving various aspects of the restaurant business, including, but not
limited to, franchising, health, environment, zoning and employment. The
Company does not believe that it is in violation of any existing statutory or
administrative rules, but it cannot predict the effect on its operations from
promulgation of additional requirements in the future.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SHAREHOLDERS
 
  None.
 

 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  All of the executive officers of McDonald's Corporation as of March 1, 1998
are shown below. Unless otherwise indicated, each of the executive officers
has been continuously employed by the Company for at least five years and has
a term of office until the May 1998 Board of Directors' meeting.
 

- --------
*Less than one year in current position.
(1) Mr. Feldman joined the Company in 1994 as Corporate Vice President. He
    assumed his current position in 1997. Prior thereto, Mr. Feldman served as
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Pizza Hut, Inc.
(2) Mr. Kindler joined the Company in 1996 as Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel. He assumed his current position in 1997. Prior thereto, Mr.
    Kindler served as Vice President, Senior Counsel of General Electric
    Company.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS
 
  The Company's common stock trades under the symbol MCD and is listed on the
following stock exchanges in the United States: New York and Chicago.
 
  The following table sets forth the common stock price range on the New York
Stock Exchange composite tape and dividends declared per common share.
 

 

 
  The approximate number of shareholders of record and beneficial owners of
the Company's common stock as of January 31, 1998 was estimated to be 976,000.
 
  Given the Company's returns on equity and assets, the Company's management
believes it is prudent to reinvest a significant portion of earnings back into
the business. The Company has paid 88 consecutive quarterly dividends on
common stock through March 30, 1998, has increased the per share amount 23
times since the first dividend was paid in 1976, and has increased the
dividend amount every year. Additional dividend increases will be considered
after reviewing returns to shareholders, profitability expectations and
financing needs.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
                                11-YEAR SUMMARY
   (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER COMMON SHARE DATA AND AVERAGE RESTAURANT
                                    SALES)
 

- --------
(1) Before the cumulative prior years' benefit from the change in accounting
    for income taxes.
(2) Net income per common share data is presented in conformity with SFAS 128.
 

 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The following table presents the changes in the Company's operating results
for the years ended 1997 and 1996.
 
CHANGES IN OPERATING RESULTS FROM PRIOR YEAR
 

- --------
*  Excluding the 1996 asset impairment and special charges discussed on page
   13, 1997 and 1996 operating income would have increased $88 million or 3%,
   and $119 million or 5%, respectively.
  n/m=not meaningful
 
RESTAURANTS
 
  McDonald's continues to invest in the future through prudent and strategic
expansion. In 1997, the Company added 2,110 restaurants Systemwide, compared
with 2,642 in 1996 and 2,430 in 1995. In 1998, the Company plans to add a
similar number of restaurants as were added in 1997, with a continued emphasis
on full-menu traditional restaurants primarily in international locations.
 

 
 

 
  The U.S. expansion rate declined in 1997 partly due to the previously
announced satellite restaurant closings. Additionally, U.S. traditional
restaurant expansion slowed due to a more stringent selection process.
 
  Asia/Pacific's percent of total restaurants has grown primarily due to
Japan's significant expansion. Japan added 433 restaurants in 1997, 522 in
1996 and 313 in 1995, representing about 20% of Systemwide restaurants opened
in 1997 and 1996, and 13% in 1995. About two-thirds of Japan's restaurant
additions are smaller and have lower average development costs and lower
average sales volumes than traditional restaurants. Therefore, these additions
affect unit growth more than sales growth.
 
  At the end of 1997, 85% of Systemwide restaurants were in the following 11
markets--Australia, Brazil, Canada, England, France, Germany, Hong Kong,
Japan, the Netherlands, Taiwan and the U.S. (major markets). This compares
with 88% for 1996. In 1997, 64% of restaurant additions were in these major
markets, and we anticipate a similar percent for 1998. New and emerging
markets like China, the Philippines, and the Africa/Middle East and Central
Europe regions are expected to represent a greater percent of restaurant
additions. Additionally, rapid expansion is expected to continue in Latin
America.
 

 
  Franchisees and affiliates operated 78% of restaurants at year-end 1997.
That percentage has remained relatively constant over the past three years.
 
  About 80% of Company-operated restaurants and 90% of franchised restaurants
were located in the major markets in 1997. Restaurants operated by affiliates
were principally located in Argentina, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines and
the U.S.
 
  Most of the satellite restaurants in operation were in Japan and the U.S.
 
SYSTEMWIDE SALES
 
  Systemwide sales include sales by all restaurants, whether operated by the
Company, by franchisees or by affiliates operating under joint-venture
agreements. Increasing market share and customer satisfaction through
expansion, quality, service, cleanliness and value continue to be key
strategic initiatives to build sales. Sales increases in 1997 and 1996 were
primarily due to restaurant expansion worldwide, partly offset by weaker
foreign currencies and, in 1996, negative comparable sales on a constant
currency basis. In 1997, 87% of Systemwide sales were in the major markets,
compared with 88% in 1996.
 

 

 
  In the U.S., sales increased primarily due to restaurant expansion. Despite
a continuing competitive environment, comparable sales increased in 1997
reflecting successful marketing and promotions, including Chicken McNuggets,
Monopoly and Teenie Beanie Babies, offset in part by disappointing results
from Campaign 55. Comparable sales decreased in 1996 reflecting an extremely
competitive U.S. operating environment.
 
  In Europe, sales increases in 1997 were driven by expansion and higher
constant currency comparable sales in England, Italy, the Netherlands and
Spain. The 1996 acquisition of about 80 Burghy restaurants supported Italy's
impressive sales growth. In addition, although the economy was weak in France,
our constant currency comparable sales increased in 1997. These results were
partly offset by lower comparable sales in Germany where economic conditions
were also weak.
 
  In Asia/Pacific, the Philippines and Taiwan had strong sales increases in
1997, driven by Extra Value Meal marketing campaigns and restaurant expansion,
despite difficult economic conditions in the latter part of the year.
 
  Brazil contributed one-third of Latin America's total sales growth in 1997,
due to accelerated expansion. Higher constant currency comparable sales and
expansion were the primary drivers of significant sales growth in Argentina,
Mexico, Puerto Rico and Venezuela.
 
  Sales by Company-operated restaurants grew at a higher rate than Systemwide
sales in 1997 and 1996, primarily due to the higher unit growth rate of
Company-operated restaurants outside the U.S. relative to Systemwide
restaurants. In addition, the weakening Japanese Yen had a significant
negative effect on our Japanese affiliate's sales, which dampened Systemwide
sales growth.
 

 
  While U.S. comparable sales were slightly positive in 1997, average annual
sales at U.S. restaurants in operation at least 13 consecutive months declined
slightly to $1,425,000. Average sales are affected by several factors:
comparable sales, the size of new restaurants and the expansion rate.
Expansion affects average sales as new restaurants historically have taken
about four years to reach long-term volumes.
 
  While international constant currency comparable sales declined only
slightly in 1997, average annual sales at restaurants in operation at least 13
consecutive months decreased $327,000 to $1,830,000. Nearly half of this
decline was due to foreign currency translation. An additional 30% was due to
more satellite restaurants which typically have significantly lower sales
volumes than traditional restaurants. Finally, average sales have trended
lower as we have accelerated expansion and opened more restaurants in lower
density areas and countries with lower average sales. Generally, our
investment costs are lower for restaurants with lower sales volumes.
 
TOTAL REVENUES
 
  Total revenues include sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from
restaurants operated by franchisees and affiliates. These fees include rent,
service fees and royalties that are based on a percent of sales with specified
minimum payments along with initial fees. Fees vary by type of site and
investment by the Company, and also according to local business conditions.
These fees, along with occupancy and operating rights, are stipulated in
franchise agreements that generally have 20-year terms.
 
  Revenues grow as new restaurants are added and as sales build in existing
restaurants. Menu price changes also affect revenues and sales, but it is
impractical to quantify their impact because of different pricing structures,
new products, promotions and product mix variations among restaurants and
markets.
 

 
  Revenues increased at a faster rate than Systemwide sales in 1997 and 1996.
This was primarily due to the weakening Japanese Yen, which negatively
affected sales more than revenues due to our affiliate structure in Japan, and
the higher growth rate in Company-operated versus franchised restaurants.
 
U.S. operating results
 

- --------
*Includes the $72 million special charge.
 
  U.S. revenues increased $13 million in 1997 and $116 million in 1996. The
slower revenue growth in 1997 was primarily because the number of U.S.
Company-operated restaurants decreased over the past year, while the number of
franchised and affiliated restaurants increased. Lower initial fees resulting
from fewer openings also contributed to the slower revenue growth.
 
  In 1997, Europe accounted for 34% of consolidated revenues. This region's
revenues grew $318 million in 1997, compared with growth of $391 million in
1996. In 1997, the growth was primarily driven by strong sales in England,
Italy and Russia.
 
  Asia/Pacific's revenues grew $250 million and $262 million in 1997 and 1996,
respectively. In 1997, the consolidation of Singapore, due to increased
ownership, along with continued strong results in Taiwan, helped to advance
revenues. Difficult economic conditions in certain markets during the latter
half of 1997 dampened this increase.
 
  Latin America's revenues grew $114 million in 1997 and $89 million in 1996.
The 1997 growth was primarily due to accelerated expansion in Brazil and
Chile's ownership change from an affiliate to a wholly-owned subsidiary.
 

 
Operating results outside the U.S.
 

- --------
*Includes the $16 million asset impairment charge.
 
COMPANY-OPERATED MARGINS
 
  Company-operated margins equal sales by Company-operated restaurants less
the operating costs of these restaurants. Consolidated Company-operated
margins were 18.3% of sales in 1997, 18.6% in 1996 and 19.2% in 1995.
Operating cost trends as a percent of sales were as follows: food & paper
costs increased in 1997 and decreased in 1996; payroll costs decreased in 1997
and were relatively flat in 1996; and occupancy & other operating costs
increased in both years.
 
  U.S. Company-operated margins were 16.5% of sales in 1997 and 1996, and
17.7% in 1995. Stable margins as a percent of sales in 1997 reflected higher
food & paper costs related primarily to the Deluxe Line, lower payroll costs
related to enhanced labor efficiencies and lower occupancy & other operating
costs. The decline in the margin as a percent of sales in 1996 was driven by
higher payroll costs, primarily due to increases in average hourly rates, and
higher occupancy & other operating costs, partly offset by lower food & paper
costs.
 
  Outside the U.S., Company-operated margins were 19.1% of sales in 1997,
compared with 19.8% in 1996 and 20.2% in 1995. In 1997, increases in food &
paper costs as well as occupancy & other operating costs as a percent of sales
offset a decrease in payroll costs. The decline in the 1996 margin as a
percent of sales was due to an increase in occupancy & other operating costs,
while food & paper costs and payroll costs were flat.
 
FRANCHISED MARGINS
 
  Franchised margin dollars equal revenues from franchised and affiliated
restaurants less the Company's occupancy costs (rent and depreciation)
associated with these sites. Franchised margin dollars represented about two-
thirds of the combined operating margin in both 1997 and 1996.
 
  Consolidated franchised margins were 81.2% of applicable revenues in 1997,
81.7% in 1996 and 82.4% in 1995. Franchised margins in the U.S. were 81.1% of
revenues in 1997, 81.6% in 1996 and 82.6% in 1995. Outside the U.S.,
franchised margins were 81.4% of revenues in 1997, 81.8% in 1996 and 82.1% in
1995.
 

 
  Franchised margins as a percent of applicable revenues declined in 1997 and
in 1996, primarily due to a higher proportion of leased sites. For leased
sites, financing costs implicit in the lease are included in rent expense,
which affects these margins; for owned sites, financing costs are reflected in
interest expense, which does not affect these margins. The 1997 decline in the
U.S. franchised margin also reflected lower initial fees resulting from fewer
openings, and rent adjustments.
 
  Franchised margins include revenues from restaurants operating under
business facilities lease arrangements, net of the Company's expenses for
these sites. Under these arrangements, the Company leases the businesses,
including equipment, to franchisees who have options to purchase the
businesses. Higher fees are charged, but margin percentages are generally
lower because of equipment depreciation. The Company is compensated for lower
margins by the subsequent gains realized from the exercise of purchase
options, accounted for as other operating income. There were 729 restaurants
operating under such arrangements at year-end 1997, compared with 627 in 1996
and 491 in 1995.
 
SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
 
  Increases in selling, general and administrative expenses in 1997 and 1996
were primarily due to strategic global spending to support value initiatives,
execution strategies and restaurant development, offset in part by weaker
foreign currencies. The spending included continued investment in developing
countries and support of special marketing efforts and new food initiatives in
the U.S. While expenses have been relatively constant as a percent of
Systemwide sales at 4.3% in 1997 and 1996, and 4.1% in 1995, our goal is to
reduce expenses as a percent of sales.
 
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE--NET
 
  Other operating (income) expense--net includes gains on sales of restaurant
businesses, equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net gains or
losses from property dispositions and other transactions related to the food
service business.
 
  Gains on sales of restaurant businesses include gains from sales of Company-
operated restaurants as well as gains from exercises of purchase options by
franchisees with business facilities lease arrangements. The Company's
purchase and sale of businesses with its franchisees and affiliates is aimed
at achieving an optimal ownership mix in each market. These transactions are
an integral part of our franchising business and resulting gains are recorded
in operating income.
 
  Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates--businesses the Company
actively participates in, but does not control--is reported after interest
expense and income taxes, except for U.S. restaurant partnerships, which are
reported before income taxes.
 
  Net gains or losses from property dispositions result from disposals of
properties due to restaurant closings, relocations and other transactions.
 
  The increase in other operating income in 1997 was principally due to the
1996 $16 million asset impairment charge related to certain restaurant sites
in Mexico and the 1996 $72 million special charge. The special charge related
primarily to plans to strengthen the U.S. business and reduce ongoing costs by
closing approximately 115 low-volume U.S. satellite restaurants, replacing
certain restaurant equipment, outsourcing excess property management and
implementing other cost efficiencies.
 
  Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates declined in 1997 and 1996
due to the weakening Japanese Yen and increased ownership of certain foreign
markets, changing their classification from affiliates to majority or wholly-
owned subsidiaries. Additionally in 1997, gains on sales of restaurant
businesses were lower, whereas in 1996, they were higher than the previous
year. Lower provisions for property dispositions increased other operating
income in 1996, compared with 1995.
 

 
OPERATING INCOME
 
  Operating income increased $176 million or 7% to $2.8 billion in 1997, and
$31 million or 1% to $2.6 billion in 1996. Excluding the 1996 asset impairment
and special charges, operating income increased 3% in 1997 and 5% in 1996. The
increases in 1997 and 1996 were due to higher combined operating margin
dollars, offset in part by weaker foreign currencies, higher selling, general
and administrative expenses, and in 1997, lower gains on sales of restaurant
businesses.
 
  In 1997, 92% of operating income was from the major markets, compared with
94% in 1996.
 
  U.S. operating income rose $67 million or 6% in 1997 and decreased $108
million or 9% in 1996. Excluding the 1996 special charge, U.S. operating
income was flat in 1997 and decreased 3% in 1996. In 1997, higher U.S.
franchised margin dollars were offset by lower Company-operated margin dollars
and higher selling, general and administrative expenses. In 1996, higher U.S.
franchised margin dollars only partly offset lower Company-operated margin
dollars and higher selling, general and administrative expenses.
 
  Outside the U.S., operating income rose $118 million or 8% in 1997 and $144
million or 10% in 1996. This growth was driven by higher combined operating
margin dollars resulting from expansion in 1997 and 1996. In both years,
weaker foreign currencies and higher selling, general and administrative
expenses partly offset these increases. In 1997, the Deutsche Mark, French
Franc and Japanese Yen were the primary currencies affecting reported results.
Additionally, 1996 results were negatively impacted by the $16 million asset
impairment charge related to certain restaurant sites in Mexico.
 
  In 1997, Europe accounted for 36% of consolidated operating income. Europe's
operating income grew $54 million in 1997 and $115 million in 1996. Weaker
currencies offset this region's operating income increase in 1997 by 9% or $82
million, and by 4% or $30 million in 1996. Strong operating results in
England, Italy, Spain and Sweden, as well as in France in the last half of the
year, drove the increase in operating income in 1997. Difficult economies,
primarily in Germany, contributed to the decline in the growth rate in 1997.
England, France and Germany accounted for 77% of Europe's operating income in
1997, compared with 80% in 1996.
 
  Asia/Pacific's operating income grew $14 million in 1997 and $46 million in
1996. Weaker currencies offset this region's operating income increase in 1997
by 7% or $24 million, and by 2% or $5 million in 1996. Difficult economic
conditions in many of the markets during the second half of the year
contributed to the decline in growth in 1997. This was partly offset by strong
operating results in Taiwan and the Philippines, and the change in ownership
of our Singapore operations. Australia, Hong Kong, Japan and Taiwan
contributed about 90% of Asia/Pacific's operating income in both years.
 
  Latin America's operating income increased $37 million in 1997 and decreased
$3 million in 1996, excluding the $16 million asset impairment charge for
Mexico in 1996. Continued expansion of the restaurant base, as well as an
increase in constant currency comparable sales, drove improved results across
this segment.
 
INTEREST EXPENSE
 
  Higher average debt levels, partly offset by weaker foreign currencies and
lower average interest rates, accounted for the 1997 and 1996 increases in
interest expense.
 
NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE--NET
 
  Nonoperating (income) expense--net includes interest income, gains and
losses related to other investments and financings, and miscellaneous income
and expense. In 1997, interest income and translation gains were lower than in
1996. In 1996, translation gains were higher than in 1995. Additionally, this
category included losses of $22 million in 1996 and $60 million in 1995
associated with the reduction of the carrying value of the Company's
investment in Discovery Zone common stock to zero.
 

 
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
 
  The effective income tax rate was 31.8% for 1997, compared with 30.1% for
1996 and 34.2% for 1995. A $50 million tax benefit resulting from certain
international transactions was primarily responsible for the unusually low
rate in 1996. The Company expects its 1998 effective income tax rate to be in
the range of 32.5% to 33.5%.
 
  Consolidated net deferred tax liabilities included tax assets, net of
valuation allowance, of $451 million in 1997 and $305 million in 1996.
Substantially all of the tax assets arose in the U.S. and other profitable
markets, and a majority of them are expected to be realized in future U.S.
income tax returns.
 
NET INCOME AND NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE
 
  Net income increased 4% in 1997, while net income per common share and net
income per common share on a diluted basis increased 6%. In 1996, net income
increased 10%, while net income per common share and net income per common
share on a diluted basis increased 12%. The spread between the percent
increases in net income and net income per common share in each year reflected
the positive effects of share repurchases and lower preferred dividends
compared with the prior year.
 
IMPACT OF CHANGING FOREIGN CURRENCIES
 
  The following table presents the reported results for 1997 and 1996 compared
with those results translated at the respective prior year rates:
 

 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FINANCIAL POSITION AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
TOTAL ASSETS AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
 
  Total assets grew $856 million or 5% in 1997, and $2 billion or 13% in 1996.
In 1997 and 1996, 81% of consolidated assets were located in our major markets
excluding our affiliate Japan. Net property and equipment rose $609 million in
1997 and represented 82% of total assets at year end.
 
  Capital expenditures decreased $264 million or 11% in 1997, reflecting fewer
restaurant additions combined with weaker foreign currencies. In 1997,
approximately 73% of capital expenditures was invested in our major markets
excluding Japan, compared with 78% in 1996. U.S. capital expenditures declined
$300 million in 1997, while capital expenditures outside the U.S. increased
slightly. In 1997, 72% of capital expenditures was invested in markets outside
the U.S., compared with 63% in 1996 and 56% in 1995.
 

 
 

 
  Expenditures for existing restaurants were made to achieve higher levels of
customer satisfaction, implement technology to improve service and food
quality, and enhance older facilities. The increase in capital expenditures
for existing restaurants in 1997 was primarily due to additional remodels and
rebuilds of certain older restaurants.
 
  Other properties primarily included expenditures for office buildings and
related computer equipment and furnishings.
 
  In the U.S., average development costs for traditional restaurants, which
include land, building and equipment costs, increased in 1997 to $1,290,000,
compared with $1,176,000 in 1996 and $1,151,000 in 1995. The increases were
primarily due to higher site development and preparation costs.
 
  Average development costs for traditional restaurants in our major markets
outside the U.S., excluding Japan, were approximately $1.8 million in 1997.
Average costs vary widely by market depending on the types of restaurants
built and the real estate and construction costs within each market. These
costs are managed through the use of smaller restaurants in some countries,
construction and design efficiencies, standardization and global sourcing.
 
  The Company intends to continue managing development costs relative to sales
volumes through greater economies of scale globally and through co-branded oil
locations, primarily in the U.S. Our objective is to profitably expand,
consistent with our goal of increasing market share, and achieve greater
marketwide presence throughout the world. Accordingly, the Company will
continue to investigate opportunities to employ capital in its U.S. business
most effectively. The trend in the U.S. is to lease more sites. Outside the
U.S., property is purchased when legally and economically feasible; otherwise,
long-term leases are used. Including affiliates, total real estate ownership
was 45% and 48% at year-end 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
  Capital expenditures made by affiliates--which were not included in
consolidated amounts--were approximately $360 million in 1997, compared with
$410 million in 1996. The decrease was partly due to weaker foreign currencies
and our increased ownership in Chile and Singapore, converting them from
affiliates to majority or wholly-owned subsidiaries. Expansion in Argentina,
Japan, Korea, the Philippines and Sweden continued to drive affiliate capital
expenditures.
 
CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATIONS
 
  The Company generates significant cash from operations and has substantial
borrowing capacity to meet its operating and discretionary spending
requirements. Free cash flow grew to $331 million in 1997, compared with $86
million in 1996. Cash provided by operations decreased slightly in 1997,
primarily due to the one time refund of U.S. franchisee security deposits of
approximately $110 million. Excluding the effect of the refunds, cash provided
by operations increased $91 million or 4%. Cash provided by operations, along
with other sources of cash such as borrowings, was used principally for
capital expenditures, debt repayments, share repurchase and dividends. Cash
provided by operations exceeded capital expenditures in 1997 for the seventh
consecutive year and is expected to more than cover capital expenditures over
the next several years.
 

 

 
  In addition to its free cash flow, the Company can meet short-term needs
through commercial paper borrowings and line of credit agreements.
Accordingly, the Company maintains a relatively low current ratio--.38 at
year-end 1997.
 
FINANCINGS AND MARKET RISK
 
  The Company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign
currency fluctuations. McDonald's strives to minimize these risks by financing
with debt in the currencies in which assets are denominated and employing
established policies and procedures to manage this exposure. See pages 25 and
26 for additional information.
 
  The Company uses major capital markets and various techniques to meet its
financing requirements and reduce interest expense. For example, currency
exchange agreements in conjunction with borrowings help obtain desired
currencies at attractive rates and maturities. Interest-rate exchange
agreements effectively convert fixed-rate to floating-rate debt, or vice
versa. We also manage the level of fixed-rate debt to take advantage of
changes in interest rates.
 
  The Company uses foreign currency debt to hedge intercompany financings and
long-term investments in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. This reduces the
impact of fluctuating foreign currencies on net income and shareholders'
equity. Total foreign-denominated debt, including the effects of currency
exchange agreements, was $5.0 billion and $4.9 billion at year-end 1997 and
1996, respectively.
 

 
  Moody's and Standard & Poor's have rated McDonald's debt Aa2 and AA,
respectively, since 1982. Duff & Phelps began rating the debt in 1990 and
currently rates it AA+. These strong ratings are important to the Company
because of our global development plans. The Company has not experienced, nor
does it expect to experience, difficulty obtaining financing or refinancing
existing debt. At year-end 1997, the Company and its subsidiaries had $1.5
billion available under committed line of credit agreements and $1.0 billion
under shelf registrations for future debt issuance. In January 1998, the
Company issued $150 million Debentures at 6.38% due 2028 and $200 million
Medium Term Notes at 5.95% due 2008 under the shelf registrations.
 
  The Company manages its debt portfolio in response to changes in interest
rates and foreign currency rates by periodically retiring, redeeming and
repurchasing debt; terminating exchange agreements; and using derivatives. The
Company does not use derivatives with a level of complexity or with a risk
higher than the exposures to be hedged and does not hold or issue derivatives
for trading purposes. All exchange agreements are over-the-counter
instruments.
 
  The Company actively hedges selected currencies to minimize the effect of
fluctuating foreign currencies on reported results and to minimize the cash
exposure of foreign currency royalty and other payments received in the U.S.
In addition, where practical, McDonald's restaurants purchase goods and
services in local currencies resulting in natural hedges, and the Company
typically finances in local currencies, creating economic hedges.
 
  The Company's exposure is diversified among a broad basket of currencies. At
year-end 1997 and 1996, assets in hyperinflationary markets were principally
financed in U.S. Dollars. The Company's largest net asset exposures (defined
as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) were as follows:
 

 

- --------
*  Brazil was considered a hyperinflationary market at December 31, 1996.
 
  The Company prepared sensitivity analyses of its financial instruments to
determine the impact of hypothetical changes in interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates on the Company's results of operations, cash flows and
the fair value of its financial instruments. The interest rate analysis
assumed a one percentage point adverse change in interest rates on all
financial instruments but did not consider the effects of the reduced level of
economic activity that could exist in such an environment. The foreign
currency rate analysis assumed that each foreign currency rate would change by
10% in the same direction relative to the U.S. Dollar on all financial
instruments; however, the analysis did not include the potential impact on
sales levels or local currency prices or the effect of fluctuating currencies
on the Company's anticipated foreign currency royalties and other payments
received in the U.S. Based on the results of these analyses of the Company's
financial instruments, neither a one percentage point adverse change in
interest rates from year-end 1997 levels nor a 10% adverse change in foreign
currency rates from year-end 1997 levels would materially affect the Company's
results of operations, cash flows or the fair value of its financial
instruments.
 
TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
  Total shareholders' equity rose $133 million or 2% in 1997, and represented
49% of total assets at year end. Weaker foreign currencies decreased
shareholders' equity by $295 million in 1997.
 
  One way to enhance common shareholder value is by using free cash flow and
debt capacity to repurchase shares. Since 1987, the Company has invested $3.8
billion to buy back 146 million shares at an average price of approximately
$26, while maintaining a strong equity base. At year-end 1997, the Company
held 145 million shares in treasury with a market value of $6.9 billion.
 
  In January 1996, the Company announced plans to repurchase $2.0 billion of
its common stock by year-end 1998. As of year-end 1997, we had purchased $1.2
billion of this amount, including 16.2 million shares for $765 million in
1997. The Company repurchased a total of $605 million of its common stock in
1996, $206 million of which completed our previous share repurchase program.
 
RETURNS
 
  Operating income is used to compute return on average assets, while net
income less preferred stock dividends (net of applicable taxes) is used to
calculate return on average common equity. Month-end balances are used to
compute both average assets and average common equity.
 

- --------
*Includes the $72 million special charge.
 

 
  Return on assets declined in 1997, as the increase in average assets
outpaced the growth in operating income. Return on common equity also declined
in 1997, as the increase in average equity exceeded net income growth.
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OTHER MATTERS
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
EFFECTS OF CHANGING PRICES--INFLATION
 
  The Company has demonstrated an ability to manage inflationary cost
increases effectively. This is because of rapid inventory turnover, the
ability to adjust prices, cost controls and substantial property holdings--
many of which are at fixed costs and partly financed by debt made cheaper by
inflation. In hyperinflationary markets, menu board prices are typically
adjusted to keep pace with inflation, mitigating the effect on reported
results.
 
YEAR 2000
 
  Many computer systems and applications currently use two digits to define
the applicable year. As a result, date-sensitive systems may recognize the
year 2000 as 1900 or not at all, which could cause miscalculations or system
failures.
 
  The Company has assessed its computerized systems to determine their ability
to correctly identify the year 2000 and is devoting the necessary internal and
external resources to replace, upgrade or modify all significant systems which
do not correctly identify the year 2000. We anticipate that all of our systems
will be year 2000 compliant well before the end of 1999. In addition, the
Company has determined the extent to which its operations may be affected by
the compliance efforts of its significant suppliers and is taking the
necessary steps to minimize problems.
 
  Based on current information, the costs of addressing the year 2000 issue
have not and are not expected to have a material adverse impact on the
Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
  Certain forward-looking statements are included in this report. They use
such words as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "plan" and other similar
terminology. These statements reflect management's current expectations and
involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ
materially due to the success of operating initiatives and advertising and
promotional efforts and changes in: global and local business and economic
conditions; currency exchange and interest rates; food, labor and other
operating costs; political or economic instability in local markets;
competition; consumer preferences, spending patterns and demographic trends;
availability and cost of land and construction; legislation and governmental
regulation; and accounting policies and practices.
 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
  Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in
Part II, Item 7, pages 17 and 18 of this Form 10-K.
 

 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 

 

 
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 

 
 
  The accompanying Financial Comments are an integral part of the consolidated
                             financial statements.
 

 
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 

 
  The accompanying Financial Comments are an integral part of the consolidated
                             financial statements.
 

 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
  The accompanying Financial Comments are an integral part of the consolidated
                             financial statements.
 

 
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 

- -------
*At December 31, 1996 and 1995, 7.2 thousand shares were outstanding. These
   shares were redeemed in 1997.
 
  The accompanying Financial Comments are an integral part of the consolidated
                             financial statements.
 

 
                              FINANCIAL COMMENTS
 
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
CONSOLIDATION
 
  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and its subsidiaries. Investments in affiliates owned 50% or less are
accounted for by the equity method.
 
ESTIMATES IN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
 
  The functional currency of substantially all operations outside the U.S. is
the respective local currency, except for hyperinflationary countries where it
is the U.S. Dollar.
 
ADVERTISING COSTS
 
  Production costs for radio and television advertising are expensed when the
commercials are initially aired. Advertising expenses included in costs of
Company-operated restaurants and in selling, general and administrative
expenses were (in millions): 1997-$548.7; 1996-$503.3; 1995-$431.0.
 
STOCK OPTIONS
 
  The Company accounts for stock options as prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25
and includes pro forma information in the Stock options footnote, as permitted
by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123, Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation.
 
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
 
  Property and equipment are stated at cost, with depreciation and
amortization provided using the straight-line method over the following
estimated useful lives: buildings--up to 40 years; leasehold improvements--
lesser of useful lives of assets or lease terms including option periods; and
equipment--three to 12 years.
 
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
  Intangible assets, primarily franchise rights reacquired from franchisees
and affiliates, are amortized using the straight-line method over an average
life of about 30 years.
 
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
  The Company uses derivatives to manage risk, not for trading purposes. Non-
U.S. Dollar financing transactions generally are effective as hedges of either
long-term investments in or intercompany loans to foreign subsidiaries and
affiliates. Foreign currency translation adjustments from gains and losses on
hedges of long-term investments are recorded in shareholders' equity as other
comprehensive income. Gains and losses related to hedges of intercompany loans
offset the gains and losses on intercompany loans and are recorded in
nonoperating (income) expense--net.
 

 
  Interest-rate exchange agreements are designated and effective to modify the
Company's interest-rate exposures. Net interest is accrued as either interest
receivable or payable with the offset recorded in interest expense. Gains or
losses from the early termination of interest-rate exchange agreements are
amortized as an adjustment to interest expense over the shorter of the
remaining life of the swap or the underlying debt being hedged.
 
  The Company purchases foreign currency options (with little or no initial
intrinsic value) which are effective as hedges of anticipated foreign currency
royalty and other payments received in the U.S. The premiums paid for these
options are amortized over the option life. Any realized gains on exercised
options are deferred and recognized in the period in which the related royalty
or other payment is received.
 
  Short-term forward foreign exchange contracts are also used to mitigate
exposure on foreign currency royalty and other payments received from
affiliates and subsidiaries. These contracts are marked to market with the
resulting gains or losses recorded in nonoperating (income) expense--net.
 
  If a hedged item matures or is extinguished, or if a hedged anticipated
royalty or other payment is no longer probable, the associated derivative is
marked to market with the resulting gain or loss recognized immediately. The
derivative is then redesignated as a hedge of another item or terminated.
 
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
  The Company considers short-term, highly liquid investments to be cash
equivalents. The impact of fluctuating foreign currencies on cash and
equivalents was not material.
 
ACCOUNTING FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS
 
  In 1996, the Company adopted SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of. This statement
requires the Company to recognize impairment losses for long-lived assets,
whether these assets are held for disposal or continue to be used in
operations, when indicators of impairment are present and the fair value of
assets are estimated to be less than carrying amounts. The fair value of
assets is based on projected undiscounted future cash flows. The adoption of
this standard in 1996 resulted in a $16.0 million pre-tax charge to operating
income related to certain restaurant sites in Mexico.
 
NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE
 
  In 1997, the Company adopted SFAS No. 128, Earnings per Share. This
statement requires the Company to disclose diluted net income per common
share, which includes the dilutive effect of stock options, in addition to
previously reported basic net income per common share. All net income per
share amounts have been presented to conform to the SFAS 128 requirements.
 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
  In 1997, the Company adopted SFAS No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income.
This statement establishes rules for the reporting of comprehensive income and
its components. Comprehensive income consists of net income and foreign
currency translation adjustments and is presented in the Consolidated
Statement of Shareholders' Equity. The adoption of SFAS 130 had no impact on
total shareholders' equity. Prior year financial statements have been
reclassified to conform to the SFAS 130 requirements.
 
SEGMENT DISCLOSURES
 
  In 1997, the Company adopted SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information. SFAS 131 establishes standards for
reporting information about operating segments and related disclosures about
products and services, geographic areas and major customers.
 

 
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE--NET

 
  Net losses from property dispositions in 1996 included $16.0 million for
certain restaurant sites in Mexico, upon the adoption of SFAS 121. The special
charge of $72.0 million in 1996 related primarily to plans to strengthen the
U.S. business and reduce ongoing costs by closing approximately 115 low-volume
U.S. satellite restaurants, replacing certain restaurant equipment,
outsourcing excess property management and implementing other cost
efficiencies.
 
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
 
  The Company's program for U.S. employees includes profit sharing, 401(k)
(McDESOP) and leveraged employee stock ownership (LESOP) features. McDESOP
allows participants to make contributions which are partly matched by the
Company. Plan assets and contributions made by McDESOP participants can be
invested in McDonald's common stock or among several other investment
alternatives. The LESOP and Company contributions to McDESOP are invested in
McDonald's common stock.
 
  Executives, staff and restaurant managers participate in profit-sharing
contributions and shares released under the LESOP, based on their
compensation. The profit-sharing contribution is discretionary, and the
Company determines the amount each year. Total U.S. costs for the above
program were (in millions):
1997-$57.6; 1996-$59.9; 1995-$55.8.
 
  Certain subsidiaries outside the U.S. also offer profit sharing, stock
purchase or other similar benefit plans. Total plan costs outside the U.S.
were (in millions): 1997-$34.1; 1996-$30.6; 1995-$26.6.
 
  Other postretirement benefits and postemployment benefits were immaterial.
 
INCOME TAXES
 
  Income before provision for income taxes, classified by source of income,
was as follows:
 

 
 

 
  Net deferred tax liabilities consisted of:
 

- --------
(1) Net of current tax assets (in millions): 1997-$55.8; 1996-$58.3.
 
  The statutory U.S. federal income tax rate reconciles to the effective
income tax rates as follows:
 

 
  Deferred U.S. income taxes have not been provided on basis differences
related to investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. These
basis differences were approximately $1.8 billion at December 31, 1997, and
consisted primarily of undistributed earnings considered permanently invested
in the businesses. Determination of the deferred income tax liability on these
unremitted earnings is not practicable, since such liability, if any, is
dependent on circumstances existing when remittance occurs.
 
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
 

 
  Depreciation and amortization expense was (in millions): 1997-$726.4; 1996-
$673.4; 1995-$619.9. Contractual obligations for the acquisition and
construction of property totaled approximately $175.0 million at December 31,
1997.
 
LEASING ARRANGEMENTS
 
  At December 31, 1997, the Company was lessee at 4,152 restaurant locations
through ground leases (the Company leases land and owns buildings) and at
5,257 restaurant locations through improved leases (the Company leases land
and buildings). Lease terms for most restaurants are generally for 20 to 25
years and, in
 

 
many cases, provide for rent escalations and renewal options with certain
leases providing purchase options. For most locations, the Company is
obligated for the related occupancy costs including property taxes, insurance
and maintenance. In addition, the Company is lessee under noncancelable leases
covering offices and vehicles.
 
  Future minimum payments required under operating leases with initial terms
of one year or more are:
 

 
  Rent expense was (in millions): 1997-$641.2; 1996-581.6; 1995-$497.6. These
amounts included percent rents in excess of minimum rents (in millions): 1997-
$99.4; 1996-$91.4; 1995-$73.5.
 

 
SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
 
  The Company operates exclusively in the food service industry. Substantially
all revenues result from the sale of menu products at restaurants operated by
the Company, franchisees or affiliates. The Company's reportable segments are
based on geographic area. All intercompany revenues and expenses are
eliminated in computing revenues and operating income. Operating income
includes the Company's share of operating results of affiliates after interest
expense. These amounts are also after income taxes for affiliates outside the
U.S. Royalties and other payments received from subsidiaries outside the U.S.
were (in millions): 1997-$470.6;
1996-$419.0; 1995-$358.4.
 
  The corporate component of operating income represents corporate selling,
general and administrative expenses. Corporate assets include corporate cash,
investments, asset portions of financing instruments, deferred tax assets and
certain intangibles.
 
  The Other segment includes Canada, Africa and the Middle East.
 

 
 

 
  Total long-lived assets, primarily property and equipment and intangibles
were (in millions):
1997-$16,706.1; 1996-$16,069.8; 1995-$14,271.9; U.S.: 1997-$7,530.7; 1996-
$7,234.3; 1995-$6,769.5.
 
FRANCHISE ARRANGEMENTS
 
  Franchise arrangements include a lease and a license and generally provide
for payment of initial fees, as well as continuing rent, service fees and
royalties to the Company, based upon a percent of sales with minimum rent
payments. Franchisees are granted the right to operate a McDonald's restaurant
using the McDonald's system as well as the use of a restaurant facility
generally for a period of 20 years. Franchisees pay related occupancy costs
including property taxes, insurance and maintenance. In addition, franchisees
outside the U.S. pay a refundable, noninterest-bearing security deposit. The
results of operations of restaurant businesses purchased and sold in
transactions with franchisees and affiliates were not material to the
consolidated financial statements for periods prior to purchase and sale.
 

 
  Future minimum rent payments due to the Company under franchise arrangements
are:
 

 
  At December 31, 1997, net property and equipment under franchise
arrangements totaled $8.1 billion (including land of $2.5 billion) after
deducting accumulated depreciation and amortization of $2.6 billion.
 

 
DEBT FINANCING
 
LINE OF CREDIT AGREEMENTS
 
  The Company has several line of credit agreements with various banks: a
$675.0 million line which expires on April 19, 2002, with fees of .06% per
annum on the total commitment; a $25.0 million line with a renewable term of
364 days and fees of .07% per annum on the total commitment; and $800.0
million in additional short-term lines expiring in the first half of 1998 with
fees of .04% per annum on the total commitments. All agreements remained
unused at December 31, 1997. Borrowings under the agreements bear interest at
one of several specified floating rates selected by the Company at the time of
borrowing. In addition, certain subsidiaries outside the U.S. had unused lines
of credit totaling $667.1 million at December 31, 1997; these were principally
short-term and denominated in various currencies at local market rates of
interest. The weighted-average interest rate of short- term borrowings,
composed of commercial paper and foreign currency bank line borrowings, was
6.2% and 6.4% at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
EXCHANGE AGREEMENTS
 
  The Company has entered into agreements for the exchange of various
currencies, certain of which also provide for the periodic exchange of
interest payments. These agreements expire through 2004 and relate primarily
to the exchange of British Pounds Sterling, French Francs, Deutsche Marks and
Japanese Yen. The notional principal is the amount used to calculate interest
payments which are exchanged over the life of the swap transaction and is
equal to the amount of foreign currency or U.S. Dollar principal exchanged at
maturity. The Company also has entered into interest-rate exchange agreements
which expire through 2011 and relate primarily to U.S. Dollars, British Pounds
Sterling and French Francs. The net value of each exchange agreement based on
its current spot rate was classified as an asset or liability, and any related
interest income was netted against interest expense.
 
  The counterparties to these agreements consist of a diverse group of
financial institutions. The Company continually monitors its positions and the
credit ratings of its counterparties, and adjusts positions as appropriate.
The Company does not have significant exposure to any individual counterparty
and has entered into master agreements that contain netting arrangements.
 
  At December 31, 1997, the Company had purchased foreign currency options
outstanding (primarily British Pounds Sterling, Deutsche Marks and Swiss
Francs) with a notional amount equivalent to U.S. $237.9 million. The
unamortized premium related to these currency options was $2.2 million and
there were no related deferred gains recorded as of year end. Short-term
forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding at December 31, 1997 (primarily
French Francs, Deutsche Marks and Australian Dollars) had a U.S. Dollar
equivalent of $85.3 million.
 
GUARANTEES
 
  The Company has guaranteed and included in total debt at December 31, 1997,
$118.4 million of 7.3% ESOP Notes Series A and $63.8 million of 7.0% ESOP
Notes Series B issued by the Leveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plan with
payments through 2004 and 2006, respectively. The Company has agreed to
repurchase the notes upon the occurrence of certain events. The Company has
also guaranteed certain affiliate loans totaling $238.3 million at December
31, 1997.
 
 

 
FAIR VALUES
 

- --------
(1) Combined notional amount equivalent to U.S. $2.1 billion.
(2) Notional amount equivalent to U.S. $2.4 billion.
 
  The carrying amounts for cash and equivalents, notes receivable and short-
term forward foreign exchange contracts approximated fair value. No fair value
was provided for noninterest-bearing security deposits by franchisees as these
deposits are an integral part of the overall franchise arrangements.
 
  The fair value of the debt and notes payable obligations (excluding capital
leases), the currency and interest-rate exchange agreements and the foreign
currency options was estimated using quoted market prices, various pricing
models or discounted cash flow analyses. The Company has no current plans to
retire a significant amount of its debt prior to maturity. Given the market
value of its common stock and its significant real estate holdings, the
Company believes that the fair value of total assets was higher than their
carrying value at December 31, 1997.
 
DEBT OBLIGATIONS
 
  The Company has incurred debt obligations principally through public and
private offerings and bank loans. The terms of most debt obligations contain
restrictions on Company and subsidiary mortgages and long-term debt of certain
subsidiaries. Under certain agreements, the Company has the option to retire
debt prior to maturity, either at par or at a premium over par. The following
table summarizes these debt obligations, including the effects of currency and
interest-rate exchange agreements.
 

 
DEBT OBLIGATIONS
 

- -------
(1) Weighted-average effective rate, computed on a semi-annual basis.
(2) Includes $500 million of debentures with maturities in 2027, 2036 and 2037
    which are subordinated to senior debt and which provide for the ability to
    defer interest payments up to five years under certain conditions.
(3) A portion of U.S. Dollar fixed-rate debt effectively has been converted
    into other currencies and/or into floating-rate debt through the use of
    exchange agreements. The rates shown reflect the fixed rate on the
    receivable portion of the exchange agreements. All other obligations in
    this table reflect the net effects of these and other exchange agreements.
(4) Consists of debt obligations denominated in 24 other foreign currencies.
 

 
STOCK OPTIONS
 
  At December 31, 1997, the Company had three stock-based compensation plans,
two for employees and one for non-employee directors. Options to purchase
common stock are granted at the fair market value of the stock on date of
grant. Therefore, no compensation cost has been recognized in the consolidated
financial statements for these plans.
 
  Substantially all of the options become exercisable in four equal
installments, beginning a year from the date of the grant, and expiring 10
years from the grant date. At December 31, 1997, the number of shares of
common stock reserved for issuance under the plans was 90.0 million, including
11.8 million available for future grants.
 
  A summary of the status of the Company's plans as of December 31, 1997, 1996
and 1995, and changes during the years then ended is presented below:
 

 
  Options granted each year were about 2% of average common shares outstanding
for 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively, representing grants to approximately
11,000, 10,300 and 8,500 employees in those three years. When stock options
are exercised, shares are issued from treasury stock.
 
  The average per share cost of treasury stock issued for option exercises
was: 1997-$12.93; 1996-$13.07; 1995-$9.56. The average option exercise price
has consistently exceeded the average cost of treasury stock issued for option
exercises. This is because the Company prefunds the program through share
repurchase. Thus, stock option exercises have generated additional capital,
since cash received from employees has exceeded the Company's average
acquisition cost of treasury stock. In addition, stock option exercises
generated $207.8 million of tax benefits for the Company during the three
years ended December 31, 1997.
 

 
  Pro forma net income and net income per common share were determined as if
the Company had accounted for its employee stock options under the fair value
method of SFAS 123 and are presented in the table below:
 

 

 
  For pro forma disclosures, the options' estimated fair value was amortized
over their expected seven-year life. These pro forma amounts are not
indicative of anticipated future disclosures because SFAS 123 does not apply
to grants before 1995. Therefore, the pro forma disclosures do not include a
full seven years of grants. The fair value for these options was estimated at
the date of grant using an option pricing model. The model was designed to
estimate the fair value of exchange-traded options which, unlike employee
stock options, can be traded at any time and are fully transferable. In
addition, such models require the input of highly subjective assumptions,
including the expected volatility of the stock price. Therefore, in
management's opinion, the existing models do not provide a reliable single
measure of the value of employee stock options. The following weighted-average
assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of these options:
 

 

 
CAPITAL STOCK
 
PER COMMON SHARE INFORMATION
 
  Income used in the computation of per common share information was reduced
by preferred stock cash dividends (net of applicable tax benefits). In 1995,
income was also reduced by $3.9 million for the one-time effect of the
Company's exchange of its Series E 7.72% Cumulative Preferred Stock for
subordinated debt securities, and by an additional $.4 million for the effect
of the Company's repurchase of additional Series E preferred stock.
 
PREFERRED STOCK
 
  In December 1992, the Company issued $500.0 million of Series E 7.72%
Cumulative Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $50,000 per share.
One preferred share was equal to 2,000 depositary shares and was entitled to
one vote under certain circumstances. In 1995, the Company completed an
exchange of depositary shares equaling 2,600 shares of this preferred stock
for subordinated debt securities and repurchased depositary shares equaling
approximately 250 shares. The Company redeemed the remaining Series E shares
for cash in December 1997.
 
  In September 1989 and April 1991, respectively, the Company sold $200.0
million of Series B and $100.0 million of Series C ESOP Convertible Preferred
Stock to the LESOP. The LESOP financed the purchase by issuing notes
guaranteed by the Company and included in long-term debt, with an offsetting
reduction in shareholders' equity. In 1992 and 1995, this preferred stock was
converted into a total of 15.1 million common shares.
 
CHANGE IN PAR VALUE
 
  In May 1996, Company shareholders approved an increase in the number of
authorized shares of Common Stock from 1.25 billion with no par value to 3.5
billion with $.01 par value. The change in par value did not affect any of the
existing rights of shareholders and was recorded as an adjustment to
additional paid-in capital and common stock.
 
COMMON EQUITY PUT OPTIONS
 
  In 1997, the Company sold 5.3 million common equity put options, of which
1.8 million options were outstanding at December 31, 1997. The options expire
at various dates through May 1998. At December 31, 1997, the $80.3 million
exercise price of these outstanding options was classified in common equity
put options, and the related offset was recorded in common stock in treasury,
net of premiums received.
 
SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN
 
  In December 1988, the Company declared a dividend of one Preferred Share
Purchase Right (Right) on each outstanding share of common stock. Under
certain conditions, each Right may be exercised to purchase one four-hundredth
of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock at an exercise
price of $62.50 (which may be adjusted under certain circumstances). The Right
is transferable apart from the common stock 10 days following a public
announcement that a person or group has acquired beneficial ownership of 20%
or more of the outstanding common shares, or 10 business days following the
commencement or announcement of an intention to make a tender or exchange
offer resulting in beneficial ownership by a person or group exceeding the
threshold. The threshold may be reduced by the Board of Directors to as low as
10%.
 
  Once the threshold has been exceeded, or if the Company is acquired in a
merger or other business combination transaction, each Right will entitle the
holder, other than such person or group, to purchase at the then current
exercise price, stock of the Company or the acquiring company having a market
value of twice the exercise price.
 
  Each Right is nonvoting and expires on December 28, 1998, unless redeemed by
the Company, at a price of $.0025, at any time prior to the public
announcement that a person or group has exceeded the threshold. At December
31, 1997, 2.1 million shares of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock were reserved for issuance under this plan.
 

 
QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
 

- -------
(1) Includes the $72 million special charge.
(2) Includes a $50 million tax benefit as a result of certain international
    transactions.
(3) Net income per common share data is presented in conformity with SFAS 128.
 

 
                              MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
 
  Management is responsible for the preparation, integrity and fair
presentation of the consolidated financial statements and Financial Comments
appearing in this annual report. The financial statements were prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and include certain
amounts based on management's judgment and best estimates. Other financial
information presented in the annual report is consistent with the financial
statements.
 
  The Company maintains a system of internal control over financial reporting
including safeguarding of assets against unauthorized acquisition, use or
disposition, which is designed to provide reasonable assurance to the
Company's management and Board of Directors regarding the preparation of
reliable published financial statements and such asset safeguarding. The
system includes a documented organizational structure and appropriate division
of responsibilities; established policies and procedures which are
communicated throughout the Company; careful selection, training, and
development of our people; and utilization of an internal audit program.
Policies and procedures prescribe that the Company and all employees are to
maintain high standards of proper business practices throughout the world.
 
  There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any system of
internal control, including the possibility of human error and the
circumvention or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even an effective
internal control system can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to
financial statement preparation and safeguarding of assets. Furthermore, the
effectiveness of an internal control system can change with circumstances. The
Company believes that at December 31, 1997, it maintained an effective system
of internal control over financial reporting and safeguarding of assets
against unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition.
 
  The consolidated financial statements have been audited by independent
auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, who were given unrestricted access to all
financial records and related data. The audit report of Ernst & Young LLP is
presented herein.
 
  The Board of Directors, operating through its Audit Committee composed
entirely of independent Directors, provides oversight to the financial
reporting process. Ernst & Young LLP has independent access to the Audit
Committee and periodically meets with the Committee to discuss accounting,
auditing and financial reporting matters.
 
McDONALD'S CORPORATION
Oak Brook, Illinois
January 22, 1998
 

 
                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
McDonald's Corporation
Oak Brook, Illinois
 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of McDonald's
Corporation as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1997. These financial statements
are the responsibility of McDonald's Corporation management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.
 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.
 
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of McDonald's
Corporation at December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.
 
ERNST & YOUNG LLP
Chicago, Illinois
January 22, 1998
 

 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
  None.
 
                                   PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  Information regarding directors is incorporated herein by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement which will be filed no later than 120
days after December 31, 1997.
 
  Information regarding all of the Company's executive officers is included in
Part I.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
  Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy
statement which will be filed no later than 120 days after December 31, 1997.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
  Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy
statement which will be filed no later than 120 days after December 31, 1997.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
  Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy
statement which will be filed no later than 120 days after December 31, 1997.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, EXHIBITS, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
  (a) 1.Financial statements:
 
    Consolidated financial statements filed as part of this report are
    listed under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
 
   2.Financial statement schedules:
 
    No schedules are required because either the required information is
    not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require
    submission of the schedule, or because the information required is
    included in the consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.
 
  (b)Exhibits:
 
    The exhibits listed in the accompanying index are filed as part of this
    report.
 

 
                             MCDONALD'S CORPORATION
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
                                   (ITEM 14)
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

- --------
*  Denotes compensatory plan.
 
  Other instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the
registrant and all of its subsidiaries for which consolidated financial
statements are required to be filed and which are not required to be
registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, are not included
herein as the securities authorized under these instruments, individually, do
not exceed 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis. An agreement to furnish a copy of any such instruments to
the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request has been filed with the
Commission.
 
  (c)Reports on Form 8-K
 
    The following reports on Form 8-K were filed for the last quarter
    covered by this report, and subsequently up to March 30, 1998.
 

 

 
                                  SIGNATURES
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED
ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                          McDonald's Corporation
                                           (Registrant)
 
                                                     Michael L. Conley
                                          By___________________________________
                                                     Michael L. Conley
                                               Executive Vice President and
                                                  Chief Financial Officer
 
            March 30, 1998
Date: _______________________________
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES ON THE 30TH DAY OF MARCH, 1998:
 

 

 

 

