
10-K
FORM 10-K


                                                                  


                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   ----------

                                    FORM 10-K
              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
                         Commission file number 0-19281

                               THE AES CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE                                                    54-1163725
(State or other jurisdiction of                             (I.R.S.  Employer
incorporation or organization)                              Identification No.)

1001 N.  19th Street, Arlington, Virginia                       22209
(Address of principal executive offices)                        (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (703) 522-1315
        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None
           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                   ----------


         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                                Yes  X   No
                                   ----     ----

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,
to the best of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

                                   ----------

         The  aggregate  market  value  of  Registrant's  voting  stock  held by
non-affiliates of Registrant, at March 3, 1997, was $3,405,813,628.

         The number of shares  outstanding  of  Registrant's  Common Stock,  par
value $0.01 per share, at March 3, 1997, was 77,492,990.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

         Proxy   Statement  for  the  Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders  of  the
Registrant  to be held  on  April  15,  1997.  Certain  information  therein  is
incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.






PART I


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

         (a)      General Development of Business

                  The  AES  Corporation   (the   "Company",   "AES"  and/or  the
"Registrant"),  is a global power company committed to supplying  electricity to
customers  world-wide in a socially  responsible way. The Company was one of the
original  entrants  in the  independent  power  market  and  today is one of the
world's largest  independent  power companies,  based on net equity ownership of
generating  capacity (in  megawatts)  in operation  or under  construction.  AES
markets  power  principally  from  electricity  generating  facilities  that  it
develops, acquires, owns and operates.

                  Over  the  last  five  years,   the  Company  has  experienced
significant  growth. This growth has resulted primarily from the development and
construction  of  new  plants  ("greenfield  development")  and  also  from  the
acquisition  of  existing  plants,   through   competitively  bid  privatization
initiatives outside of the United States or negotiated acquisitions. Since 1992,
the Company's total  generating  capacity in megawatts has grown by 426 percent,
with the total  number of plants in operation  increasing  from eight to 26. AES
operates and owns (entirely or in part),  through  subsidiaries  and affiliates,
power plants in seven countries with a capacity of approximately 9,600 megawatts
(including  4,000  megawatts  attributable  to the Ekibastuz  plant in Kazakstan
which at the time of its acquisition in August 1996 was running at approximately
20 percent of its capacity).  AES is also  constructing  eight  additional power
plants  and  one  expansion  in  four  countries  with  a  design   capacity  of
approximately  1,700  megawatts.  The  Company's  total  ownership  in plants in
operation and under construction  aggregates  approximately 11,300 megawatts and
its net equity  ownership in such plants is approximately  7,500  megawatts.  In
addition, AES has numerous projects in advanced stages of development, including
seven  projects  with  an  aggregate  design  capacity  of  approximately  4,700
megawatts that have executed or been awarded power sales agreements.

OUTLOOK

                  The  global  trend of  electricity  market  restructuring  has
created significant new business  opportunities for companies like AES. There is
a trend  away from  government-owned  electricity  systems  toward  deregulated,
competitive market structures,  in both domestic and international markets. Many






countries have rewritten their laws and regulations to allow foreign  investment
and private  ownership of electricity  generation,  transmission or distribution
systems.  Some  countries  have or are in the  process  of  "privatizing"  their
electricity systems by selling all or part of such systems to private investors.
With 18 of its  projects  having been  acquired or having  commenced  commercial
operations  since  1992,  AES  has  been  an  active  participant  in  both  the
international  privatization process and the development process. The Company is
currently pursuing over 70 projects through possible acquisitions, the expansion
of existing plants and greenfield development.

                  AES believes that there is significant demand for both new and
more efficiently  operated electric  generating  capacity in many regions around
the world. In an effort to further grow and diversify the Company's portfolio of
electric generating plants, AES is pursuing,  through its integrated  divisions,
additional greenfield developments and acquisitions in many countries.

                  The  Company,  a  corporation  organized  under  the  laws  of
Delaware,  was formed in 1981. The principal office of the Company is located at
1001 North 19th Street, Suite 2000, Arlington, Virginia 22209, and its telephone
number is (703) 522-1315.

         (b)      Financial Information About Industry Segments

                  The Company  operates in only one industry  segment:  electric
power supply.

         (c)      Narrative Description of Business

STRATEGY

                  The  Company's  strategy in helping  meet the world's need for
electricity  is to  participate  in  competitive  power  markets as they develop
either  by  greenfield  development  or  by  acquiring  and  operating  existing
facilities or systems in these markets.  The Company generally operates electric
generating  facilities  that utilize  natural gas, coal,  oil,  hydro power,  or
combinations thereof. In addition,  the Company participates in the distribution
and retail supply businesses in certain limited instances,  and will continue to
review opportunities in such markets in the future.

Other elements of the Company's strategy include:

    o Supplying  energy to  customers at the lowest cost  possible,  taking into
      account factors such as reliability and environmental performance;





    o Constructing or acquiring  projects of a relatively  large size (generally
      larger than 100 megawatts);

    o When  available,   entering  into  power  sales  contracts  with  electric
      utilities or other customers with significant credit strength; and

    o Where possible,  participating  in distribution  and retail supply markets
      that grant concessions with long-term pricing arrangements.

                  The Company also  strives for  operating  excellence  as a key
element  of its  strategy,  which it  believes  it  accomplishes  by  minimizing
organizational   layers   and   maximizing    company-wide    participation   in
decision-making.  AES has  attempted  to create an  operating  environment  that
results in safe,  clean and  reliable  electricity  generation.  Because of this
emphasis,  the Company  prefers to operate all  facilities  which it develops or
acquires;  however,  there  can be no  assurance  that  the  Company  will  have
operating control of all of its facilities.

                  Where  possible,   AES  attempts  to  sell  electricity  under
long-term power sales  contracts.  The Company attempts to structure the revenue
provisions  of  such  power  sales  contracts  such  that  changes  in the  cost
components of a facility  (primarily fuel costs)  correspond,  as effectively as
possible,  to changes  in the  revenue  components  of the  contract.  A plant's
revenue from a power sales contract usually  consists of two components,  energy
payments and capacity  payments.  Energy payments are usually based on a plant's
net electrical  output,  with payment rates usually indexed to the fuel costs of
the customer or to general  inflation  indices.  Capacity  payments are based on
either a plant's  net  electrical  output or its  available  capacity.  Capacity
payment rates vary over the term of a power sales contract  according to various
schedules.  Some power sales contracts  permit the utility  customer to dispatch
the plant  (i.e.,  direct  the plant to  deliver  a reduced  amount of  electric
output) within certain specified parameters. AES attempts to structure the power
sales  contract  payments  so that,  even  when  dispatching  occurs,  the plant
continues to receive capacity  payments (which provide  substantially all of the
plant's  profits,  if any),  while it receives  reduced energy  payments  (which
primarily cover the variable  operating,  maintenance and fuel costs  associated
with operating at higher or lower levels).

                  The Company  attempts to provide fuel for its operating plants
generally  under  long-term  supply  agreements,   either  through   contractual
arrangements with third parties or, in some instances,  through acquisition of a
dependable source of fuel. The Company will generally contract with outside




parties,  often the  project's  fuel  supplier,  to provide  for the removal and
disposal of waste.

                  As electricity markets become more competitive, it may be more
difficult for AES (and other power  generation  companies)  to obtain  long-term
power sales contracts.  In markets where long-term  contracts are not available,
AES will pursue methods to hedge costs and revenues to provide as much assurance
as possible of a project's profitability. In markets where long-term power sales
contracts are unavailable,  AES might choose to develop or acquire a project (i)
with a partial  contractual hedge, or (ii) with no contractual hedge, or AES may
choose not to  participate  in these  markets.  To the extent that AES pursues a
project  with no  contractual  hedge,  AES's  diverse  portfolio of projects may
provide some hedge  against the increased  volatility of the project's  earnings
and cash flow.

                  The Company  attempts  to finance  each  domestic  and foreign
plant  primarily under loan agreements and related  documents  which,  except as
noted below,  require the loans to be repaid solely from the project's  revenues
and provide that the  repayment of the loans (and  interest  thereon) is secured
solely by the capital stock,  physical  assets,  contracts and cash flow of that
plant subsidiary or affiliate.  This type of financing is generally  referred to
as "project  financing."  The lenders under these project  financing  structures
cannot  look to AES or its other  projects  for  repayment,  unless  such entity
explicitly agrees to undertake liability. AES has explicitly agreed to undertake
certain limited obligations and contingent  liabilities,  most of which by their
terms will only be effective or will be terminated upon the occurrence of future
events. These obligations and liabilities take the form of guaranties, letter of
credit   reimbursement   agreements,   and   agreements   to  pay,   in  certain
circumstances,  to project lenders or other parties amounts up to the amounts of
distributions  previously made by the applicable subsidiary or affiliate to AES.
To the  extent  AES  becomes  liable  under  guaranties  and  letter  of  credit
reimbursement agreements,  distributions received by AES from other projects are
subject  to  the   possibility  of  being  utilized  by  AES  to  satisfy  these
obligations.  To the  extent  of these  obligations,  the  lenders  to a project
effectively  have  recourse  to AES and to the  distributions  to AES from other
projects. The aggregate contractual liability of AES is, in each case, usually a
small portion of the  aggregate  project  debt,  and thus the project  financing
structures are generally described herein as being "substantially  non-recourse"
to AES and its other projects.


AES PLANTS IN OPERATION AND UNDER CONSTRUCTION

                  The table below sets forth information on the Company's plants
and projects currently in operation or under construction.





- ----------

(a)  Plant operations commenced in 1986, but control was acquired in 1995.
(b)  125 megawatts of Wuhu Grassy Lake is currently in operation. The other half
     is under construction.
(c)  Due to  poor  historical  maintenance  over  the  ten  years  prior  to the
     Company's  purchase,  the facility's  capacity factor is  approximately  20
     percent.
(d)  Estimated date of commencement of commercial operations.







NORTH AMERICA

                  AES currently  owns and  operates,  through  subsidiaries  and
affiliates,  six plants in the United States  representing  approximately  1,069
megawatts.

                  AES Barbers Point, Inc. ("AES Barbers Point") is an indirectly
owned  subsidiary  of AES which  owns and  operates  a 180  megawatt  coal-fired
circulating  fluidized bed ("CFB") cogeneration plant located in Kapolei,  Oahu,
Hawaii.  AES Barbers Point sells electricity to Hawaiian Electric Company,  Inc.
("HECO") under a contract with a remaining term of 26 years.  Steam generated by
the plant is sold to Chevron USA Inc.  ("Chevron")  for use in its oil  refining
operations  under a steam sales  agreement  with a  remaining  term of 16 years.
HECO's purchases represented approximately 16 percent of AES's 1996 consolidated
revenues.

                  AES  Beaver  Valley is a 125  megawatt  pulverized  coal-fired
cogeneration  facility  located  in  Monaca,  Pennsylvania  which is owned by BV
Partners,  a Pennsylvania  partnership ("BV Partners").  AES Beaver Valley, Inc.
("AES Beaver Valley"),  a subsidiary of AES, and Shepperton  Leasing Company are
the sole partners in BV Partners.  AES Beaver Valley, as an 80 percent owner and
managing  partner,  operates  the plant  for the  partnership.  West Penn  Power
Company ("West Penn") purchases  electricity produced by the plant under a power
sales  contract with a remaining  term of  approximately  20 years.  BV Partners
sells steam to NOVA Chemicals Inc. for use in its chemical processing activities
under a requirements contract with a remaining term of approximately five years.

                  AES Deepwater,  Inc. ("AES  Deepwater") is a subsidiary of AES
which owns a 143 megawatt  petroleum  coke-fired  cogeneration  facility located
near Houston,  Texas.  The facility sells  electricity  to Houston  Lighting and
Power Company  ("HL&P")  under a power sales contract which expires in 1998. AES
Deepwater,  under a contract  which also expires in 1998,  produces and delivers
process steam to an ARCO Petroleum Products Company ("ARCO Petroleum")  refinery
adjacent to the cogeneration facility.

                  AES Placerita,  Inc. ("AES  Placerita") is an indirectly owned
subsidiary  of AES which leases and operates a 120 megawatt  combined-cycle  gas
turbine  cogeneration  facility  near Los Angeles,  California.  The plant sells
electricity  to  Southern  California  Edison  Company  under a contract  with a
remaining term of  approximately 17 years. AES Placerita sells steam to Hillside
Oil Partners, which is engaged in oil recovery operations,  and ARCO Oil and Gas
Company.






                  AES Shady Point,  Inc.  ("AES Shady  Point") is an  indirectly
owned subsidiary of AES which owns and operates a 320 megawatt  coal-fired,  CFB
cogeneration  plant in LeFlore  County,  Oklahoma.  The AES Shady Point facility
includes a 240-ton per day food grade,  liquid CO2 plant,  which utilizes in its
CO2 production  processes  approximately 65,000 pounds per hour of process steam
produced by the plant.  AES Shady Point sells  electricity  to Oklahoma  Gas and
Electric   Company   ("OG&E")   under  a  contract  with  a  remaining  term  of
approximately 11 years. OG&E's purchases represented approximately 20 percent of
AES's 1996 consolidated revenues.

                  AES  Thames,  Inc.  ("AES  Thames")  is  an  indirectly  owned
subsidiary  of AES  which  owns  and  operates  a 181  megawatt  coal-fired  CFB
cogeneration  plant located in Montville,  Connecticut.  Power  generated by AES
Thames is sold to Connecticut  Light and Power Company ("CL&P") under a contract
with a remaining term of  approximately 18 years. AES Thames also sells steam to
Stone Container Paperboard  Corporation for use in its recycled paperboard plant
located  adjacent to the plant.  CL&P's purchases  represented  approximately 16
percent of AES's 1996 consolidated revenues.


EUROPE

                  AES currently  owns and  operates,  through  subsidiaries  and
affiliates, seven plants in Europe representing approximately 2,701 megawatts.

                  NIGEN Limited  ("NIGEN"),  a joint venture  company owned by a
United Kingdom ("U.K.") subsidiary of the Company and a subsidiary of Tractebel,
S.A., a Belgian utility, owns and operates two power plants in Northern Ireland:
Kilroot, a 520 megawatt dual-fired (coal and oil) power plant, and Belfast West,
a 240 megawatt  coal-fired power plant. The Kilroot and Belfast West plants have
entered into power sales contracts, subject to cancellation in 14 years and four
years, respectively,  with Northern Ireland Electricity, plc, a transmission and
distribution company.

                  Medway Power Limited ("Medway Power") is a joint venture among
AES Medway Electric  Limited,  an indirectly owned U. K. subsidiary of AES ("AES
Medway"),  and  subsidiaries of Southern  Electric plc ("Southern") and SEEBOARD
plc ("SEEBOARD"), which owns a 660 megawatt combined cycle gas-fired power plant
in  Southeast  England  on the Isle of Grain.  The  plant  began  operations  in
November 1995. AES Medway Operations Limited ("AESMO"), an indirectly owned U.K.
subsidiary of AES, operates and maintains the plant.






                  Medway  Power  sells  its  entire  output   through   national
electricity pool trading arrangements (the "Pool") at prices based on the supply
of, and demand for, electricity available in the Pool. In addition, Medway Power
has entered  into a contract  with each of Southern  and  SEEBOARD,  under which
Southern  and  SEEBOARD  will pay Medway Power  capacity  payments  based on the
plant's  available  capacity,  and energy  cost  payments,  based on the plant's
actual sales of  electricity  to the Pool,  that reflect fuel costs and variable
transmission charges incurred (each a "Contract for Differences").  The basis of
the  contracts is 660  megawatts.  Sales of  electrical  output in excess of 660
megawatts  are  sold  into  the  Pool,  and  not  subject  to the  Contract  for
Differences.

                  The plant began  commercial  operations under the terms of the
Contracts for Differences on October 1, 1996. Commercial operations were delayed
by one year due to design  difficulties  with the  rotors of the two  combustion
turbines.  These rotors were rebuilt with parts of a new design in the summer of
1996 and there has not been a recurrence of the difficulties since that time.

                  On December 23, 1996, one of the combustion turbines shut down
with damage resulting from a problem with its combustion system. The turbine was
repaired by Medway  Power at its cost and  returned to service in January  1997.
Medway Power has begun arbitration proceedings against the contractor to recover
the costs of the repairs,  estimated  at  approximately  $10  million,  from the
contractor  under the terms of the warranty.  Although no assurance can be given
that Medway Power will prevail in the arbitration, the Company believes that the
outcome  of  this  matter  will  not  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on its
consolidated financial position.

                  Tiszai  Eromu Rt. is an  indirectly  owned  subsidiary  of AES
which owns and operates  three power plants  totaling  1,281  megawatts of gross
capacity (1,115 net megawatts) and a coal mine in Hungary. The plants consist of
(i) the Tisza II facility,  an 860 megawatt oil and natural  gas-fired  facility
that sells  electricity  under a contract ending in 2010, (ii) the Tiszapalkonya
facility,  a 250 megawatt  coal-fired  facility that sells  electricity  under a
contract  ending  in  2001,  and  (iii)  the  Borsod  facility,  a 171  megawatt
coal-fired facility that sells electricity under a contract ending in 2001. Each
plant sells  electricity to Magyar  Villamos Muvek Rt. ("MVM Rt."), a Hungarian,
state-owned  integrated  utility,  under long-term power sales contracts.  These
agreements currently are being renegotiated to conform their pricing methodology
with standard international  practice.  Aggregate purchases by MVM Rt. under the
three power sales  agreements  were  approximately  10 percent of the  Company's
consolidated  revenues in 1996.  AES also has the right to develop an additional
150 megawatt coal-fired electric generating facility.






                  In August  1996,  AES  acquired  its initial  80.8  percent of
Tiszai Eromu Rt. at a cost of $110 million.  In December  1996,  AES,  through a
subsidiary, completed the purchase of an additional 12.5 percent of Tiszai Eromu
Rt., from employee pension plans at a cost of $17 million,  bringing AES's total
equity  interest  in  Tiszai  Eromu  Rt.  to  93.3  percent.  Substantial  risks
associated  with these plants exist,  however,  including  those relating to the
successful   renegotiation  of  power  sales  arrangements  with  the  Hungarian
government,  plant  operation  and  maintenance,  construction  difficulties  in
respect of the undeveloped  facility,  plant refurbishment,  environmental risk,
political risk, repatriation of earnings and currency inconvertibility.


ASIA

                  AES currently  owns and  operates,  through  subsidiaries  and
affiliates,  five plants in Asia representing  approximately  4,229 megawatts of
generating capacity.

                  AES China  Generating  Co. Ltd. ("AES  Chigen") was founded in
December 1993 by AES to develop,  acquire,  finance,  construct, own and operate
electric  power  generation  facilities  in the People's  Republic of China (the
"PRC"). Since commencing business, AES Chigen has developed eight power projects
which are  currently  in operation  or under  construction  in the PRC having an
aggregate nameplate capacity of approximately 817 megawatts.

                  AES currently owns all of the issued and outstanding shares of
AES Chigen's Class B Common Stock,  which  represents  approximately  48% of the
economic value of AES Chigen, and 50% of the voting power, on most matters.  The
remaining  shares,   constituting  Class  A  Common  Stock,  are  publicly-held.
In November  1996,  AES Chigen and AES  entered  into an  Agreement  and Plan of
Amalgamation,  providing  among  other  things for AES Chigen to become a wholly
owned  subsidiary of AES (the  "Amalgamation").  The  Amalgamation is subject to
various conditions,  including the approval of the holders of the Class A Common
Stock of AES Chigen, and there can be no assurance that the Amalgamation will be
consummated.  The special class meeting of the holders of the AES Chigen Class A
Common Stock and the special general  meeting of the  shareholders of AES Chigen
to vote on the Amalgamation are scheduled for April 10, 1997.

                  AES Suntree  Ltd., is an  indirectly  owned  subsidiary of AES
which  owns  and  operates  a  4,000  (design  capacity)  megawatt   mine-mouth,
coal-fired  power  facility in Kazakstan.  The facility  sells  electricity to a
government-owned  distribution company under a 35-year power sales contract. Due
to economic difficulties over the ten years prior to the Company's purchase, the
facility  has  experienced  a reduction  in  performance  and has  operated at a
capacity  factor of  approximately  20 percent.  AES has agreed to increase  the
capacity to 63 percent over a five-year period (contingent on the purchaser's







performance of its obligations under the power sales contract). Through December
31, 1996,  approximately  $35 million  (excluding  value added taxes) was billed
under the power sales  contract for  electricity,  of which the  purchaser  paid
approximately $5 million. The Company has recorded a provision of $20 million to
reduce the carrying value of the contract  receivable as of December 31, 1996 to
$10.0 million.  As of December 31, 1996, the net assets of this project were $24
million, a portion of which was represented by the contract  receivable referred
to above. There can be no assurance as to the ultimate collectibility of amounts
owned to AES as of December  31, 1996 or  additional  amounts  related to future
deliveries of electricity  under the power sales contract or the  recoverability
of the Company's  investment or additional amounts the Company may invest in the
project.  Other  substantial  risks associated with this plant exist,  including
those  relating to  operations  and  maintenance,  construction,  refurbishment,
political risk, repatriation of earnings and currency convertibility.


SOUTH AMERICA

                  AES currently  owns and  operates,  through  subsidiaries  and
affiliates,  and, in certain instances,  together with partners,  nine plants in
South America representing approximately 1,628 megawatts of generating capacity,
as well as 3,800 megawatts of transmission and distribution system.

                  Central  Termica  San  Nicolas  S.A.  ("San  Nicolas")  is  an
indirectly  owned subsidiary of AES which owns and operates a 650 megawatt power
plant in San  Nicolas,  Argentina.  AES owns  approximately  69  percent  of San
Nicolas, a subsidiary of a U.S. utility owns  approximately 19 percent,  and the
remaining 12 percent is owned by an employee stock ownership plan.

                  San  Nicolas  sells a total of 345  megawatts  of  electricity
(approximately  53 percent of the  plant's  output  capability)  under two power
sales  contracts,  each with a remaining  term of four  years.  Under one of the
contracts,  Empresa  Social  de  Energia  de  Buenos  Aires  S.A.  ("ESEBA"),  a
distribution  company  controlled  by the  Argentine  government,  purchases 285
megawatts  (except  during  the  month of April of each  year,  when the  amount
purchased is 57 megawatts). Under the other contract, EDELAP, S.A., a privatized
Argentine distribution company, purchases 60 megawatts of electricity. The plant
sells additional electricity,  when profitable,  into the Argentine spot market.
ESEBA's  purchases   accounted  for  approximately  11  percent  of  AES's  1996
consolidated revenues.

                  Hidroelectrica  Rio Juramento  S.A.  ("Rio  Juramento")  is an
indirectly  owned  subsidiary  of AES which  leases and  operates a 112 megawatt
hydroelectric station in the province of Salta, Argentina.  The station consists
of





a 102 megawatt  facility  with a large storage  reservoir  capable of inter-year
storage,  and a 10 megawatt  facility  capable of  inter-seasonal  storage.  Rio
Juramento  has  exclusive  rights  to  operate  the  facility  under  a  30-year
concession agreement, and sells electricity in the Argentine spot market.

                  Hidrotermica  San  Juan,  S.A. ("San  Juan"), is an indirectly
owned  subsidiary  of AES and the owner  and  operator  of two power  generating
facilities  totaling 78 megawatts in the  province of San Juan,  Argentina.  The
facility includes a 45 megawatt  hydroelectric power plant and a 33 megawatt gas
combustion power plant.

                  Light  Servicos de  Electricidade,  S.A.  ("Light") is a 3,800
megawatt  Brazilian  electric power  generation,  transmission  and distribution
system serving 28 municipalities in the state of Rio de Janeiro,  Brazil that is
controlled by a consortium (the "Consortium") comprised of the following parties
(with each party's respective percentage ownership,  as of December 31, 1996, in
parentheses):  subsidiaries or affiliates of AES (11.35 percent), Electricite de
France  (11.35  percent);   Houston  Industries  Incorporated  (11.35  percent);
Companhia   Siderurgica   Nacional  (7.25   percent);   and  Banco  Nacional  de
Desenvolvimento Economico E Social (9.14 percent). In January 1997, AES acquired
an additional  2.4 percent of the voting  interest in Light,  bringing its total
equity  interest in Light to 13.75 percent;  this  acquisition did not alter the
respective  voting  rights,  or other  rights and  obligations,  of the  parties
constituting the Consortium.

                  In connection with the purchase of the controlling interest by
the  Consortium,  the  Ministry of Mines and Energy of Brazil  granted a 30-year
concession  to Light  pursuant  to the  terms of a  concession  agreement  which
obligates  Light to  provide  electric  services  to all  customers  within  its
concession,  and authorizes  Light to charge its customers a tariff for electric
services which consists of two  components - an expense  pass-through  component
and an  inflation-adjusted  operating  cost  component.  Beginning in 2004,  the
Ministry of Mines and Energy of Brazil has the authority to review Light's costs
to  determine  the  adjustment,  if any, to the  operating  cost  component  for
subsequent five-year periods.

                  Light generates  about 16 percent of the total  electricity it
distributes  through four hydroelectric  complexes having an aggregate installed
generating capacity of approximately 788 megawatts. Of the remaining electricity
distributed  by Light  (approximately  84 percent of the  total),  53 percent is
purchased  from  Furnas  Centrais   Electricas  S.A.,  a  power  generation  and
transmission  company  owned by  Eletrobras,  and the  remaining  31  percent is
purchased  from  Itaipu  Binacional,  a power  generation  company  owned by the
Republic of Brazil and the Republic of Paraguay.





                  In  December  1996,  a  subsidiary  of AES  completed a $167.5
million  syndicated  bank  financing  related to its equity  ownership of Light.
Under the terms of the financing,  a wholly-owned  subsidiary of AES pledged the
shares of Light  owned by it as  collateral  for the loan.  The  proceeds of the
financing  were used to repay a portion of the debt incurred in the  acquisition
of AES's interest in Light.


PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION

                  AES Lal Pir Limited  ("AES Lal Pir") and AES Pak Gen (Private)
Company ("AES Pak Gen"), are indirectly owned project  subsidiaries of AES which
are constructing two substantially  identical,  adjacent 337 megawatt  oil-fired
facilities  in Punjab  Province,  Pakistan.  The  Water  and  Power  Development
Authority   ("WAPDA")  has  agreed  to  purchase  the  electrical  capacity  and
electrical  output of the  facilities  through two separate  30-year power sales
agreements. Certain of the obligations of WAPDA under the power sales agreements
and PSO under the fuel supply  agreements  are  guaranteed by the  Government of
Pakistan.

                  Financing  for the AES Lal Pir  project was  completed  in May
1995 and is comprised of (i) a Y20.25  billion ($174  million)  commercial  loan
provided by a syndicate of lenders,  (ii) an International  Finance  Corporation
("IFC") loan of $40 million,  and (iii) equity of $95 million.  IFC will make an
equity  investment in AES Lal Pir of $9.5 million.  AES has supported certain of
AES Lal Pir's  pre-completion  obligations  in an aggregate  amount of up to $42
million, and certain post-completion obligations in an aggregate amount of up to
$59 million.  The financing for the AES Pak Gen project was completed in January
1996,  and consists of (i) a buyer's credit  facility  established by The Export
Import Bank of Japan of US$40 million and Y14.203 billion (US$122 million), (ii)
an IFC  direct  loan of US$20  million,  (iii) an IFC  syndicated  loan of US$50
million,  and (iv) equity of $95 million.  IFC will make an equity investment in
AES Pak Gen of US$9.5 million. AES has committed to fund the remaining equity of
US$85.5 million.  The equity  commitments in each of AES Lal Pir and AES Pak Gen
were partially  satisfied as of December 31, 1996. AES has supported  certain of
AES Pak Gen's  pre-completion  obligations  in an aggregate  amount of up to $42
million, and certain post-completion obligations in an aggregate amount of up to
$65 million.  The facilities are being built by Nichimen  Corporation  under two
"turn-key",  lump sum price  contracts,  with key  equipment  in each case being
supplied by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries.  The projects are scheduled to commence
commercial  operations  by the end of 1997.  All yen  amounts  set forth in this
Report have been translated into U.S. dollar ($)







amounts at an exchange rate of Y116/US$1.00, the noon buying rate in The City of
New York for cable  transfers  payable in Japanese Yen as certified  for customs
purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on December 31, 1996.

                  Substantial  risks  to  the  successful  completion  of  these
projects exist,  including those relating to political risk, exchange rate risk,
currency  inconvertibility,  governmental  approvals,  siting,  construction and
permitting, and the possible termination of the power sales contract as a result
of the failure to meet certain  construction  milestones.  No  assurance  can be
given that these projects will be completed.

                  AES WR Limited  Partnership ("AES Warrior Run"), an indirectly
owned  subsidiary of AES, is currently  constructing  a 180 megawatt  coal-fired
cogeneration facility in Allegany County,  Maryland.  The Potomac Edison Company
will  purchase  all of the  electrical  capacity of the  facility  pursuant to a
30-year  dispatchable  power sales  contract  and that the plant is scheduled to
begin  commercial  operation  by October  1,  1999.  The  project  obtained  its
financing in September 1995 consisting of (i) commercial  bank loan  commitments
of $331 million,  (ii)  approximately  $74 million of tax-exempt bonds issued by
the Maryland Energy Financing  Administration  and (iii) an equity commitment of
approximately  $46 million.  Construction  services are being  performed under a
lump sum, turn-key contract by a consortium  consisting of Raytheon  Engineers &
Constructors,  Inc. and  ABB/Combustion  Engineering,  Inc.  with key  equipment
supplied  by  ABB/Combustion  Engineering.  Coal will be supplied to the project
under a 20-year contract.

                  Substantial risks to the successful completion of this project
exist, including those relating to construction and permitting, and the possible
termination of the power sales contract as a result of a failure to meet certain
construction  milestones  and, as a result,  no assurance can be given that this
project will be completed.

                  AES Barry Ltd. ("AES Barry"),  an indirectly  owned subsidiary
of AES, began  constructing a 230 megawatt  gas-fired combined cycle facility in
Barry, South Wales,  United Kingdom in October 1996.  Construction  services are
being  supplied  by TBV Power  Limited  under a lump sum,  turnkey  construction
contract. The Barry facility will sell electricity into the national electricity
"spot" market in the United  Kingdom and it is expected to be operational by the
second  quarter of 1998.  In February  1997,  AES Barry  raised $184  million of
non-recourse  project financing,  underwritten  solely by The Industrial Bank of
Japan,  Limited.  Substantial risks to the successful completion of this project
exist, including those relating to governmental approvals, the






demand for and price of electricity in the United Kingdom  national  electricity
market, financing,  construction and permitting.  There can be no assurance that
this project will be completed.


POTENTIAL ACQUISITIONS/PROJECTS IN ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT

                  In February 1997,  AES entered into a definitive  agreement to
acquire the international  assets (inclusive of approximately $42 million of net
monetized assets) of Destec Energy, Inc. ("Destec"),  a large independent energy
producer with  headquarters in Houston,  Texas, for a total price to AES of $407
million,  which price is subject to  adjustment to reflect net cash flow between
the  international  assets of Destec and the rest of Destec from January 1, 1997
to the closing date. NGC Corporation  ("NGC"),  working in conjunction with AES,
was  selected as the  winning  bidder in an auction for all of Destec at a total
acquisition price of $1.27 billion. AES will acquire the international assets of
Destec immediately following NGC's acquisition of Destec. Destec's international
assets to be acquired by AES include  ownership  interests in the following five
electric  generating plants (with ownership  percentages in parentheses):  (i) a
110 megawatt  gas-fired  combined cycle plant in Kingston,  Canada (50 percent),
(ii) a 405 megawatt gas-fired combined cycle plant in Terneuzen, Netherlands (50
percent), (iii) a 140 megawatt gas-fired simple cycle plant in Cornwall, England
(100  percent),  (iv) a 235  megawatt  oil-fired  simple  cycle  plant  in Santo
Domingo,  Dominican  Republic (99 percent);  and (v) a 1600 megawatt  coal-fired
plant in Victoria,  Australia (20 percent).  The  acquisition by AES of Destec's
international assets also includes all of Destec's non-U.S.  developmental stage
power projects, including projects in Taiwan, England, Germany, the Philippines,
Australia and Colombia.  A number of risks are associated with this acquisition,
including those relating to the closing of the transaction  (which is contingent
on the  closing of NGC's  acquisition  of  Destec),  the  receipt of  government
approvals and other consents, financing, operation and maintenance, construction
and environmental risks.

                  In February  1997,  subsidiaries  of AES executed  three power
purchase  agreements (the "PPAs"),  for an aggregate  generating  capacity of at
least 457 megawatts,  with GPU Energy, the energy services and delivery business
of GPU,  Inc.,  a  public  utility  holding  company.  AES  plans to build a 720
megawatt  natural  gas-fired,  combined cycle facility in  Pennsylvania  to sell
power  under the PPAs  beginning  in 2000 and to sell  power to other  potential
purchasers.  Between March and July 1996, subsidiaries of AES acquired the right
to negotiate the PPAs from other independent power producers for a net aggregate
cost of approximately $28 million. GPU Energy is required to






reimburse AES for  substantially  all its initial net  investment if the project
does not receive the requisite regulatory approvals and permits. This project is
subject to a number of risks, including those related to governmental approvals,
siting,  permitting,  financing, construction and contract compliance, and there
can be no assuance that it will be completed successfully.

                  In January 1997, a joint  venture  company led by a subsidiary
of AES was  selected  as the  winning  bidder  to build,  own and  operate a 484
megawatt  gas-fired  combined cycle power plant in the city of Merida,  Yucatan,
Mexico. This project is subject to a number of risks, including those related to
governmental  approvals,  financing,  construction and contract compliance,  and
there can be no assurance that it will be completed successfully.

                  Another subsidiary of the Company, AES Puerto Rico, L.P. ("AES
Puerto Rico"), is developing a 454 megawatt coal-fired  cogeneration facility in
Guayama,  Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rico Electricity Power Authority has agreed to
purchase the electrical output of the facility pursuant to a 25-year power sales
agreement.  However,  substantial  risks to the  successful  completion  of this
project exist,  including those relating to governmental  approvals,  financing,
construction  and  permitting,  and  possible  termination  of the  power  sales
contract as a result of a failure to meet certain  development  or  construction
milestones. There can be no assurance that this project will be completed.

                  An affiliate of the Company,  San Francisco Energy Company, LP
("SFEC"),  which is a joint venture  between AES and Sonat Inc., is developing a
240 megawatt gas fired  facility in San  Francisco,  California.  The electrical
capacity of the facility is to be  purchased by Pacific Gas & Electric  ("PG&E")
under a 30-year  power  sales  agreement,  which SFEC  executed  in April  1994.
However,  a ruling by the Federal  Energy  Regulatory  Commission  ("FERC")  has
questioned  the  validity  of  the  California  Biennial  Resource  Plan  Update
("BRPU"),  pursuant to which SFEC was awarded its contract. The Company believes
that its contract with PG&E is valid,  but the Company is currently  involved in
litigation  with PG&E over the  validity of the  contract.  The Company does not
believe that the ultimate resolution of this matter will have a material adverse
effect on the Company.  Substantial  risks to the successful  completion of this
project  exist,  including  those  relating  to the  contract  litigation,  FERC
decision,  siting,  financing,  construction and permitting. No assurance can be
given that this project will be completed.

                  A project subsidiary of the Company, AES Ib Valley Corporation
("AES Ib Valley"), has been developing a 420 megawatt coal-fired facility in the
State of Orissa,  India.  Under the terms of an executed power sales  agreement,
the Orissa  State  Electricity  Board  ("OSEB")  agreed to  purchase at least 85
percent  of the  electrical  capacity  of the  facility  pursuant  to a  30-year
contract.  Certain of OSEB's  obligations  are  guaranteed by the  Government of
Orissa ("GOO"). In addition, the Government of India ("GOI") agreed to guarantee
a






portion of GOO's  obligations.  In July 1995, a newly elected  state  government
initiated a review of the terms and  conditions  of AES Ib  Valley's  agreements
with  OSEB  and  GOO.  This  review  has led  OSEB  and GOO to seek  significant
modifications to the terms of the power sales agreement. In light of this review
AES has been  unable to reach  financial  closing on this  project  and has been
forced to terminate  certain financing and contractual  commitments  relating to
the project. AES Ib Valley is currently in negotiation with GOO and OSEB and may
agree  to  changes,   including   those   relating  to  the  plant's   technical
configuration,   capital  cost,  size  and  the  price  paid  for   electricity.
Notwithstanding  the  Company's  willingness  to  discuss  modifications  to the
project, the Company believes that its current agreements with GOO, OSEB and GOI
are valid, and if agreements  cannot be restructured on terms acceptable to AES,
the Company  intends to pursue its rights  with  respect to  enforcement  of the
existing contracts. No assurance can be given that either (i) the terms of a new
contract will be agreed to or (ii) if AES pursues its legal claims, that it will
be able to compel specific performance or recover significant damages.

                  In August  1996,  a  subsidiary  of the  Company  won a bid to
develop,  own and operate a 288 MW  simple-cycle  gas turbine  power  station in
Townsville,  Queensland,  Australia. The plant will burn liquefied petroleum gas
and will sell electricity to the Queensland  Transmission and Supply Corporation
under a 10-year power  purchase  agreement.  This project is subject to numerous
risks, including those relating to governmental approvals, permitting, financing
and  construction  of the facility.  No assurance can be given that this project
will be completed successfully.

                  AES  has  dedicated   significant   resources  to  pursue  the
development and acquisition of additional projects located in the United States,
Europe, Pakistan,  India, Southeast Asia, Central and South America, Africa, the
Middle East and the countries  comprising  the former Soviet Union.  Most of the
Company's  current  development  and  acquisition  activities  are in respect of
projects and plants  outside the United States.  Acquisitions  of existing power
facilities  or companies  could be  accomplished  by the payment of cash,  by an
exchange of project  ownership  interests  or by the  issuance of the  Company's
securities. The Company expects that its involvement in connection with any such
acquisitions  will be consistent with its overall strategy.  In particular,  the
Company  would  generally  seek  projects of a relatively  large size that would
likely be operated by the Company, have long-term power sales contracts,  and be
financed,  to the  maximum  extent  possible,  with  debt  on a  basis  that  is
substantially non-recourse to AES and its other projects. Based on the Company's
experience, it is likely that no more than a few of these projects or





existing  plants  will be  developed  or  acquired.  As of  December  31,  1996,
capitalized costs for projects under development were approximately $53 million.


REGULATORY MATTERS

                  Electricity  markets in the United States may be considered to
be more regulated than those in some other  countries in which AES is operating,
or is seeking to operate,  such as those in  Argentina,  the United  Kingdom and
Australia.  U.S.  laws and  regulations  still  govern to some extent  wholesale
electricity  transactions,  the  type  of fuel  utilized,  the  type  of  energy
produced,   and  power  plant  ownership.   State  regulatory  commissions  have
jurisdiction over retail electricity transactions.  U.S. power projects also are
subject  to laws and  regulations  controlling  emissions  and other  substances
produced  by a plant  and the  siting  of  plants.  These  laws and  regulations
generally require that a wide variety of permits and other approvals be obtained
before the  construction or operation of a power plant  commences,  and that the
facility  operate in compliance  with these permits  thereafter.  FERC must also
approve rates charged by certain power  marketers such as those of the Company's
subsidiary, AES Power.

                  In the United States,  so-called Qualifying Facilities ("QFs")
are relieved of compliance with extensive  federal,  state and local regulations
by the  provisions  of the Public  Utility  Regulatory  Policies Act, as amended
("PURPA").  Each of AES's current domestic plants is a QF. Loss of QF status, if
not  prevented,  would  subject  these  plants  to more  extensive  regulations.
Furthermore,  loss of QF status  would  permit the utility  customer to alter or
terminate the power sales  contract for the Deepwater  plant and, in the case of
the AES Beaver Valley,  AES Thames and AES Shady Point plants,  would permit the
utility customer to pay the lesser of the price under the respective power sales
contract or the rates approved by FERC. The Company believes,  however,  that it
will  usually  be able to react  in a manner  that  would  avoid  the loss of QF
status.

                  State public utility  commissions  ("PUCs")  regulate both the
retail rates and financial performance of electric utilities.  Since a wholesale
power sales contract is generally  reflected in a utility's retail rates,  power
sales  contracts from QFs are indirectly  under the regulatory  purview of PUCs.
PUCs often will  pre-approve  contracts with prices that do not exceed so-called
"avoided  costs"  because  such  contracts  often have been  acquired  through a
competitive or market-based process.  Recognizing the competitive nature of most
acquisition  processes,  most  PUCs  will  permit  utilities  to "pass  through"
expenses associated with an independent power contract to the utility's retail






customers,  although  no  assurance  can be given that a PUC will not attempt to
deny the "pass  through" of these expenses in the future.  The Company  believes
that any such  attempt by a PUC would,  among other  things,  be  pre-empted  by
federal law.
                  AES  must  obtain   exemptions  from,  or  become  subject  to
regulation by, the Securities and Exchange  Commission  under the Public Utility
Holding Company Act ("PUHCA") in regard to both its domestic and foreign utility
company holdings. There are a number of exemptions from PUHCA that are available
for both domestic and foreign utility  company owners,  including those for QFs,
Exempt Wholesale Generators and Foreign Utility Companies. AES has obtained, and
believes that it will be able to obtain and maintain in the future,  appropriate
PUHCA exemptions for its utility acquisitions.


U.S. Environmental Regulations

                  The  construction  and operation of power projects are subject
to extensive  environmental and land use regulation.  In the United States those
regulations  applicable to AES primarily involve the discharge of effluents into
the water and emissions into the air and the use of water,  but can also include
wetlands preservation,  endangered species, waste disposal and noise regulation.
These  laws and  regulations  often  require a lengthy  and  complex  process of
obtaining  licenses,  permits  and  approvals  from  federal,  state  and  local
agencies.  If such laws and regulations are changed and AES's facilities are not
"grandfathered"  (that is, made exempt by the fact that the facility pre-existed
the law) or are otherwise not excluded,  extensive  modifications to a project's
technologies  and  facilities  could  be  required.  If  environmental  laws  or
regulations  were to change in the future,  there can be no  assurance  that AES
would be able to recover all or any  increased  costs from its customers or that
its business and  financial  condition  would not be  materially  and  adversely
affected.  In addition,  the Company may be required to make significant capital
or other  expenditures in connection with such changes in environmental  laws or
regulations.   Although  the  Company  is  not  aware  of  non-compliance   with
environmental  laws which would have a material  adverse effect on the Company's
business   or   financial   condition,   at  times  the   Company  has  been  in
non-compliance,  although no such  instance  has resulted in  revocation  of any
permit or license. While AES expects that environmental and land use regulations
in the United  States  will  continue to become more  stringent  over time,  the
Company is not aware of any currently  planned  changes in law that would result
in a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position.







                  Clean  Air  Act.  The  original  Clean  Air  Act of  1970  set
guidelines for emissions standards for major pollutants (e.g., SO2 and NOx) from
newly-built  sources.  In late 1990,  Congress passed a set of amendments to the
Clean Air Act (the "1990  Amendments").  All of AES's domestic  operating plants
perform at levels  better than  federal  emission  standards  mandated  for such
plants  under the Clean Air Act (as  amended).  The 1990  Amendments  attempt to
reduce acid rain  precursor  emissions  (SO2 and NOX) from  existing  sources --
particularly   large,  older  power  plants  that  were  exempted  from  certain
regulations  under the original  Clean Air Act.  Because  AES's  facilities  are
relatively  new  cogeneration  units  with low air  emissions  that  qualify  as
"existing  sources" under the 1990  Amendments,  they have been  "grandfathered"
from certain  acid rain  compliance  provisions  of the 1990  Amendments.  Other
provisions  of the Clean Air Act  related to the  reduction  of ozone  precursor
emissions (VOC and NOx) have triggered "reasonably available control technology"
("RACT") requirements by various states to reduce such emissions.

                  The hazardous air pollutant  provisions of the 1990 Amendments
presently  exclude electric steam  generating  facilities such as AES's domestic
plants; however, the 1990 Amendments directed that the Environmental  Protection
Agency  ("EPA" or the  "Agency")  prepare  a study on  hazardous  air  pollutant
("HAP")  emissions  from power  plants.  In the fall of 1996,  EPA  released  an
interim  report on HAP emissions  from power plants that  tentatively  concluded
that the risk of contracting  cancer from exposure to HAPs (except mercury) from
most  plants  was very low (less than one in 1  million).  EPA is  developing  a
separate study on mercury  emissions from power plants.  The draft mercury study
report is currently being reviewed by the federal Scientific  Advisory Board and
it is not certain when a final report will be  released.  A final  comprehensive
HAP report with  recommendations  is expected to be issued after EPA's review of
mercury  emissions  from power  plants is  complete.  If it is  determined  that
mercury from power plants  should be  regulated,  the use of "maximum  available
control  technology"   ("MACT")  for  mercury  (which  is  now  not  subject  to
regulation) could be required.


                  In  December  1996,  EPA also  released  proposals  to tighten
ambient air quality standards for ozone and small particulate  matter (so-called
PM 2.5).  If approved,  these new standards  will likely  increase the number of
nonattainment regions for ozone and particulates.  These proposals are scheduled
to be  finalized  in the  summer of 1997.  If new ozone and  particulate  matter
nonattainment areas are created, AES's plants may be faced with further emission
reduction  requirements  that could  necessitate the  installation of additional
control technology.






                  Further,   the  Ozone  Transport  Assessment  Group  ("OTAG"),
composed of state and local air regulatory  officials  from the 37  eastern-most
states, is considering additional NOx emission reduction requirements that would
go beyond  current  federal  standards.  In January 1997, EPA issued a notice of
intent to require regional reductions in ozone precursors.  EPA expects to issue
its call for revisions to state  implementation  plans ("SIPs") in the spring of
1997.  EPA's "SIP call" may implement some of the OTAG  recommendations  calling
for reductions in NOx emissions.  If more stringent NOx standards are adopted by
EPA and/or  certain  states,  AES could be  required to install  additional  NOx
emission  control  technologies at some of its plants,  and/or obtain offsets or
allocations from other emitters of these substances.

                  The  Company  does  not  believe  that  any of  the  potential
additional  requirements  discussed above, if implemented,  will have a material
adverse effect on its results of operations and consolidated financial position.

                  Hazardous  Waste  Regulation.  Based on a 1988 study,  EPA has
decided not to regulate most coal combustion ash as a hazardous waste;  however,
EPA  reserved  making a decision  with  respect to coal ash from  fluidized  bed
combustion  (the burning of coal in the presence of  limestone),  which is still
being   evaluated  by  the  Agency.   AES,  along  with  other  CFB  owners  and
manufacturers,  is currently participating in a study to evaluate whether or not
CFB  ash  should  be  classified  as  hazardous.  EPA  is  required  to  make  a
determination on whether to regulate CFB ash by April 1, 1998. If EPA decides to
regulate fluidized bed coal ash as a hazardous or special waste, AES could incur
additional  ash  disposal  costs to dispose of ash from its plants that  utilize
fluidized bed boilers.


FOREIGN ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

                  AES now has ownership interests in operating power plants in a
variety of countries outside the United States (China, Argentina, Brazil, United
Kingdom,  Hungary and  Kazakstan).  Each of these  countries and the  localities
therein have separate  laws and  regulations  governing the siting,  permitting,
ownership  and power sales from AES's  plants.  These laws and  regulations  are
often  quite  different  than  those in effect in the United  States--and  AES's
non-U.S.  businesses  have been in substantial  compliance  with these different
laws and regulations. In addition, projects funded by the World Bank are subject
to World Bank  environmental  standards,  which may be more stringent than local
country  standards but are typically not as strict as U.S.  standards.  Whenever
possible, AES attempts to use advanced environmental cleanup technologies







(such as CFB coal  technology  or advanced gas  turbines) in its non-U.S.  power
generation projects, in order to minimize environmental impacts.

                  Based on current trends,  AES expects that  environmental  and
land use  regulations  affecting its plants located outside the U.S. will likely
become more  stringent  over time.  This  appears to be due in part to a greater
participation   by  local   citizenry  in  the  monitoring  and  enforcement  of
environmental  laws, better enforcement of applicable  environmental laws by the
regulatory  agencies,  and  the  adoption  of more  sophisticated  environmental
requirements.  If foreign  environmental and land use regulations were to change
in the future, the Company may be required to make significant  capital or other
expenditures  in order to comply.  There can be no  assurance  that AES would be
able to  recover  all or any  increased  costs  from its  customers  or that its
business,  financial  condition or results of operations would not be materially
and adversely  affected by future changes in foreign  environmental and land use
regulations.


PROPOSED LEGISLATION

                  In the United  States,  some states (for example,  California,
Illinois,   Michigan,   Massachusetts  and  Pennsylvania)  have  passed  or  are
considering  new  legislation  that  permits  utility  customers to choose their
electricity  supplier in a competitive  electricity  market  (so-called  "retail
access" or "customer choice" laws). While such "customer choice" plans differ in
details, they usually share some important elements: (1) they allow customers to
choose their electricity  suppliers by a certain date (the dates in the existing
or proposed legislation vary between 1998 and 2003); (2) they allow utilities to
recover  so-called   "stranded   assets"--the   remaining  costs  of  uneconomic
generating or regulatory  assets; and (3) they reaffirm the validity of existing
QF contracts, and make provisions to assure payment over the contract life.

                  In order to  guarantee  payment  of  utilities'  costs and the
costs of QF  contracts,  some states have used or are proposing to use financial
methods to  "securitize"  these  payments.  The  "securitization"  process might
involve  the  following   steps:   first,   the  financial   obligations  to  be
"securitized"  would  be  legally  affirmed  through  legislation.   This  legal
obligation  then is used to borrow  money in public debt  markets to pay off the
obligation.  The legal  obligation  allows the  borrower to obtain a good credit
rating and therefore a lower interest  rate. In some cases,  the benefits of the
lower interest rate are passed on to retail electric  customers  (perhaps in the
form  of a rate  decrease).  "Securitization"  of QF  contract  obligations,  if
applied to AES contracts in the future,  would significantly  reduce the risk to
AES that its  power  sales  contracts  would  not be  honored  due to  potential
financial difficulties of the utility purchaser.






                  In addition  to state  restructuring  legislation,  members of
Congress have proposed new federal  legislation to encourage customer choice and
recovery of stranded  assets.  Some argue that federal  legislation is needed to
avoid the  "patchwork  quilt"  effect of each state  acting  separately  to pass
restructuring legislation; others argue that each state should decide whether to
allow retail  choice.  In early 1997 several bills were (and others are expected
to be) submitted to Congress on electricity restructuring. While it is uncertain
whether or when federal legislation dealing with electricity restructuring might
be passed, it is the opinion of the Company that such legislation would not have
a materially adverse effect on the Company's U.S. business.

                  In   addition  to  the   federal   restructuring   legislation
proposals, a number of bills have been proposed by members of Congress to repeal
all  or  portions  of  PURPA  and/or   PUHCA--as   separate   legislation  if  a
comprehensive  restructuring  bill fails to pass. The Company  believes that the
repeal of PURPA and/or PUHCA is unlikely (and inappropriate) unless it is a part
of a comprehensive restructuring bill.

                  In  anticipation  of  restructuring  legislation,   many  U.S.
utilities  are  seeking  ways to lower  their  costs in  order  to  become  more
competitive. These include the costs that utilities are required to pay under QF
contracts,  which the utilities  may view as excessive  when compared to current
market prices. Many utilities are therefore seeking ways to lower these contract
prices by renegotiating the contracts, or in some cases by litigation. While the
Company is generally open to  renegotiation of existing  contracts,  it believes
that the aforementioned electricity market restructuring legislation will likely
reduce  both  the  pressure  to  renegotiate  and the  need  for  such  contract
renegotiations.


EMPLOYEES

                  At  December  31,  1996,  AES  and its  subsidiaries  employed
approximately  5,700  people,  approximately  5,500  of  whom  are  involved  in
operations or construction.  Approximately 50 people are covered by a collective
bargaining  agreement at the AES Beaver Valley plant. The total number of people
employed  in  facilities  which  AES  operates  or has  an  equity  interest  is
approximately 13,000.

         (d)      Financial  Information  About Foreign and Domestic  Operations
                  and Export Sales

                  See the information  contained  under the caption  "Geographic
Segments" in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the




Registrant's  Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 12, 1997, which information
is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 1A.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

                  The following is certain  information  concerning  the present
executive officers of the Registrant.

                  Roger W.  Sant,  65 years old,  co-founded  the  Company  with
Dennis  Bakke in 1981.  He has been  Chairman of the Board and a director of the
Registrant  since  its  inception,  and he held the  office  of Chief  Executive
Officer  through  December  31,  1993.  He currently is Chairman of the Board of
Directors of AES Chigen,  an affiliate of the Registrant,  The Summit Foundation
and The World  Wildlife  Fund U.S.,  and serves on the Board of Directors of The
World   Resources   Institute,   World  Wide  Fund  for   Nature  and   Marriott
International,  Inc. He was Assistant  Administrator for Energy Conservation and
the  Environment  of the Federal Energy Agency ("FEA") from 1974 to 1976 and the
Director of the Energy  Productivity  Center,  an energy  research  organization
affiliated with The Mellon Institute at Carnegie-Mellon University, from 1977 to
1981.

                  Dennis W. Bakke, 51 years old,  co-founded the Registrant with
Roger Sant in 1981 and has been a director of the Registrant  since 1986. He has
been President of the Registrant  since 1987 and Chief  Executive  Officer since
January 1, 1994. He currently is a director of AES Chigen. From 1987 to 1993, he
served as Chief  Operating  Officer  of the  Registrant;  from 1982 to 1986,  he
served as Executive Vice President of the  Registrant;  and from 1985 to 1986 he
also served as  Treasurer of the  Registrant.  He served with Mr. Sant as Deputy
Assistant  Administrator  of the FEA from 1974 to 1976 and as Deputy Director of
the  Energy  Productivity  Center  from 1978 to 1981.  He is a trustee of Geneva
College,  Rivendell School and a member of the Board of Directors of MacroSonics
Corporation.

                  Kenneth  R.  Woodcock,  53 years  old,  has been  Senior  Vice
President for business  development of the Registrant  since 1987.  From 1984 to
1987, he served as a Vice President for business development.

                  Thomas  A.  Tribone,  44  years  old,  has  been  Senior  Vice
President  of  the  Registrant  since  1990,  and  now  heads  an  AES  division
responsible for power  marketing,  project  development,  construction and plant
operations  in South and  Central  America.  From 1987 to 1990 he served as Vice
President  for  project  development  and from 1985 to 1987 he served as project
director  of the AES Shady Point  plant.  He  currently  is as a director of AES
Chigen.





                  Mark S.  Fitzpatrick,  46  years  old,  has  served  as a Vice
President of the Registrant since 1987, and became Managing  Director of Applied
Energy  Services  Electric  Limited for the United  Kingdom  and Western  Europe
operations in 1990.  From 1984 to 1987,  he served as a project  director of the
AES Beaver Valley and AES Thames projects.

                  David G.  McMillen,  58 years old, was named Vice President of
the Company in December 1991. He was named  President of AES Shady Point in 1995
and is currently plant manager of the AES Shady Point Plant. He was President of
AES Thames from 1989 to 1995.  From 1985 to 1988,  he served as plant manager of
the AES Beaver  Valley plant and from 1986 to 1988 he served as President of AES
Beaver Valley.

                  Dr. Roger F. Naill,  49 years old, has been Vice President for
planning since 1981. Prior to joining the Registrant,  Dr. Naill was Director of
the Office of Analytical Services at the U.S. Department of Energy.

                  Barry J.  Sharp,  37 years old,  has been Vice  President  and
Chief  Financial  Officer  since  1987.  He  also  served  as  Secretary  of the
Registrant  until  February  1996.  From 1986 to 1987,  he served as Director of
Finance and Administration. Mr. Sharp is a CPA.

                  J. Stuart Ryan, 38 years old, was appointed  Vice President of
the Registrant  effective January 1, 1994, and heads an AES division responsible
for project  development,  construction  and plant operations in Asia (excluding
China),  California and Hawaii.  He served as general  manager of a group within
AES from 1988 to 1993.

                  Paul T.  Hanrahan,  39 years old, was appointed Vice President
of the Registrant effective January 1, 1994. He currently is President and Chief
Executive  Officer of AES Chigen,  where he served as Executive Vice  President,
Chief Operating Officer and Secretary from December 1993 until February 1995. He
was General  Manager of AES  Transpower,  Inc., a subsidiary of the  Registrant,
from 1990 to 1993.

                  John Ruggirello, 46 years old, was appointed Vice President of
the Registrant effective January 1997, and heads an AES division responsible for
project  development,   construction  and  plant  operations  in  North  America
(excluding Oklahoma, Hawaii and parts of California).  He served as President of
AES Beaver Valley from 1990 to 1996.





ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

                  The  Registrant  leases  its  principal  office in  Arlington,
Virginia.  The Arlington lease expires in April 1999, and the Registrant has two
renewal options  thereafter for five years each.  Subsidiaries of the Registrant
also lease office space in Richmond,  England;  San Francisco,  California;  San
Juan,  Puerto  Rico;  Hong  Kong;  Beijing,  China;  Singapore;   Buenos  Aires,
Argentina;  New Delhi, India; Lahore,  Pakistan;  Brisbane,  Australia;  Taipei,
Taiwan; Bangkok,  Thailand; Rio de Janeiro,  Brazil; and Sao Paulo, Brazil, none
of which leases or leased premises is material.

                  The  following  table shows the material  properties  owned or
leased by the Registrant,  its subsidiaries,  partnerships or affiliated plants.
Except as noted, all of these properties are subject to mortgages or other liens
or  encumbrances  granted to the lenders  providing  financing  for the plant or
project.
 

- ----------
1    Owmership by an owner trust for the benefit of bondholders; a subsidiary of
     AES is now the owner of all outstanding bonds.





- ----------
2    Not subject to mortgages, liens or encumbrances in favor of any lenders.










- ----------
2    Not subject to mortgages, liens or encumbrances in favor of any lenders.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

                  In November 1996, an action was filed against AES in the Court
of Chancery of the State of Delaware in and for New Castle  County,  by a holder
of 750 shares of AES Chigen Class A Common Stock,  individually and on behalf of
a  purported  class of public  shareholders  of the  approximately  8.2  million
outstanding  shares of AES Chigen Class A Common Stock.  AES Chigen is not named
in the suit.  An amended  complaint was filed by the plaintiff on March 7, 1997.
The amended  complaint  seeks  preliminarily  and permanently to enjoin AES from
acquiring the outstanding shares of AES Chigen which it does not already own. In
addition, the amended complaint seeks unspecified damages,  including attorneys'
fees and costs. In the original  complaint,  plaintiff's  allegations state that
AES, as the controlling shareholder of AES Chigen, breached its fiduciary duties
to treat the  plaintiff  class with  entire  fairness in  connection  with AES's
execution of an agreement with AES Chigen to acquire the  outstanding AES Chigen
Class A Common  Stock at an  allegedly  grossly  inadequate  price.  Plaintiff's
amended complaint supplements the prior complaint and asserts claims that, among
others things, AES breached its duty





of candor to the  plaintiff  class.  On March 13, 1997,  counsel for the parties
reached an  agreement  in  principle  to resolve the  lawsuit,  subject to court
approval and the satisfaction of certain other conditions.

                  In  February  1993,  an action was filed in the 10th  Judicial
District  Court,  Galveston  County,  Texas  against the Company,  over 25 other
corporations  (including  major  oil  refineries  and  chemical  companies)  and
utilities,   a  utility  district,   four  Texas  cities,   McGinnes  Industrial
Maintenance  Corporation,   Roland  McGinnes  and  Lawrence  McGinnes,  claiming
personal injuries,  property, and punitive damages of $20 billion,  arising from
alleged releases of hazardous and toxic substances to air, soil and water at the
McGinnes  waste  disposal  site  located in  Galveston  County.  This matter was
consolidated  with two other related cases in December  1993. The complaint sets
forth numerous causes of action,  including fraudulent  concealment,  negligence
and strict  liability,  including,  among  other  things,  allegations  that the
defendants sent hazardous,  toxic and noxious chemicals and other waste products
to the McGinnes site for  disposal.  In March 1995,  the Company  entered into a
settlement agreement with certain plaintiffs, pursuant to which the Company paid
seven  thousand  dollars in return for  withdrawal  of their claims  against the
Company.  In October 1995 an amended complaint was filed in which several of the
original causes of action have been dropped.  The claims for negligence,  strict
liability and fraudulent  concealment are still  included.  A number of original
defendants  have  also been  dismissed  from the  case.  Based on the  Company's
investigation  of the case to date,  the  Company  believes  it has  meritorious
defenses  to each and every  cause of action  stated in the  complaint  and this
action is being  vigorously  defended.  The Company believes that the outcome of
this  matter  will  not  have a  material  adverse  effect  on its  consolidated
financial statements.


ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

                  Not applicable.





PART II


ITEM 5.       MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S  COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
              MATTERS

         (a)      Market Information


PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCK

                  The common stock of the Company is currently traded on the New
York Stock Exchange  Composite  Transaction  reporting system (the "NYSE") under
the symbol "AES". All stock prices from January 1, 1995 to and including October
15, 1996 were quoted on the Nasdaq National Market System  ("Nasdaq")  under the
symbol "AESC".  The following  table sets forth the high and low sale prices for
the common stock as reported by Nasdaq or the NYSE for the periods indicated.


         (b)      Holders

                  On  March  3,  1997,   there   were  731  record   holders  of
Registrant's Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share.

         (c)      Dividends

                  Under the terms of a corporate  revolving  loan and letters of
credit  facility of $425 million  entered into with a commercial bank syndicate,
the Company is currently prohibited from paying cash dividends. In addition, the
Registrant is precluded from paying cash dividends on its Common Stock under the
terms of a guaranty to the utility  customer in  connection  with the AES Thames
project in the event certain net worth and liquidity tests of the Registrant are
not met.  The  Registrant  has met these  tests at all times  since  making  the
guaranty.





The ability of the  Registrant's  project  subsidiaries  to declare and pay cash
dividends to the  Registrant  is subject to certain  limitations  in the project
loan  and  other  documents  entered  into by such  project  subsidiaries.  Such
limitations  permit the payment of cash  dividends  out of current cash flow for
quarterly, semiannual or annual periods only at the end of such periods and only
after  payment of principal and interest on project loans due at the end of such
periods,  and in certain cases after providing for debt service reserves.  As of
December 31, 1996,  approximately  $63 million was available  under project loan
documents for distribution by subsidiaries to the Registrant.






ITEM 6.      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


ITEM 7.      MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL  CONDITION  AND
             RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

                  See the section entitled "Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition  and Results of  Operations"  contained  in the  Registrant's  Current
Report on Form 8-K dated March 12,  1997,  which  discussion  and  analysis  are
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 8.      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                  See the information  contained in the  consolidated  financial
statements  contained in the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March
12, 1997, which information is incorporated herein by reference.





ITEM 9.      CHANGES IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON ACCOUNTING AND
             FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

                  Not applicable.


PART III


ITEM 10.      DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

                  See  the   information   with  respect  to  the  ages  of  the
Registrant's  directors  in the  table on page 5 and the  information  contained
under the caption "Election of Directors" on pages 2 through 4 inclusive, of the
Proxy  Statement for the Annual Meeting of  Stockholders of the Registrant to be
held on April 15, 1997, which  information is incorporated  herein by reference.
See also the  information  with respect to executive  officers of the Registrant
under Item 1A of Part I hereof,  which  information  is  incorporated  herein by
reference.


ITEM 11.      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

                  See the information contained under the captions "Compensation
of Executive  Officers" on pages 11 through 13 inclusive  and  "Compensation  of
Directors"  on  page  6, of the  Proxy  Statement  for  the  Annual  Meeting  of
Stockholders of the Registrant to be held on April 15, 1997,  which  information
is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12.      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         (a)      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners

                  See the  information  contained  under the  caption  "Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners,  Directors,  and Executive  Officers" on
page 5 of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the




Registrant  to be held on April 15,  1997,  which  information  is  incorporated
herein by reference.

         (b)      Security Ownership of Management

                  See the  information  contained  under the  caption  "Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners,  Directors,  and Executive  Officers" on
page 5 of the Proxy  Statement  for the Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders  of the
Registrant  to be held on April 15,  1997,  which  information  is  incorporated
herein by reference.

         (c)      Changes in Control

                  Not applicable.


ITEM 13.      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

                  None.


PART IV


ITEM 14.      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
              FORM 8-K

         (a)   Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules and Exhibits.

                  (1)      Financial Statements (all financial statements listed
below are of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries)

                  -- Report of Independent  Auditors is  incorporated  herein by
reference to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 12, 1997.

                  --  Consolidated  Balance Sheets at December 31, 1995 and 1996
are incorporated herein by reference to the Registrant's  Current Report on Form
8-K dated March 12, 1997.

                  --  Consolidated  Statements  of  Operations  -- For the Years
Ended December 31, 1994, 1995 and 1996 are  incorporated  herein by reference to
the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 12, 1997.

                  --  Consolidated  Statements  of Cash  Flows -- For the  Years
Ended December 31, 1994, 1995 and 1996 are  incorporated  herein by reference to
the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 12, 1997.

                  -- Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements -- For the Years
Ended December 31, 1994, 1995 and 1996 are  incorporated  herein by reference to
the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 12, 1997.





                  (2)      Financial Statement Schedules

                  --  See  Index  to  Financial   Statement   Schedules  of  the
Registrant  and  subsidiaries  at page S-1 hereof,  which Index is  incorporated
herein by reference.

                  (3)      Exhibits

                  3.1 Amended and Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation of The
AES  Corporation  is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit  3.1 to the
Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).

                  3.2  By-Laws  of  The  AES   Corporation,   as  amended,   are
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Registration Statement on
Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-22513).

                  4.1(a)  Indenture  dated as of June 15,  1993  between The AES
Corporation and The Bank of New York, including the form of 9 3/4 percent Senior
Subordinated Note Due 2000, is incorporated herein by reference to Amendment No.
1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 33-62910).

                  4.1(b) Form of Indenture  dated as of July 1, 1996 between The
AES  Corporation  and The First  National Bank of Chicago,  as Trustee,  for the
issuance  from  time  to  time of  debentures,  notes  and  other  evidences  of
indebtedness  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to  the
Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-01286).

                  4.1(c) First  Supplemental  Indenture dated as of July 1, 1996
(Supplemental to Indenture dated as of July 1, 1996) between The AES Corporation
and The First National Bank of Chicago, as Trustee, including the form of 10 1/4
percent Senior  Subordinated Notes Due 2006, is incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 4.1(c) to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Registrant dated July
1, 1996.

                  10.1  Agreement for Purchased  Power,  dated January 10, 1983,
between AES and Houston  Lighting & Power Company,  as amended,  is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit  10.1 to the  Registration  Statement on Form S-1
(Registration No. 33-40483).

                  10.2  Electric  Energy  Purchase  Agreement,  dated August 15,
1985, between BV Partners and West Penn Power Company is incorporated  herein by
reference   to  Exhibit  10.2  to  the   Registration   Statement  on  Form  S-1
(Registration No. 33-40483).





                  10.3      Electricity Purchase Agreement, dated as of December
6, 1985, between The Connecticut Light and Power Company and AES Thames, Inc. is
incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registration  Statement
on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).

                  10.4      Amended Power Sales Agreement,  dated as of December
10, 1985, between Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company and AES Shady Point, Inc. is
incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Registration  Statement
on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).

                  10.5      Power  Purchase  Agreement,  dated  March 25,  1988,
between AES Barbers Point, Inc. and Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc., as amended,
is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.6  to the  Registration
Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).

                  10.6      Amended and Restated  Coal Supply  Agreement,  dated
April 13, 1988,  between BV Partners and United  Pittsburgh Coal Sales,  Inc. is
incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Registration  Statement
on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).

                  10.7 Coal and  Limestone  Supply and Ash  Disposal  Agreement,
dated as of September  15,  1988,  between  LeFlore  County Coal Company and AES
Shady Point,  Inc., as amended,  is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit
10.9 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No.
33-40483).

                  10.8      Coal  and   Limestone   Supply   and  Ash   Disposal
Agreement,  dated  August 15, 1988,  between P&K Co.,  Ltd. and AES Shady Point,
Inc. is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Amendment No. 3 to
the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).

                  10.9      Coal,   Limestone,   Waste   Disposal  and  Railroad
Transportation   Agreement,   dated  as  of  September  18,  1986,  between  CSX
Transportation, Inc. and AES Thames, Inc., as amended, is incorporated herein by
reference  to  Exhibit  10.11  to  the   Registration   Statement  on  Form  S-1
(Registration No. 33-40483).

                  10.10 Amended and Restated Fuel Supply Agreement,  dated as of
January  12,  1990,  among AES Barbers  Point,  Inc.,  PT Kaltim  Prima Coal and
Sprague Energy Corp., as amended, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10.12 to Amendment No. 3 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration
No. 33-40483).





                  10.11     Inducement,  Assignment and Stock Pledge  Agreement,
dated as of December 27, 1983,  between  Applied Energy  Services,  Inc. and The
Connecticut Bank and Trust Company,  National Association is incorporated herein
by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.16  to the  Registration  Statement  on Form  S-1
(Registration No. 33-40483).

                  10.12     Amended and Restated Guarantee, dated as of November
30, 1990, by Applied Energy Services, Inc. and AES Connecticut Management,  Inc.
to The Connecticut  Light and Power Company is incorporated  herein by reference
to Exhibit 10.17 to the  Registration  Statement on Form S-1  (Registration  No.
33-40483).

                  10.13     Guarantee  Agreement,  dated March 25, 1988, between
Applied Energy Services Inc. and Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc., as amended, is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the Registration  Statement
on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).

                  10.14  Application  for  Letter  of Credit  and  Reimbursement
Agreement,  dated as of June 23,  1987,  among AES Shady Point,  Inc.,  Security
Pacific National Bank, Union Bank, Credit Suisse,  New York Branch,  The Bank of
Nova Scotia and Standard  Chartered Bank is incorporated  herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.20 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No.
33-40483).

                  10.15  Amended  and  Restated  Credit  Agreement,  dated as of
November 30, 1990,  among AES Montville,  Inc.,  certain banks named therein and
Citibank,  N.A., as agent, is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.21
to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).

                  10.16  Ground  Lease,  dated as of August  15,  1985,  between
Atlantic  Richfield Company and BV Partners is incorporated  herein by reference
to Exhibit 10.22 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No.
33-40483).

                  10.17 Ground  Lease,  dated as of November  25, 1986,  between
Stone Connecticut  Paperboard  Corporation and AES Thames,  Inc., as amended, is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the Registration  Statement
on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).

                  10.18     Sublease,  dated  as of  August  20,  1990,  between
Hawaii  Pacific  Industries,  Inc. and AES Barbers Point,  Inc., as amended,  is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the Registration  Statement
on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).





                  10.19 The AES  Corporation  Profit Sharing and Stock Ownership
Plan is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit 4c1 to the  Registration
Statement on Form S-8  (Registration  No.  33-49262).* 

                  10.20 The AES Corporation Incentive Stock Option Plan of 1991,
as amended,  is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of the  Registrant  for the fiscal year ended  December  31,
1995.*

                  10.21     Applied Energy Services, Inc. Incentive Stock Option
Plan of 1982 is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.31  to the
Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).*

                  10.22     Deferred  Compensation Plan for Executive  Officers,
as amended,  is  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to Amendment
No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).*

                  10.23     Deferred   Compensation   Plan  for  Directors,   as
amended, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to Amendment No. 1
to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).*

                  10.24     Assumption Agreement,  dated as of November 30, 1990
among AES Montville,  Inc., AES Thames,  Inc. and Citibank,  N.A., as agent,  is
incorporated  herein by  reference to Exhibit  10.35 to  Amendment  No. 1 to the
Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).

                  10.25 Credit and  Reimbursement  Agreement,  dated as of March
20,  1990,  among AES Barbers  Point,  Inc.,  certain  banks  named  therein and
Security Pacific National Bank, as agent, is incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit  10.36 to  Amendment  No. 1 to the  Registration  Statement  on Form S-1
(Registration No. 33-40483).

                  10.26     Transmission Agreement, dated as of August 28, 1985,
between  Duquesne  Light  Company and AES Beaver  Valley,  Inc. is  incorporated
herein by reference  to Exhibit  10.42 to  Amendment  No. 1 to the  Registration
Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).

                  10.27  The AES  Corporation  Stock  Option  Plan  for  Outside
Directors is  incorporated  herein by  reference to Exhibit  10.43 to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of Registrant for the Fiscal Year ended December 31, 1991.*

                  10.28     Subordinated Debt Agreement between AES Shady Point,
Inc. and The AES Corporation dated as of December 6, 1991 is incorporated






herein by reference to Exhibit 10.44 to the  Registration  Statement on Form S-1
(Registration No. 33-46011).

                  10.29     First   Amendment   to  the   Amended   Power  Sales
Agreement,  dated as of December  19,  1985,  between  Oklahoma Gas and Electric
Company and AES Shady Point, Inc. is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10.45 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-46011).

                  10.30 Amendment No. 1 dated as of July 16, 1987 to Application
for Letter of Credit and  Reimbursement  Agreement,  dated as of June 23,  1987,
among AES Shady Point, Inc.,  Security Pacific National Bank, Union Bank, Credit
Suisse,  New York Branch, The Bank of Nova Scotia and Standard Chartered Bank is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.47 to the Registration  Statement
on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-46011).

                  10.31  Amendment  No.  2  dated  as of  December  18,  1987 to
Application for Letter of Credit and Reimbursement  Agreement,  dated as of June
23, 1987,  among AES Shady Point,  Inc.,  Security  Pacific National Bank, Union
Bank,  Credit  Suisse,  New York  Branch,  The Bank of Nova Scotia and  Standard
Chartered  Bank is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit  10.48 to the
Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-46011).

                  10.32  Amendment No. 3 dated as of June 3, 1988 to Application
for Letter of Credit and  Reimbursement  Agreement,  dated as of June 23,  1987,
among AES Shady Point, Inc.,  Security Pacific National Bank, Union Bank, Credit
Suisse,  New York Branch, The Bank of Nova Scotia and Standard Chartered Bank is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.49 to the Registration  Statement
on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-46011).

                  10.33  Amendment No. 4 dated as of July 1, 1991 to Application
for Letter of Credit and  Reimbursement  Agreement,  dated as of June 23,  1987,
among AES Shady Point, Inc.,  Security Pacific National Bank, Union Bank, Credit
Suisse,  New York Branch, The Bank of Nova Scotia and Standard Chartered Bank is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.50 to the Registration  Statement
on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-46011).

                  10.34  Amendment  No.  5  dated  as of  December  6,  1991  to
Application for Letter of Credit and Reimbursement  Agreement,  dated as of June
23, 1987,  among AES Shady Point,  Inc.,  Security  Pacific National Bank, Union
Bank,  Credit  Suisse,  New York  Branch,  The Bank of Nova Scotia and  Standard
Chartered  Bank is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit  10.51 to the
Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-46011).





                  10.35  Agreement for the sale and purchase of the whole of the
issued share  capital of Kilroot Power  Limited,  Belfast West Power Limited and
Cloghan Point  (Holdings)  Limited dated March 6, 1992 between The Department of
Economic  Development,  Nigen Limited, The AES Corporation and Powerfin S.A., is
incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit  10.54 to the Annual Report on Form
10-K of the Registrant for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992.

                  10.36  Variation  Agreement dated May 31, 1992 between Cloghan
Limited,  The  Department  of  Economic  Development,  Nigen  Limited,  The  AES
Corporation  and Powerfin S.A., is  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit
10.55 to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K of the  Registrant  for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1992.

                  10.37 Lease of Belfast West Power  Station dated April 1, 1992
between  Northern  Ireland  Electricity  plc and Belfast West Power Limited,  is
incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit  10.56 to the Annual Report on Form
10-K of the Registrant for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992.

                  10.38  Lease of  Kilroot  Power  Station  dated  April 1, 1992
between  Northern  Ireland   Electricity  plc  and  Kilroot  Power  Limited,  is
incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit  10.57 to the Annual Report on Form
10-K of the Registrant for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992.

                  10.39  Facility  Agreement  dated May 31, 1992  between  Nigen
Limited,  Barclays Bank PLC and National Westminster Bank Plc as Lead Arrangers,
ABN AMRO Bank N.V.,  Banque Indosuez,  Barclays Bank PLC, The Industrial Bank of
Japan,  Limited and National  Westminster  Bank Plc as arrangers,  Generale Bank
S.A./NV as sponsor  relationship bank,  Barclays Bank PLC as agent,  Ulster Bank
Limited and the financial  institutions named in the first schedule thereto,  is
incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit  10.58 to the Annual Report on Form
10-K of the Registrant for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992.

                  10.40 Coal and Oil Supply  Contract for Kilroot  Power Station
dated May 31, 1992 between  Powerfin  S.A.,  Tractebel  S.A.  and Kilroot  Power
Limited,  is  incorporated  herein by reference  to Exhibit  10.59 to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of the  Registrant  for the fiscal year ended  December  31,
1992.

                  10.41 Coal  Supply  Contract  for Belfast  West Power  Station
dated May 31, 1992 between Powerfin S.A.,  Tractebel S.A. and Belfast West Power
Limited,  is  incorporated  herein by reference  to Exhibit  10.60 to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of the  Registrant  for the fiscal year ended  December  31,
1992.





                  10.42 Agreement in Respect of Kilroot Power Station Generating
Unit GT1 dated April 1, 1992 between Kilroot Power Limited and Northern  Ireland
Electricity  plc., is  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.61 to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of the  Registrant for the fiscal year ended December
31, 1992.

                  10.43 Schedule identifying a substantially identical agreement
to the Agreement  constituting Exhibit 10.42 hereto entered into between Kilroot
Power Limited and Northern Ireland  Electricity plc., is incorporated  herein by
reference  to  Exhibit  10.61(a)  to the  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  of the
Registrant for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992.

                  10.44 Agreement in Respect of Kilroot Power Station Generating
Unit No. 1 dated  April 1, 1992  between  Kilroot  Power  Limited  and  Northern
Ireland  Electricity plc., is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.62
to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K of the  Registrant  for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1992.

                  10.45 Schedule identifying a substantially identical agreement
to the Agreement  constituting Exhibit 10.44 hereto entered into between Kilroot
Power Limited and Northern Ireland  Electricity plc., is incorporated  herein by
reference  to  Exhibit  10.62(a)  to the  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  of the
Registrant for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992.

                  10.46  Agreement  in  Respect of  Belfast  West Power  Station
Generating Unit No. 1 dated April 1, 1992 between Belfast West Power Limited and
Northern  Ireland  Electricity  plc.,  is  incorporated  herein by  reference to
Exhibit 10.63 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Registrant for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1992.

                  10.47 Schedule identifying  substantially identical agreements
to the Agreement  constituting Exhibit 10.46 hereto entered into between Belfast
West Power Limited and Northern Ireland Electricity plc., is incorporated herein
by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.63(a)  to the  Annual  Report on Form 10-K of the
Registrant for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992.

                  10.48  $425,000,000  Credit Agreement dated as of May 20, 1996
among The AES Corporation,  the Banks listed therein,  Barclays Bank PLC, Morgan
Guaranty  Trust  Company  of New York and Union  Bank of  California,  N.A.,  as
Fronting  Banks,  and Morgan  Guaranty  Trust  Company of New York,  as Agent is
incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit  10.61 to the  Company's  Current
Report on Form 8-K dated June 10, 1996.





                  10.49  Shareholders'  Agreement dated as of May 27, 1996 among
AES Coral Reef, Inc., Companhia  Siderurgica  Nacional,  EDF International S.A.,
Houston  Industries  Energy  -  Cayman,  Inc.  (the  "Shareholders")  and  BNDES
Participacoes  S.A. is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.67 to the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 10, 1996.

                  10.50 Addendum to  Shareholders  Agreement dated as of May 30,
1996  among  the  Shareholders  and  InvestLight  - Clube  de  Investimento  dos
Empregados da Light is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.68 to the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 10, 1996.

                  10.51  The AES  Corporation  Supplemental  Retirement  Plan is
incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit  10.64 to the Annual Report on Form
10-K of the Registrant for the year ended December 31, 1994.*

                  10.52  Sponsors'  Support  Agreement  dated as of May 16, 1995
among AES  Transpower,  Inc. and The AES  Corporation  as Sponsors;  AES Lal Pir
Limited as the Borrower;  the International  Finance Corporation and The Bank of
Tokyo, Ltd. as Facility Agents,  is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit
10.30 to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K of the  Registrant  for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1995.

                  10.53 Sponsors'  Support Agreement dated as of January 5, 1996
among The AES  Corporation  as Sponsor;  AES  Pakistan  Holdings and AES Pak Gen
Holdings,  Inc. as Sponsors and  Shareholders;  AES Pak Gen (Private) Company as
Borrower;  the International  Finance Corporation and The Bank of Tokyo, Ltd. as
Facility  Agents,  is  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of the  Registrant for the fiscal year ended December
31, 1995.

                  10.54 Asset Purchase  Agreement  dated as of February 17, 1997
by and between NGC Corporation and The AES Corporation.





                  11  Statement  of   computation   of  earnings  per  share  is
incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 11 to the Company's  Current Report
on Form 8-K dated March 12, 1997.

                  12  Statement  of  computation  of ratio of  earnings to fixed
charges is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to  Exhibit 12 to the  Company's
Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 12, 1997.

                  21     Significant subsidiaries of The AES Corporation.

                  23     Consent of Independent Auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP.

                  24       Powers of Attorney.

                  27       Financial Data Schedule  (Article 5) is  incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 27 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K
dated March 12, 1997.

                  99       Current  Report on Form 8-K of the  Registrant  dated
March 12, 1997.

         *    indicates that exhibit is a compensatory plan or arrangement.

                  (b)      Reports on Form 8-K

                  Registrant  filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K dated November
13,  1996 in respect of  Registrant's  press  release  dated  November  12, 1996
announcing  that  Registrant  had entered  into an  agreement to acquire all the
outstanding shares of the Class A Common Stock of AES Chigen.







                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  the Company has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  March 28, 1997

                               THE AES CORPORATION
                                                              (Company)

                                                    By: /s/ Dennis W. Bakke
                                                       -------------------------
                                                        Name: Dennis W. Bakke
                                                        Title: President 

         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the Company and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.








                                                          
THE AES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- ------------------------------------

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

INDEPENDENT

S- 2     Independent Auditors' Report

S- 3     Schedule I - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

S- 8     Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


                  Schedules  other than those  listed  above are  omitted as the
information is either not applicable, not required, or has been furnished in the
financial  statements  or notes  thereto  incorporated  by  reference  in Item 8
hereof.





                                      S-1





INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Stockholders of The AES Corporation:

We have audited the consolidated  financial statements of The AES Corporation as
of  December  31,  1996 and 1995,  and for each of the three years in the period
ended  December 31, 1996,  and have issued our report  thereon dated January 30,
1997,  except  for Note 13,  as to which the date is  February  18,  1997;  such
consolidated financial statements and report are included in your Current Report
on Form 8-K dated March 12, 1997 and are incorporated  herein by reference.  Our
audits also included the consolidated  financial  statement schedules of The AES
Corporation,  listed  in the  index  to  the  consolidated  financial  statement
schedules on page S-1. These consolidated  financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion  based  on our  audits.  In our  opinion,  such  consolidated  financial
statement  schedules,  when  considered  in relation  to the basic  consolidated
financial  statements taken as a whole,  present fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.


DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP


Washington, D.C.
January 30, 1997





                                      S-2








                             See notes to Schedule I

                                      S-3










                             See notes to Schedule I

                                      S-4










                             See notes to Schedule I

                                      S-5










                             See notes to Schedule I

                                      S-6




THE AES CORPORATION                                                   SCHEDULE I
- ----------------------------------------------------------- --------------------


NOTES TO SCHEDULE I

1.  APPLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES

                  Accounting  for   Subsidiaries  --  The  AES  Corporation  has
accounted  for the  earnings  of its  subsidiaries  on the equity  method in the
unconsolidated condensed financial information.

                  Revenues -- Construction  management fees earned by the parent
from its consolidated subsidiaries are eliminated.

                  Income Taxes -- Effective January 1, 1995, The AES Corporation
and other  affiliated  companies (the "group")  changed its method of allocating
income taxes and no longer  allocates tax benefits  available from other members
of the group when calculating its tax balances. This more accurately depicts the
tax assets and  liabilities of The AES  Corporation  and its  subsidiaries  on a
"stand alone" basis. The Company joins in filing a consolidated  U.S. income tax
return with the group.  This allows the Company to combine its separate  Company
income or loss with the income or loss of the group. The  unconsolidated  income
tax expense or benefit  computed for the Company in accordance with Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes,  reflects
the tax assets and  liabilities  of the  Company on a stand  alone basis and the
effect of filing a  consolidated  U.S.  income  tax return  with the group.  The
effect of this change on the  unconsolidated  balance  sheet was to decrease the
deferred tax liability at the parent company level by approximately  $81 million
and decrease the accounts and notes  receivable  from  subsidiaries  by the same
amount at January 1, 1995.  The  resulting  deferred  tax asset  recorded on the
unconsolidated  balance sheet  represents tax payments due from affiliates under
tax sharing agreements.

                  Accounts  and  Notes  Receivable  from  Subsidiaries  --  Such
amounts  have  been  shown in  current  or  long-term  assets  based on terms in
agreements with  subsidiaries,  but payment is dependent upon meeting conditions
precedent in the subsidiary loan  agreements.  The  non-current  portion of this
balance includes a loan to AES Tiszai of $99 million.


2.  SCHEDULE OF MATURITIES

                  Long-term   debt  of  $125.0  million  at  December  31,  1995
consisted  of senior  subordinated  of $75.0  payable in 2000 and $50.0  million
convertible subordinated debentures which were converted into 1.9 million shares
of common  stock of the Company at a conversion  price of $26.16 per share.  The
long-term  debt of $450 million at December 31, 1996 consisted of $75 million of
senior  subordinated  notes due 2000, $250 million of senior  subordinated notes
due 2006, and the corporate revolving bank loan of $125 million.




                                      S-7









                                      S-8

Exhibit Index


