
10-K
FORM 10-K




================================================================================


                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE

                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-19281

                               THE AES CORPORATION
            -------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (703) 522-1315
           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:


                            ------------------------
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No _

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,
to the best of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

                            -------------------------
         The  aggregate  market  value  of  Registrant's  voting  stock  held by
non-affiliates  of  Registrant,  at February 1, 1998,  was  $5,415,482,847.  The
number of shares  outstanding of Registrant's  Common Stock, par value $0.01 per
share, at February 1, 1998, was 175,065,659.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

         Proxy   Statement  for  the  Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders  of  the
Registrant  to be held  on  April  21,  1998.  Certain  information  therein  is
incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.

================================================================================

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

         (a)  General development of business.

OVERVIEW

         The AES Corporation and its subsidiaries  and affiliates  (collectively
"AES" or the  "Company")  are  helping to meet the  world's  needs by  providing
electricity to customers in many countries in a socially responsible way.

         Until  recently,   the  Company's  sales  of  electricity  were  almost
exclusively made to customers (generally electric utilities or regional electric
companies) on a wholesale  basis for further resale to end users.  This is often
referred to as the electricity  "generating" business. Sales by these generating
companies are usually made under long-term  contracts from power plants owned by
the Company's subsidiaries and affiliates.  The Company's ownership portfolio of
power facilities includes new plants constructed for such purposes ("greenfield"
plants) as well as existing  power plants  acquired  through  competitively  bid
privatization initiatives and negotiated acquisitions.

         AES now operates and owns (entirely or in part) a diverse  portfolio of
electric  power  plants  (including  those  within the  integrated  distribution
companies  discussed  below) with a total capacity of 17,636  megawatts (MW). Of
that total,  43% are fueled by coal or petroleum  coke, 6% are fueled by natural
gas, 34% are hydroelectric  facilities, 6 % are fueled by oil, and the remaining
11% are capable of using  multiple  fossil  fuels.  Of the total MW,  1,069 (six
plants) are  located in the United  States,  1,588  (four  plants) are in China,
1,281 (three pants) are in Hungary,  5,856  (thirty-nine  plants) are in Brazil,
5,384 (seven  plants) are in  Kazakhstan  (including  4,000 MW  attributable  to
Ekibastuz which currently has a capacity factor of approximately  20%), 210 (one
plant) is in the Dominican Republic,  110 (one plant) is in Canada, and 695 (two
plants) are in Pakistan.

         AES is also currently in the process of adding  approximately  5,331 MW
to its operating portfolio by constructing  several new plants.  These include a
180 MW coal-fired  plant in the United States,  four coal-fired  plants in China
totaling 2,314 MW, a 230 MW natural  gas-fired plant in the UK, a 405 MW natural
gas-fired plant in the Netherlands,  a 288 MW kerosene-fired plant in Australia,
an 830 MW natural gas-fired plant in Argentina, a 484 MW natural gas-fired plant
in Mexico and a 600 MW natural gas-fired plant in Brazil.

         As a result,  AES's total MW of 84 power plants in operation  and under
construction is approximately 22,967 and net equity ownership (total MW adjusted
for the Company's ownership percentage) represents approximately 12,247 MW.

         Beginning in 1996 and  continuing  through 1997,  AES has also acquired
interests  (both  majority  and  minority) in  companies  that sell  electricity
directly to commercial, industrial, governmental and residential customers. This
is often referred to as the  electricity  "distribution"  business.  Electricity
sales by AES's  distribution  businesses  are  generally  made  pursuant  to the
provisions of long-term  electricity sale concessions granted by the appropriate
governmental   authority  as  part  of  the  original   privatization   of  each
distribution  company.  In  certain  cases,  these  distribution  companies  are
"integrated,"  in that they also own  electric  power  plants for the purpose of
generating a portion of the  electricity  they sell. Each  distribution  company
also purchases,  in varying proportions,  electricity from third party wholesale
suppliers, including in certain cases, other subsidiaries of the Company.

         AES has majority ownership in two distribution  companies in Argentina,
one in Brazil and one in El Salvador (purchased in 1998), and less than majority
ownership  in  two  additional  distribution  companies  in  Brazil.  These  six
companies serve a total of approximately 8 million  customers with gigawatt hour
sales  exceeding  63,000.  On a net equity  basis,  AES's  ownership  represents
approximately 2 million customers and gigawatt hour sales exceeding 15,000.


         AES has been successful in growing its business and serving  additional
customers  by   participating   in  competitive   bidding  under   privatization
initiatives  and  has  been  particularly   interested  in  acquiring   existing
businesses or assets in electricity  markets that are promoting  competition and
eliminating rate of return regulation. In such privatizations, sellers generally
seek to complete  competitive  solicitations in less than one year, much quicker
than the time  periods  associated  with  greenfield  development,  and  usually
require  payment  in full on  transfer.  AES  believes  that its  experience  in
competitive  markets and its  worldwide  integrated  group  structure,  with its
significant  geographic  coverage and  presence,  enable it to react quickly and
creatively in such situations.

         Because of this relatively  quick process or other  considerations,  it
may not  always be  possible  to  arrange  "project  financing"  (the  Company's
historically  preferred financing method,  which is discussed further under Item
7,  "Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of Operations"
herein)  for  specific  potential  acquisitions.  Additionally,  as in the past,
certain  acquisitions or the commencement of construction in several  greenfield
developments  would  potentially  require  the  Company  to  obtain  substantial
additional financing including both debt and equity.

OUTLOOK

         All over the world, electricity markets continue to be restructured and
there is a trend away from government-owned and government-regulated electricity
systems toward deregulated,  competitive market structures.  Many countries have
rewritten  their laws and  regulations  to allow foreign  investment and private
ownership of electricity  generation,  transmission or  distribution  companies.
Some  countries  (for  example  the UK,  Brazil  and some of those of the former
Soviet Union,  among others) have or are in the process of  "privatizing"  their
electricity systems by selling all or part of such systems to private investors.
This global trend of electricity market  restructuring  provides significant new
business opportunities for companies like AES.

         Several  states in the United States are also  beginning to follow this
trend.  In  particular,  some regulated  public  utilities have begun to sell or
auction their  generation  capacity.  Substantially  all of the transmission and
distribution  services in the United States continue,  however,  to be regulated
under a state and Federal regulatory  framework.  In addition,  many states have
passed or are considering new legislation that would permit utility customers to
choose their electricity supplier in a competitive electricity market (so-called
"retail access" or "customer  choice" laws).  While each state's plan differs in
details, there are certain consistent elements,  including allowing customers to
choose their electricity  suppliers by a certain date (the dates in the existing
or proposed  legislation  vary  between  1998 and 2003),  allowing  utilities to
recover  "stranded  assets" (the  remaining  costs of  uneconomic  generating or
regulatory  assets) and a  reaffirmation  of the validity of contracts  like the
Company's U.S. contracts.

         AES's  investments  and  involvement in the development of new projects
and the  acquisition  of existing  power  plants and  distribution  companies in
locations  outside the United States is increasing.  The financing,  development
and operation of such businesses may entail significant  political and financial
uncertainties and other structuring issues (including  uncertainties  associated
with the  legal  environments,  with  first-time  privatization  efforts  in the
countries involved,  currency exchange rate fluctuations,  currency repatriation
restrictions,  currency inconvertibility,  political instability,  civil unrest,
and in severe cases possible  expropriation).  Although AES attempts to minimize
these risks,  these issues have the  potential  to cause  substantial  delays or
material  impairment  to the value of the project  being  developed  or business
being operated.

         The Company,  a corporation  organized under the laws of Delaware,  was
formed in 1981. AES has its principal offices located at 1001 North 19th Street,
Suite  2000,  Arlington,  Virginia  22209,  and its  telephone  number  is (703)
522-1315.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS

         The Company  wishes to caution  readers  that the  following  important
factors,  among others,  indicate areas affecting the Company which involve risk
and uncertainty. These factors should be


considered when reviewing the Company's business,  and are relied upon by AES in
issuing any forward-looking  statements.  Such factors could affect AES's actual
results and cause such results to differ  materially from those expressed in any
forward-looking  statements  made by, or on behalf of, AES. Some or all of these
factors may apply to the Company's  businesses as currently  maintained or to be
maintained.

      o  Changes in company-wide  operation and availability  (including wholly-
         and partially-owned  facilities)  compared to the Company's  historical
         performance;   changes  in  the  Company's  historical  operating  cost
         structure,  including  but not limited to those costs  associated  with
         fuel,  operations,  supplies,  raw materials,  maintenance  and repair,
         people, transmission of electricity and insurance.

      o  In certain  non-U.S.  countries  where the  Company is or is seeking to
         conduct  business:  unexpected  changes in electricity  tariff rates or
         tariff adjustments for increased expenses;  the ability or inability of
         AES to obtain,  or hedge against,  foreign  currency;  foreign exchange
         rates and  fluctuations  in those rates;  the  economic,  political and
         military conditions affecting property damage, interruption of business
         and  expropriation  risks;  changes  in  trade,   monetary  and  fiscal
         policies,  laws  and  regulations;  other  activities  of  governments,
         agencies and similar  organizations;  social and  economic  conditions;
         local inflation and monetary fluctuations;  import and other charges or
         taxes; conditions or restrictions impairing repatriation of earnings or
         other cash flow;  nationalizations  and unstable  governments and legal
         systems, and intergovernmental disputes.

      o  Changes in the amount of and rate of growth in, AES's selling,  general
         and administrative  expenses; the impact of AES's ongoing evaluation of
         its  development  costs,  business  strategies  and  asset  valuations,
         including,  but not limited to, the effect of a failure to successfully
         complete certain development projects.

      o  Legislation  intended  to  promote  competition  in U.S.  and  non-U.S.
         electricity   markets,   such  as  those  currently  receiving  serious
         consideration  in the United  States  Congress to repeal (i) the Public
         Utility  Regulatory  Policies Act of 1978,  as amended,  or at least to
         repeal  the  obligation  of  utilities  to  purchase  electricity  from
         qualifying facilities,  and (ii) the Public Utility Holding Company Act
         of 1935, as amended;  changes in regulatory  rule-making by the Federal
         Energy  Regulatory  Commission or other regulatory  bodies;  changes in
         energy taxes; or new legislative or regulatory  initiatives in non-U.S.
         countries;  changes in national, state or local environmental,  safety,
         tax and other laws and  regulations  applicable  to the  Company or its
         operations.

      o  The  prolonged  failure by any  customer  of the  Company or any of its
         subsidiaries to fulfill its contractual payment  obligations  presently
         or in the future, either because such customer is financially unable to
         fulfill such contractual obligation or otherwise refuses to do so.

      o  Successful and timely completion of (i) the respective construction for
         each  of  the  Company's   electric   generating   projects  now  under
         construction  and  those  projects  yet-to-begin  construction  or (ii)
         capital improvements to its existing facilities.

      o  Changes in inflation,  fuel,  electricity and other commodity prices in
         U.S. and non-U.S. markets;  conditions in financial markets,  including
         fluctuations  in interest rates and the  availability  of capital;  and
         changes in the economic  and  electricity  consumption  growth rates in
         U.S. and non-U.S. countries.

      o  Unusual  weather  conditions  and the  specific  needs of each plant to
         perform unanticipated facility maintenance or outages (including annual
         or multi-year).

      o  The costs  and other  effects  of legal  and  administrative  cases and
         proceedings,  settlements and  investigations,  claims,  and changes in
         those items,  developments  or assertions by or against AES; the effect
         of new,  or changes  in,  accounting  policies  and  practices  and the
         application of such policies and practices.

      o  Changes or increases in taxes on property, plant, equipment, emissions,
         gross  receipts,  income or other aspects of the Company's  business or
         operations.

         (b) Financial information about industry segments.

         The  Company  operates in only one  industry  segment:  electric  power
supply.

         (c) Narrative description of business.


         The Company  attempts to participate  in  competitive  power markets as
they develop  either by  greenfield  development  or by acquiring  and operating
existing facilities or systems in these markets.  The Company generally operates
electric generating facilities that utilize natural gas, coal, oil, hydro power,
or combinations  thereof. In addition,  the Company  participates in electricity
distribution and retail supply businesses in certain limited instances, and will
continue to review  opportunities in such markets in the future.  Other elements
of the Company's strategy include:

      o  Supplying energy to customers at the lowest cost possible,  taking into
         account factors such as reliability and environmental performance;

      o  Constructing  or  acquiring   projects  of  a  relatively   large  size
         (generally larger than 100 megawatts); 

      o  When  available,  entering  into power sales  contracts  with  electric
         utilities or other customers with significant credit strength; and

      o  Where possible, participating in distribution and retail supply markets
         that grant concessions with long-term pricing arrangements.

         The Company also strives for  operating  excellence as a key element of
its strategy,  which it believes it  accomplishes  by minimizing  organizational
layers and maximizing  company-wide  participation in  decision-making.  AES has
attempted to create an  operating  environment  that results in safe,  clean and
reliable electricity generation and distribution.  Because of this emphasis, the
Company  prefers  to operate  all  facilities  which it  develops  or  acquires;
however,  there can be no assurance that the Company will have operating control
of all of its facilities.

         The Company's  historical and significant  focus has been and continues
to be the wholesale generation and supply of electricity.  More recently AES has
acquired  four  electricity  distribution  businesses  and has  invested  in two
integrated utilities in Central and South America. Asset composition,  operating
margins and a variety of other  business  characteristics  differ  significantly
from one type of business to another. References to power sales agreements, fuel
supply  agreements  and plants  generally  mean those related to the  generation
business.  Concession (or service) contracts, supply contracts, and networks are
generally associated with the distribution businesses. Integrated utilities have
characteristics  of both  businesses.  In  addition,  integrated  utilities  may
generate more or less of their own electricity.  For example,  Light generates a
comparatively low percentage of its own electricity  (approximately  16 percent)
while CEMIG generates almost all of its own electricity needs.

         Most  of  AES's  electric  generation  plants  sell  electricity  under
long-term power sales contracts.  The Company attempts,  whenever  possible,  to
structure the revenue  provisions of its plants' power sales contracts such that
changes in the revenue components of these contracts  correspond,  as closely as
possible,  to fluctuations  in the cost components of the plant  (primarily fuel
costs).  A plant's  revenues from a power sales contract usually consists of two
components,  energy payments and capacity payments. Energy payments are based on
a plant's net electrical output,  with payment rates usually indexed to the fuel
costs of the  contracting  utility or to  general  inflation  indices.  Capacity
payments  are based on either a plant's  net  electrical  output  (the amount of
electricity  delivered on a kilowatt-hour  basis) or its available capacity (the
ratio of kilowatt hours the plant delivers to the total kilowatt hours requested
by the  customer).  Capacity  payment  rates vary over the term of a power sales
contract according to various schedules.

         To the extent  possible,  the Company attempts to structure an electric
generation  plant's  fuel  supply  contract  so that fuel costs are indexed in a
manner similar to the energy  payments a project  receives under the power sales
contract.   In  this  way,   project   revenues  are  partially  hedged  against
fluctuations in fuel costs.

         As with  fuel  prices,  AES has  hedged a  substantial  portion  of its
projects  against the risk of  fluctuations  in interest  rates. In each project
with fixed  capacity  payments,  AES has attempted to hedge all or a significant
portion of its risk of interest rate  fluctuations  by arranging for  fixed-rate
financing or  variable-rate  financing with interest rate swaps or other hedging
mechanisms.  Those  projects with  fluctuating  capacity  payments are hedged by
arranging for floating rate financing.


         The  Company  attempts to finance  each  domestic  and foreign  project
primarily under loan  agreements and related  documents  which,  except as noted
below,  require the loans to be repaid  solely from the  project's  revenues and
provide that the repayment of the loans (and interest thereon) is secured solely
by the capital stock,  physical assets,  contracts and cash flow of that project
subsidiary  or  affiliate.  This type of  financing  is usually  referred  to as
"project  financing."  The lenders  under  these  project  financing  structures
generally  cannot look to AES or its other projects for  repayment,  unless such
entity  explicitly agrees to undertake  liability.  AES has explicitly agreed to
undertake certain limited obligations and contingent liabilities,  most of which
by their terms will only be effective or will be terminated  upon the occurrence
of future events. These obligations and liabilities take the form of guarantees,
letter of credit  reimbursement  agreements,  and  agreements to pay, in certain
circumstances,  to project lenders or other parties amounts up to the amounts of
distributions  previously made by the applicable subsidiary or affiliate to AES.
To the  extent  AES  becomes  liable  under  guarantees  and  letter  of  credit
reimbursement agreements,  distributions received by AES from other projects are
subject  to  the   possibility  of  being  utilized  by  AES  to  satisfy  these
obligations.  To the  extent  of these  obligations,  the  lenders  to a project
effectively  have  recourse  to AES and to the  distributions  to AES from other
projects. The aggregate contractual liability of AES is, in each case, usually a
small portion of the  aggregate  project  debt,  and thus the project  financing
structures are generally described herein as being "substantially  non-recourse"
to AES and its other projects.

         Year 2000.  The Company is  reviewing  and  assessing  the  anticipated
costs, problems and uncertainties associated with the so-called Year 2000 issues
in accordance with Securities and Exchange  Commission  Staff Legal Bulletin No.
5,  dated  October  8,  1997.  In  connection  therewith,  and with its  ongoing
evaluation of  technological  developments  and information  systems' needs, the
Company's  facilities  have begun  implementation  of a Year 2000 review whereby
each facility is in the process of identifying systems requiring modification or
conversion.  Within the context of risks  identified  in the SEC Bulletin  noted
above and the ongoing review the Company is conducting,  the Registrant believes
that Year 2000 issues will not materially  affect its facilities,  services,  or
competitive  conditions,  and that the costs of addressing  the Year 2000 issues
will not materially  impact future  consolidated  operating  results,  financial
condition or cash flows.

PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES

         A core part of AES's  corporate  culture  is a  commitment  to  "shared
principles."  These  principles  describe  how AES  people  endeavor  to behave,
recognizing  that they don't always live up to these  standards.  The principles
are:

         Integrity  - AES strives to act with  integrity,  or  "wholeness."  The
         Company seeks to honor its commitments. The goal is that the things AES
         people say and do in all parts of the Company  should fit together with
         truth and consistency.

         Fairness - AES wants to treat  fairly its people,  its  customers,  its
         suppliers,  its stockholders,  governments and the communities in which
         it operates.  Defining what is fair is often difficult, but the Company
         believes it is helpful to routinely  question the relative  fairness of
         alternative courses of action.

         Fun - AES desires that people  employed by the Company and those people
         with whom the Company  interacts have fun in their work. AES's goal has
         been to create and  maintain  an  environment  in which each person can
         flourish  in the use of his or her gifts and skills and  thereby  enjoy
         the time spent at AES.

         Social   Responsibility   -  The  Company   believes   that  it  has  a
         responsibility to be involved in projects that provide social benefits,
         such  as  lower  costs  to  customers,  a high  degree  of  safety  and
         reliability, increased employment and a cleaner environment.

         AES  recognizes  that most companies have standards and ethics by which
they operate and that business  decisions  are based,  at least in part, on such
principles. The Company believes that an explicit commitment to a particular set
of standards  is a useful way to  encourage  ownership of those values among its
people.  While the people at AES  acknowledge  that they won't always live up to


these standards, they believe that being held accountable to these shared values
will help them behave more consistently with such principles.

         AES  makes  an  effort  to  support  these   principles  in  ways  that
acknowledge  a  strong   corporate   commitment  and  encourage  people  to  act
accordingly.  For example, AES conducts annual surveys, both company-wide and at
each  location,  designed to measure how well its people are doing in supporting
these  principles  -- through  interactions  within the  Company and with people
outside  the  Company.  These  surveys  are  perhaps  most  useful in  revealing
failures, and helping to deal with those failures. AES's principles are relevant
because they help explain how AES people  approach the Company's  business.  The
Company seeks to adhere to these principles,  not as a means to achieve economic
success but because adherence is a worthwhile goal in and of itself.

         In order  to  create  a fun  working  environment  for its  people  and
implement its strategy of operational excellence,  AES has adopted decentralized
organizational  principles and practices. For example, AES works to minimize the
number of supervisory  layers in its organization.  Most of the Company's plants
operate without shift supervisors.  The project subsidiaries are responsible for
all major facility-specific business functions,  including financing and capital
expenditures.  Criteria for hiring new AES people include a person's willingness
to accept  responsibility and AES's principles as well as a person's  experience
and expertise.  The Company has generally  organized  itself into  multi-skilled
teams to develop  projects,  rather than forming "staff" groups (such as a human
resources   department  or  an  engineering  staff)  to  carry  out  specialized
functions.







FACILITIES

         The  following  tables set forth  relevant  information  regarding  the
Company's  generation  facilities  that are currently in operation by geographic
region or currently under  construction and the distribution  companies in which
AES has an ownership interest.  For a description of risk factors and additional
factors that may apply to the  Company's  businesses,  see also the  information
contained under the caption  "Cautionary  Statements and Risk Factors" in Item 1
above, and Item 7,  "Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results
of Operations" herein.



(1) Plant operations commenced in 1986, but control was acquired in 1995.

(2) Due to poor historical maintenance over the ten years prior to the Company's
    purchase, the facility's capacity factor is approximately 20%.

(3) Total  capacity of CEMIG  includes 125 MW of thermal  generation.  Six hydro
    plants represent approximately 90% of CEMIG's total generation capacity.

(4) Seventy-six and 125 MW of Hefei  Prosperity Lake and Jiaozuo Aluminum Power,
    respectively,  are currently in operation.  The remaining portions are under
    construction.




(1) Dates  for   commencement  of  commercial   operation  of  facilities  under
    construction are projections only and may be subject to change.

(2) Yangcheng Sun City is being constructed over a sixty-month period that began
    in 1997.  The first of the six 350 MW units is  estimated to be completed in
    2000.

(3) Seventy-six and 125 MW of Hefei  Prosperity Lake and Jiaozuo Aluminum Power,
    respectively,  are currently in operation.  The remaining portions are under
    construction.


         The  table  below  sets  forth  information   regarding  the  Company's
distribution facilities.



NORTH AMERICA

         AES currently owns and operates,  through  subsidiaries and affiliates,
seven  generation  facilities  in the  United  States  and  Canada  representing
approximately 1,179 MW.

         Deepwater  is a  143  MW  petroleum  coke-fired  cogeneration  facility
located near Houston,  Texas. The facility sells electricity to Houston Lighting
and Power Company under a power sales contract which expires in 1998. Deepwater,
under a contract which also expires in 1998, produces and delivers process steam
to an ARCO Petroleum  Products  Company  refinery  adjacent to the  cogeneration
facility. Deepwater currently is in negotiations with various parties to provide
for  the  continued  sale of its  electricity  and  steam  generation  upon  the
expiration of the two mentioned contracts.

         Beaver Valley is a 125 MW pulverized  coal-fired  cogeneration facility
located in Monaca,  Pennsylvania.  AES is the  managing  partner and operator of
Beaver Valley.  West Penn Power Company  purchases  electricity  produced by the
plant under a power sales  contract with a remaining  term of  approximately  19
years.  The facility  sells steam to NOVA Chemicals Inc. for use in its chemical
processing  activities  under a  requirements  contract with a remaining term of
approximately four years.

         Placerita is a 120 MW natural  gas-fired,  combined-cycle  cogeneration
facility near Los Angeles,  California.  The plant sells electricity to Southern
California   Edison   Company  under  a  contract  with  a  remaining   term  of
approximately 16 years. Placerita sells steam to Hillside Oil Partners, which is
engaged in oil recovery operations, and ARCO Oil and Gas Company.

         Thames  is a 181  MW  coal-fired,  circulating  fluidized  bed  ("CFB")
cogeneration plant located in Montville,  Connecticut. Power generated by Thames
is sold to Connecticut  Light and Power Company ("CL&P") under a contract with a
remaining  term of  approximately  17 years.  Thames  also sells  steam to Stone
Container  Paperboard  Corporation  for  use in its  recycled  paperboard  plant
located adjacent to the plant.  Moody's  Investor  Service Inc.  ("Moody's") and
Standard & Poor's  Corporation  ("S&P") have recently  downgraded  CL&P's senior
secured  long-term  debt from  Baa3/BBB-  to Ba2/BB,  and S&P has placed CL&P on
watch for possible  downgrade.  As a result of  regulatory  action by the Public
Service  Commission of New  Hampshire,  Moody's and S&P recently  downgraded the
senior unsecured debt of Northeast Utilities, the parent of CL&P, from Ba2/BB to
B1/B+ and S&P has placed Northeast Utilities on watch for possible downgrade.

         Shady Point is a 320 MW coal-fired,  CFB cogeneration  plant in LeFlore
County,  Oklahoma.  The Shady  Point  facility  includes a 240-ton  per day food
grade,  liquid  CO2  plant,  which  utilizes  in its  CO2  production  processes
approximately  65,000  pounds per hour of process  steam  produced by the plant.
Shady Point sells  electricity  to Oklahoma  Gas and  Electric  Company  under a
contract with a remaining term of approximately 10 years.

         Hawaii  is a 180 MW  coal-fired,  CFB  cogeneration  plant  located  in
Kapolei,  Oahu,  Hawaii.  Hawaii sells electricity to Hawaiian Electric Company,
Inc. under a contract with a remaining term of 25 years.  Steam generated by the
plant is sold to Chevron USA Inc. for use in its oil refining operations under a
steam sales agreement with a remaining term of 15 years.



         Kingston is a 110 MW gas-fired,  combined-cycle  cogeneration  facility
located in  Ernestown  Township,  Ontario.  Kingston  is owned by a  partnership
comprised  of AES and two  partners,  each owning 25 percent.  AES  acquired its
interest in  Kingston in June 1997 upon  completion  of its  acquisition  of the
international   assets  of  Destec  Energy,  Inc.  The  plant  began  commercial
operations in February  1997 and is expected to operate as a baseload  facility.
The Company operates the business through an operation and maintenance agreement
entered at the time of its acquisition of its interest in the facility.

LATIN AMERICA

         AES currently owns and operates,  through  subsidiaries and affiliates,
forty-five  operating plants in Latin America  representing  approximately 6,906
MW. In addition,  AES has majority  ownership in two  distribution  companies in
Argentina,  one in Brazil and one in El Salvador  (purchased in 1998),  and less
than majority ownership in two additional integrated  distribution  companies in
Brazil.  These six facilities serve a total of approximately 8 million customers
with gigawatt hour sales exceeding 63,000.

         San  Nicolas is a 650 MW power  plant in San  Nicolas,  Argentina.  San
Nicolas sells a total of 345 MW of electricity  (approximately 53 percent of the
plant's  output  capability)  under  two  power  sales  contracts,  each  with a
remaining  term of three  years.  Under one of the  contracts  that runs through
2001, the three recently privatized  distribution companies of Empresa Social de
Energia  de Buenos  Aires S.A.  ("ESEBA"),  two of which are  controlled  by AES
through its ownership  interest in Empresa  Distribuidora  de Energia Norte S.A.
("EDEN")  and  Empresa  Distribuidora  de Energia Sur S.A.  ("EDES")  (described
below), purchase 285 MW (except during the month of April of each year, when the
amount purchased is 57 MW). Under the other contract, EDELAP, S.A., a privatized
Argentine distribution company, purchases 60 MW of electricity.  The plant sells
additional  electricity, when it is profitable to do so, into the Argentine spot
market.

          Rio  Juramento  is a 112 MW  hydroelectric  station in the province of
Salta, Argentina. The station consists of a 102 MW facility with a large storage
reservoir  capable  of  inter-year  storage,  and a 10 MW  facility  capable  of
inter-seasonal  storage.  Rio  Juramento  has  exclusive  rights to operate  the
facility  under a 30-year  concession  agreement,  and sells  electricity in the
Argentine spot market.

         Hidrotermica  San Juan,  S.A. ("San Juan") is the owner and operator of
two power  generating  facilities  totaling  78 MW in the  province of San Juan,
Argentina.  The facility includes a 45 MW hydroelectric  power plant and a 33 MW
gas combustion power plant.

         Los Mina is an  oil-fired,  simple-cycle  power plant  located in Santo
Domingo,  Dominican  Republic  that AES  acquired  through  its  purchase of the
international  assets of  Destec in June  1997.  The 210 MW plant  operates  two
simple-cycle  combustion  turbine  generators  on land  adjacent to a government
owned  electricity  substation.  Los Mina is the second largest generator on the
island and  supplies  power to the capital city of Santo  Domingo.  The facility
burns fuel oil that is piped to the plant from a nearby barge dock. The facility
began operations in May 1996. Due to recurring  turbine blade failure,  Los Mina
has been out of service and unable to provide  electricity in several  instances
during  the  period  prior to and  after  the date of AES's  acquisition  of the
facility.  Los Mina is reviewing steps with the facility's equipment supplier to
increase the reliability of the plant's output and has begun  processing  claims
to recover costs of the repairs and outages  against the contractor and with its
insurer.  Although  no  assurance  can be given  that  Los Mina  will be able to
collect on any of these  claims,  the Company  believes that the outcome of this
matter will not have a material  adverse  effect on its  consolidated  financial
position, results of operation or cash flows.

DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES IN LATIN AMERICA

         Light Servicos de Electricidade, S.A. ("Light") is a Brazilian electric
power generation, transmission and distribution system serving 28 municipalities
in the  state of Rio de  Janeiro,  Brazil  that is  controlled  by a  consortium
comprised  of  AES,  Electricite  de  France,   Houston  Industries,   Companhia
Siderurgica  Nacional and Banco Nacional de  Desenvolvimento  Economico E Social
(the


"Light Consortium"). In connection with the purchase of the controlling interest
by the Light  Consortium  in 1996,  the  Ministry  of Mines and Energy of Brazil
granted a 30-year  concession  to Light  pursuant  to the terms of a  concession
agreement which obligates  Light to provide  electric  services to all customers
within its concession. Light generates about 16 percent of the total electricity
it  distributes  through  four  hydroelectric   complexes  having  an  aggregate
installed  generating  capacity  of  approximately  788  MW.  Of  the  remaining
electricity  distributed by Light  (approximately  84 percent of the total),  53
percent is purchased from Furnas Centrais  Electricas  S.A., a power  generation
and  transmission  company owned by Eletrobras,  and the remaining 31 percent is
purchased  from  Itaipu  Binacional,  a power  generation  company  owned by the
Republic of Brazil and the Republic of Paraguay  ("Itaipu").  AES has  principal
responsibility  for  all  matters  relating  to  generation  and  purchasing  of
electricity by Light through its participation in the Light Consortium.

         Companhia  Energetica  de  Minas  Gerais  ("CEMIG")  is  an  integrated
electric  utility  serving  the  State of Minas  Gerais  in  Brazil.  Through  a
consortium consisting of AES and two partners (the "CEMIG Consortium"),  AES has
significant  operating influence over CEMIG,  including the right to appoint its
chief operating officer, and otherwise shares control of CEMIG with the State of
Minas Gerais.  As it did with Light,  the Ministry of Mines and Energy of Brazil
granted concessions to CEMIG pursuant to the terms of six concession  agreements
which obligate CEMIG to provide  electric  services to all customers  within its
concession,  and authorizes  CEMIG to charge its customers a tariff for electric
services. CEMIG transmits and distributes electricity, generated or purchased by
it, to substantially all areas in Minas Gerais. In addition to the approximately
5,068 MW of electricity it generates,  CEMIG purchases  approximately 33 percent
of its electricity sales from Itaipu.

         EDEN and  EDES  are two of the  three  privatized  former  distribution
companies  of ESEBA  and are  controlled  by AES  through  the  purchase  of its
ownership  interest in 1997.  EDEN and EDES have 95-year  territorial  exclusive
franchise  concessions and serve approximately 400,000 customers in the northern
and southern  portions of the Argentine  Province of Buenos Aires. EDEN and EDES
source their electric power requirements using both spot market purchases in the
wholesale  electricity market and contract purchases from San Nicolas,  which is
also controlled by AES. The contract, which was signed in May 1993 for a term of
8 years,  provides  for  purchases  of  approximately  2,332  gigawatt  hours of
electricity per year.

         Companhia  Centro-Oeste de Distibuicao de Energia Eletrica ("Sul") is a
distribution  company  recently  privatized  by  Companhia  Estadual  de Energia
Eletrica  ("CEEE").  AES purchased Sul in October 1997.  Prior to  privatization
CEEE was a vertically-integrated electric utility that provided approximately 98
percent of the  electricity  in the  Brazilian  State of Rio Grande do Sul.  Sul
serves the central and western portion of the state. Sul has a 30 year exclusive
concession to distribute electricity in the territory it currently serves. Sul's
location in the State of Rio Grande do Sul borders Argentina which may allow AES
to integrate its Brazilian and Argentine  operations.  Sul, along with the other
two  distribution  companies  formerly  part of CEEE,  will be AES  Uruguaiana's
customers (described below in "Projects under Construction").

         Compania de Luz  Electrica  de Santa Ana  ("CLESA")  is an  electricity
distribution  company  serving the city and  surrounding  areas of Santa Ana, El
Salvador. AES acquired control of CLESA in February 1998, through its payment of
$109 million for 79.78% of the outstanding  shares of CLESA.  Comision Ejecutiva
Hidroelectrica del Rio Lempa ("CEL"), the El Salvador  government-owned utility,
sold CLESA,  along with three other  Salvadoran  distribution  companies,  in an
auction held in January  1998.  Energia  Global  International,  Ltd., a Bermuda
company with activities in Central America,  has the right to purchase up to 20%
of AES's interest in CLESA.  CLESA's service area borders Guatemala and Honduras
to the north, with access to the Pacific Ocean.  CLESA purchases its electricity
in the local spot market and from CEL under an annual contract.

         For a further  description  of the tariff rate  structures,  the tariff
rate adjustment  escalators and the currency  exchange rate adjustments that may
affect the tariff structures in future years for AES's distribution  facilities,
please see the  information  contained  in Item 7,  "Discussion  and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" herein.


ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

         In Asia and the Pacific,  AES currently  operates and owns (entirely or
in part), through subsidiaries and affiliates,  interests in nineteen generation
facilities representing approximately 6,682 MW of generating capacity.

         The Company  founded AES China  Generating  Co. Ltd.  ("AES Chigen") in
December 1993 to develop, acquire, finance,  construct, own and operate electric
power  generation  facilities  in the  People's  Republic of China (the  "PRC").
Initially a public company in its own right, AES now owns all of the outstanding
shares of AES Chigen through the completion of its amalgamation  with AES Chigen
in May 1997 wherein AES issued  approximately  2.4 million  shares of AES Common
Stock,  par  value  $.01  per  share,  in  exchange  for all of the  issued  and
outstanding shares of the publicly held, Class A Common Stock of AES Chigen. The
total purchase price was valued at  approximately  $157 million.  AES Chigen has
developed  nine  power  projects  which  are  currently  in  operation  or under
construction in the PRC.

         Cili Misty  Mountain,  located in Cili  County,  Hunan  Province,  PRC,
consists of three  hydroelectric  generating units amounting to 26 MW, the third
unit of which  commenced  commercial  operation in 1997.  Cili Misty Mountain is
owned by  Xiangci-AES,  a 25-year  joint  venture  formed by Hunan Cili Electric
Power Company and AES Chigen.  Power is purchased by Hunan Cili  Electric  Power
Company.

         Yangchun Sun Spring, located in Yangchun,  Guangdong Province, consists
of one existing 8.6 MW diesel engine  generating  facility which was constructed
prior to the Company's involvement,  and another 6.5 MW diesel engine generating
facility  which  commenced  commercial  operation in April 1996. The facility is
owned by  Yangchun  Fuyang,  a 12.5-year  cooperative  joint  venture  formed by
Yangchun Municipal Power Supply, Shenzhen Futian Gas Turbine Power Co., Ltd. and
a wholly-owned  subsidiary of AES Chigen. Yangchun Municipal Power Supply Bureau
purchases the plant's  electricity and Yangchun  Municipal Power Supply provides
fuel, both in accordance with 12.5-year agreements.

         Wuxi  Tin  Hill is an  oil-fired,  combined  cycle  power  plant  which
consists of a 48 MW gas turbine  generating  facility and a 15 MW heat  recovery
steam turbine  generating  facility located in Xishan  (previously known as Wuxi
County),  Jiangsu  Province,  PRC. The gas turbine  generating  plant  commenced
commercial  operation in March 1996. The heat recovery steam turbine  generating
plant commenced commercial operation in the first quarter of 1997. Wuxi Tin Hill
is owned by Wuxi-AES-CAREC and Wuxi-AES-Zhonghang, two 16-year cooperative joint
ventures  formed  among AES Chigen and China  National  Aero-Engine  Corporation
("CAREC") and Wuxi Power Industry  Company ("Wuxi  Power").  Xishan  Electricity
Management  Office  purchases  the  power and  steam  generated  by the plant in
accordance with a 16-year purchase  contract.  Fuel to the plant is supplied via
two local State-owned oil companies under 16-year contracts.

         Wuhu Grassy Lake is a 250 MW coal-fired  power plant located near Wuhu,
Anhui  Province,  PRC.  It is the  phase  IV  expansion  of an  existing  325 MW
coal-fired  power  station.  Both units of the power  plant  have now  commenced
commercial  operations.  Wuhu  Grassy  Lake is owned by Wuhu  Shaoda,  a 20-year
equity  joint   venture  owned  by  an  AES  Chigen   subsidiary,   China  Power
International  Holdings Limited, Anhui Liyuan Electric Power Development Company
Limited,  and Wuhu  Energy  Development  Company  Limited.  Power  is  purchased
pursuant to a 20-year  operation  and off-take  contract  with Anhui  Provincial
Electric Power Corporation.

         Chengdu Lotus City is a 48 MW natural  gas-fired power plant located in
Chengdu,  Sichuan  Province,  PRC.  Construction of the power plant commenced in
September 1996 and commenced  commercial  operation  during 1997.  Chengdu Lotus
City is owned by Chengdu AES-Kaihua,  a 16-year cooperative joint venture formed
by AES  Chigen,  Huaxi  Electric  Power  Shareholding  Company  Ltd.  ("Huaxi"),
Huachuan  Petroleum  & Natural  Gas  Exploration  ("Huachuan")  and  Development
Company and CAREC.  Huaxi purchases the facility's  generated power and Huachuan
provides fuel, both pursuant to separate 15-year agreements.



         Hefei  Prosperity  Lake is an  oil-fired  combined  cycle  power  plant
consisting of two 38 MW gas turbines  generating  units ("gas turbine unit") and
one 39 MW heat recovery steam turbine generating unit ("steam turbine unit"). It
is located within the boundaries of an existing 325 MW coal fired power plant in
Hefei,  Anhui  Province,  PRC.  Construction  of the power  plant  commenced  in
November 1996. The gas turbine unit commenced  commercial operation in the third
quarter of 1997 and the steam  turbine unit is scheduled to commence  commercial
operation  in the  third  quarter  of 1998.  Hefei  Prosperity  Lake is owned by
Liyuan-AES and Zhongli  Energy,  two 16-year  cooperative  joint ventures formed
among a subsidiary of AES Chigen,  Hefei Municipal  Construction  and Investment
Company and by Anhui Liyuan Electric Power  Development  Company Limited.  Anhui
Provincial Electric Power Corporation purchases power from the plant pursuant to
a 16-year operation and off-take contract.

         Jiaozuo  Aluminum  Power is a 250 MW  coal-fired  power  plant  located
adjacent  to the  Jiaozuo  Aluminum  Mill  ("Jiaozuo  Mill") in  Jiaozuo,  Henan
Province, PRC. Construction of the power plant commenced in the first quarter of
1995. The first unit of the power plant  commenced  commercial  operation in the
third  quarter of 1997.  The second  unit is  expected  to  commence  commercial
operation  in the second  quarter of 1998.  Jiaozuo  Aluminum  Power is owned by
Jiaozuo Wan Fang, a 23-year cooperative joint venture owned 70 percent by an AES
Chigen  wholly-owned  subsidiary  and 30  percent  by  Jiaozuo  Mill.  Power  is
purchased  under  23-year  contracts by Jiaozuo  Mill and by the Henan  Electric
Power  Corporation.   Jiaozuo  Aluminum  Power  purchases  fuel  under  one-year
negotiated contracts from the local area.

         Ekibastuz is a 4,000 MW (design capacity) mine-mouth,  coal-fired power
facility in eastern Kazakhstan.  Due to economic difficulties over the ten years
prior to the  Company's  purchase,  the facility has  experienced a reduction in
performance  and has  operated at a capacity  factor of up to  approximately  20
percent.  In its 1996  acquisition  of the facility,  AES agreed to increase the
capacity to 63 percent over a five-year  period  (contingent on the  purchaser's
performance of its obligations  under the power sales  contract).  For a further
description of Ekibastuz,  see the information contained in the section entitled
"Results  of  Operations"  contained  in Item 7,  "Discussion  and  Analysis  of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" hereof.

         Lal  Pir  and Pak  Gen  are  adjacent  344  and  351 MW,  respectively,
oil-fired facilities in Punjab Province,  Pakistan. Lal Pir commenced commercial
operation  during the fourth  quarter of 1997 and Pak Gen  commenced  commercial
operation in the first quarter of 1998. The Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority  ("WAPDA")  purchases the electrical capacity and electrical output of
the facilities through two separate 30-year power sales agreements. The Pakistan
State Oil Company Limited ("PSO"), the state-owned  petroleum company,  supplies
fuel under 30-year  agreements.  Certain of the  obligations  of WAPDA under the
power  sales  agreements  and  of PSO  under  the  fuel  supply  agreements  are
guaranteed by the Government of Pakistan.

         Tau Power, also known as Altai, is a joint venture that is owned by AES
and  Israel-based  Suntree  Power.  In October  1997,  Tau Power  completed  its
acquisition and takeover of two  hydro-electric  stations and four combined heat
and power  stations  in the  province  of East  Kazakhstan.  The total  electric
capacity of the stations  included in the agreement is 1,384 MW, with additional
thermal  capacity  of over  1,000 MW  electric  equivalent.  The power  stations
included in the agreement signed are: the 332 MW Ust-Kamenogorsk GES, the 702 MW
Shulbinsk GES, the 240 MW Ust-Kamenogorsk  TETS, the 50 MW Leninogorsk TETS, the
50 MW  Sogrinsk  TETS  and  the  10  MW  Semipalatinsk  TETS.  Included  in  the
transaction,  AES obtained  ownership and control of the retail sales department
of the former utility and will assume the existing  power supply  contracts with
the  50  largest  customers  in  East  Kazakhstan,  including  the  distribution
companies.

EUROPE

         AES currently owns and operates,  through  subsidiaries and affiliates,
seven plants in Europe representing approximately 2,869 MW.

         NIGEN  is a joint  venture  between  AES  and a  Belgian  utility  that
consists of two power plants in Northern Ireland:  Kilroot,  a 520 MW dual-fired
(coal and oil) power plant,  and Belfast West, a 240




MW coal-fired power plant. The Kilroot and Belfast West plants have entered into
power sales  contracts,  subject to  cancellation  in 13 years and three  years,
respectively,  with  Northern  Ireland  Electricity,  plc,  a  transmission  and
distribution company.

         Medway Power Limited is a 688 MW combined cycle  gas-fired  power plant
in Southeast  England on the Isle of Grain.  Medway is owned by a joint  venture
among an AES subsidiary and  subsidiaries of Southern  Electric plc ("Southern")
and SEEBOARD plc ("SEEBOARD"). The plant began operations in November 1995. AES,
through a subsidiary,  operates and maintains the plant.  Medway Power sells its
entire  output  through  national  electricity  pool trading  arrangements  (the
"Pool") at prices based on the supply of, and demand for, electricity  available
in the Pool. In addition,  Medway Power has entered into a contract with each of
Southern and SEEBOARD,  under which  Southern and SEEBOARD will pay Medway Power
capacity  payments  based on the  plant's  available  capacity,  and energy cost
payments,  based on the plant's actual sales of  electricity  to the Pool,  that
reflect fuel costs and variable  transmission charges incurred (each a "Contract
for  Differences").  The basis of the  contracts is 660 MW. Sales of  electrical
output in excess of 660 MW are sold into the Pool,  and are not  subject  to the
Contract for Differences.

         Tiszai Eromu Rt. owns and operates three power plants totaling 1,281 MW
of gross  capacity  and a coal mine in  Hungary.  The plants  consist of (i) the
Tisza II  facility,  an 860 MW oil and  natural  gas-fired  facility  that sells
electricity under a contract ending in 2010, (ii) the Tiszapalkonya  facility, a
250 MW coal-fired  facility that sells  electricity  under a contract  ending in
2001,  and (iii) the Borsod  facility,  a 171 MW coal-fired  facility that sells
electricity  under a contract  ending in 2001.  Each plant sells  electricity to
Magyar Villamos Muvek Rt., a Hungarian, state-owned integrated utility.

         Indian  Queens is a 140 MW  oil-fired,  simple  cycle plant  located in
Cornwall County, England. AES acquired Indian Queens through its purchase of the
international  assets of Destec  Energy,  Inc.  in June,  1997.  The plant began
commercial operation in October,  1996. Power generated by Indian Queens is sold
into the national  electricity  pool in the UK.  Indian  Queens,  because of its
design, also sells ancillary services to the National Grid Company, the operator
of the UK's high voltage transmission system.

PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION

         Aixi  Heart  River is a 50 MW  coal-fired  CFB power  plant  located in
Nanchuan,  Sichuan Province,  PRC.  Construction of the power plant commenced in
February  1996,  and is expected to be  completed  in 1998.  Aixi Heart River is
owned by Fuling  Aixi, a 25-year  cooperative  joint  venture  formed by Sichuan
Fuling Banxi Colliery and a wholly owned subsidiary of AES Chigen.  The minority
partner  will provide  fuel to the plant and Sichuan  Fuling Power  Company will
purchase the power generated by the facility,  both pursuant to separate 25-year
agreements.

         The steam  turbine unit of Hefei  Prosperity  Lake is  currently  under
construction and scheduled to commence commercial operation in the third quarter
of 1998.  Likewise,  the second unit of the 250 MW coal-fired  Jiaozou  Aluminum
Power facility remains under construction and is expected to commence commercial
operation  in the second  quarter of 1998.  For a further  description  of these
facilities see the caption entitled "Asia and the Pacific" above.

         Elsta  is  a  405  MW  gas-fired,   combined-cycle  cogeneration  plant
currently  under  construction at the chemical  manufacturing  facilities of Dow
Benelux  N.V.  in the Zeeland  Province of the  Netherlands.  AES  acquired  its
interest in Elsta through the Company's  acquisition of the international assets
of Destec Energy,  Inc. in June,  1997. The remaining  interest in Elsta is held
equally by two Dutch  utilities:  N.V. Delta  Nutsbedrijven  ("Deltan") and N.V.
Provinciale  Noordbrabantse  Energie-Maatschappij  ("PNEM").  Elsta is the first
major  private  power  project in the  Netherlands.  Pursuant to a 20-year power
sales  agreement,  Dow Benelux will purchase between 85 and 125 MW of electrical
capacity.  Dow  Benelux  also  expects  to  purchase  an average of 500 MT/hr of
multi-pressure  process  steam  energy  and will have  dispatch  rights on steam
energy  subject to minimum  and  maximum  purchase  obligations.  The  project's
minority partners,  Deltan and 


PNEM, have agreed to purchase  electrical  capacity from the plant not purchased
by Dow (280-320 MW) for an initial  contract  period of 20 years  following  the
commercial operation date.

         As part of the  Company's  acquisition  of its  interest in Elsta,  AES
assumed  responsibility  under a guaranteed  lump-sum  turn-key contract for the
engineering,  procurement  and  construction  of the  plant.  Due  to  deficient
engineering and construction  performance prior to AES's acquisition,  the plant
was  unable  to meet  its  originally  scheduled  commercial  operation  date of
September 30, 1997. AES now expects that Elsta will achieve commercial operation
in June 1998.  No  assurance  can be given,  however,  that  Elsta  will  attain
commercial  operation  by  that  date.   Substantial  risks  to  the  successful
completion  of  the  plant  continue  to  exist,  including  those  relating  to
undetected  design  flaws,   government  permitting   difficulties  and  unknown
construction defects.

         In September 1995, AES  successfully  completed the financing and began
construction of Warrior Run, a 180 MW coal-fired thermal  cogeneration  facility
near  the  city  of  Cumberland  in  Allegheny  County,  Maryland.  Engineering,
procurement  and  construction  of the project  under a turn-key  contract  with
Raytheon  Engineers  &  Contractors,  Inc.  and  ABB/Combustion  Engineering  is
expected to be  completed in 1999.  Potomac  Edison,  a subsidiary  of Allegheny
Power System,  Inc. will purchase  electricity under a 30 year agreement,  which
has been approved by the Maryland Public Service Commission.

         Barry is a 230 MW gas-fired  combined  cycle facility  currently  under
construction  in Barry,  South  Wales,  United  Kingdom.  Construction  began in
October,  1996 and the facility is expected to commence operations by the second
quarter of 1998.  Construction  services are being supplied by TBV Power Limited
under a lump sum, turnkey  construction  contract.  The Barry facility will sell
electricity into the national  electricity spot market in the United Kingdom. In
February  1997,  Barry  raised  (pound)112   million  of  non-recourse   project
financing, underwritten solely by The Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited.

         Mt.  Stuart is a 288 MW power  station  located  at  Townsville,  North
Queensland,  Australia that is currently under  construction.  The facility will
consist of two 144 MW  open-cycle  gas  turbines.  AES has entered  into various
agreements  to  develop,  own,  and operate  the  facility.  The plant will burn
liquefied petroleum gas and will sell electricity to the Queensland Transmission
and Supply  Corporation under a 10-year power purchase  agreement.  The facility
will operate as a peaking  station  and,  therefore,  it is  estimated  that the
facility  will operate for only 3 percent to 5 percent of the year. In September
1997, AES raised A$103.5 million to finance the plant's construction.

         The Company began construction on its Parana project in September 1997.
Parana is an 830 MW  gas-fired,  combined  cycle  power  plant.  Parana  will be
located in San Nicolas, Argentina,  adjacent to San Nicolas, in which AES owns a
controlling  interest.  Parana  is in  the  process  of  arranging  for  project
financing  for  the  facility.  Parana  has  entered  into a lump  sum,  turnkey
construction  contract with Nichimen Corporation and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
for the plant.  Project output will be sold into the Argentine  electric market.
Total capital cost is estimated at $440 million,  and the project is expected to
commence commercial operation in 2000.

         Yangcheng  Sun  City,  currently  under  construction,  is a  2,100  MW
coal-fired  mine-mouth power plant located in Yangcheng,  Shanxi Province,  PRC.
Construction  of the power plant commenced in the second quarter of 1997 and AES
made its initial  equity  investment in the third  quarter of 1997.  AES Chigen,
through a  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  will be  responsible  for  overseeing  the
management of construction  and operations of the plant. AES Chigen is committed
to invest $98 million of equity in the project and will own twenty-five  percent
of the 20-year  joint venture with five other  partners  owning the remaining 75
percent.  The project will be funded with $1.21  billion of debt provided by the
China Construction Bank, China State Development Bank, U.S.  Export-Import Bank,
and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and $393 million of equity.

         Yangcheng Sun City is one of the first "coal-by-wire" power projects in
China.  The power will be  produced  in Shanxi  Province  and  shipped via a 755
kilometer transmission line to Jiangsu Province, a coastal province. The project
is being  constructed  over a  60-month  period by the Shanxi  


Provincial Power Company under a fixed-price,  fixed-schedule  turnkey contract.
The first unit is  scheduled  to come on line within 35 months.  Low sulfur coal
will be supplied by the Shanxi Provincial Coal Transportation and Sales Company.

         In January 1997, the Comision de Electricidad,  a decentralized  public
agency of the  Federal  Government  of the  United  Mexican  States  selected  a
consortium  led  by  AES  to  develop,  design,  engineer,   construct,   equip,
commission,  start-up,  operate and maintain a 484 MW combined-cycle,  gas fired
power  generation  facility  ("Merida III").  The Project will be located in the
city of Merida,  Yucatan,  Mexico.  The Project  will  consist of two  gas-fired
turbines,  two heat  recovery  steam  generators,  a single steam  turbine,  and
certain other common  facilities.  Engineering,  procurement and construction of
the project is under a turn-key  contract with  Westinghouse and construction is
expected to be completed in 2000.

         In April 1997, CEEE, the electric distribution company for the state of
Rio Grande do Sul,  Brazil,  selected  AES to build,  own,  and operate a 600 MW
gas-fired  combined  cycle  power  plant  to be  built  at the  border  city  of
Uruguaiana,  in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil ("AES Uruguaiana").  CEEE
will purchase the  electricity of AES Uruguaiana  under a 20 year power purchase
agreement. The Project will consist of two gas-fired turbines, two heat recovery
steam  generators  and  a  single  steam  turbine,   and  certain  other  common
facilities. Engineering,  procurement and construction of the project is under a
turn-key contract with Westinghouse and construction is expected to be completed
in 2000.

PROJECTS IN ADVANCED STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT

         The Company  currently is pursuing over 100 new business  opportunities
in various stages of development. Each of these projects are subject to numerous
risks  as  discussed  elsewhere  in this  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K,  and no
assurance can be given that any of the projects or businesses  will be completed
or acquired.  Listed below are development  projects that have achieved  certain
milestone objectives the Company deems significant.

         In  January  1998,  the  Company  was  selected  by the  Government  of
Bangladesh  Ministry of Energy and Mineral  Resources  as the winning  bidder to
build, own and operate a 360 MW (net) gas-fired, combined cycle power plant at a
site near  Dhaka,  Bangladesh  ("Haripur").  Haripur  is  expected  to  commence
commercial  operations in 2000, and  electricity  will be sold to the Bangladesh
Power Development Board.

         In November  1997,  AES won a bid to acquire three  natural  gas-fired,
electric  generating  stations from Southern  California  Edison  ("Edison") for
approximately  $781  million.  The three  plants,  all  located on the  southern
California coast, are Alamitos (2083 MW), Redondo Beach (1310 MW) and Huntington
Beach (563 MW). Each of the plants has been designated a "must-run facility" and
initially will operate in part under  agreements with  California's  Independent
System Operator being established through electricity restructuring. Pursuant to
California's electricity restructuring law, Edison will remain under contract to
operate and maintain the facilities for two years. Completion of the acquisition
is subject to a number of conditions, including the receipt of California Public
Utilities Commission  approval,  federal regulatory and anti-trust approvals and
successful implementation of the new California electric spot market, called the
Power Exchange.

         The AES Ironwood  project is in the advanced  stages of development and
will be a natural  gas-fired  combined cycle facility  currently in southeastern
Pennsylvania.  Total plant capacity is anticipated to be  approximately  720 MW.
The plant is  anticipated  to achieve  commercial  operation by the end of 2000.
Power  generated by Ironwood will be purchased by General  Public  Utility under
the terms of a power purchase agreement finalized in February 1997.


         An affiliate of the Company, San Francisco Energy Company, LP ("SFEC"),
which is a joint  venture  between  AES  Pacific,  an  indirectly  wholly  owned
subsidiary of AES and a general partner in SFEC, and Sonat Inc., is developing a
240 MW natural gas-fired  facility in San Francisco,  California.  SFEC signed a
Standard  Offer  contract in 1994 with  Pacific  Gas & Electric  ("PG&E") as the
winner  of  the  San  Francisco  portion  of  the  California  Public  Utilities
Commission's  Biennial  Resource  Plan Update.  The contract  calls for the full
capacity of the plant to be  purchased  by Pacific Gas & Electric  for 30 years,
with an option to  terminate  after 17 years.  However,  a ruling by the Federal
Energy  Regulatory  Commission  ("FERC")  has  questioned  the  validity  of the
California  Biennial  Resource Plan update ("BRPU"),  pursuant to which SFEC was
awarded its contract. The Company believes that its contract with PG&E is valid,
but the Company is currently  involved in litigation with PG&E over the validity
of the  contract.  The Company does not believe that the ultimate  resolution of
this  matter will have a material  adverse  effect on the  Company.  Substantial
risks to the  successful  completion  of this  project  exist,  including  those
relating  to  the  contract  litigation,   FERC  decision,   siting,  financing,
construction and permitting.

         AES  has  been  developing  AES  Puerto  Rico  which  is to be a 454 MW
coal-fired  cogeneration  facility  in  Guayama,  Puerto  Rico.  The Puerto Rico
Electricity  Power Authority has agreed to purchase the electrical output of the
facility  pursuant to a 25-year  power  sales  agreement.  The project  received
approval  of  its   environmental   impact   statement   from  the  Puerto  Rico
Environmental  Quality Board, but such approval has been challenged.  This issue
is  currently on appeal to the Supreme  Court of Puerto Rico,  which has not yet
rendered a decision.  Development of the project is stayed during  determination
of the appeal.

         AES has also been developing a 420 MW coal-fired  facility in the State
of Orissa, India ("AES Ib Valley").   Under the terms of an executed power sales
agreement,  the Orissa State  Electricity  Board ("OSEB")  agreed to purchase at
least 85  percent of the  electrical  capacity  of the  facility  pursuant  to a
30-year contract. Certain of OSEB's obligations are guaranteed by the Government
of Orissa  ("GOO").  In addition,  the  Government  of India  ("GOI")  agreed to
guarantee a portion of GOO's  obligations.  In July 1995, a newly  elected state
government  initiated  a review of the terms and  conditions  of AES Ib Valley's
agreements  with  OSEB  and  GOO.  This  review  has  led  OSEB  and GOO to seek
significant modifications to the terms of the power sales agreement. In light of
this review AES has been unable to reach  financial  closing on this project and
has been forced to  terminate  certain  financing  and  contractual  commitments
relating to the project.  AES Ib Valley is currently in negotiation with GOO and
OSEB and may agree to changes, including those relating to the plant's technical
configuration,   capital  cost,  size  and  the  price  paid  for   electricity.
Notwithstanding  the  Company's  willingness  to  discuss  modifications  to the
project, the Company believes that its current agreements with GOO, OSEB and GOI
are valid, and if agreements  cannot be restructured on terms acceptable to AES,
the Company  intends to pursue its rights  with  respect to  enforcement  of the
existing contracts. No assurance can be given that either (i) the terms of a new
contract will be agreed to or (ii) if AES pursues its legal claims, that it will
be able to compel specific performance or recover significant damages.

REGULATORY MATTERS

         Despite  the  recent   movement   toward   electricity   restructuring,
electricity  markets in the United  States are still heavily  regulated.  United
States laws and regulations  still govern to some extent  wholesale  electricity
transactions,  the type of fuel utilized, the type of energy produced, and power
plant ownership.  State regulatory  commissions  have  jurisdiction  over retail
electricity transactions.  United States power projects also are subject to laws
and regulations  controlling  emissions and other substances produced by a plant
and the siting of plants.  These laws and regulations  generally  require that a
wide variety of permits and other approvals be obtained before the  construction
or  operation  of a power  plant  commences,  and that the  facility  operate in
compliance with these permits  thereafter.  FERC must also approve rates charged
by certain power marketers such as those of the Company's subsidiary, AES Power.

         In the United  States,  so-called  Qualifying  Facilities  ("QFs")  are
relieved of compliance with extensive  federal,  state and local  regulations by
the  provisions  of the  Public  Utility  Regulatory  Policies  Act,  as amended
("PURPA").  Each of AES's current domestic plants is a QF. Loss of QF



status,  if  not  prevented,  would  subject  these  plants  to  more  extensive
regulations.  The Company  believes,  however,  that it will  usually be able to
react in a manner that would avoid the loss of QF status.

         State public  utility  commissions  ("PUCs")  regulate  both the retail
rates and financial  performance of electric utilities.  Since a wholesale power
sales contract is generally  reflected in a utility's retail rates,  power sales
contracts from QFs are indirectly  under the  regulatory  purview of PUCs.  PUCs
often will  pre-approve  contracts  with  prices  that do not  exceed  so-called
"avoided  costs"  because  such  contracts  often have been  acquired  through a
competitive or market-based process.  Recognizing the competitive nature of most
acquisition  processes,  most  PUCs  will  permit  utilities  to "pass  through"
expenses  associated with an independent  power contract to the utility's retail
customers,  although  no  assurance  can be given that a PUC will not attempt to
deny the "pass  through" of these expenses in the future.  The Company  believes
that any such  attempt by a PUC would,  among other  things,  be  pre-empted  by
federal law.

         AES must obtain  exemptions  from, or become  subject to regulation by,
the Securities and Exchange  Commission under the Public Utility Holding Company
Act  ("PUHCA")  in regard  to both its  domestic  and  foreign  utility  company
holdings.  There are a number of  exemptions  from PUHCA that are  available for
both  domestic and foreign  utility  company  owners,  including  those for QFs,
Exempt Wholesale Generators and Foreign Utility Companies. AES has obtained, and
believes that it will be able to obtain and maintain in the future,  appropriate
PUHCA exemptions for its utility acquisitions.

         In addition, as one of the Company's major non-U.S. markets, changes in
Brazilian  regulatory  structures  will  have  an  impact  on the  Company.  The
electricity industry in Brazil is regulated by the Brazilian federal government,
acting through the Ministry of Mines and Energy,  which has exclusive  authority
over the  electricity  sector  through  regulatory  powers  assigned to it. This
sector is currently in a state of rapid change in Brazil. For example,  pursuant
to a federal law enacted in 1996,  regulatory  policy for the sector,  which was
implemented by the Departmento  Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica  ("DNAEE"),
is now implemented by a new autonomous  national electric energy agency (Agencia
Nacional de Energia Eletrica or "ANEEL"). ANEEL is expected to be an independent
regulatory agency and to delegate certain functions to agencies based in certain
states of Brazil. However, ANEEL cannot delegate any authority regarding tariffs
to  state  agencies.  There is  uncertainty  regarding  the  status  of  current
regulations  and the  possibility  of new  regulations  which  may  apply to the
electricity sector in Brazil.

         ANEEL is responsible for (i) granting and  supervising  concessions for
electricity  generation,  transmission and distribution,  including  approval of
applications  for the  setting of  electricity  tariffs;  (ii)  supervising  and
performing financial examinations of the concessionary companies;  (iii) issuing
regulations  for the electricity  sector;  and (iv) planning,  coordinating  and
executing water resource  studies and granting and  supervising  concessions for
the use of water resources.  Due to electricity  tariffs'  significant weight in
the measurement of national inflation,  tariff increases have been controlled by
the Ministry of Finance, although it is not its official responsibility.

         In addition  to the powers  currently  granted to DNAEE,  ANEEL has the
following  responsibilities:  (i) to implement and regulate the  exploitation of
electric energy and the use of hydroelectric  power pursuant to the Power Sector
Law;  (ii) to promote the bidding  process for the granting of new  concessions;
(iii)  to  solve  administrative   disputes  among  utilities,   IPP  companies,
self-producers  and  customers;  and  (iv) to  determine  the  criteria  for the
establishment  of the cost of the  transmission  of energy pursuant to the Power
Sector Law.  Nevertheless,  until  regulations  regarding the  implementation of
ANEEL are promulgated, DNAEE will continue to monitor and regulate the Brazilian
electricity sector.

UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

         The  construction  and  operation  of power  projects  are  subject  to
extensive  environmental  and land use  regulation.  In the United  States those
regulations  applicable to AES primarily involve the discharge of effluents into
the water,  emissions  into the air and the use of water,  but can also  include
wetlands preservation,  endangered species, waste disposal and noise regulation.
These  laws and  regulations  often  require a lengthy  and  complex  process of
obtaining  licenses,  permits  and  approvals  from  federal,  state  and  local
agencies.  If such laws and regulations are changed and AES's facilities are not
"grandfathered"  (that is, made exempt by the fact that the facility pre-existed
the law) or otherwise are not excluded,  extensive  modifications to a project's
technologies  and  facilities  could  be  required.  If  environmental  laws  or
regulations  were to change in the future,  there can be no  assurance  that AES
would be able to recover all or any  increased  costs from its customers or that
its business and  financial  condition  would not be  materially  and  adversely
affected.  In addition,  the Company may be required to make significant capital
or other  expenditures in connection with such changes in environmental  laws or
regulations.  While AES expects that  environmental  and land use regulations in
the United States will continue to become more  stringent over time, the Company
is not aware of any  currently  planned  changes in law that  would  result in a
material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position.

         Clean Air Act. The original  Clean Air Act of 1970 set  guidelines  for
emissions  standards for major  pollutants  (e.g., SO2 and NOx) from newly-built
sources.  In late 1990, Congress passed a set of amendments to the Clean Air Act
(the "1990  Amendments").  All of AES's  domestic  operating  plants  perform at
levels better than federal emission standards mandated for such plants under the
Clean Air Act (as  amended).  The 1990  Amendments  attempt to reduce  acid rain
precursor  emissions (SO2 and NOX) from existing sources -- particularly  large,
older  power  plants  that were  exempted  from  certain  regulations  under the
original Clean Air Act. Because AES's facilities are relatively new cogeneration
units with low air emissions  that qualify as "existing  sources" under the 1990
Amendments,  they have been  "grandfathered"  from certain acid rain  compliance
provisions of the 1990 Amendments. Other provisions of the Clean Air Act related
to the  reduction  of ozone  precursor  emissions  (VOC and NOx) have  triggered
"reasonably  available  control  technology"  ("RACT")  requirements  by various
states to reduce such emissions.

         The hazardous air pollutant provisions of the 1990 Amendments presently
exclude  electric steam  generating  facilities  such as AES's domestic  plants;
however,  the 1990 Amendments directed that the Environmental  Protection Agency
("EPA" or the  "Agency")  prepare a study on  hazardous  air  pollutant  ("HAP")
emissions from power plants. In the fall of 1996, EPA released an interim report
on HAP emissions from power plants that  tentatively  concluded that the risk of
contracting  cancer from exposure to HAPs (except  mercury) from most plants was
very low (less than one in 1 million).  EPA is  developing  a separate  study on
mercury emissions from power plants. The draft mercury study report is currently
being  reviewed by the federal  Scientific  Advisory Board and it is not certain
when a final  report will be  released.  A final  comprehensive  HAP report with
recommendations is expected to be issued after EPA's review of mercury emissions
from power  plants is  complete.  If it is  determined  that  mercury from power
plants should be regulated,  the use of "maximum  available control  technology"
("MACT") for mercury (which is now not subject to regulation) could be required.

         In 1997,  EPA  published  new rules that  tighten  ambient  air quality
standards for ozone and small  particulate  matter (so-called PM 2.5). These new
standards increase the number of so-called "nonattainment regions" for ozone and
particulates.  If new  ozone  and  particulate  matter  nonattainment  areas are
created,  AES's plants may be faced with further emission reduction requirements
that could necessitate the installation of additional control technology.

         In order to make  further  improvements  in air  quality in the eastern
United  States,  EPA in 1997  issued a call for  states to revise  their  "state
implementation   plans"   (SIPs)  for  ozone   precursors--primarily   NOX.  EPA
recommended further reductions of up to 65% for some states,  depending on local
conditions.  As a result, AES will be required to make further reductions in NOX
emissions at its Beaver  Valley plant in  Pennsylvania  (AES's other plants have
emission levels well below baseline levels).



         The  Company  does not  believe  that any of the  potential  additional
requirements  discussed above will have a material adverse effect on its results
of operations and consolidated financial position.

         Hazardous Waste Regulation.  Based on a 1988 study, EPA has decided not
to regulate most coal combustion ash as a hazardous waste; however, EPA reserved
making a decision with respect to coal ash from  fluidized bed  combustion  (the
burning of coal in the presence of limestone), which is still being evaluated by
the Agency.  AES,  along with other CFB owners and  manufacturers,  is currently
participating in a study to evaluate whether or not CFB ash should be classified
as hazardous. EPA is required to make a determination on whether to regulate CFB
ash in 1998. If EPA decides to regulate fluidized bed coal ash as a hazardous or
special waste,  AES could incur  additional ash disposal costs to dispose of ash
from its plants that utilize fluidized bed boilers.

FOREIGN ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

         AES now has  ownership  interests  in  operating  power  plants in many
countries outside the United States.  Each of these countries and the localities
therein have separate  laws and  regulations  governing the siting,  permitting,
ownership  and power sales from AES's  plants.  These laws and  regulations  are
often  quite  different  than  those in effect in the United  States--and  AES's
non-U.S.  businesses  have been in substantial  compliance  with these different
laws and regulations. In addition, projects funded by the World Bank are subject
to World Bank  environmental  standards,  which may be more stringent than local
country  standards but are typically not as strict as U.S.  standards.  Whenever
feasible, AES attempts to use advanced  environmental  technologies (such as CFB
coal  technology  or advanced gas  turbines) in order to minimize  environmental
impacts.

         Based on current trends,  AES expects that  environmental  and land use
regulations  affecting its plants located  outside the United States will likely
become more  stringent  over time.  This  appears to be due in part to a greater
participation   by  local   citizenry  in  the  monitoring  and  enforcement  of
environmental  laws, better enforcement of applicable  environmental laws by the
regulatory  agencies,  and  the  adoption  of more  sophisticated  environmental
requirements.  If foreign  environmental and land use regulations were to change
in the future, the Company may be required to make significant  capital or other
expenditures  in order to comply.  There can be no  assurance  that AES would be
able to  recover  all or any  increased  costs  from its  customers  or that its
business,  financial  condition or results of operations would not be materially
and adversely  affected by future changes in foreign  environmental and land use
regulations.

NEW UNITED STATES LEGISLATION

         In the United States, some states (for example,  California,  Illinois,
Michigan,  Massachusetts  and  Pennsylvania)  have passed or are considering new
legislation that permits utility customers to choose their electricity  supplier
in a competitive  electricity  market  (so-called  "retail  access" or "customer
choice"  laws).  While such  "customer  choice"  plans  differ in details,  they
usually share some important elements:  (1) they allow customers to choose their
electricity  suppliers  by a certain date (the dates in the existing or proposed
legislation  vary  between 1998 and 2003);  (2) they allow  utilities to recover
so-called  "stranded  assets"--the  remaining costs of uneconomic  generating or
regulatory  assets; and (3) they reaffirm the validity of existing QF contracts,
and make provisions to assure payment over the contract life.

         In order to guarantee  payment of utilities'  costs and the costs of QF
contracts,  some states have used or are proposing to use  financial  methods to
"securitize"  these  payments.  The  "securitization"  process might involve the
following steps:  first, the financial  obligations to be "securitized" would be
legally  affirmed  through  legislation.  This legal  obligation then is used to
borrow  money in  public  debt  markets  to pay off the  obligation.  The  legal
obligation  allows the borrower to obtain a good credit  rating and  therefore a
lower interest rate. In some cases,  the benefits of the lower interest rate are
passed on to retail electric customers (perhaps in the form of a rate decrease).
"Securitization" of QF contract obligations,  if applied to AES contracts in the
future, 


would significantly  reduce the risk to AES that its power sales contracts would
not be honored due to potential financial difficulties of the utility purchaser.

         In addition  to state  restructuring  legislation,  members of Congress
have proposed new federal  legislation to encourage customer choice and recovery
of stranded assets.  Some argue that federal  legislation is needed to avoid the
"patchwork"  effect  of each  state  acting  separately  to  pass  restructuring
legislation;  others argue that each state should decide whether to allow retail
choice.  In 1997 several bills were (and others are expected to be) submitted to
Congress on  electricity  restructuring.  While it is uncertain  whether or when
federal legislation  dealing with electricity  restructuring might be passed, it
is the opinion of the Company that such legislation  would not have a materially
adverse effect on the Company's U.S. business.

         In addition  to the  federal  restructuring  legislation  proposals,  a
number of bills  have been  proposed  by members  of  Congress  to repeal all or
portions of PURPA  and/or  PUHCA--as  separate  legislation  if a  comprehensive
restructuring  bill fails to pass. The Company believes that the repeal of PURPA
and/or  PUHCA  is  unlikely  (and  inappropriate)  unless  it  is  a  part  of a
comprehensive restructuring bill.

         In anticipation of restructuring  legislation,  many U.S. utilities are
seeking  ways to lower their costs in order to become  more  competitive.  These
include the costs that  utilities are required to pay under QF contracts,  which
the utilities may view as excessive when compared to current market prices. Many
utilities  are  therefore  seeking  ways  to  lower  these  contract  prices  by
renegotiating the contracts,  or in some cases by litigation.  While the Company
is generally open to renegotiation of existing  contracts,  it believes that the
aforementioned  electricity market restructuring  legislation will likely reduce
both the pressure to renegotiate and the need for such contract renegotiations.

EMPLOYEES

         At December 31, 1997, AES and its subsidiaries  employed  approximately
10,000  people.  The total  number of people  employed in  facilities  which AES
operates or has an equity interest in is approximately 30,000.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND SIGNIFICANT EMPLOYEES OF THE REGISTRANT

The following is certain  information  concerning the present executive officers
and significant employees of the Registrant set out in alphabetical order.

         Dennis W. Bakke,  52 years old,  co-founded the  Registrant  with Roger
Sant in 1981 and has been a director of the  Registrant  since 1986. He has been
President of the Registrant since 1987 and Chief Executive Officer since January
1994. From 1987 to 1993, he served as Chief Operating Officer of the Registrant;
from 1982 to 1986, he served as Executive Vice President of the Registrant;  and
from 1985 to 1986 he also served as Treasurer of the Registrant.  He served with
Mr. Sant as Deputy Assistant  Administrator of the Federal Energy Agency ("FEA")
from 1974 to 1976 and as Deputy Director of the Energy  Productivity  Center, an
energy  research   organization   affiliated   with  The  Mellon   Institute  at
Carnegie-Mellon  University,  from 1978 to 1981.  He is a trustee  of  Rivendell
School  and a member of the Board of  Directors  of  MacroSonix  Corporation  in
Richmond, Virginia.

         Mark S.  Fitzpatrick,  47  years  old,  has  served  as a  Senior  Vice
President of the Registrant since January 1998, and was appointed Vice President
of the Registrant in 1987. Mr.  Fitzpatrick  became Managing Director of Applied
Energy  Services  Electric  Limited for the United  Kingdom  and Western  Europe
operations in 1990.  From 1984 to 1987,  he served as a project  director of the
AES Beaver Valley and AES Thames projects.

         Paul T.  Hanrahan,  40 years old, was appointed  Vice  President of the
Registrant  effective  January  1994.  He  currently is President of AES Chigen,
where he served  as  Executive  Vice  President,  Chief  Operating  Officer  and
Secretary from December 1993 until February 1995. He was General  Manager of AES
Transpower, Inc., a subsidiary of the Registrant, from 1990 to 1993.


         William R.  Luraschi,  34 years  old,  has been Vice  President  of the
Registrant since January 1998, Secretary since February 1996 and General Counsel
of the  Registrant  since  January  1994.  Prior to that,  Mr.  Luraschi  was an
attorney with the law firm of Chadbourne & Parke L.L.P.

         David G.  McMillen,  59 years  old,  was named  Vice  President  of the
Company in December 1991. He was appointed  President of AES Shady Point in 1995
and is currently plant manager of the AES Shady Point facility. He was President
of AES Thames from 1989 to 1995.  From 1985 to 1988,  he served as plant manager
of the AES Beaver  Valley  plant and from 1986 to 1988 he served as President of
AES Beaver Valley.

         Dr. Roger F. Naill,  50 years old, has been Vice President for Planning
at AES since 1981.  Prior to joining the  Registrant,  Dr. Naill was Director of
the Office of Analytical Services at the U.S. Department of Energy.

         Oscar  Prieto,  45 years  old,  was  appointed  Vice  President  of the
Registrant  effective  January 1998 and has been General  Executive  Director of
Light  Servicos de  Electricidade,  S.A.  since June 1996.  Mr. Prieto served as
General  Manager of San  Nicolas  from 1994,  when he joined  AES,  until he was
appointed to the  position at Light in 1996.  Before  coming to AES, Mr.  Prieto
worked in various positions with the Dow Chemical Company from 1980 to 1994.

         John  Ruggirello,  47 years old, was  appointed  Vice  President of the
Registrant  effective  January  1997,  and  heads an AES group  responsible  for
project  development,  construction  and plant  operations in much of the United
States and  Canada.  He served as  President  of AES Beaver  Valley from 1990 to
1996.

         J. Stuart Ryan,  39 years old, was appointed  Senior Vice  President of
the Registrant  effective January 1998, and heads the AES Transpower group which
is responsible for the Company's business in Asia (excluding  China).  From 1994
through 1997, he served as Vice President of the Registrant.  Prior to 1994, Mr.
Ryan served as general manager of a group within AES.

         Roger W. Sant, 66 years old,  co-founded  the Company with Dennis Bakke
in 1981.  He has been  Chairman  of the Board and a director  of the  Registrant
since its inception,  and he held the office of Chief Executive  Officer through
December  31,  1993.  He currently is Chairman of the Boards of Directors of The
Summit  Foundation and The World Wildlife Fund U.S., and serves on the Boards of
Directors of The World Resources  Institute,  the World Wide Fund for Nature and
Marriott   International,   Inc.  He  was  Assistant  Administrator  for  Energy
Conservation  and the Environment of the Federal Energy Agency ("FEA") from 1974
to 1976 and the Director of the Energy  Productivity  Center, an energy research
organization affiliated with The Mellon Institute at Carnegie-Mellon University,
from 1977 to 1981.

         Barry J. Sharp,  38 years old, was appointed  Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial  Officer  effective January 1998 and had been Vice President and
Chief  Financial  Officer  since  1987.  He  also  served  as  Secretary  of the
Registrant  until February  1996.  From 1986 to 1987, he served as the Company's
Director  of  Finance  and  Administration.  Mr.  Sharp  is a  certified  public
accountant.

         Sarah  Slusser,  35 years old, was  appointed  President of AES Aurora,
Inc.,  effective  April 1997.  AES Aurora is a wholly  owned  subsidiary  of the
Company  responsible for business  development,  construction  and operations of
facilities  and projects in Mexico,  Central  America,  the Caribbean and Texas.
Prior to that, Ms.  Slusser served as Project  Director for various AES projects
in the same region from 1993 to 1997.

         Paul D.  Stinson,  41 years old, was  appointed  Vice  President of the
Registrant  effective  January  1998.  Since  April  1997 Mr.  Stinson  has been
Managing  Director of AES Silk Road,  Ltd.,  a wholly  owned  subsidiary  of the
Company  responsible for business  development,  construction  and operations of
facilities and projects in Russia, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and other parts of Asia.
Mr.  Stinson  served as Managing  Director of Medway Power Ltd.  from 1994 until
1997 and was Plant  Manager of the Medway  Power  Station  owned by Medway Power
Ltd. from 1992 to 1997.


         Thomas A. Tribone,  45 years old, has been Senior Vice President of the
Registrant  since 1990, and leads an AES group  responsible for power marketing,
project  development,  construction and plant operations in South America.  From
1987 to 1990 he served as Vice President for project  development  and from 1985
to 1987 he served as project director of the AES Shady Point plant.

         Kenneth R.  Woodcock,  54 years old, has been Senior Vice  President of
the Registrant since 1987 and now handles AES relationships  with the investment
community as well as support for AES business development  activities worldwide.
From 1984 to 1987, he served as a Vice President for Business Development. Prior
to the  founding of AES he served in the United  States  federal  government  in
energy and environment departments.

         (d) Financial  Information  about Foreign and Domestic  Operations  and
Export Sales.

         See the information  contained under the caption "Geographic  Segments"
in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 hereof.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

         Offices are  maintained  by the  Registrant  in many places  around the
world  which are  generally  occupied  pursuant to the  provisions  of long- and
short-term  leases,  none  of  which  is  material  to the  Company.  With a few
exceptions, the Registrant's facilities which are described in Item 1 hereof are
subject to mortgages  or other liens or  encumbrances  as part of the  project's
related  finance  facility.  The  land  interest  held  by the  majority  of the
facilities is that of a lessor or, in the case of the facilities  located in the
People's  Republic  of China,  a land use  right  that is leased or owned by the
related joint venture that owns the project.  However,  in a few instances there
exists no accompanying  project financing for the facility and in a few of these
cases the land  interest may not be subject to any  encumbrance  and is owned by
the subsidiary or affiliate owning the facility outright.

ITEM 3. LITIGATION.

         The  Company is  involved in certain  legal  proceedings  in the normal
course of  business.  It is the opinion of the Company  that none of the pending
litigation  is  expected  to have a material  adverse  effect on its  results of
operations or financial position.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

         No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of 1997.


                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

         (a)  Market Information.

         The common stock of the Company is  currently  traded on the NYSE stock
market  under the symbol  "AES."  All stock  prices from  January 1, 1996 to and
including  October  15, 1996 were quoted on the NASDAQ  stock  market  under the
symbol "AESC."  The following  table sets forth the high and low sale prices for
the common stock as reported by NASDAQ or the NYSE for the periods indicated.

           -------------------------------- -------------------- -----------
           1996                                 HIGH               LOW
           -------------------------------- -------------------- -----------
           First Quarter                    $   12-5/8           $ 10-1/2
           Second Quarter                       14-13/16           11-1/8
           Third Quarter                        20-1/4             13-5/16
           Fourth Quarter                       25-1/16            19-5/8

           -------------------------------- -------------------- -----------
           1997                                 HIGH               LOW
           -------------------------------- -------------------- -----------
           First Quarter                    $   34-1/8           $ 22-3/8
           Second Quarter                       37-3/4             27-1/2
           Third Quarter                        45-1/4             34-5/8
           Fourth Quarter                       49-5/8             35

         (b)  Holders.

         As  of  February  2,  1998,  there  were  955  record  holders  of  the
Registrant's Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share.

         (c)  Dividends.

         Under the terms of a  corporate  revolving  loan and  letters of credit
facility of $600  million  entered into with a commercial  bank  syndicate,  the
Company is currently  prohibited  from paying cash dividends.  In addition,  the
Registrant is precluded from paying cash dividends on its Common Stock under the
terms of a guaranty to the utility  customer in  connection  with the AES Thames
project in the event certain net worth and liquidity tests of the Registrant are
not met.  The  Registrant  has met these  tests at all times  since  making  the
guaranty.

         The ability of the Registrant's project subsidiaries to declare and pay
cash  dividends  to the  Registrant  is subject to  certain  limitations  in the
project loans and other  agreements  entered into by such project  subsidiaries.
Such  limitations  permit the payment of cash dividends out of current cash flow
for quarterly,  semiannual or annual periods only at the end of such periods and
only after  payment of principal and interest on project loans due at the end of
such periods, and in certain cases after providing for debt service reserves.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.




ITEM 7. DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
        OPERATIONS.

INTRODUCTION

         The AES Corporation and its subsidiaries  and affiliates  (collectively
"AES" or the  "Company")  are  helping to meet the  world's  needs by  providing
electricity to customers in many countries.  Electricity sales accounted for 95%
of total  revenues  during 1997 and 97% during 1996.  Other sales arise from the
sale of steam  and  other  commodities  related  to the  Company's  cogeneration
operations.  Service revenues represent fees earned in connection with wholesale
power services,  and operating and construction  services provided by AES to its
affiliates.

         Until  recently,   the  Company's  sales  of  electricity  were  almost
exclusively made to customers (generally electric utilities or regional electric
companies) on a wholesale  basis for further resale to end users.  This is often
referred to as the electricity  "generating" business. Sales by these generating
companies are usually made under long-term  contracts from power plants owned by
the Company's subsidiaries and affiliates.  The Company's ownership portfolio of
power facilities includes new plants constructed for such purposes ("greenfield"
plants) as well as existing  power plants  acquired  through  competitively  bid
privatization initiatives and negotiated acquisitions.

         AES now operates and owns (entirely, or in part) a diverse portfolio of
electric  power  plants  (including  those  within the  integrated  distribution
companies  discussed  below) with a total capacity of 17,636  megawatts (MW). Of
that total,  43% are fueled by coal or petroleum  coke, 6% are fueled by natural
gas, 34% are hydroelectric  facilities,  6% are fueled by oil, and the remaining
11% are capable of using  multiple  fossil  fuels.  Of the total MW,  1,069 (six
plants)  are located in the U.S.,  1,588 (four  plants) are in the UK, 840 (five
plants) are in Argentina,  603 (seven plants) are in China, 1,281 (three plants)
are in Hungary,  5,856 (thirty nine) are in Brazil,  5,384 (seven plants) are in
Kazakhstan,  210 (one plant) is in the Dominican Republic, 110 (one plant) is in
Canada, and 695 (two plants) are in Pakistan.

         AES is also currently in the process of adding  approximately  5,331 MW
to its operating portfolio by constructing  several new plants.  These include a
180 MW coal-fired  plant in the U.S., four  coal-fired  plants in China totaling
2,314 MW, a 230 MW natural gas-fired plant in the UK, a 405 MW natural gas-fired
plant in the Netherlands,  a 288 MW kerosene-fired plant in Australia, an 830 MW
natural gas-fired plant in Argentina, a 484 MW natural gas-fired plant in Mexico
and a 600 MW natural gas-fired plant in Brazil.

         As a result,  AES's total MW of 84 power plants in operation  and under
construction is approximately 22,967 and net equity ownership (total MW adjusted
for the Company's ownership percentage) represents approximately 12,247 MW.

         Because of the  significant  magnitude  and  complexity of building new
electric  generating plants,  construction  periods often range from two to five
years,  depending on the  technology  and location.  AES currently  expects that
projects now under  construction  will reach  commercial  operation and begin to
sell  electricity at various dates through the year 2002. The completion of each
plant in a timely manner is generally  supported by a guarantee from the plant's
construction contractor,  although in certain cases, AES has assumed the risk of
satisfactory  construction  completion.  However,  it remains  possible,  due to
changes in the  economic,  political,  technological,  regulatory  or logistical
circumstances involving each individual plant, that commercial operations may be
delayed in certain cases.

         Beginning in 1996 and  continuing  through 1997, AES has also purchased
interests  (both  majority  and  minority) in  companies  that sell  electricity
directly to commercial, industrial, governmental and residential customers. This
is often referred to as the  electricity  "distribution"  business.  Electricity
sales by AES's  distribution  businesses  are  generally  made  pursuant  to the
provisions of long-term  electricity sale concessions granted by the appropriate
governmental   authority  as  part  of  the  original   privatization   of  each
distribution  company.  In  certain  cases,  these  distribution  companies  are
"integrated",  in that they also own  electric  power  plants for the purpose of
generating a portion of the  electricity  they sell. Each  distribution  company
also purchases,  in varying proportions,  electricity from third party wholesale
suppliers, including in certain cases, other subsidiaries of the Company.

         AES has majority ownership in two distribution  companies in Argentina,
one in Brazil and one in El Salvador (purchased in 1998), and less than majority
ownership  in  two  additional  distribution  companies  in  Brazil.  These  six
companies serve a total of approximately 8 million  customers with gigawatt hour
sales  exceeding  63,000.  On a net equity  basis,  AES's  ownership  represents
approximately 2 million customers and gigawatt hour sales exceeding 15,000.

         AES  continues  to believe  that there is  significant  demand for more
efficiently operated electricity generation and distribution businesses.  Guided
by its  commitment to serve the world's needs for  electricity,  AES is pursuing
additional greenfield  developments and acquisitions in many countries.  Several
of these,  if  consummated,  would  require  the  Company to obtain  substantial
additional financing, including both debt and equity financing.

       Certain   subsidiaries  and  affiliates  of  the  Company  (domestic  and
non-U.S.) have signed long-term  contracts or similar  arrangements for the sale
of electricity  and are in various  stages of developing the related  greenfield
power plants.  There exist sub-



stantial risks to their successful  completion,  including,  but not limited to,
those  relating  to  failures of siting,  financing,  construction,  permitting,
governmental approvals or termination of the power sales contract as a result of
a failure to meet  milestones.  As of December 31, 1997,  capitalized  costs for
projects under development were approximately $87 million.  The Company believes
that  these  costs are  recoverable;  however,  no  assurance  can be given that
changes in  circumstances  related to individual  development  projects will not
occur or that any of these  projects  will be  completed  and  reach  commercial
operation.

       AES has been  successful  in growing its business and serving  additional
customers  by   participating   in  competitive   bidding  under   privatization
initiatives  and  has  been  particularly   interested  in  acquiring   existing
businesses or assets in electricity  markets that are promoting  competition and
eliminating rate of return regulation. In such privatizations, sellers generally
seek to complete  competitive  solicitations in less than one year, much quicker
than the time  periods  associated  with  greenfield  development,  and  require
payment in full on transfer.  AES believes that its  experience  in  competitive
markets and its  worldwide  integrated  group  structure,  with its  significant
geographic  coverage and presence,  enable it to react quickly and creatively in
such situations.

       Because of this relatively quick process or other considerations,  it may
not  always  be  possible  to  arrange   "project   financing"   (the  Company's
historically  preferred  financing  method,  which is  discussed  further  under
"Capital   Resources,   Liquidity  and  Market  Risk")  for  specific  potential
acquisitions.  Additionally,  as  in  the  past,  certain  acquisitions  or  the
commencement   of  construction  on  several   greenfield   developments   would
potentially  require  the  Company to obtain  substantial  additional  financing
including both debt and equity.  As a result,  during 1997, the Company enhanced
its financial capabilities to respond to these more accelerated opportunities by
expanding its revolving line and letter of credit  facility (the  "Revolver") to
$600  million from $425  million.  AES also  currently  maintains a $1.5 billion
"universal shelf" registration statement that allows for the issuance of various
additional debt and preferred or common equity securities either individually or
in combination.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

REVENUES.  Total  revenues  increased  $576 million (69%) to $1,411 million from
1996 to 1997 after  increasing  $156 million  (23%) to $835 million from 1995 to
1996. The increase in 1997 primarily  reflects the  acquisitions  of controlling
interests  in the  distribution  companies  Eden,  Edes and Sul and  electricity
generating  plants at Los Mina and Altai, a full year of operations at Tisza and
Ekibastuz,  service revenue associated with construction at Elsta, and the start
of commercial operations at Lal Pir. The increase in 1996 primarily reflects the
acquisition of controlling interests in Tisza and Ekibastuz during the year.

       The nature of most of the  Company's  generating  businesses is such that
each power  plant  generally  relies on one power sales  contract  with a single
electric  customer for the majority,  if not all, of its revenues.  During 1997,
the Company's three largest customers accounted for 36% of total revenues.  As a
result,  the  prolonged  failure of any one of those  customers  to fulfill  its
contractual payment obligations in the future could have a substantial  negative
impact on AES's results of operations. Where possible, the Company has sought to
reduce this risk, in part, by entering into power sales contracts with customers
that have their debt or preferred stock rated  "investment  grade" by nationally
recognized  rating  agencies and by locating its plants in different  geographic
areas in order to mitigate the effects of regional economic downturns.

       However,  AES does not limit its  business  solely to the most  developed
countries  or  economies,  or only to  those  countries  with  investment  grade
sovereign  credit  ratings.  In  certain  locations,   particularly   developing
countries or countries that are in a transition from centrally planned to market
oriented economies,  the electricity purchasers,  both wholesale and retail, may
experience difficulty in meeting contractual payment obligations.

       Beginning in August 1996 and continuing  through 1997, AES has recorded a
provision  of $28 million  associated  with  aggregate  outstanding  receivables
(excluding VAT) of $54 million at December 31, 1997 related to the operations of
the  Ekibastuz  power  plant in  Kazakhstan.  Approximately  $35  million of the
aggregate balance (excluding VAT), before considering the provision, is due from
a  government-owned  distribution  company.  There  can be no  assurance  of the
ultimate  collectibility of these amounts owed to Ekibastuz, or as a result, the
recoverability  of the related net assets  (totaling $57 million at December 31,
1997) or additional amounts the Company may invest.

       A portion of the electricity  sales from certain plants is not subject to
a contract and is available for sale,  when  economically  advantageous,  in the
relevant spot  electricity  market.  The prices paid for electricity in the spot
markets may be  volatile  and are  dependent  on the  behavior  of the  relevant
economies,  including  the demand for and retail  price of  electricity  and the
competitive price and availability of power from other suppliers.

       Electricity sales by AES's  distribution  businesses are made pursuant to
provisions  of long-term  electricity  sales  concession  agreements  ranging in
remaining length from 19 to 94 years.  Each business is generally  authorized to
charge its  customers  a tariff for  electric  services  which  consists  of two
components:  an  energy  expense  pass-through  component  and an  inflation  or
similarly adjusted operating cost component.  Both components are established as
part of the  original  grant  of the  concession  for  certain  initial  periods
(ranging from six to ten years remaining).  Beginning  subsequent to the initial
periods  and at regular  intervals  (such as every five  years  thereafter)  the
concession  grantor  has the  authority  to  review  the  costs of the  relevant
business to determine the inflation or similar adjustment factor, if any, to the
operation cost component (the "Adjustment Escalator") for the subsequent regular
interval. This review can result in an Adjustment Escalator that has a positive,
zero or  negative  value.  To date,  the  Company has not reached the end of the
initial tariff periods in any of its distribution businesses. As a result, there
can be no  assurance  as to the  effects,  if  any,  on its  future  results  of
operations of potential changes to the Adjustment Escalator.

       Additionally,  the electricity sales concessions generally include either
a direct (via the specific  pricing  provisions of the  concession)  or indirect
(via the  Adjustment  Escalator)  adjustment  to a portion  of the  tariff  that
reflects changes,  either entirely or in part, in the exchange rates between the
local  currency and the U.S.  dollar.  Such  adjustments  are made in arrears at
various regular intervals and in certain cases, requests for interim adjustments
are permitted. As such, the results of operations of AES's non-U.S. distribution
businesses  should be partially or entirely  protected  against  fluctuations in
such currency exchange rates, such as the Argentine peso and the Brazilian real.
However,  if either or both of these  currencies  were to experience a sudden or
severe devaluation relative to the U.S. dollar, because of the in arrears nature
of the  respective  adjustment  in the  tariff  or  because  of the  significant
resulting  local  currency  inflation  of the  tariff,  the  future  results  of
operations of AES's distribution companies in that country or countries could be
adversely  affected.  Depending on the duration or severity of such devaluation,
the future results of operations of AES may also be adversely affected.

COSTS OF SALES AND SERVICES.  Total costs of sales and services  increased  $479
million  (95%) to $981 million in 1997 after  increasing  $108 million  (27%) to
$502 million in 1996. The increase in 1997 was caused  primarily by the costs of
electricity  sales  associated with the acquisition of controlling  interests in
Eden,  Edes,  Sul, Los Mina and Altai,  a full year of  operations  at Tisza and
Ekibastuz,  construction costs at Elsta, and the start of commercial  operations
at Lal Pir,  offset in part,  by lower  costs at San  Nicolas  due to lower fuel
prices.  The increase in 1996 was caused  primarily by the costs of  electricity
sales  associated  with the  acquisition of  controlling  interests in Tisza and
Ekibastuz in that year.

GROSS MARGIN. Gross margin (revenues less costs of sales and services) increased
$97 million (29%) to $430 million from 1996 to 1997 after increasing $48 million
(17%) to $333  million  from 1995 to 1996.  The  improvement  in 1997  primarily
reflects the  additional  gross margin  contributed  by the  operations of Eden,
Edes, Sul, Los Mina,  Altai,  Tisza and Lal Pir, and improved  operations at San
Nicolas and Thames.  The  improvement in 1996 primarily  reflects the additional
gross margin  contributed  by the  operations of Tisza and  Ekibastuz,  improved
operations  at San Nicolas and Thames and higher  electricity  prices  under the
Deepwater  sales  contract due to higher  natural gas prices.  Gross margin as a
percentage  of  total  revenues  (net  of  the  provision  to  reduce   contract
receivables)  decreased from 37% in 1996 to 29% in 1997,  primarily due to lower
relative gross margin  percentages  of recently  acquired  businesses  including
Tisza,  Ekibastuz,  Eden,  Edes, Los Mina, Sul and Altai,  offset in part, by an
improved gross margin percentage at San Nicolas. Gross margin as a percentage of
total revenues (net of the provision to reduce contract  receivables)  decreased
from 42% in 1995 to 37% in 1996,  primarily due to lower  relative  gross margin
percentages at Tisza and Ekibastuz,  offset in part, by an improved gross margin
percentage at Deepwater.

       The Company's  operations are located in several  different  geographical
areas.  Seasonal  variations or unusual weather  conditions in certain  regions,
including  in  particular,  Argentina  and  Brazil,  or the  specific  needs  of
individual power plants to perform routine or unanticipated maintenance that may
require an outage,  could  significantly  affect comparable  quarterly financial
results. In addition, some power sales contracts permit the customer to dispatch
the  related  plant  (i.e.,  direct  the plant to  deliver  a reduced  amount of
electrical  output)  within  certain  specified  parameters.  Such  dispatching,
however,  does not have a material  impact on the results of  operations  of the
related subsidiary because, even when dispatched,  the plant's capacity payments
generally  are  not  reduced.

SELLING,   GENERAL   AND   ADMINISTRATIVE   EXPENSES.   Selling,   general   and
administrative  expenses increased $10 million (29%) to $45 million from 1996 to
1997 after  increasing  less than $3 million  (9%) to $35  million  from 1995 to
1996. The 1997 increase is  attributable to increases in  administrative  costs.
The 1996  increase is  attributable  to  increases in  administrative  costs and
expenses  associated  with the development of new business  opportunities.  As a
percentage  of total  revenue,  selling,  general  and  administrative  expenses
decreased  to 3% in 1997,  down  from 4% in 1996 and 5% in 1995.  The  Company's
general  and  administrative  costs do not  necessarily  vary  with  changes  in
revenue.

OPERATING  INCOME.  Operating  income improved $90 million (32%) to $368 million
from 1996 to 1997 after  increasing  $25 million (10%) to $278 million from 1995
to 1996.  The  increases  result from the  factors  discussed  in the  preceding
paragraphs.

OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE.  Other income and expense,  on a net basis,  increased
$20 million (24%) to $105 million from 1996 to 1997 after  decreasing $1 million
(1%) to $85 million from 1995 to 1996.  Interest  expense  increased 69% in 1997
and increased 13% in 1996. The increase in 1997 reflects a full year of interest
expense  associated with the senior  subordinated  notes issued in 1996, project
financing debt relating to the 1996  acquisitions,  interest expense  associated
with the  senior  subordinated  notes  and  Tecons  issued  in 1997 and  project
financing debt relating to the  acquisitions  in 1997,  offset in part, by lower
interest  expense  resulting  from declining  balances  related to other project
financing  debt. The increase in 1996 reflects  additional  interest  associated
with  increased  borrowings  under the  Revolver,  the 10.25%  Notes and project
financing  debt  associated  with  the  acquisition  of  the  Company's   equity
investment in Light and additional  project  financing debt  associated with the
acquisition of Tisza,  offset,  in part, by declining  balances related to other
project financing debt.

       Interest income increased 71% in 1997 and decreased 11% in 1996. The 1997
increase  results  primarily  from higher cash balances as a result of the debt,
common stock and Tecons issued  during the year,  higher cash balances at Chigen
due to the issuance of the $180 million notes in December 1996,  interest income
at Eden and Edes  associated  with the late  payments on customer  accounts  and
interest on debt service  reserves at Indian Queens and Coral Reef (Light).  The
1996 decrease results primarily from lower invested funds at Chigen,  offset, in
part, by interest income earned on receivables at Tisza.

       Equity in earnings of affiliates  (after income taxes)  increased 200% in
1997  and  150% in  1996.  The  increase  in 1997  results  primarily  from  the
acquisition of a 13.06% equity  interest in Cemig (of which  approximately  3.6%
was sold to a partner in January  1998),  and a full year of equity in  earnings
from a 2.4% increase in the Company's  ownership  percentage (to an aggregate of
13.75%)  of  Light.  The  increase  in 1996  results  almost  entirely  from the
Company's  acquisition  of its original  11.35%  interest in Light in June 1996,
offset  slightly by a decrease in equity in earnings from NIGEN due to a planned
outage.

INCOME TAXES. The Company's effective tax rate was 40% for both 1997 and 1996 as
compared to 38% in 1995.  The  increase  from 1995 to 1996 was due  primarily to
non-U.S.  withholding  and income taxes.

EXTRAORDINARY  ITEM.  During 1997,  the Company  redeemed its $75 million  9.75%
Senior  Subordinated  Notes due 2000  resulting in an  extraordinary  loss of $3
million,  net of taxes.


OUTLOOK

         All over the world, electricity markets continue to be restructured and
there is a trend away from government-owned and government-regulated electricity
systems toward  deregulated,  competive market  structures.  Many countries have
rewritten  their laws and  regulations  to allow foreign  investment and private
ownership of electricity  generation,  transmission or  distribution  companies.
Some  countries  (for  example  the UK,  Brazil  and some of those of the former
Soviet Union,  among others) have or are in the process of  "privatizing"  their
electricity  systems by selling all or part of such to private  investors.  This
global  trend of  electricity  market  restructuring  provides  significant  new
business opportunities for companies like AES.

       Several  states in the U.S. are also  beginning to follow this trend.  In
particular,  some regulated public utilities have begun to sell or auction their
generation  capacity.  Substantially  all of the  transmission  and distribution
services in the U.S.  continue however to be regulated under a state and Federal
regulatory  framework.  In addition,  many states have passed or are considering
new legislation that would permit utility  customers to choose their electricity
supplier in a  competitive  electricity  market  (so-called  "retail  access" or
"customer choice" laws).  While each state's plan differs in details,  there are
certain  consistent  elements,  including  allowing  customers  to choose  their
electricity  suppliers  by a certain date (the dates in the existing or proposed
legislation vary between 1998 and 2003), allowing utilities to recover "stranded
assets" (the remaining costs of uneconomic  generating or regulatory assets) and
a reaffirmation of the validity of contracts like the Company's U.S. contracts.

       In addition to the potential  for state  restructuring  legislation,  the
U.S. Congress has proposed new Federal  legislation to encourage customer choice
and recovery of stranded assets.  Federal  legislation  might be needed to avoid
the patchwork quilt effect of each state acting separately to pass restructuring
legislation  (with the likely result of uneven market  structures in neighboring
states).  While it is uncertain whether or when Federal legislation dealing with
electricity  restructuring  might be  passed,  the  Company  believes  that such
legislation  would not  likely  have a  negative  effect on the  Company's  U.S.
business and may create opportunities.

       There is also legislation  currently  before the U.S.  Congress to repeal
part or all of the current provisions of the Public Utility Regulatory  Policies
Act of 1978  ("PURPA")  and of the Public  Utility  Holding  Company Act of 1935
("PUHCA"). The Company believes that if such legislation is adopted, competition
in the U.S. for new generation  capacity from  vertically  integrated  utilities
would  increase.  However,  independents  like AES would also be free to acquire
retail utilities.

       As consumers,  regulators and suppliers  continue the debate about how to
further decrease the regulatory aspects of providing electricity  services,  the
Company  believes in and is encouraging  the continued  orderly  transition to a
more competitive  electricity market.  Inherent in any significant transition to
competitive  markets are risks associated with the  competitiveness  of existing
regulated enterprises, and as a result, their ability to perform under long-term
contracts  such  as the  Company's  electricity  sale  contracts.  Although  AES
strongly believes that its contracts will be honored,  there can be no assurance
that each of its customers, in a restructured and competitive environment,  will
be  capable  in all  circumstances  of  fulfilling  their  financial  and  legal
obligations.

       AES's  investments and involvement in the development of new projects and
the acquisition of existing power plants and distribution companies in locations
outside the U.S. is increasing. The financing, development and operation of such
businesses  may entail  significant  political and financial  uncertainties  and
other  structuring  issues  (including  uncertainties  associated with the legal
environments,  with first-time  privatization efforts in the countries involved,
currency  exchange  rate  fluctuations,   currency  repatriation   restrictions,
currency  inconvertibility,  political instability,  civil unrest, and in severe
cases  possible  expropriation).  Although AES attempts to minimize these risks,
these  issues  have  the  potential  to cause  substantial  delays  or  material
impairment  to the  value of the  project  being  developed  or  business  being
operated.

       It is also possible that as more of the world's  markets for  electricity
move toward competition,  an increasing proportion of the Company's revenues may
be dependent on prices determined in spot markets. In order to capture a portion
of the market share in competitive  generation  markets,  AES is considering and
may elect to invest in and construct low-cost  "merchant" plants (plants without
long-term  electricity sale contracts) in those markets.  Such an investment may
require  the  Company  (as  well  as its  competitors)  to  make  larger  equity
contributions  (as a  percentage  of the  total  capital  cost)  than  the  more
"traditional" contract-based investments.

      Because of the nature of AES's  operations,  its activities are subject to
stringent environmental  regulation by relevant authorities at each location. If
environmental laws or regulations were to change in the future,  there can be no
assurance that AES would be able to recover all or any increased  costs from its
customers or that its business and financial  condition  would not be materially
and  adversely  affected.  In  addition,  the  Company or its  subsidiaries  and
affiliates  may  be  required  to  make  significant  capital   expenditures  in
connection  with  environmental  matters.  AES is  committed  to  operating  its
businesses  cleanly,  safely  and  reliably  and  strives  to  comply  with  all
environmental laws, regulations, permits and licenses but, despite such efforts,
at times has been in  non-compliance,  although no such instance has resulted in
revocation of any permit or license.

FINANCIAL POSITION AND CASH FLOWS

      At December 31, 1997, AES had net negative consolidated working capital of
$14  million as  compared to $120  million at the end of 1996.  The  decrease in
working  capital is  primarily  due to an  increase  in the  current  portion of
project  financing debt,  accrued  interest on debt issued in 1997, and accounts
payable of newly  acquired  companies,  offset in part, by increases in cash and
cash equivalents,  short-term  investments,  accounts receivable associated with
newly acquired companies and the Hazelwood asset classified as held for sale.

       Property,  plant and  equipment,  net of  accumulated  depreciation,  was
$4,149  million at December 31, 1997, up from $2,220 million at the end of 1996.
The net  increase  of $1,929  million  (87%) is  primarily  attributable  to the
acquisitions  during 1997 of Eden, Edes, Los Mina, Indian Queens, Sul and Altai,
the  continuation of construction  activities at Lal Pir, Pak Gen,  Warrior Run,
Jiaozou  and Barry,  and the  commencement  of  construction  at Mt.  Stuart and
Uruguaiana.

       Other assets increased $2,670 million (297%) to $3,570 million  primarily
due to the  Company's  purchase  of, and  undistributed  earnings  from a 13.06%
interest in Cemig, the purchase of a 50% interest in Kingston and a 50% interest
in Elsta,  deposits to debt service  reserves,  payments for deferred  financing
costs  associated  with debt issued during the year,  payments  associated  with
projects in development,  and the acquisition of electricity  sales  concessions
and contracts  acquired through the purchase of Eden, Edes,  Indian Queens,  and
Sul.

       Project  financing  debt,  net of  repayments,  increased  as a result of
additional  borrowings  associated with the acquisitions of Eden,  Edes,  Indian
Queens and Sul, and additional  construction borrowings associated with Lal Pir,
Pak Gen, Warrior Run, Jiaozou,  Barry, Mt. Stuart and Uruguaiana.  A significant
portion of the Lal Pir and Pak Gen loans,  associated with equipment  purchases,
will be repaid in Japanese  yen. The  anticipated  electricity  prices under the
related  power  sales  contracts  (to  be  received  beginning  with  commercial
operation of those plants) also  includes a yen component  designed to correlate
with the yen-based financing.

       Other notes payable (non-current) increased $646 million (144%) to $1,096
million as a result of the issuances of senior subordinated debt, offset in part
by  the  redemption  of  the  Company's  $75  million  9.75%  Notes.

OPERATING  ACTIVITIES.  Cash flows provided by operating activities totaled $193
million  during 1997 as compared to $195  million  during 1996 and $200  million
during 1995.  The decrease in 1997 was primarily due to a larger  portion of net
income being derived from  undistributed  earnings from affiliates and increased
net working  capital  (excluding  project  financing  debt) necessary to support
retail  electricity  sales.  The moderate  change in 1996 was  primarily  due to
undistributed  earnings  from  affiliates  and larger cash  payments  for income
taxes.  These  factors  offset  a  significant  increase  in net  income  before
depreciation  as compared  with 1995.  The increase in 1995 was primarily due to
increased pre-tax income. Unrestricted net cash flow to the parent company after
cash paid for general and administrative costs, and project development expenses
but before  investments and debt service amounted to approximately $259 million,
$165  million and $116 million for the years ended  December 31, 1997,  1996 and
1995, respectively.

INVESTING  ACTIVITIES.  Net cash used in  investing  activities  totaled  $3,799
million  during 1997 as compared to $1,135  million during 1996 and $343 million
during 1995. The 1997 amount primarily reflects  construction activity at Barry,
Lal Pir, Pak Gen, Warrior Run, and Mt. Stuart;  an additional  purchase of Light
shares  (2.4%);  acquisition  of a 60%  interest  in each of Eden and Edes;  the
acquisition  of a 13.06%  interest in Cemig;  acquiring  Destec's  international
assets; the acquisition of 90% of Sul;  acquisition of an 85% interest in Altai;
and the  funding of debt  service  reserves  related to Chigen.  The 1996 amount
primarily reflects the acquisitions of San Juan, Tisza and Ekibastuz,  the Light
investment;  construction  progress at Lal Pir, Pak Gen,  Warrior Run and Barry;
Chigen's  investments in various projects;  reimbursable  payments for contracts
related to a project in  development;  and the funding of debt service  reserves
for the project  financing of the Light  investment.  The 1995 amount  primarily
reflects  the  Company's  investments  in the  outstanding  debt  of  Deepwater,
additional  ownership in San Nicolas,  the  acquisition  of Rio  Juramento,  and
construction  efforts  at Lal  Pir,  Pak  Gen  and  Warrior  Run,  and  Chigen's
investments in the Wuxi and Yangchun Fuyang projects.

FINANCING  ACTIVITIES.  Net cash  provided by  financing  activities  aggregated
$3,723  million  during 1997 as compared  to $886  million  during 1996 and $127
million  during 1995.  The 1997  increase was  primarily  due to the issuance of
project  financing  debt  drawn  under  construction  financing  commitments  or
associated  with  acquisition  financings;  the issuance of senior  subordinated
notes; the issuance of Tecons and common stock; and contributions  from minority
partners.  These  financing  inflows  were  offset  by  project  financing  debt
amortization  payments  and  refinancing  and  repayments  under  the  Company's
revolving line of credit.  The significant  cash financing  inflows in 1996 were
caused by construction  loan draws for Lal Pir, Pak Gen and Warrior Run; project
acquisition  financing  of the Light  investment;  issuance  of $250  million of
10.25% Notes; initial project financing at San Nicolas; and net borrowings under
the Company's revolving line of credit. Significant cash financing outflows were
due to scheduled debt  amortization of the project  financings.  During 1995 the
Company  drew on its project  financing  loan  commitments  associated  with the
construction of Lal Pir and Warrior Run and borrowed under its revolving  credit
facility.  Repayments  of  project  finance  loans  during the year were made in
accordance with amortization schedules.

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

         AES's   business  is  capital   intensive   and  requires   significant
investments to develop or acquire new  operations.  Occasionally,  AES will also
seek to refinance  certain  outstanding  project  financing loans or other notes
payable.  Continued  access to capital on competitive  and  acceptable  terms is
therefore a significant  factor in the Company's ability to further expand.  AES
has primarily utilized project financing loans to fund the capital  expenditures
associated  with  investment in  constructing  and acquiring its electric  power
plants,  distribution companies and related assets. Project financing borrowings
are substantially  non-recourse to other  subsidiaries and affiliates and to AES
as the parent company and are generally  secured by the capital stock,  physical
assets,  contracts and cash flow of the related  subsidiary  or  affiliate.  The
Company intends to continue to seek, where possible,  such non-recourse  project
financing in connection  with the assets which the Company or its affiliates may
develop,  construct or acquire. However,  depending on market conditions and the
unique  characteristics  of individual  businesses,  the  Company's  traditional
providers of project financing, particularly multinational commercial banks, may
seek higher borrowing spreads and increased equity contributions.

       Furthermore, because of the reluctance of commercial lending institutions
to provide non-recourse  project financing (including financial  guarantees) for
businesses in certain less developed economies,  the Company, in such locations,
has and will  continue  to seek direct or indirect  (through  credit  support or
guarantees)  project  financing from a limited  number of government  sponsored,
multilateral or bilateral international financial institutions or agencies. As a
precondition to making such project financing available,  these institutions may
also require  governmental  guarantees of certain project and sovereign  related
risks.  Depending on the policies of specific  governments,  such guarantees may
not be offered and as a result, AES may determine that sufficient financing will
ultimately  not be  available  to fund  the  related  business,  and  may  cease
development or acquisition of such business.

       In addition to the project  financing  loans,  if  available,  AES as the
parent company provides a portion, or in certain instances all, of the remaining
long-term  financing required to fund development,  construction or acquisition.
These investments have generally taken the form of equity  investments or loans,
which are  subordinated  to the  project  financing  loans.  The funds for these
investments have been provided by cash flows from operations and by the proceeds
from issuances of debt, common stock and other securities issued by the Company.

       Interim  needs for  shorter-term  and working  capital  financing  at the
parent company have been met with borrowings under AES's Revolver. Over the past
several  years,  the Company has  continued  to increase the amount of available
financing  under the Revolver.  In the fourth quarter of 1997, AES increased the
amount  committed  under the  Revolver to $600  million.  Under the terms of the
Revolver,  the Company will be required to reduce its direct  borrowings to $225
million for 30  consecutive  days during each twelve month period.  The Revolver
also includes financial covenants related to net worth, cash flow,  investments,
financial  leverage  and  certain  other  obligations  and  limitations  on cash
dividends.  At  December  31,  1997,  cash  borrowings  and  letters  of  credit
outstanding  under  the  Revolver  amounted  to $27  million  and $180  million,
respectively,  compared with $213 million and $123 million in 1996.  The Company
may also  from  time to time seek to meet  some of its  short-term  and  interim
funding  needs  with  additional  commitments  from  banks and  other  financial
institutions at the parent or subsidiary level.

       The ability of AES's  subsidiaries  and  affiliates to declare and to pay
dividends to AES is  restricted  under the terms of existing  project  financing
debt  agreements.  See  Note  5 to the  consolidated  financial  statements  for
additional  information.  In connection with its project  financings and related
contracts,   AES  has  expressly  undertaken  certain  limited  obligations  and
contingent  liabilities,  most  of  which  will  only  be  effective  or will be
terminated  upon  the  occurrence  of  future  events.   AES's  obligations  and
contingent  liabilities  in certain cases take the form of, or are supported by,
letters of credit.  These  obligations  and  contingent  liabilities,  excluding
future  commitments  to invest and those  collateralized  with  letter of credit
obligations  under the Revolver,  were limited by their terms as of December 31,
1997 to an aggregate of  approximately  $149  million.  The Company is obligated
under other contingent  liabilities which are limited to amounts, or percentages
of amounts,  received  by AES as  distributions  from its project  subsidiaries.
These contingent  liabilities aggregated $33 million as of December 31, 1997. In
addition,  AES has expressly  undertaken  certain other  contingent  obligations
which the  Company  does not  expect to have a  material  adverse  effect on its
results of  operations or financial  position,  but which by their terms are not
capped at a dollar amount. Because each of the Company's businesses are distinct
entities and  geographically  diverse and because the  obligations  related to a
single  business  are based on  contingencies  of  varying  types,  the  Company
believes it is unlikely  that it will be called upon to perform under several of
such obligations at any one time.

       At  December  31,  1997,  the  Company  had  future  commitments  to fund
investments  in its  projects  under  construction  and in  development  of $114
million.  Of this amount,  letters of credit in the amount of $42 million  under
the  Revolver  have been  issued to support a portion of these  obligations.  In
addition,  certain of the Company's subsidiaries have obligations to fund equity
and loans in their  projects.  At December 31, 1997 such  commitments  to invest
amount to  approximately  $129 million.  These future  capital  commitments  are
expected  to be  funded  by  internally-generated  cash  flows  and by  external
financings  as may be  necessary.


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

      The Company attempts,  whenever possible,  to hedge certain aspects of its
projects  against the effects of  fluctuations  in  inflation,  interest  rates,
exchange  rates  and  energy  prices.  Because  of  the  complexity  of  hedging
strategies and the diverse nature of AES's operations,  its portfolio's results,
although  significantly hedged, will likely be somewhat affected by fluctuations
in  these  variables  and  such   fluctuations  may  result  in  improvement  or
deterioration  of  operating  results.  Results of  operations  would  generally
improve  with higher oil and natural gas prices and with lower  interest  rates.
Operating  results are also  sensitive to the difference  between  inflation and
interest  rates,  and would  generally  improve when  increases in inflation are
higher than increases in interest rates.

       AES has  generally  structured  the energy  payments  in its power  sales
contracts to adjust with similar price indices as do its contracts with the fuel
suppliers  for the  corresponding  power  plants.  In some  cases a  portion  of
revenues is associated  with operations and  maintenance  costs,  and as such is
usually indexed to adjust with inflation.

       AES primarily  consists of businesses with long-term  contracts or retail
sales  concessions.  While this  contract-based  portfolio  is expected to be an
effective hedge against future energy and electricity  market price risks, it is
worth  noting  that a portion of AES's  current  and  expected  future  revenues
(particularly those related to certain portions of businesses in Kazakhstan, the
UK, Argentina, Hungary and beginning in 1998, Texas) are derived from businesses
without  significant  long-term revenue contracts.  In some of these businesses,
AES has taken additional steps to improve their predictability, in the Company's
opinion,  by using other  contractual  hedging  provisions such as entering into
fuel supply  contracts that absorb a significant  portion of the  variability in
electricity sales prices. Despite these mitigating factors,  increasing reliance
on  non-contract  ("merchant")  businesses in AES's  portfolio  does subject the
Company to potentially increasing electricity market price risk.

       The  hedging  approaches  and  methodologies  utilized by the Company are
implemented  through contractual  provisions with fuel suppliers,  international
financial  institutions  and several of the  Company's  customers.  As a result,
their  effectiveness is dependent,  in part, on each  counterparty's  ability to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the relevant contract.  The Company
has sought to reduce this credit risk in part by entering into contracts,  where
possible,  with  creditworthy  organizations.  In certain  instances,  where the
Company determines that additional credit support is necessary, AES will seek to
execute  (either  concurrently  or  subsequently)  standby,  guarantee or option
agreements with creditworthy third parties. In particular,  AES has executed and
is  the   beneficiary  of  fuel  purchase  option   agreements,   corporate  and
governmental  guarantees to support the  obligations  of local fuel suppliers in
several  locations  and  sovereign   governmental   guarantees   supporting  the
electricity purchase obligation of government-owned  power authorities,  such as
in the Dominican Republic and Pakistan.

       AES has also used a hedging  strategy  in an  attempt  to  insulate  each
plant's  financial   performance,   where  appropriate,   against  the  risk  of
fluctuations in interest rates. Depending on whether capacity payments are fixed
or vary with inflation, the Company generally attempts to hedge against interest
rate   fluctuations   by  arranging   fixed-rate  or  variable  rate  financing,
respectively.  In certain  cases,  the Company  executes  interest rate swap and
interest rate cap  agreements to  effectively  fix or limit the interest rate on
the underlying variable rate financing. At December 31, 1997 the Company and its
subsidiaries had approximately  $2.1 billion of fixed rate debt obligations.  In
addition the Company had entered into interest rate swap  agreements and forward
interest rate swap agreements  aggregating  approximately $1 billion at December
31, 1997 which the Company used to hedge its interest  rate exposure on variable
rate debt.

       Through its equity  investments in foreign  subsidiaries  and affiliates,
AES operates in  jurisdictions  dealing in  currencies  other than the Company's
consolidated  reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. Such investments and advances
were made to fund capital  investment or  acquisition  requirements,  to provide
working  capital,  or to provide  collateral  for  contingent  obligations.  Due
primarily to the  long-term  nature of certain  investments  and  advances,  the
Company  accounts for any adjustments  resulting from translation as a charge or
credit directly to a separate component of stockholders'  equity until such time
as the Company  realizes such charge or credit.  At that time differences may be
recognized in the statement of operations as gains or losses. See the discussion
under the heading Results of Operations.

       In addition,  certain of the Company's foreign  subsidiaries have entered
into obligations in currencies other than their own functional currencies or the
U.S.  dollar.  Whenever  possible,  these  subsidiaries  have attempted to limit
potential  foreign  exchange  exposure by entering into revenue  contracts which
adjust to changes in the foreign exchange rates.  Certain foreign affiliates and
subsidiaries  operate in countries  where the local  inflation rates are greater
than U.S.  inflation  rates. In such cases the foreign currency tends to devalue
relative to the U.S. dollar over time. The Company's subsidiaries and affiliates
have  entered  into  revenue   contracts  which  attempt  to  adjust  for  these
differences;  however,  there can be no  assurance  that such  adjustments  will
compensate for the full effect of currency devaluation,  if any. At December 31,
1997  the  Company  and its  subsidiaries  had  approximately  $450  million  in
outstanding debt that was denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.

       The  table  below  provides  information  about the  Company's  financial
instruments and derivative  financial  instruments that are sensitive to changes
in interest  rates, in particular debt  obligations,  Tecons,  and interest rate
swaps.  AES does not trade in these  financial  instruments  and derivatives and
therefore has classified  them as other than trading.  For debt  obligations and
Tecons the table  presents  principal  cash flows and related  weighted  average
interest  rates  by  expected  maturity  dates  over  the next  five  years  and
thereafter.  For interest rate swaps, the table presents  aggregate  contractual
notional  amounts and weighted  average interest rates over the next five years.
Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual  payments to be exchanged
under the contract. Weighted average variable rates are based on implied forward
rates in the yield curve at December 31, 1997.  The  information is presented in
U.S.  dollar  equivalents,  which  is  the  Company's  reporting  currency.  The
instruments'  actual cash flows are denominated in U.S. dollars (USD),  Japanese
yen (JPY),  Australian dollars (AUD),  Chinese renminbi yuan (CHY) and UK pounds
sterling (GBP) as indicated in parentheses as of December 31, 1997.




       The table below also provides  information about the Company's  financial
instruments by functional  currency and presents such information in U.S. dollar
equivalents.  The table summarizes information on instruments that are sensitive
to foreign currency  exchange rates.  These  instruments are debt obligations of
the Company's  subsidiaries  which are denominated in currencies other than that
subsidiary's  functional  currency.  AES  does  not  trade  in  these  financial
instruments  and  therefore  has  classified  them as other than  trading.  Such
functional  currencies  include the  Argentine  peso (ARS),  the Pakistan  rupee
(PKR),  the Japanese  yen (JPY),  the Chinese  renminbi  yuan (CHY) and the U.S.
dollar (USD). For debt obligations,  the table presents principal cash flows and
related weighted average interest rates by expected  maturity dates for the next
five years and thereafter.



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Stockholders of The AES Corporation:

We  have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets  of The  AES
Corporation  and  subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the related
consolidated  statements of income and cash flows for each of the three years in
the period  ended  December  31, 1997.  Our audits also  included the  financial
statement  schedules  listed  in the  index  on  page  S-1.  These  consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of
The AES Corporation's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules based on
our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  such consolidated  financial  statements present fairly, in all
material   respects,   the  financial   position  of  The  AES  Corporation  and
subsidiaries  as of  December  31,  1997  and  1996,  and the  results  of their
operations  and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1997 in conformity with generally accepted  accounting  principles.
Also, in our opinion,  such financial  statement  schedules,  when considered in
relation  to the  basic  consolidated  financial  statements  taken  as a whole,
present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Washington, DC

January 28, 1998, except for Note 16, as to which date is February 10, 1998


                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS


                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                See notes to consolidated financial statements.




                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS




                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.




                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. GENERAL AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

       The AES Corporation and its  subsidiaries  and affiliates,  (collectively
"AES" or the  "Company") is a global power company  primarily  engaged in owning
and operating  electric  power  generation and  distribution  businesses in many
countries around the world.

       PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION -- The consolidated  financial  statements of
the  Company  include the  accounts  of AES,  its  subsidiaries  and  controlled
affiliates.  Investments in 50% or less owned  affiliates over which the Company
has  the  ability  to  exercise  significant  influence,  but not  control,  are
accounted for using the equity method.  The accounts of AES China Generating Co.
Ltd.  ("Chigen")  are  consolidated  based on its fiscal year ended November 30.
Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.

       CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -- The Company considers cash on hand, deposits
in banks,  certificates of deposit and short-term  marketable securities with an
original maturity of three months or less as cash and cash equivalents.

       INVESTMENTS -- Securities  that the Company has both the positive  intent
and ability to hold to maturity  are  classified  as held-  to-maturity  and are
carried at historical cost.  Other  investments that the Company does not intend
to hold to maturity are classified as  available-for-sale,  and any  significant
unrealized gains or losses are recorded as a separate component of stockholders'
equity.  Interest and dividends on investments are reported in interest  income.
Gains and  losses  on sales of  investments  are  recorded  using  the  specific
identification  method.  Short-term  investments  consist  of  investments  with
original  maturities  in excess  of three  months  but less than one year.  Debt
service  reserves and other  deposits,  which might otherwise be considered cash
and cash equivalents, are treated as noncurrent assets (see Note 3).

       INVENTORY -- Inventory,  valued at the lower of cost or market (first in,
first out method),  consists of coal, raw materials,  spare parts, and supplies.
Inventory consists of the following (in millions):

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31                                     1997             1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Coal and other raw materials                     $58              $57
Spare parts, materials and supplies               37               24
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL                                            $95              $81
================================================================================

       PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT -- Property, plant and equipment, including
improvements,  is stated at cost.  Depreciation,  after consideration of salvage
value, is computed using the straight-line  method over the estimated  composite
lives of the assets, which range from 3 to 40 years. Maintenance and repairs are
charged to expense as incurred.  Emergency and rotable  spare parts  inventories
are included in electric  generation and distribution assets and are depreciated
over the useful life of the related components.

       INTANGIBLE  ASSETS -- Goodwill  and  electricity  sales  concessions  and
contracts are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated periods of
benefit, which range from 16 to 40 years. Intangible assets at December 31, 1997
and 1996  are  shown  net of  accumulated  amortization  of $13  million  and $3
million,  respectively.  The Company reviews its goodwill and electricity  sales
concessions  and  contracts  for  impairment   whenever  events  or  changes  in
circumstances  indicate  that  the  carrying  amount  of such  asset  may not be
recoverable.

       CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS -- Construction  progress payments,  engineering
costs, insurance costs, wages, interest and other costs relating to construction
in progress are capitalized.  Construction in progress  balances are transferred
to electric  generation  and  distribution  assets when the assets are ready for
their intended use.  Interest  capitalized  during  development and construction
totaled  $67  million,  $27  million  and $8  million  in 1997,  1996 and  1995,
respectively.

       DEFERRED  FINANCING  COSTS -- Financing  costs are deferred and amortized
using the straight-line method over the related financing period, which does not
differ materially from the effective  interest method of amortization.  Deferred
financing costs are shown net of accumulated amortization of $52 million and $36
million as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

       PROJECT  DEVELOPMENT  COSTS  -- The  Company  capitalizes  the  costs  of
developing new projects. These costs represent amounts incurred for professional
services,  salaries,  permits,  options,  capitalized interest and other related
direct costs.  These costs are included in investments in affiliates or property
when financing is obtained,  or expensed at the time the Company determines that
a particular project will no longer be developed.  The continued  capitalization
is subject to on-going risks related to successful  completion,  including those
related to political, siting, financing,  construction,  permitting and contract
compliance.  Certain reimbursable costs related to one of the projects have been
classified as other assets.

       FOREIGN  CURRENCY  TRANSLATION  -- Foreign  subsidiaries  and  affiliates
translate their assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at the current exchange
rates in effect at the end of the fiscal period. The gains or losses that result
from this process,  and gains and losses on

intercompany  transactions  which are long-term in nature, and which the Company
does not intend to  repatriate,  are shown in the  cumulative  foreign  currency
translation  adjustment  balance  in the  stockholders'  equity  section  of the
balance sheet. For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary countries,  the
U.S. dollar is considered to be the functional  currency,  and transaction gains
and losses are included in determining  net income.  Gains and losses that arise
from exchange rate fluctuations on transactions  denominated in a currency other
than the  functional  currency,  except  those that are hedged,  are included in
determining net income. The revenue and expense accounts of foreign subsidiaries
and affiliates are translated  into U.S.  dollars at the average  exchange rates
that prevailed during the period.

       REVENUE  RECOGNITION  AND  CONCENTRATION  --  Revenues  from  the sale of
electricity  and steam are  recorded  based upon output  delivered  and capacity
provided at rates as specified  under contract terms.  Electricity  distribution
revenues are  recognized  when billed.  Most of the Company's  power plants rely
primarily on one power sales contract with a single customer for the majority of
revenues.  Three customers  accounted for 14%, 12%, and 10% of revenues in 1997,
five customers accounted for 20%, 16%, 16%, 11% and 10% of revenues in 1996, and
four  customers  accounted  for 24%,  18%, 18% and 13% of revenues in 1995.  The
prolonged failure of any of these customers to fulfill  contractual  obligations
could have a substantial negative impact on AES's revenues and profits. However,
the Company does not  anticipate  non-performance  by the customers  under these
contracts.

       HEDGING  ARRANGEMENTS  -- The  Company  enters  into  various  derivative
transactions in order to hedge its exposure to certain market risks. The Company
currently  has  outstanding  interest rate swap and cap  agreements  which hedge
against  interest  rate exposure on floating rate project  financing  debt.  The
transactions,  which are classified as other than trading are accounted for as a
hedge, and interest is expensed or capitalized, as appropriate,  using effective
interest rates. Any fees or swap payments are amortized as yield adjustments.

       NET INCOME PER SHARE -- During  1997,  the company  adopted  Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standard (SFAS) No. 128,  Earnings Per Share and computed
basic and diluted net income per share based on the weighted  average  number of
shares of common stock and potential common stock outstanding during the period,
after giving effect to stock splits (see Note 9).  Potential  common stock,  for
purposes of  determining  diluted  earnings  per share,  includes the effects of
dilutive  stock  options,  warrants,   deferred  compensation  arrangements  and
convertible  securities.  The effect of such potential  common stock is computed
using the  treasury  stock method or the  if-converted  method,  as  applicable.
Comparative earnings per share data have been restated for prior periods.

       USE OF ESTIMATES -- The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles  requires  the Company to make
estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities
and  disclosures  of  contingent  assets  and  liabilities  at the  date  of the
financial  statements,  as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

       RECLASSIFICATIONS  -- Certain  reclassifications  have been made to prior
period amounts to conform with the 1997 presentation.

 2. ACQUISITIONS

       In January  1997,  the Company  acquired an  additional  2.4% interest in
Light-Servicos  de  Electricidade  S.A.  ("Light"),  a  publicly-held  Brazilian
corporation that operates as the concessionaire of an integrated  electric power
generation,  transmission and  distribution  system which serves Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil. In June 1996, AES and three other partners  participated in a consortium
which acquired a 50.44% controlling interest.  The additional investment in 1997
of approximately $82 million,  increased AES's holdings in Light to 13.75%.  The
Company has the ability to exercise significant  influence over the operation of
Light and records the investment using the equity method.

       In May 1997, AES completed its amalgamation  with Chigen.  As a result of
the  amalgamation,  the Company  issued  approximately  5 million  shares of AES
Common Stock in exchange for all of the outstanding Chigen Class A Common Stock.
A portion of the transaction cost of approximately $29 million represents values
assigned to power purchase  contracts which are being amortized over the life of
the related power purchase contracts, which range from 16 to 25 years.

       Also  in May  1997,  a  subsidiary  of the  Company  acquired  60% of two
electric  distribution  companies  sold  as  part  of the  Argentine  government
privatization   program.  The  companies  purchased  were  Empresa  Distribudora
Electrica  Norte  (Eden),  which  serves the  northern  part of the Buenos Aires
province,  and  Empresa  Distribudora  Electrica  Sur (Edes),  which  serves the
southern part of the province. The Company,  together with its partner, invested
approximately $565 million to acquire a 90% ownership in each company. A portion
of the acquisition costs,  approximately  $204 million,  represents the value of
the 95 year electricity sales concessions granted to Eden and Edes, and is being
amortized over 40 years.

       In June 1997, AES, through a consortium,  acquired,  for approximately $1
billion,  a 14.41%  interest  (of which AES's direct  ownership  during 1997 was
13.06%)  in  Companhia  Energetica  de Minas  Gerais  ("Cemig"),  an  integrated
electric  utility  serving  the State of Minas  Gerais  in  Brazil.  Cemig  owns
approximately 5,000 MW of generating capacity and serves approximately 4 million
customers.  This  investment  also  represents  approximately  33% of the voting
interest in Cemig. The Company has the ability to exercise significant influence
over the operation of Cemig and records the investment using the equity method.

       In June 1997,  AES acquired the  international  assets of Destec  Energy,
Inc. for  approximately  $439  million.  The  purchase  included  five  electric
generating plants in construction or operation and a number of power projects in
development.   The  plants  acquired  by  AES  (with  ownership  percentages  in
parenthesis) include a 110 MW gas-fired combined cycle plant in Kingston, Canada
("Kingston")  (50%); a 405 MW gas-fired  combined cycle plant under construction
in Terneuzen, Netherlands ("Elsta") (50%); a 140 MW gas-fired simple cycle plant
in Cornwall,  England ("Indian  Queens") (100%); a 235 MW oil-fired simple cycle
plant in Santo Domingo,  Dominican  Republic ("Los Mina") (100%);  and a 1600 MW
coal-fired plant in Victoria,  Australia  ("Hazelwood")  (20%). A portion of the
acquisition cost,  approximately  $172 million,  represents the value of various
contracts which are being amortized over the respective lives of 20 years, and a
$67 million liability related to the completion of construction at Elsta.

       The Hazelwood  investment was classified as held for sale at December 31,
1997, and subsequently  sold in February 1998. The Company  recognized a foreign
currency transaction loss of $5 million in 1997.

       In October 1997, a subsidiary of the Company  acquired an 85% interest in
two  hydro-electric  stations  (GES) and four combined  heat and power  stations
(TETS) in East  Kazakhstan  ("Altai").  Altai has a total  electric  capacity of
1,384 MW with an additional  equivalent thermal capacity of approximately  1,000
MW.  The  purchase  price  was  approximately  $24  million  for the 20 year GES
concession and the TETS shares.

       Also in October  1997,  AES  acquired 90% of  Companhia  Centro-Oeste  de
Distribuicao de Energia Electrica,  ("Sul") an electric  distribution company in
the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.  The purchase price for this acquisition
was approximately $1.4 billion. A portion of the acquisition cost, approximately
$884 million,  represents the value of the electricity sales concession  granted
to Sul, which is being amortized over the 30 year period of the concession.  Sul
is in the process of  finalizing  its  severance  plan,  and has  recorded a $34
million liability for severance costs at December 31, 1997.

       In March 1996,  a  subsidiary  of the Company  acquired a 98% interest in
Hidrotermica San Juan, S.A., ("San Juan"),  which is the owner and operator of a
78 MW power  generation  facility in the  province of San Juan,  Argentina.  The
facility,  which sells electricity into the Argentine spot market, includes a 45
MW  hydroelectric  power plant and a 33 MW gas combustion  plant. As a result of
this acquisition,  the Company acquired a hydroelectric concession valued at $17
million which is being amortized over the life of the concession of 30 years.

       During 1996,  the Company,  through a subsidiary,  acquired a controlling
interest in three power  plants  totaling  1,281 MW and a coal mine  through the
purchase of a 94%  share of Tisza Eromu Rt. ("Tisza"), an electricity generation
company in Hungary, for a total purchase price of $127 million.

       In  August  1996,  a  subsidiary  of  the  Company  acquired  a  majority
controlling   interest  in  a  4,000  MW   coal-fired   facility  in  Kazakhstan
("Ekibastuz"),  for  approximately  $3  million.  Beginning  in August  1996 and
continuing  through 1997, AES has recorded a provision of $28 million associated
with  aggregate  outstanding  receivables  (excluding  VAT)  of $54  million  at
December 31, 1997 related to the  operations  of  Ekibastuz.  Approximately  $35
million  of the  aggregate  balance  (excluding  VAT),  before  considering  the
provision, is due from a government-owned  distribution company. There can be no
assurance of the ultimate  collectibility of these amounts owed to Ekibastuz, or
as a result,  the recoverability of the related net assets (totaling $57 million
at December 31, 1997) or additional amounts the Company may invest.

       These  acquisitions  were accounted for as purchases.  The purchase price
allocations for Eden, Edes,  Cemig, Los Mina,  Indian Queens,  Elsta,  Kingston,
Altai and Sul have been completed on a preliminary basis, subject to adjustments
resulting  from  new or  additional  facts  that  may  come to  light  when  the
engineering,   environmental,  and  legal  analyses  are  completed  during  the
respective allocation periods. The accompanying financial statements include the
operating  results of Eden and Edes from May 1997,  equity in  earnings of Cemig
from June 1997,  the  operating  results of Los Mina and Indian Queens from June
1997,  equity in earnings of Kingston from June 1997,  the operating  results of
Sul and Altai from October 1997,  the  operating  results of Tisza and Ekibastuz
from August 1996,  and equity in earnings of Light from June 1996. The following
table presents  supplemental  unaudited  proforma operating results as if all of
the acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of 1996 (in millions,  except per
share amounts):



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the Years Ended December 31                1997                 1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Revenues                                    $ 1,918               $2,195
Net income before extraordinary item            136                   50
Net income after extraordinary item             133                   50
Basic earnings per share                     $ 0.76               $ 0.29
Diluted earnings per share                   $ 0.75               $ 0.28
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The proforma  results are based upon assumptions and estimates which the Company
believes are reasonable. The proforma results do not purport to be indicative of
the results that actually would have been obtained had the acquisitions occurred
on January 1, 1996, nor are they intended to be a projection of future results.

3. INVESTMENTS
At December 31, 1997 and 1996,  the  Company's  investments  were  classified as
either held-to-maturity or available-for-sale.  The amortized cost and estimated
fair value of the  investments  at  December  31,  1997 and 1996  classified  as
held-to-maturity and available-for-sale were approximately the same.

The  short-term  investments  and debt service  reserves and other deposits were
invested as follows (in millions):

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31                                         1997         1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RESTRICTED CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS(1)           $  130       $  104
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HELD-TO-MATURITY
U.S. treasury and government agency securities        37            1
Foreign certificates of deposit                       95           --
Commercial paper                                      66           39
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subtotal                                             198           40
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE
U.S. treasury and government agency securities        15           43
Certificates of deposit                                2            3
Commercial paper                                      15            5
Floating rate notes                                    3           --
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subtotal                                              35           51
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL                                             $  363       $  195
================================================================================

(1)  amounts  required  to be  maintained  in cash in  accordance  with  certain
     covenants of various project financing agreements.

Short-term  investments  classified as held-to-maturity  and  available-for-sale
were $111 and $16 million, respectively, at December 31, 1997 and $9 million and
$11 million, respectively at December 31, 1996.



4. INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO AFFILIATES

The following table presents summarized financial  information (in millions) for
equity method  affiliates on a combined 100% basis.  Amounts  presented for 1997
include the accounts of NIGEN, Ltd.  ("NIGEN") (47% owned UK affiliate),  Medway
Power Ltd.  ("Medway")  (25% owned UK affiliate),  Light (13.75% owned Brazilian
affiliate),  Chigen's affiliates, Kingston (50% owned Canadian affiliate), Elsta
(50% owned Netherlands affiliate), and Cemig (13.06% owned Brazilian affiliate).
Amounts  presented for 1996 include the accounts of NIGEN,  Medway,  Light,  and
Chigen's  affiliates,  and amounts  presented  for 1995  include the accounts of
NIGEN and Medway.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   1997              1996             1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sales                           $ 3,991           $ 1,959            $ 276
Operating income                    984               497               86
Net income                          670               383               49
Current assets                    1,698               889              171
Noncurrent assets                14,800             4,914              949
Current liabilities               1,809               863               70
Noncurrent liabilities            4,752             2,108              973
Stockholders' equity              9,937             2,832               77
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The  Company's  share  of  undistributed  earnings  of  affiliates  included  in
consolidated  retained  earnings was $89 million and $33 million at December 31,
1997 and 1996,  respectively.  The Company  charged and recognized  construction
revenues,  management  fees and  interest on advances  to its  affiliates  which
aggregated  $42  million,  $9 million and $8 million for each of the years ended
December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

5. DEBT
PROJECT  FINANCING DEBT -- Project  financing debt at December 31, 1997 and 1996
consisted of the following (in millions):




(1) weighted average interest rate at December 31, 1997



Project  financing debt borrowings are primarily  collateralized  by the capital
stock of the relevant  subsidiary and in certain cases,  the physical  assets of
and all significant agreements associated with such business.

       The  Company  has  interest  rate  swap and  forward  interest  rate swap
agreements  in an  aggregate  notional  principal  amount of $1,031  million  at
December 31, 1997. The swap agreements  effectively  change the interest rate on
the portion of the debt  covered by the notional  amounts to a weighted  average
fixed rate ranging from  approximately  7.4% to 12.1%. The agreements  expire at
various  dates from 1999 through  2014.  In the event of  nonperformance  by the
counterparties,  the  subsidiaries  may be exposed to increased  interest rates;
however,  the Company does not anticipate  nonperformance by the counterparties,
which  are  multinational   financial   institutions.   At  December  31,  1997,
subsidiaries of the Company have interest rate cap and forward interest rate cap
agreements at various rates with  remaining  terms ranging from two to six years
in an aggregate notional amount of $418 million.

       Shady  Point  and  Hawaii  have  issued  commercial  paper  supported  by
irrevocable letters of credit issued by multinational financial institutions. In
the event of nonperformance or credit  deterioration of these institutions,  the
Company  may be  exposed to the risk of higher  effective  interest  rates.  The
Company does not believe that such  nonperformance  or credit  deterioration  is
likely.

       OTHER NOTES  PAYABLE -- Other notes payable at December 31, 1997 and 1996
consisted of the following (in millions):



(1) weighted average interest rate at December 31, 1997.
(2) floating rate loan

Under the terms of the $600 million corporate  revolving bank loan and letter of
credit facility  ("Revolver"),  the Company must reduce its direct borrowings to
$225  million  for 30  consecutive  days  annually to obtain  additional  loans.
Commitment  fees on the unused  portion at December 31, 1997 are .38% per annum,
and  as  of  that  date  $393  million  was  available.   The  Company's  senior
subordinated  notes  are  general  unsecured  obligations  of the  Company.  The
Company's  9.75% senior  subordinated  notes due 2000 were  refinanced in August
1997. As a result, the Company recorded an extraordinary loss of $3 million, net
of tax.

       FUTURE  MATURITIES  OF DEBT --  Scheduled  maturities  of  total  debt at
December 31, 1997 are (in millions):

                     1998                       $    596
                     1999                          1,058
                     2000                            286
                     2001                            255
                     2002                            237
                     Thereafter                    2,749
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Total                       $ 5,181
================================================================================


       COVENANTS--The terms of the Company's Revolver, senior subordinated notes
and project financing debt agreements contain certain  covenants.  The covenants
provide for,  among other items,  maintenance of certain  reserves,  and require
that minimum levels of working  capital,  net worth and certain  financial ratio
tests are met. The most  restrictive of these covenants  include  limitations on
incurring additional debt and on the payment of dividends to shareholders.

       The project financing debt limitations of AES's  subsidiaries  permit the
payment  of  dividends  to the  parent  company  out of  current  cash  flow for
quarterly,  semi-annual  or annual  periods  only at the end of such periods and
only after  payment of principal and interest on project loans due at the end of
such periods.  As of December 31, 1997,  approximately $68 million was available
under project loan documents for distribution by U.S. subsidiaries.

6. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

       As of December 31, 1997,  the Company and its  consolidated  subsidiaries
were obligated under long-term  non-cancelable  operating leases,  primarily for
office  rental and site  leases.  Rental  expense  for  operating  leases was $9
million,  $4  million  and $3 million in the years  ended  1997,  1996 and 1995,
respectively.  The future minimum lease  commitments  under these leases are $10
million  for 1998,  $7 million for 1999,  $3 million for each year 2000  through
2001, $2 million for 2002, and a total of $64 million for the years thereafter.

       A subsidiary of the Company has entered into a "take-or-pay" contract for
the purchase of  electricity  with a term of five years.  Purchases in 1997 were
approximately  $1  million.  The future  commitment  under this  contract  is $7
million for each year 1998 through 2002.

       Operating  subsidiaries  of the  Company  enter  into  various  long-term
contracts  for the  purchase  of fuel  subject  to  termination  only in certain
limited circumstances. These contracts have remaining terms of 1 to 29 years.

       On  November  24,  1997 the  Company  announced  that it had won a bid to
acquire  three  natural  gas-fired  electric  generating  stations from Southern
California  Edison for  approximately  $781  million.  The  Company  anticipates
completion of the acquisition in 1998. It is expected that a significant portion
of the  acquisition  price  will be  raised  from  proceeds  through  a  project
financing debt arrangement.  However, both the acquisition and the financing are
contingent upon certain conditions precedent.

       GUARANTEES  -- In  connection  with  certain  of its  project  financing,
acquisition and power purchase agreements,  AES has expressly undertaken limited
obligations  and  commitments,  most of which will only be  effective or will be
terminated  upon the occurrence of future events.  In addition,  the Company has
undertaken   commitments  to  fund  its  equity  in  projects   currently  under
development and construction. These obligations and commitments, excluding those
collateralized by letter of credit obligations  discussed below, were limited as
of  December  31,  1997,  by the terms of the  agreements,  to an  aggregate  of
approximately   $221  million.   The  Company  is  also  obligated  under  other
commitments which are limited to amounts, or percentages of amounts, received by
AES as distributions from its project subsidiaries. These amounts aggregated $33
million as of December  31, 1997.  Certain of the  Company's  subsidiaries  have
obligations  to fund equity and loans in their  projects.  At December  31, 1997
such commitments to invest amounted to approximately $129 million.

       LETTERS OF CREDIT -- At December 31, 1997 and 1996,  the Company had $180
million and $123 million,  respectively,  of letters of credit outstanding under
its credit facility which operate to guarantee  performance  relating to certain
project  development  activities and subsidiary  operations.  The Company pays a
letter of credit  fee of 1.50% on the  outstanding  amounts.

       LITIGATION -- The Company is involved in certain legal proceedings in the
normal  course of  business.  It is the opinion of the Company  that none of the
pending  litigation  will  have a  material  adverse  effect on its  results  of
operations, financial position, or cash flows.

7. COMPANY OBLIGATED  MANDATORILY  REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARY
   TRUSTS 

       During  1997,  two   wholly-owned   special   purpose   business   trusts
(individually,  "AES Trust I" and "AES Trust II" and collectively, the "Trusts")
issued Term Convertible Securities ("Tecons"). On March 31, AES Trust I issued 5
million of $2.6875  Tecons  (liquidation  value $50) for total  proceeds of $250
million and  concurrently  purchased $250 million of 5.375% junior  subordinated
convertible  debentures due 2027 of AES (individually the "5.375%  Debentures").
On October 29, AES Trust II issued 6 million of $2.75 Tecons  (liquidation value
$50) for total proceeds of $300 million and concurrently  purchased $300 million
of 5.5% junior subordinated  convertible due 2012 of AES (individually the "5.5%
Debentures"   and   collectively   with  the  5.375%   Debentures   the  "Junior
Debentures").  The sole assets of AES Trust I are the 5.375%  Debentures and the
sole  assets of AES Trust II are the 5.5%  Debentures.  The  obligations  of the
Trusts, as provided under the terms of the Tecons, are fully and unconditionally
guaranteed by AES.

       Dividends on the Tecons are payable quarterly at an annual rate of 5.375%
by AES Trust I and 5.5% for AES Trust II. The Trusts are each permitted to defer
payment of dividends for up to 20  consecutive  quarters,  provided that AES has
exercised its right to defer interest  payments under the  corresponding  Junior
Debentures.   During  such  deferral  periods,  dividends  on  the  Tecons  will
accumulate  quarterly  and  accrue  interest  and  AES may  not  declare  or pay
dividends on its common stock.  The Tecons are convertible into the common stock
of AES

at each  holder's  option prior to March 31, 2027 for AES Trust I and  September
30, 2012 for AES Trust II at the rate of 1.3812 and .8914 shares,  respectively,
representing  a  conversion  price  equivalent  to $36.20  and  $56.09 per share
respectively.

      AES, at its option,  can redeem the 5.375% Debentures after March 31, 2000
which would result in the required  redemption of the Tecons issued by AES Trust
I, for  $51.68  per Tecon,  reduced  annually  by $0.336 to a minimum of $50 per
Tecon and can redeem the 5.5%  Debentures  after  September 30, 2000 which would
result in the  required  redemption  of the  Tecons  issued by AES Trust II, for
$51.72 per Tecon, reduced annually by $0.344 to a minimum of $50 per Tecon.

      Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 1997 includes $10 million
and $3 million related to the dividends accrued on the Tecons of AES Trust I and
AES Trust II, respectively.

8. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY


       STOCK SPLIT AND STOCK DIVIDEND -- On July 15, 1997 the Board of Directors
authorized  a  two-for-one  split,  effected  in the  form of a stock  dividend,
payable  to  stockholders  of  record  on  August  28,  1997.  Accordingly,  all
outstanding share, per share and stock option data in all periods presented have
been restated to reflect the split.

       STOCK CONVERSION -- On July 30, 1996, the Company  exercised its right to
redeem the 6.5% debentures at a redemption price equal to approximately  104% of
the principal  amount of the debentures,  together with accrued interest through
the date of  redemption.  As a result,  $49  million of the  debentures,  net of
conversion  costs, were converted into 3.8 million shares of common stock of the
Company at a conversion price of $13.08 per share.

       STOCK OPTIONS AND WARRANTS -- The Company has granted options to purchase
shares of common  stock  under its stock  option  plans.  Under the terms of the
plans,  the Company may issue options to purchase shares of the Company's common
stock at a price  equal to 100% of the  market  price at the date the  option is
granted.


The options become  eligible for exercise under various  schedules.  At December
31, 1997, there were approximately 4.5 million shares reserved for future grants
under the plans.

A summary of the option activity follows (in thousands of shares):




The following table summarizes  information  about stock options  outstanding at
December 31, 1997 (in thousands of shares) :




The Company  accounts for its stock-based  compensation  plans under APB No. 25,
and  adopted  SFAS No. 123 for  disclosure  purposes  in 1996.  No  compensation
expense has been recognized in connection with the options,  as all options have
been granted only to AES people,  including  Directors,  with an exercise  price
equal to the market  price of the  Company's  common stock on the date of grant.
For SFAS No. 123 disclosure  purposes,  the weighted  average fair value of each
option grant has been estimated as of the date of grant using the  Black-Scholes
option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:  risk-free
interest rate of 5.9%, 6.5% and 5.5% and expected volatility of 37%, 28% and 24%
for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,  respectively,  a dividend
payout rate of zero for each year and an expected option life of 7 years.  Using
these assumptions,  the weighted average fair value of each stock option granted
was $17.86,  $8.81 and $4.09,  for the years ended  December 31, 1997,  1996 and
1995,  respectively.  In calculating  the fair value,  there were no adjustments
made to account for vesting  provisions  or for  non-transferability  or risk of
forfeiture.

       Had compensation expense been determined under the provisions of SFAS No.
123,  utilizing the  assumptions  detailed  above,  the Company's net income and
earnings per share for the years ended  December  31, 1997,  1996 and 1995 would
have been reduced to the following pro forma amounts (in millions):



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the Years Ended December 31        1997             1996             1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NET INCOME:
As reported                           $ 185            $ 125            $ 107
Pro forma                               168              121              106
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE:
As reported                           $1.11            $0.83            $0.71
Pro forma                              1.01             0.80             0.71
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE:
As reported                           $1.09            $0.80            $0.70
Pro forma                              1.00             0.78             0.69
================================================================================

The disclosures of such amounts and assumptions are not intended to forecast any
possible future  appreciation of the Company's stock price or change in dividend
policy.

       In addition to the options  described  above, the Company has outstanding
warrants to purchase up to 1.3 million  shares of its common stock at $14.72 per
share  through  July  2000,  which  were  issued  as  partial  settlement  of  a
shareholder  class  action suit and were  expensed in 1995.  Warrants  exercised
under this settlement were not significant during December 1997 or 1996.

       AES CHINA GENERATING CO. LTD. -- In May 1997, the Company acquired all of
the  outstanding  Class  A  shares  of  Chigen  by  amalgamating  Chigen  with a
wholly-owned  subsidiary of the Company.  As a result of this  transaction,  the
Company issued  approximately  5 million shares of its common stock.  As part of
the  amalgamation,  the Company also  converted the  outstanding  options of the
Chigen stock option plan to AES stock options at the ratio of .29 to 1.


9. EARNINGS PER SHARE

       The following  table  presents a  reconciliation  of the  numerators  and
denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per share computations for income
before  extraordinary  item. In the table below Income  represents the numerator
(in millions) and Shares represent the denominator (in thousands):





10. INCOME TAXES

INCOME TAX PROVISION -- The provision for income taxes consists of the following
(in millions):

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the Years Ended December 31     1997              1996             1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Federal
  Current                          $   7              $ 19             $  4
  Deferred                            22                27               47
State
  Current                             19                12                5
  Deferred                            (6)               (2)               1
Foreign
  Current                             10                 3               --
  Deferred                             4                 1               --
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                              $  56              $ 60             $ 57
================================================================================

       EFFECTIVE AND STATUTORY RATE  RECONCILIATION  -- A reconciliation  of the
U.S. statutory Federal income tax rate to the Company's  effective tax rate as a
percentage of income before taxes (excluding  earnings and taxes from affiliates
accounted for on the equity method, and minority interests) is as follows:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the Years Ended December 31           1997        1996        1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Statutory Federal tax rate                 35%        35%          35%
Change in valuation allowance              (2)        (2)          (6)
State taxes, net of Federal tax benefit     5          6            6
Taxes on foreign earnings                   3          2           --
Other - net                                (1)        (1)           3
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Effective tax rate                         40%        40%          38%
================================================================================

       DEFERRED  INCOME TAXES -- Deferred  income taxes  relate  principally  to
accelerated  depreciation  methods  used  for tax  purposes  and  certain  other
expenses  which are  deducted  for income tax  purposes,  but not for  financial
reporting  purposes.  Deferred  income taxes  reflect the net tax effects of (a)
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for
financial  reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes,  and
(b) operating loss and tax credit  carryforwards.  These items are stated at the
enacted tax rates that are expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid
or recovered.  Deferred tax assets and deferred tax  liabilities  are as follows
(in millions):

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the Years Ended December 31                       1997             1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Differences between book and tax basis of
  property and total deferred tax liability          $ 476            $ 379
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating loss carryforwards                           (75)            (124)
Bad debt and other book provisions                     (47)              --
Retirement costs                                       (31)              --
Tax credit carryforwards                              (104)             (97)
Other deductible temporary differences                 (24)             (13)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total gross deferred tax asset                        (281)            (234)
Less: valuation allowance                               31               33
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total net deferred tax asset                          (250)            (201)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax liability                           $ 226            $ 178
================================================================================



       As of December  31,  1997,  the Company  had Federal net  operating  loss
carryforwards for tax purposes of approximately  $159 million expiring from 2007
through 2009,  Federal  investment tax credit  carryforwards for tax purposes of
approximately  $51 million  expiring  in years 2001  through  2006,  and Federal
alternative minimum tax credits of approximately $42 million which carry forward
without expiration.

       The   valuation   allowance   decreased   during  the  current   year  by
approximately  $2 million to $31 million at December  31,  1997.  This  decrease
resulted   primarily  from  the   utilization  of  foreign  net  operating  loss
carryforwards, offset in part by a partial valuation allowance for the provision
to reduce contract receivables.  The $31 million valuation allowance at December
31, 1997  relates  primarily to U.S.  state and foreign  operating  losses,  and
foreign deferred tax assets, the ultimate realization of which is uncertain. The
Company believes that it is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax
assets will be realized.

       The  valuation  allowance  increased  during  1996 by  approximately  $24
million to $33 million at December 31, 1996.  This increase  resulted  primarily
from the acquisition of foreign entities with certain pre-existing  deferred tax
assets, the ultimate realization of which is uncertain.  The valuation allowance
for  these  pre-existing   deferred  tax  assets  was  recorded  as  acquisition
adjustments  and had no effect on the current year income tax  expense.  The $33
million valuation allowance at December 31, 1996 relates primarily to U.S. state
and foreign tax credits,  U.S. state operating losses,  and foreign deferred tax
assets, the ultimate realization of which is uncertain.

       Undistributed  earnings of certain  foreign  affiliates  aggregated  $129
million on  December  31,  1997.  The  Company  considers  these  earnings to be
indefinitely  reinvested outside of the U.S. and, accordingly,  no U.S. deferred
taxes have been recorded  with respect to the  earnings.  Should the earnings be
remitted as dividends,  the Company may be subject to additional U.S. taxes, net
of allowable  foreign tax credits.  It is not practicable to estimate the amount
of any additional taxes which may be payable on the  undistributed  earnings.  A
deferred tax asset of $14 million has been  recorded as of December 31, 1997 for
the cumulative effects of certain foreign currency translations.


11. PROFIT SHARING AND DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLANS

PROFIT  SHARING  AND STOCK  OWNERSHIP  PLAN -- The Company  sponsors  two profit
sharing and stock ownership  plans,  qualified under section 401 of the Internal
Revenue Code, which are available to eligible AES people.  The plans provide for
Company matching contributions, other Company contributions at the discretion of
the  Compensation  Committee of the Board of Directors,  and  discretionary  tax
deferred  contributions from the participants.  Participants are fully vested in
their own contributions and the Company's matching  contributions.  Participants
vest  in  other  Company   contributions   over  a  five-year  period.   Company
contributions  to the plan were  approximately  $5  million  for the year  ended
December  31, 1997 and $4 million for both of the years ended  December 31, 1996
and 1995.

       DEFERRED   COMPENSATION   PLANS  --  The  Company   sponsors  a  deferred
compensation  plan under  which  directors  of the  Company  may elect to have a
portion or all of their  compensation  deferred.  The amounts  allocated to each
participant's  deferred  compensation account may be converted into common stock
units.  Upon  termination or death of a participant,  the Company is required to
distribute,  under various methods, cash or the number of shares of common stock
accumulated within the participant's deferred compensation account. Distribution
of stock is to be made from common stock held in treasury or from authorized but
previously  unissued  shares.  The  plan  terminates  and full  distribution  is
required  to be made to all  participants  upon any  change  of  control  of the
Company (as defined).

       In  addition,  the  Company  sponsors  an  executive  officers'  deferred
compensation  plan.  At the election of an executive  officer,  the Company will
establish an unfunded,  non-qualified  compensation arrangement for each officer
who chooses to  terminate  participation  in the  Company's  profit  sharing and
employee stock  ownership  plan. The  participant may elect to forego payment of
any portion of his or her  compensation  and have an equal amount allocated to a
contribution  account.  In addition,  the Company will credit the  participant's
account with an amount equal to the Company's  contributions  (both matching and
profit sharing) that would have been made on such officer's  behalf if he or she
had been a participant in the profit sharing plan. The  participant may elect to
have all or a portion of the Company's  contribution converted into stock units.
Dividends paid on common stock are allocated to the participant's account in the
form of stock units. The participant's  account balances are distributable  upon
termination  of  employment  or  death.

       During 1995, the Company adopted a supplemental  retirement plan covering
certain  highly-compensated  AES people.  The plan provides  incremental  profit
sharing and matching  contributions to participants that would have been paid to
their  accounts  in the  Company's  profit  sharing  plan  if it  were  not  for
limitations imposed by income tax regulations. All contributions to the plan are
vested in the manner  provided in the Company's  profit  sharing plan,  and once
vested are nonforfeitable.  The participant's account balances are distributable
upon termination of employment or death.



       DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN -- The Company's subsidiary, Sul, has a contributory
defined  benefit  pension  plan  covering  substantially  all of its  employees.
Pension benefits are based on years of credited service,  age of the participant
and  average  earnings.  Plan  assets  are  comprised  of  Brazilian  government
securities and bonds,  stocks of  publicly-traded  Brazilian  companies and real
estate holdings.  Net pension expense for the two months ended December 31, 1997
(subsequent to the date of  acquisition)  includes the following  components (in
millions):

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Benefit cost for service                                              $ .3
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation                           .1
Actual return on plan assets                                            .3
Net amortization and deferral                                           .1
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net pension expense                                                   $ .8
================================================================================


The amounts included in the consolidated  balance sheet were based on the funded
status of the plan at December 31, 1997 and are as follows (in millions):

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31                                                             1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACTUARIAL PRESENT VALUE OF BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
Vested benefit obligation                                             $ (31)
Nonvested benefit obligation                                            (26)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation                                          (57)
Additional amounts related to assumed pay increases                     (15)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Projected benefit obligation                                            (72)
Plan assets at fair value                                                31
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Benefit obligations in excess of plan assets                            (41)
Unamortized net obligations at date of adoption                          (3)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pension liability recognized in the consolidated balance sheet        $ (44)
================================================================================

Significant   assumptions  used  in  the  calculation  of  pension  expense  and
obligation are as follows:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discount rate                                                            6%
Rate of compensation increase                                            2%
Long-term rate of return on plan                                         6%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company is not obligated under any post-retirement  benefit plans other than
the profit  sharing,  deferred  compensation  plans,  and defined  benefit  plan
described in this Note.



12. QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)




13. GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENTS

Information about the Company's  operations in different  geographic areas is as
follows (in millions):

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the Years Ended December 31                   1997        1996        1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REVENUES
North America                                  $   577     $   554      $  542
South America/Central America                      423         146         131
Asia                                               148          45           1
Europe                                             263          90           5
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                          $ 1,411     $   835      $  679
================================================================================
For the Years Ended December 31                   1997        1996        1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPERATING INCOME
North America                                  $   261     $   258      $  251
South America/Central America                       64          21          14
Asia                                                15         (9)         (8)
Europe                                              28           8         (4)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                          $   368     $   278      $  253
================================================================================
For the Years Ended December 31                   1997        1996        1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EQUITY IN EARNINGS (NET OF INCOME TAXES)
North America                                  $    --     $    --      $   --
South America/Central America                       88          21          --
Asia                                                 2           1          --
Europe                                              15          13          14
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                          $   105     $    35      $   14
================================================================================
December 31                                       1997        1996        1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS
North America                                  $ 1,914     $ 1,831      $1,693
South America/Central America                    4,712         683         230
Asia                                             1,571         744         328
Europe                                             712         364          90
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                          $ 8,909     $ 3,622      $2,341
================================================================================



14. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The estimated  fair values of the  Company's  assets and  liabilities  have been
determined using available market information. The estimates are not necessarily
indicative  of the  amounts  the  Company  could  realize  in a  current  market
exchange.   The  use  of  different   market   assumptions   and/or   estimation
methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

       The fair value of current financial  assets,  current  liabilities,  debt
service reserves and other deposits,  and other assets are estimated to be equal
to their reported carrying amounts.  The fair value of project financing debt is
estimated  differently  based upon the type of loan.  For  variable  rate loans,
carrying value  approximates fair value. For fixed rate loans, the fair value is
estimated  using  discounted  cash flow analyses based on the Company's  current
incremental  borrowing  rates,  or by the estimated  discount rate a prospective
seller would pay to a credit-worthy  third party to assume the obligations.  The
carrying  value and fair value of the Placerita and Indian Queens capital leases
have been excluded from this  disclosure.  The fair value of swap  agreements is
the estimated net amount that the Company would pay to terminate the  agreements
at the balance sheet date. The estimated fair values of the senior  subordinated
notes and Tecons are based on quoted market prices.

The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments at December 31,
1997 and 1996 are as follows (in millions):

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31                       1997                               1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          CARRYING         FAIR        CARRYING           FAIR
                           AMOUNT          VALUE        AMOUNT            VALUE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Project financing debt    $3,942         $3,953        $1,562           $1,562
Other notes payable        1,096          1,116           538              560
Tecons                       550            661            --               --
Interest rate swaps           --             81            --               68
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The fair value  estimates  presented  herein are based on pertinent  information
available  as of  December  31,  1997 and 1996.  The Company is not aware of any
factors that would  significantly  affect the estimated fair value amounts since
that date.

15. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In 1998,  the Company will be required to adopt the  provisions of SFAS No. 130,
Reporting  Comprehensive  Income and No. 131,  Disclosures  about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information. The Company will report comprehensive income
in a separate  statement  which will show the  effects of the  foreign  currency
translation  loss as a component of comprehensive  income.  The Company believes
its segment disclosures under SFAS 131 will be materially  consistent with those
currently presented.

16.  SUBSEQUENT  EVENTS
In January 1998 the  Company,  pursuant to an option  agreement  with one of its
partners in Cemig, sold  approximately  28% of its 13.06% ownership  interest in
Cemig for $115 million,  approximating  its carrying  value.  As a result of the
sale, the Company's  ownership  percentage  decreased to approximately  10%. The
Company continues to exert significant influence, as its voting interests remain
unchanged.

       On February 10, 1998,  the Company sold its  investment  in Hazelwood for
approximately  $139 million,  which  approximated its carrying value as an asset
held for sale at December 31, 1997. The Company used the proceeds of these sales
to repay a  portion  of the  project  financing  debt  classified  as a  current
liability at December 31, 1997.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

         None.



                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

         See the  information  with  respect  to the  ages  of the  Registrant's
directors in the table on page 4 and the information contained under the caption
"Election of Directors" on pages 1 through 3 inclusive,  of the Proxy  Statement
for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Registrant to be held on April 21,
1998,  which  information  is  incorporated  herein by  reference.  See also the
information  with  respect to  executive  officers of the  Registrant  under the
caption  entitled   "Executive   Officers  and  Significant   Employees  of  the
Registrant" in Item 1 of Part I hereof, which information is incorporated herein
by reference.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

         See the  information  contained  under the  captions  "Compensation  of
Executive  Officers"  on pages 10  through 12  inclusive  and  "Compensation  of
Directors"  on  page  5, of the  Proxy  Statement  for  the  Annual  Meeting  of
Stockholders of the Registrant to be held on April 21, 1998,  which  information
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS, DIRECTORS AND 
          EXECUTIVE OFFICERS.

         (a)  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners.

         See the information  contained under the caption "Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners,  Directors,  and Executive Officers" on page 4 of the
Proxy  Statement for the Annual Meeting of  Stockholders of the Registrant to be
held on April 21, 1998, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

         (b)  Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers.

         See the information  contained under the caption "Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners,  Directors,  and Executive Officers" on page 4 of the
Proxy  Statement for the Annual Meeting of  Stockholders of the Registrant to be
held on April 21, 1998, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

         (c) Changes in Control.

         None.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

         See the  information  for Mr.  Thomas I.  Unterberg,  a director of the
Registrant, contained under the caption "Election of Directors" on page 2 of the
Proxy  Statement for the Annual Meeting of  Stockholders of the Registrant to be
held on April 21, 1998, which information is incorporated herein by reference.



                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

     (a) Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules and Exhibits.

         (1)  Financial Statements (all financial statements listed below are of
              the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries).

              -   Independent  Auditors'  Report  is  contained  in the  section
                  entitled "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" at Item
                  8 hereof.

              -   Consolidated  Balance Sheets at December 31, 1996 and 1997 are
                  contained in the section  entitled  "Financial  Statements and
                  Supplementary Data" at Item 8 hereof.

              -   Consolidated  Statements  of Operations -- For the Years Ended
                  December 31, 1995,  1996 and 1997 are contained in the section
                  entitled "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" at Item
                  8 hereof.

              -   Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows -- For the Years Ended
                  December 31, 1995,  1996 and 1997 are contained in the section
                  entitled "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" at Item
                  8 hereof.

              -   Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements -- For the Years
                  Ended  December 31, 1995,  1996 and 1997 are  contained in the
                  section entitled "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data"
                  at Item 8 hereof.

         (2)  Financial Statement Schedules

              -   See Index to Financial  Statement  Schedules of the Registrant
                  and   subsidiaries   at  page  S-1  hereof,   which  Index  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.

         (3)  Exhibits

         3.1      Amended and Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation of The AES
                  Corporation is  incorporated  by herein  reference to Exhibits
                  3.1  and  3.2  to  the  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-8
                  (Registration No. 333-26225).
         3.2      By-Laws of The AES Corporation,  as amended,  are incorporated
                  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  3.2  of  the  Registration
                  Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-22513).
         4.1      Amended  and  Restated  Declaration  of Trust of AES  Trust I,
                  among The AES Corporation,  The First National Bank of Chicago
                  and First Chicago Delaware,  Inc., to provide for the issuance
                  of the $2.6875 Term Convertible Securities, Series A.
         4.2      Junior Subordinated Indenture, between The AES Corporation and
                  The  First  National  Bank  of  Chicago,  to  provide  for the
                  issuance of the $2.6875 Term Convertible Securities, Series A.
         4.3      First Supplemental Indenture to Junior Subordinated Indenture,
                  between The AES  Corporation  and The First  National  Bank of
                  Chicago,  as  trustee,  to  provide  for the  issuance  of the
                  $2.6875 Term Convertible Securities, Series A.
         4.4      Guarantee Agreement, between The AES Corporation and The First
                  National Bank of Chicago,  as initial  guarantee  trustee,  to
                  provide  for the  issuance  of the  $2.6875  Term  Convertible
                  Securities, Series A.

         4.5      Second  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of October  13, 1997
                  between the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago, as
                  trustee,  to provide for the issuance from time to time of the
                  10.25% Senior  Subordinated  Notes Due 2006,  is  incorporated
                  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.2.1 of the  Registration
                  Statement on Form S-3/A  (Registration  No.  333-39857)  filed
                  November 19, 1997.
         4.6      Indenture  dated  as of  October  29,  1997  between  The  AES
                  Corporation  and  The  First  National  Bank  of  Chicago,  as
                  trustee,  to provide for the issuance from time to time of the
                  8.50%  Senior  Subordinated  Notes due 2007 of the Company and
                  the  8.875%  Senior  Subordinated   Debentures  due  2027,  is
                  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to  the
                  Registration   Statement   on  Form  S-4   (Registration   No.
                  333-44845) filed January 23, 1998.
         4.7      First  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of November  21, 1997
                  between The AES  Corporation  and The First  National  Bank of
                  Chicago,  as trustee, to provide for the issuance from time to
                  time of the 8.50%  Senior  Subordinated  Notes due 2007 of the
                  Company  and the 8.875%  Senior  Subordinated  Debentures  due
                  2027, is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1.2 to
                  the  Registration  Statement  on Form  S-4  (Registration  No.
                  333-44845) filed January 23, 1998.
         4.8      Junior  Subordinated Debt Trust Securities  Indenture dated as
                  of March 1, 1997  between the  Company and The First  National
                  Bank of Chicago, to provide for the issuance of the $2.75 Term
                  Convertible  Securities,  Series B, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registration Statement on Form
                  S-3 (Registration No. 333-46189) filed February 12, 1998.
         4.9      Second  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of October  29, 1997
                  between the Company and The First National Bank of Chicago, to
                  provide  for  the  issuance  of  the  $2.75  Term  Convertible
                  Securities,  Series B, is incorporated  herein by reference to
                  Exhibit  4.1.1  to the  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-3
                  (Registration No. 333-46189) filed February 12, 1998.
         4.10     Amended and Restated  Declaration of Trust of AES Trust II, to
                  provide  for  the  issuance  of  the  $2.75  Term  Convertible
                  Securities,  Series B, is incorporated  herein by reference to
                  Exhibit  4.3  to  the  Registration   Statement  on  Form  S-3
                  (Registration No. 333-46189) filed February 12, 1998.
         4.11     Restated  Certificate of Trust of AES Trust II, to provide for
                  the issuance of the $2.75 Term Convertible Securities,  Series
                  B, is  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the
                  Registration   Statement   on  Form  S-3   (Registration   No.
                  333-46189) filed February 12, 1998.
         4.12     Form of Preferred Security, to provide for the issuance of the
                  $2.75 Term Convertible  Securities,  Series B, is incorporated
                  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.5  to  the  Registration
                  Statement  on Form  S-3  (Registration  No.  333-46189)  filed
                  February 12, 1998.
         4.13     Form of Junior  Subordinated  Debt Trust Security,  to provide
                  for the  issuance  of the $2.75 Term  Convertible  Securities,
                  Series B, is  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 4.6
                  to the Registration  Statement on Form S-3  (Registration  No.
                  333-46189) filed February 12, 1998.
         4.14     Preferred  Securities  Guarantee  with  respect  to  Preferred
                  Securities,  to  provide  for the  issuance  of the $2.75 Term
                  Convertible  Securities,  Series B, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the Registration Statement on Form
                  S-3 (Registration No. 333-46189) filed February 12, 1998.
         4.15     Other instruments  defining the rights of holders of long-term
                  indebtedness   of  the   Registrant   and   its   consolidated
                  subsidiaries.
         10.1     Amended Power Sales Agreement,  dated as of December 10, 1985,
                  between Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company and AES Shady Point,
                  Inc. is  incorporated  herein by  reference to Exhibit 10.5 to
                  the  Registration  Statement  on Form  S-1  (Registration  No.
                  33-40483).
         10.2     First Amendment to the Amended Power Sales Agreement, dated as
                  of  December  19,  1985,  between  Oklahoma  Gas and  Electric
                  Company and AES Shady Point,  Inc. is  incorporated  herein by
                  reference to Exhibit  10.45 to the  Registration  Statement on
                  Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-46011).
         10.3     Electricity Purchase Agreement,  dated as of December 6, 1985,
                  between  The  Connecticut  Light  and  Power  Company  and AES
                  Thames,  Inc. is  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit
                  10.4 to the Registration  Statement on Form S-1  (Registration
                  No. 33-40483).
         10.4     Power Purchase  Agreement,  dated March 25, 1988,  between AES
                  Barbers Point, Inc. and Hawaiian  Electric  Company,  Inc., as
                  amended,  is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6
                  to the Registration  Statement on Form S-1  (Registration  No.
                  33-40483).

         10.5     The AES Corporation Profit Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan is
                  incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit  4(c)(1) to the
                  Registration   Statement   on  Form  S-8   (Registration   No.
                  33-49262).
         10.6     The AES  Corporation  Incentive  Stock Option Plan of 1991, as
                  amended,  is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.30
                  to the Annual  Report on Form 10-K of the  Registrant  for the
                  fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.
         10.7     Applied Energy Services,  Inc.  Incentive Stock Option Plan of
                  1982 is  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.31 to
                  the  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-1 (Registration  No.
                  33-40483).
         10.8     Deferred Compensation Plan for Executive Officers, as amended,
                  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.32 to
                  Amendment  No.  1 to the  Registration  Statement  on Form S-1
                  (Registration No. 33-40483).
         10.9     Deferred  Compensation  Plan for  Directors,  as  amended,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to Amendment
                  No. 1 to the Registration  Statement on Form S-1 (Registration
                  No. 33-40483).
         10.10    The AES Corporation Stock Option Plan for Outside Directors is
                  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.43 to the
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K of  Registrant  for the Fiscal Year
                  ended December 31, 1991.
         10.11    The   AES   Corporation   Supplemental   Retirement   Plan  is
                  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.64 to the
                  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K of the  Registrant  for the year
                  ended December 31, 1994.
         11       Statement of computation  of earnings per share. 
         12       Statement  of  computation  of  ratio  of  earnings  to fixed 
                  charges. 
         21       Significant subsidiaries of The AES Corporation.
         23       Consent of independent auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP.
         24       Powers of attorney.
         27       Financial Data Schedule (Article 5).

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K.

     -   Registrant  filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K dated November 10, 1997
         in respect of the  acquisition by a subsidiary of the Registrant of 90%
         of the common  shares of CCODEE (AES Sul as used in this Annual  Report
         on Form 10-K) and disclosing the sale of equity securities  pursuant to
         Regulation S to finance the acquisition.

     -   Registrant  filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  November 6, 1997
         including  the  Registrant's  1996  consolidated  financial  statements
         updated for certain subsequent events.

     -   Registrant filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 21, 1997 in
         respect of (i) a press release  issued on October 21, 1997,  announcing
         the Company's  third quarter  earnings,  (ii) a press release issued on
         October  21,  1997,  announcing  that  the  Company  commenced  private
         offerings of senior subordinated notes and convertible securities,  and
         (iii) a press release issued on October 24, 1997, announcing pricing of
         privately placed offerings.




SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  the Company has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  March 30, 1998                        THE AES CORPORATION
                                             (Company)

                                             By: /s/ Dennis W. Bakke
                                                 ----------------------
                                             Name:  Dennis W. Bakke
                                             Title: President and Chief
                                                    Executive Officer

         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the Company and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.






                      THE AES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

     Schedule I - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant        S-2

     Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                   S-6


         Schedules  other than those listed above are omitted as the information
is either not applicable,  not required,  or has been furnished in the financial
statements or notes thereto included in Item 8 hereof.



                                       S-1



                               THE AES CORPORATION
                                   SCHEDULE I
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                   STATEMENTS OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                  (IN MILLIONS)

                                           See notes to Schedule I



                                      S-2


                               THE AES CORPORATION
                                   SCHEDULE I
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                     STATEMENTS OF UNCONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS
                                  (IN MILLIONS)



                             See notes to Schedule I








                                      S-3



                               THE AES CORPORATION
                                   SCHEDULE I
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                     STATEMENTS OF UNCONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS
                                  (IN MILLIONS)




                                           See notes to Schedule I



                                      S-4


                               THE AES CORPORATION
                                   SCHEDULE I
                               NOTES TO SCHEDULE I

1.       APPLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES

         Accounting for  Subsidiaries  -- The AES  Corporation has accounted for
the  earnings of its  subsidiaries  on the equity  method in the  unconsolidated
condensed financial information.

         Income  Taxes -- The  unconsolidated  income  tax  expense  or  benefit
computed for the Company in accordance  with  Statement of Financial  Accounting
Standards  No. 109,  Accounting  for Income  Taxes,  reflects the tax assets and
liabilities  of the  Company on a stand  alone  basis and the effect of filing a
consolidated U.S. income tax return with certain other affiliated companies.

         Accounts and Notes  Receivable  from  Subsidiaries -- Such amounts have
been shown in current or  long-term  assets  based on terms in  agreements  with
subsidiaries,  but payment is dependent upon meeting conditions precedent in the
subsidiary loan agreements.

2.       NOTES PAYABLE


       Notes  payable at December 31, 1996 and 1997  consisted of the  following
(in millions):


(1)      Weighted average interest rate at December 31, 1997.
(2)      Floating rate loan.




                                      S-5

                               THE AES CORPORATION
                                   SCHEDULE II
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                  (IN MILLIONS)

                                          Balance at   Charged to     Balance at
                                          Beginning    Costs and        End of
                                          of Period     Expenses        Period
                                          ---------     --------        ------

Description

Allowance for contract receivables
     Year ended December 31, 1996               --           20             20
     Year ended December 31, 1997        $      20     $     17       $     37

Amortization of deferred costs
     Year ended December 31, 1995               26            5             31
     Year ended December 31, 1996               31            5             36
     Year ended December 31, 1997        $      36     $     16       $     52



                                      S-6

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX






4.10     Amended and Restated  Declaration  of Trust of AES Trust II, to provide
         for the issuance of the $2.75 Term Convertible Securities, Series B, is
         incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit 4.3 to the  Registration
         Statement on Form S-3  (Registration  No. 333-46189) filed February 12,
         1998.
4.11     Restated  Certificate  of Trust of AES  Trust II,  to  provide  for the
         issuance  of the  $2.75  Term  Convertible  Securities,  Series  B,  is
         incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit 4.4 to the  Registration
         Statement on Form S-3  (Registration  No. 333-46189) filed February 12,
         1998.
4.12     Form of  Preferred  Security,  to provide for the issuance of the $2.75
         Term  Convertible  Securities,  Series  B, is  incorporated  herein  by
         reference  to Exhibit  4.5 to the  Registration  Statement  on Form S-3
         (Registration No. 333-46189) filed February 12, 1998.
4.13     Form of Junior  Subordinated  Debt Trust  Security,  to provide for the
         issuance  of the  $2.75  Term  Convertible  Securities,  Series  B,  is
         incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit 4.6 to the  Registration
         Statement on Form S-3  (Registration  No. 333-46189) filed February 12,
         1998.
4.14     Preferred Securities Guarantee with respect to Preferred Securities, to
         provide  for the  issuance  of the $2.75 Term  Convertible  Securities,
         Series B, is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit 4.7 to the
         Registration  Statement on Form S-3  (Registration No. 333-46189) filed
         February 12, 1998.
4.15     Other  instruments  defining  the  rights of  holders  of  unregistered
         long-term   indebtedness   of  the  Registrant  and  its   consolidated
         subsidiaries.
10.1     Amended Power Sales Agreement,  dated as of December 10, 1985,  between
         Oklahoma  Gas  and  Electric  Company  and AES  Shady  Point,  Inc.  is
         incorporated  herein by reference  to Exhibit 10.5 to the  Registration
         Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).
10.2     First  Amendment  to the  Amended  Power Sales  Agreement,  dated as of
         December 19, 1985,  between  Oklahoma Gas and Electric  Company and AES
         Shady Point, Inc. is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.45
         to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-46011).
10.3     Electricity  Purchase Agreement,  dated as of December 6, 1985, between
         The  Connecticut  Light and  Power  Company  and AES  Thames,  Inc.  is
         incorporated  herein by reference  to Exhibit 10.4 to the  Registration
         Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).
10.4     Power  Purchase  Agreement,  dated March 25, 1988,  between AES Barbers
         Point,  Inc.  and  Hawaiian  Electric  Company,  Inc.,  as amended,  is
         incorporated  herein by reference  to Exhibit 10.6 to the  Registration
         Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).
10.5     The  AES  Corporation  Profit  Sharing  and  Stock  Ownership  Plan  is
         incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(c)(1) to the Registration
         Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 33-49262).
10.6     The AES Corporation Incentive Stock Option Plan of 1991, as amended, is
         incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the Annual Report
         on Form 10-K of the  Registrant  for the fiscal year ended December 31,
         1995.
10.7     Applied Energy  Services,  Inc.  Incentive Stock Option Plan of 1982 is
         incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.31 to the  Registration
         Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).
10.8     Deferred  Compensation  Plan for  Executive  Officers,  as amended,  is
         incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to Amendment No. 1 to
         the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).
10.9     Deferred  Compensation Plan for Directors,  as amended, is incorporated
         herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.33  to  Amendment  No.  1 to the
         Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).
10.10    The  AES  Corporation  Stock  Option  Plan  for  Outside  Directors  is
         incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.43 to the Annual Report
         on Form 10-K of Registrant for the Fiscal Year ended December 31, 1991.




10.11    The AES Corporation Supplemental Retirement Plan is incorporated herein
         by reference to Exhibit  10.64 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the
         Registrant for the year ended December 31, 1994.
11       Statement  of  computation  of  earnings  per share.
12       Statement of computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges.
21       Significant subsidiaries of The AES Corporation.
23       Consent of Independent Auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP.
24       Powers of Attorney.
27       Financial Data Schedule (Article 5).




