
10-K
FORM 10-K


================================================================================
                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   -----------
                                    FORM 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-19281

                               THE AES CORPORATION
             ------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


              DELAWARE                                54-1163725
 (State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 incorporation or organization)


1001 NORTH 19TH STREET, ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA                              22209
  (Address of principal executive offices)                            (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (703) 522-1315
           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON
          TITLE OF EACH CLASS                       WHICH REGISTERED
          -------------------                   ------------------------
     Common Stock, par value $0.01
               per share                         New York Stock Exchange
       $2.6875 Term Convertible
         Securities, Series A                    New York Stock Exchange


           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

       TITLE OF EACH CLASS             NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
       -------------------             -----------------------------------------
Warrants to Purchase Common Stock,
     par value $.01 per share                           NASDAQ

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No _

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

                                   -----------

     The  aggregate   market  value  of   Registrant's   voting  stock  held  by
non-affiliates  of  Registrant,  at February 2, 1999,  was  $4,045,655,274.  The
number of shares  outstanding of Registrant's  Common Stock, par value $0.01 per
share, at February 2, 1999, was 180,567,229.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Registrant to
be held on April 20,  1999.  Certain  information  therein  is  incorporated  by
reference into Part III hereof.
================================================================================





                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

     (a)  General development of business.

OVERVIEW

     The AES Corporation and its subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively "AES"
or the "Company") are helping to meet the world's needs by providing electricity
to customers in many countries in a socially responsible way.

     A majority of the  Company's  sales of  electricity  are made to  customers
(generally  electric  utilities or regional  electric  companies) on a wholesale
basis for further  resale to end users.  This is referred to as the  electricity
"generation"  business.  Sales by these  generation  companies  are usually made
under long-term contracts from power plants owned by the Company's  subsidiaries
and affiliates, although the Company does, in certain circumstances,  make sales
into regional  electricity  markets without contracts.  The Company's  ownership
portfolio of power facilities  includes new plants constructed for such purposes
("greenfield"  plants)  as  well  as  existing  power  plants  acquired  through
competitively bid privatization initiatives and negotiated acquisitions.

     AES now  operates  and owns  (entirely  or in part) a diverse  portfolio of
electric  power  plants  (including  those  within the  integrated  distribution
companies  discussed below) with a total capacity of 24,076 megawatts ("MW"). Of
that total,  29% are fueled by coal or petroleum coke, 24% are fueled by natural
gas, 33% are hydroelectric  facilities,  6% are fueled by oil, and the remaining
8% are capable of using  multiple  fossil  fuels.  Of the total MW,  5,025 (nine
plants) are located in the United States, 817 (eight plants) are in China, 1,818
(five  plants) are in the U.K.,  1,281  (three  plants)  are in  Hungary,  6,456
(forty-one  plants)  are in Brazil,  885 (six  plants) are in  Argentina,  5,384
(seven plants) are in Kazakhstan  (including  4,000 MW attributable to Ekibastuz
which currently has a reliable  capacity of approximately  25%), 210 (one plant)
are in the Dominican  Republic,  110 (one plant) are in Canada, 695 (two plants)
are in Pakistan, 405 (one plant) are in the Netherlands,  288 (one plant) are in
Australia,  282 (three  plants)  are in Panama  (acquired  in 1999) and 420 (one
plant) are in India (operational control acquired in 1999).

     AES is also  currently in the process of adding  approximately  5,254 MW to
its operating portfolio by constructing  several new plants. These include a 180
MW coal-fired  plant, and a 700 MW natural gas-fired plant in the United States,
a 600 MW natural  gas-fired  plant in  Brazil,  a 2,100 MW  coal-fired  plant in
China, an 830 MW natural gas-fired plant in Argentina, a 360 MW coal-fired plant
in England, and a 484 MW natural gas-fired plant in Mexico.

     As a  result,  AES's  total MW of 96 power  plants  in  operation  or under
construction is approximately 29,330 and net equity ownership (total MW adjusted
for the Company's ownership percentage) represents approximately 19,819 MW.

     AES also owns interests (both majority and minority) in companies that sell
electricity  directly to commercial,  industrial,  governmental  and residential
customers.  This is  referred  to as the  electricity  "distribution"  business.
Electricity sales by AES's  distribution  businesses are generally made pursuant
to the  provisions  of long-term  electricity  sale  concessions  granted by the
appropriate governmental authority as part of the original privatization of each
distribution  company.  In  certain  cases,  these  distribution  companies  are
"integrated",  in that they also own  electric  power  plants for the purpose of
generating a portion of the  electricity  they sell. Each  distribution  company
also purchases,  in varying proportions,  electricity from third-party wholesale
suppliers, including in certain cases, other subsidiaries of the Company.






     AES has majority  ownership in three  distribution  companies in Argentina,
one in Brazil, one in El Salvador, a heat and electricity  distribution business
in Kazakhstan,  one in the Republic of Georgia  (operational control acquired in
1999)  and  less  than  majority  ownership  in  three  additional  distribution
companies in Brazil.  These ten companies  serve a total of  approximately  13.2
million  customers with gigawatt hour sales  exceeding  63,000.  On a net equity
basis, AES's ownership represents approximately 3 million customers and gigawatt
hour sales exceeding 22,000.

     AES has been  successful  in growing its  business  and serving  additional
customers  by   participating   in  competitive   bidding  under   privatization
initiatives  and  has  been  particularly   interested  in  acquiring   existing
businesses or assets in electricity  markets that are promoting  competition and
eliminating rate of return regulation. In such privatizations, sellers generally
seek to complete  competitive  solicitations in less than one year, much quicker
than the time  periods  associated  with  greenfield  development,  and  usually
require  payment  in full on  transfer.  AES  believes  that its  experience  in
competitive  markets and its  worldwide  integrated  group  structure,  with its
significant  geographic  coverage and  presence,  enable it to react quickly and
creatively in such situations.

     Because of this relatively  quick process or other  considerations,  it may
not  always  be  possible  to  arrange   "project   financing"   (the  Company's
historically  preferred financing method,  which is discussed further under Item
1(c), "Narrative description of business" below.  Additionally,  as in the past,
certain  acquisitions or the commencement of construction in several  greenfield
developments  would  potentially  require  the  Company  to  obtain  substantial
additional financing including both debt and equity.

     The Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware, was formed
in 1981. AES has its principal offices located at 1001 North 19th Street,  Suite
2000, Arlington, Virginia 22209, and its telephone number is (703) 522-1315.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS

        The  Company  wishes to caution  readers  that the  following  important
factors,  among others,  indicate areas affecting the Company which involve risk
and uncertainty (see also the Company's cautionary statements made in connection
with AES's  Year 2000  efforts  contained  in its  Discussion  and  Analysis  of
Financial  Condition and Results of Operations which is contained in its Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on March 18, 1999 (the "March 1999 Form 8-K"), which is
incorporated  herein by  reference).  These factors  should be  considered  when
reviewing  the  Company's  business,  and are relied  upon by AES in issuing any
forward-looking  statements.  Such factors could affect AES's actual results and
cause  such  results  to  differ   materially   from  those   expressed  in  any
forward-looking  statements  made by, or on behalf of, AES. Some or all of these
factors may apply to the Company's  businesses as currently  maintained or to be
maintained.

     o    Changes in company-wide  operation and plant  availability  (including
          wholly and  partially  owned  facilities)  compared  to the  Company's
          historical performance;  changes in the Company's historical operating
          cost  structure,  including but not limited to those costs  associated
          with  fuel,  operations,  supplies,  raw  materials,  maintenance  and
          repair, people, transmission of electricity and insurance.

     o    In certain  non-U.S.  countries  where the Company is or is seeking to
          conduct business:  unexpected  changes in electricity  tariff rates or
          tariff adjustments for increased expenses; the ability or inability of
          AES to obtain, or hedge against,  foreign  currency;  foreign exchange
          rates and  fluctuations  in those rates;  the economic,  political and
          military  conditions   affecting  property  damage,   interruption  of
          business  and  expropriation  risks;  changes in trade,  monetary  and
          fiscal   policies,   laws  and   regulations;   other   activities  of
          governments,  agencies and similar organizations;  social and economic
          conditions;  local  inflation  and monetary  fluctuations;  import and
          other  charges  or  taxes;   conditions  or   restrictions   impairing
          repatriation  of  earnings  or other cash flow;  nationalizations  and
          unstable   governments  and  legal  systems,   and   intergovernmental
          disputes.






     o    Changes  in the  amount  of,  and rate of growth  in,  AES's  selling,
          general  and  administrative  expenses;  the  impact of AES's  ongoing
          evaluation of its  development  costs,  business  strategies and asset
          valuations,  including, but not limited to, the effect of a failure to
          successfully complete certain development projects.
     o    Legislation  intended  to promote  competition  in U.S.  and  non-U.S.
          electricity  markets,   such  as  those  currently  receiving  serious
          consideration  in the United States  Congress to repeal (i) the Public
          Utility  Regulatory  Policies Act of 1978, as amended,  or at least to
          repeal the  obligation  of  utilities  to  purchase  electricity  from
          qualifying facilities, and (ii) the Public Utility Holding Company Act
          of 1935, as amended;  changes in regulatory rule-making by the Federal
          Energy Regulatory  Commission or other regulatory  bodies;  changes in
          energy taxes; or new legislative or regulatory initiatives in non-U.S.
          countries; changes in national, state or local environmental,  safety,
          tax and other laws and  regulations  applicable  to the Company or its
          operations.
     o    The  prolonged  failure by any  customer  of the Company or any of its
          subsidiaries to fulfill its contractual payment obligations  presently
          or in the future,  either because such customer is financially  unable
          to fulfill such contractual obligation or otherwise refuses to do so.
     o    Successful and timely  completion of (i) the  respective  construction
          for each of the  Company's  electric  generating  projects  now  under
          construction  and those  projects  yet-to-begin  construction  or (ii)
          capital  improvements  to  its  existing  facilities.
     o    Changes in inflation,  fuel, electricity and other commodity prices in
          U.S. and non-U.S. markets;  conditions in financial markets, including
          fluctuations in interest rates and the  availability  of capital;  and
          changes in the economic and  electricity  consumption  growth rates in
          U.S. and non-U.S. countries.
     o    Unusual  weather  conditions  and the specific  needs of each plant to
          perform  unanticipated  facility  maintenance  or  outages  (including
          annual or multi-year).
     o    The costs  and other  effects  of legal and  administrative  cases and
          proceedings,  settlements and  investigations,  claims, and changes in
          those items,  developments or assertions by or against AES; the effect
          of new, or changes  in,  accounting  policies  and  practices  and the
          application of such policies and practices.
     o    Changes  or  increases  in  taxes  on  property,   plant,   equipment,
          emissions,  gross  receipts,  income or other aspects of the Company's
          business or operations.

     (b)  Financial information about industry segments.

     The Company considers its reportable  segments to be electrical  generation
and  distribution.   See  note  12  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements
incorporated by reference to the Company's March 1999 Form 8-K.

     (c)  Narrative description of business.

     The Company  attempts to participate  in competitive  power markets as they
develop  either  through  greenfield  development  or by acquiring and operating
existing  facilities or systems in these markets.  The Company operates electric
generating  facilities  that utilize  natural gas,  coal,  oil,  hydropower,  or
combinations  thereof.  In addition,  the Company  participates  in  electricity
distribution   and  retail  supply   businesses  and  will  continue  to  review
opportunities  in such markets in the future.  Other  elements of the  Company's
strategy include:

     o    Supplying energy to customers at the lowest cost possible, taking into
          account factors such as reliability and environmental performance;
     o    Constructing  or  acquiring   projects  of  a  relatively  large  size
          (generally larger than 100 megawatts);
     o    When  available,  entering  into power sales  contracts  with electric
          utilities or other customers with significant credit strength; and
     o    Where  possible,  participating  in  distribution  and  retail  supply
          markets that grant concessions with long-term pricing arrangements.






     The Company also strives for  operating  excellence as a key element of its
strategy, which it believes it accomplishes by minimizing  organizational layers
and maximizing company-wide participation in decision-making.  AES has attempted
to create an  operating  environment  that  results in safe,  clean and reliable
electricity  generation and distribution.  Because of this emphasis, the Company
prefers to operate all facilities which it develops or acquires;  however, there
can be no assurance that the Company will have  operating  control of all of its
facilities.

     The Company's focus is the wholesale  generation and supply of electricity,
and  electricity   distribution  businesses  and  integrated  utilities.   Asset
composition,  operating margins and a variety of other business  characteristics
differ  significantly from one type of business to another.  References to power
sales agreements, fuel supply agreements and plants generally mean those related
to the generation business.  Concession (or service) contracts, supply contracts
and  networks  are  generally  associated  with  the  distribution   businesses.
Integrated  utilities  have  characteristics  of both  businesses.  In addition,
integrated  utilities  may generate more or less of their own  electricity.  For
example,  Light (as defined below)  generates a comparatively  low percentage of
its own electricity  while CEMIG (as defined below)  generates almost all of its
own electricity needs.

     Most of AES's electric  generation  plants sell electricity under long-term
power sales contracts. The Company attempts, whenever possible, to structure the
revenue provisions of its plants' power sales contracts such that changes in the
revenue  components of these contracts  correspond,  as closely as possible,  to
fluctuations  in the cost  components  of the plant  (primarily  fuel costs).  A
plant's revenues from a power sales contract usually consists of two components,
energy  payments and capacity  payments.  Energy payments are based on a plant's
net electrical  output (the amount of electricity  delivered on a  kilowatt-hour
basis),  with payment rates usually indexed to the fuel costs of the contracting
utility or to general inflation indices. Capacity payments are based on either a
plant's net electrical  output or its available  capacity (the ratio of kilowatt
hours the plant delivers to the total kilowatt hours requested by the customer).
Capacity payment rates vary over the term of a power sales contract according to
various schedules.

     To the extent  possible,  the  Company  attempts to  structure  an electric
generation  plant's  fuel  supply  contract  so that fuel costs are indexed in a
manner similar to the energy  payments a project  receives under the power sales
contract.   In  this  way,   project   revenues  are  partially  hedged  against
fluctuations in fuel costs.

     As with fuel prices,  AES has hedged a substantial  portion of its projects
against the risk of  fluctuations  in interest rates. In each project with fixed
capacity  payments,  AES has attempted to hedge all or a significant  portion of
its risk of interest rate fluctuations by arranging for fixed-rate  financing or
variable-rate  financing  with interest rate swaps or other hedging  mechanisms.
Those projects with  fluctuating  capacity  payments are hedged by arranging for
floating rate financing.

     The Company attempts to finance each domestic and foreign project primarily
under loan  agreements  and  related  documents  which,  except as noted  below,
require the loans to be repaid  solely from the  project's  revenues and provide
that the repayment of the loans (and interest  thereon) is secured solely by the
capital  stock,  physical  assets,  contracts  and  cash  flow of  that  project
subsidiary  or  affiliate.  This type of  financing  is usually  referred  to as
"project  financing."  The lenders  under  these  project  financing  structures
generally  cannot look to AES or its other projects for  repayment,  unless such
entity  explicitly agrees to undertake  liability.  AES has explicitly agreed to
undertake certain limited obligations and contingent liabilities,  most of which
by their terms will only be effective or will be terminated  upon the occurrence
of future events. These obligations and liabilities take the form of guarantees,
letter  of credit  reimbursement  agreements,  and,  in  certain  circumstances,
agreements to pay to project  lenders or other parties amounts up to the amounts
of  distributions  previously made by the applicable  subsidiary or






affiliate to AES. To the extent AES becomes  liable under  guarantees and letter
of credit  reimbursement  agreements,  distributions  received by AES from other
projects  are  subject to the  possibility  of being  utilized by AES to satisfy
these obligations. To the extent of these obligations,  the lenders to a project
effectively  have  recourse  to AES and to the  distributions  to AES from other
projects. The aggregate contractual liability of AES is, in each case, usually a
small portion of the  aggregate  project  debt,  and thus the project  financing
structures are generally described herein as being "substantially  non-recourse"
to AES and its other projects.

     PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES

     A  core  part  of  AES's  corporate  culture  is a  commitment  to  "shared
principles."  These  principles  describe  how AES  people  endeavor  to behave,
recognizing  that they don't always live up to these  standards.  The principles
are:

     Integrity - AES strives to act with integrity,  or "wholeness." The Company
     seeks to honor its commitments.  The goal is that the things AES people say
     and do in all parts of the  Company  should  fit  together  with  truth and
     consistency.

     Fairness  - AES  wants to treat  fairly  its  people,  its  customers,  its
     suppliers,  its  stockholders,  governments and the communities in which it
     operates.  Defining  what is  fair  is  often  difficult,  but the  Company
     believes  it is helpful to  routinely  question  the  relative  fairness of
     alternative courses of action.

     Fun - AES desires that people employed by the Company and those people with
     whom the Company  interacts have fun in their work.  AES's goal has been to
     create and maintain an environment in which each person can flourish in the
     use of her or his gifts and skills and thereby enjoy the time spent at AES.

     Social  Responsibility  - The Company believes that it has a responsibility
     to be involved in projects  that  provide  social  benefits,  such as lower
     costs to  customers,  a high  degree of safety and  reliability,  increased
     employment and a cleaner environment.

     AES recognizes  that most companies have standards and ethics by which they
operate  and that  business  decisions  are  based,  at  least in part,  on such
principles. The Company believes that an explicit commitment to a particular set
of standards  is a useful way to  encourage  ownership of those values among its
people.  While the people at AES  acknowledge  that they won't always live up to
these standards, they believe that being held accountable to these shared values
will help them behave more consistently with such principles.

     AES makes an effort to support these  principles in ways that acknowledge a
strong  corporate  commitment  and  encourage  people  to act  accordingly.  For
example,  AES conducts annual surveys,  both  company-wide and at each location,
designed to measure how well its people are doing in supporting these principles
- -- through  interactions within the Company and with people outside the Company.
These surveys are perhaps most useful in revealing failures, and helping to deal
with those failures. AES's principles are relevant because they help explain how
AES people approach the Company's business. The Company seeks to adhere to these
principles,  not as a means to achieve economic success but because adherence is
a worthwhile goal in and of itself.

     In order to create a fun working  environment  for its people and implement
its  strategy  of  operational   excellence,   AES  has  adopted   decentralized
organizational  principles and practices. For example, AES works to minimize the
number of supervisory  layers in its organization.  Most of the Company's plants
operate without shift supervisors.  The project subsidiaries are responsible for
all







major  facility-specific  business  functions,  including  financing and capital
expenditures.  Criteria for hiring new AES people include a person's willingness
to accept  responsibility and AES's principles as well as a person's  experience
and expertise.  The Company has generally  organized  itself into  multi-skilled
teams to develop  projects,  rather than forming "staff" groups (such as a human
resources   department  or  an  engineering  staff)  to  carry  out  specialized
functions.









AES BUSINESSES

     The  following  tables  set  forth  information   regarding  the  Company's
businesses that are in operation or under construction. A further description of
each  business  follows  the  tables.  For a  description  of risk  factors  and
additional  factors  that may apply to the  Company's  businesses,  see also the
information contained under the caption "Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors"
in Item 1 above, and Item 7, "Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations"  incorporated  herein by reference to the March 1999 Form
8-K.






*    Dates for commencement of commercial operation are projections only and may
     be subject to change.



BUSINESSES IN NORTH AMERICA

     AES currently owns and operates,  through subsidiaries and affiliates,  ten
generation facilities in the United States and Canada representing approximately
5,135 MW.

     Deepwater is a 143 MW petroleum  coke-fired  cogeneration  facility located
near Houston,  Texas. Fuel is supplied from the adjacent Lyondell Citgo refinery
under an all-requirements contract with Thyssen Citgo Petcoke Corp. that extends
through the end of the second quarter of 2000.  The facility  sells  electricity
under  two  marketing  agreements  which  expire  December  31,  1999 to  Dynegy
Marketing and Trade,  and Williams  Energy  Marketing  and Trade.  Its remaining
output is delivered as available  to Houston  Lighting and Power  Company  under
Qualifying Facility tariffs.  Thereafter Deepwater has committed essentially all
of its capacity under a contract with Texas Untilities  Electricity  Company for
the  period  January 1, 2000  through  December  31,  2001.  Although  Deepwater
commenced  commercial operation in 1986, making it the first of AES's commercial
plants, the Company did not gain control of the facility until 1995.

     Beaver  Valley  is a 125 MW  pulverized  coal-fired  cogeneration  facility
located in Monaca,  Pennsylvania.  AES is the  managing  partner and operator of
Beaver Valley.  West Penn Power Company  purchases  electricity  produced by the
plant under a power sales  contract with a remaining  term of  approximately  18
years.  The facility  sells steam to NOVA Chemicals Inc. for use in its chemical
processing  activities  under a  requirements  contract with a remaining term of
approximately four years.

     Placerita  is a  120  MW  natural  gas-fired,  combined-cycle  cogeneration
facility near Los Angeles,  California.  In December 1998, Placerita executed an
agreement to sell its power purchase  agreement with Southern  California Edison
("Edison")






for a  lump-sum  payment,  completion  of which is subject  to  approval  by the
California  Public Utilities  Commission (the "CPUC").  If approved by the CPUC,
Placerita will use the proceeds of the sale to (i) redeem its project  financing
loan and (ii) buyout its existing leveraged lease from Ford Motor Credit as well
as  certain  of the  facility's  existing  steam and fuel  contracts.  Placerita
thereafter will sell  electricity  into the newly  established  California Power
Exchange.

     Thames  is  a  181  MW  coal-fired,   circulating   fluidized  bed  ("CFB")
cogeneration plant located in Montville,  Connecticut. Power generated by Thames
is sold to Connecticut Light and Power Company under a contract with a remaining
term of  approximately  16 years.  Thames  also sells  steam to Stone  Container
Paperboard Corporation for use in its recycled paperboard plant located adjacent
to the plant.

     Shady  Point is a 320 MW  coal-fired,  CFB  cogeneration  plant in  LeFlore
County,  Oklahoma.  The Shady  Point  facility  includes a 240-ton  per day food
grade,  liquid  CO2  plant,  which  utilizes  in its  CO2  production  processes
approximately  65,000  pounds per hour of process  steam  produced by the plant.
Shady Point sells  electricity  to Oklahoma  Gas and  Electric  Company  under a
contract with a remaining term of approximately 9 years.

     Hawaii is a 180 MW coal-fired,  CFB cogeneration  plant located in Kapolei,
Oahu, Hawaii.  Hawaii sells electricity to Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. under
a contract with a remaining  term of 25 years.  Steam  generated by the plant is
sold to Chevron USA Inc.  for use in its oil refining  operations  under a steam
sales agreement with a remaining term of 15 years.

     Kingston  is a  110  MW  gas-fired,  combined-cycle  cogeneration  facility
located in  Ernestown  Township,  Ontario.  Kingston  is owned by a  partnership
comprised  of AES and two  partners,  each  owning 25  percent.  The plant began
commercial  operations  in February  1997 and  operates as a baseload  facility.
Energy  generated by the plant is sold to Celanese  Canada,  Inc. in the form of
steam and Dowthern. The Company operates the business through various agreements
entered into at the time of its acquisition of its interest in the facility.

     AES  Alamitos,  AES  Redondo  Beach and AES  Huntington  Beach are  natural
gas-fired  facilities with a combined generating capacity of 3,956 MW located in
southern  California.  Each of the facilities  sells its electricity to Williams
Energy Services Company  ("Williams")  pursuant to long-term tolling agreements.
Under the agreements,  Williams  delivers natural gas to the plants and owns and
markets the  electrical  output.  AES  completed  its  acquisition  of the three
stations from Edison for  approximately  $786 million in May 1998 in association
with Edison's divestiture of the bulk of its generating capacity.  In connection
with the acquisition,  AES Southland,  a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company,
obtained  $713  million  of   non-recourse   project   financing.   Pursuant  to
California's electricity restructuring law, Edison will remain under contract to
operate and maintain the facilities  until May 2000, after which AES will assume
operations.

BUSINESSES IN LATIN AMERICA

     AES  currently  owns and operates,  through  subsidiaries  and  affiliates,
fifty-one  generating  facilities  in Latin America  representing  approximately
7,833  MW.  In  addition,  AES has  majority  ownership  in  three  distribution
companies  in  Argentina,  one in Brazil and one in El  Salvador,  and less than
majority  ownership in three  additional  integrated  distribution  companies in
Brazil.  These  eight  distribution  companies  serve a total of more  than 12.8
million customers with gigawatt hour sales exceeding 100,000.

     San Nicolas is a 650 MW power plant in San Nicolas,  Argentina. San Nicolas
sells a total of 345 MW of electricity  (approximately 53 percent of the plant's
output  capability) under two power






sales contracts,  each with a remaining term of three years. Under the contracts
three  distribution  companies  all of which are  controlled  by AES through its
ownership  interest in Empresa  Distribuidora  de Energia  Norte S.A.  ("EDEN"),
Empresa  Distribuidora de Energia Sur S.A. ("EDES") and Empresa Distribuidora de
La Plata S.A. ("EDELAP") (all described below),  purchase 345 MW of electricity.
The plant sells additional electricity, when it is profitable to do so, into the
Argentine spot market.

     Hidroelectrica   Rio  Juramento  S.A.   ("Rio   Juramento")  is  a  112  MW
hydroelectric station in the province of Salta, Argentina.  The station consists
of a 102 MW  facility  with a large  storage  reservoir  capable  of  inter-year
storage,  and a 10 MW facility capable of inter-seasonal  storage. Rio Juramento
has  exclusive  rights to operate  the  facility  under a  long-term  concession
agreement, and sells electricity in the Argentine spot market.

     Hidrotermica  San Juan,  S.A. ("San Juan") is the owner and operator of two
power  generating  facilities  totaling  78 MW in  the  province  of  San  Juan,
Argentina.  San Juan includes a 45 MW hydroelectric  power plant and a 33 MW gas
combustion power plant.

     Los Mina is a 210 MW oil-fired,  simple-cycle  power plant located in Santo
Domingo,  Dominican  Republic.  Los Mina  operates two  simple-cycle  combustion
turbine   generators  on  land  adjacent  to  a  government  owned   electricity
substation,  and supplies power to the  interconnected  grid of the  Corporacion
Dominicana de Electricidad  ("CDE"), the government-owned  utility. The facility
burns oil supplied by Shell. The facility began operations in May 1996. Due to a
design flaw, Los Mina has  experienced  recurring  turbine blade failure and was
out of service and unable to provide electricity in several instances during the
period prior to and after the date of AES's acquisition of the facility in 1997.
Modified  blades  have  been  installed  in both  of Los  Mina's  units  and the
availability  of the  plant  has  reached  100%  during  1998  and  Los  Mina is
processing  claims  with  its  insurer  for  recovery  of the  cost of  repairs.
Furthermore,  hurricane  Georges  caused a  contractually  defined force maejure
event to occur during the third quarter of 1998 which is affecting CDE's ability
to accept power from Los Mina.  Although no assurance can be given that Los Mina
will be able to collect on the insurance  claims,  the Company believes that the
outcome  of  the  matter  will  not  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  its
consolidated financial position, results of operation or cash flows.

     Quebrada de Ullum is a 45 MW  hydroelectric  plant  located on the San Juan
River in San Juan  Province,  Argentina.  The Company  acquired the facility and
began  operations  in April 1998 as part of a 40-year  concession  agreement  it
signed with the  Province  for its 230 MW  Caracoles  project.  The project is a
mixed hydroelectric/irrigation  system that, when completed, will consist of the
existing  Quebrada  de Ullum  plant  and two  newly  constructed  dams and their
associated  facilities.  The Province of San Juan,  with credit support from the
Republic of Argentina,  is providing the funds for the irrigation portion of the
project.

     Empresa  de  Generacion  Chiriqui  S.A.  ("EGE  Chiriqui")  and  Empresa de
Generacion  Bayano ("EGE  Bayano") are two Panamanian  hydroelectric  generation
businesses.  EGE Bayano is  comprised  of a 150 MW hydro  facility  and 42 MW of
thermal capacity, located near Panama City, Panama. EGE Chiriqui is comprised of
two existing  run-of-river  hydro facilities for a total of 90 MW in the western
part of Panama in the  mountains  near Costa Rica.  EGE Bayano and EGE  Chiriqui
sell their  power  pursuant  to  five-year  contracts  with  local  distribution
companies that were  privatized in September 1998 (now owned by Union Fenosa and
Constellation). Thereafter, the units will sell their capacity and energy on the
spot market or under new contracts with the distribution companies.  The Company
purchased EGE Chiriqui and EGE Bayano in January 1999






from  Instituto  de  Recursos   Hidraulicos  y   Electrificacion   ("IRHE"),   a
government-owned  utility company in Panama, for approximately $91 million.  The
Company  owns 49% of both  businesses  with  IRHE  retaining  a 49% share of the
companies  and  the  remaining  2% to be  owned  by  employees.  Pursuant  to an
agreement  entered into as part of the  acquisition,  the Company  controls both
businesses.

     Light Servicos de  Electricidade,  S.A.  ("Light") is a Brazilian  electric
power generation, transmission and distribution system serving 28 municipalities
in the state of Rio de Janeiro,  Brazil.  Light is  controlled  by a  consortium
comprised  of AES,  Electricite  de France,  Reliant  Energy  Industries,  Inc.,
Houston  Industries,  Companhia  Siderurgica  Nacional  and  Banco  Nacional  de
Desenvolvimento Economico E Social (the "Light Consortium").  In connection with
the purchase of the  controlling  interest by the Light  Consortium in 1996, the
Ministry  of Mines and Energy of Brazil  granted a 30-year  concession  to Light
which obligates Light to provide  electric  services to all customers within its
concession.  Light  generates  about 16  percent  of the  total  electricity  it
distributes  through four hydroelectric  complexes having an aggregate installed
generating  capacity  of  approximately  788  MW.  Light  purchases  53%  of its
distributed electricity from Furnas Centrais Electricas S.A., a power generation
and transmission company owned by Eletrobras, and the remaining 31% is purchased
from Itaipu  Binacional,  a power  generation  company  owned by the Republic of
Brazil and the Republic of Paraguay ("Itaipu"). AES has principal responsibility
within  Light for all  matters  relating  to the  generation  and  purchase  for
distribution  of  all  electricity   through  its  participation  in  the  Light
Consortium.

     Companhia  Energetica de Minas Gerais  ("CEMIG") is an integrated  electric
utility  serving  the State of Minas  Gerais  in  Brazil.  Through a  consortium
consisting of AES and two partners (the "CEMIG Consortium"), AES has significant
operating  influence  over  CEMIG,  including  the  right to  appoint  its chief
operating officer, and otherwise shares control of CEMIG with the State of Minas
Gerais. As it did with Light, the Ministry of Mines and Energy of Brazil granted
concessions to CEMIG pursuant to the terms of six  concession  agreements  which
obligate  CEMIG  to  provide  electric  services  to all  customers  within  its
concession,  and authorizes  CEMIG to charge its customers a tariff for electric
services. CEMIG transmits and distributes electricity, generated or purchased by
it, to substantially all areas in Minas Gerais. In addition to the approximately
5,668 MW of mostly  hydroelectric  power it generates through its interest in 37
facilities, CEMIG also purchases approximately 33% of its electricity sales from
Itaipu.

     In the first  quarter of 1999,  the  Governor of the State of Minas  Gerais
formed  a  commission  of  inquiry  charged  with   investigating   whether  the
privatization of CEMIG violates CEMIG's corporate  statutes and whether the sale
process  violated  Minas  Gerais or Brazilian  federal law. A state  legislative
committee and a commission of state attorneys  currently are conducting hearings
on the matter. No action has been filed against AES or its partners in CEMIG and
AES has not had the opportunity to testify in front of the legislative committee
regarding its acquisition.  In addition, there have been two suits filed against
the State of Minas  Gerais in  relation to the sale.  The first  attempts to set
aside the auction  itself as being  invalidly  held and conducted and the second
questions the validity of the  shareholders  agreement  under which AES acquired
its interest in CEMIG.  Brazilian  courts have rendered  decisions in the second
suit that upholds the sale processes and the  shareholders  agreement.  AES, the
CEMIG Consortium and CEMIG are not defendants in either of these suits.

     Based on the Company's investigation of the items currently under review by
the  legislative  committee as well as the two claims,  AES believes the auction
process and the shareholders agreement were and are in compliance with state and
federal  law. If AES is named as a defendant in either of the cases or called to
testify  by the  legislative  committee,  it  plans  to  vigorously  defend  its
acquisition of its interest in CEMIG.  The Company believes that if the State of
Minas Gerais or a Brazilian  court were to overturn the sale, the State would be
obligated to fully compensate AES.

     EDEN and EDES are two privatized former state-owned Argentine  distribution
companies.   EDEN  and  EDES  have  95-year   territorial   exclusive  franchise
concessions  and serve  approximately  400,000  customers  in the  northern  and
southern  portions of the Province of Buenos Aires. EDEN and EDES purchase their
electric power through both spot market  purchases in the wholesale  electricity
market and contract purchases from San Nicolas, which is also controlled by AES.
The San Nicolas  contract,  which  expires in 2001,  provides  for  purchases of
approximately 2,332 gigawatt hours of electricity per year.

     Sul is an electricity distribution company that provides electricity to the
central and western portion of the State of Rio Grande do Sul,  Brazil.  Sul has
an  exclusive  concession  to  distribute  electricity  to its service area that
expires  in 2027.  Sul's  location  in the State of Rio  Grande  do Sul  borders
Argentina  which  may  allow  AES  to  integrate  its  Brazilian  and  Argentine
operations.  Sul will be one of AES Uruguaiana's  customers  (described below in
"Projects under Construction").

     Compania  de  Luz  Electrica  de  Santa  Ana  ("CLESA")  is an  electricity
distribution  company  located in Santa Ana, El Salvador.  In February 1998, the
Company  acquired  approximately  80% of the  outstanding  shares of CLESA for a
purchase  price of  approximately  $97 million.  The shares were  purchased from
Comision  Ejecutiva  Hidroelectrica  del Rio Lempa ("CEL"),  a  government-owned
utility company, in an auction held in January 1998. In May 1998, Energia Global
International,  Ltd.  purchased  20% of AES's  interest  in  CLESA  from AES for
approximately $15 million under an option agreement






negotiated  during the acquisition.  CLESA serves 188,000 customers and its area
of service  borders  Guatemala  and Honduras to the north.  CLESA  purchases its
electricity in the local spot market and from CEL under an annual contract.

     EDELAP is an  electric  distribution  company  located in the  province  of
Buenos  Aires,  Argentina.  In June 1998,  a  subsidiary  of AES acquired 90% of
EDELAP for  approximately  $355 million  from a joint  venture  between  Reliant
Energy  Industries,  Inc.  and  a  subsidiary  of  Techint  S.A.,  an  Argentine
industrial firm. EDELAP serves approximately 278,000 customers in and around the
city of La  Plata,  the  capital  of Buenos  Aires  Province.  EDELAP  purchases
electricity it sells to retail customers from other generators,  including AES's
San Nicolas. In November 1998, the Company sold one-third of its 90% interest in
EDELAP to a Public  Service  Enterprise  Group,  Inc.  ("PSEG")  subsidiary  for
approximately  $61 million and a  proportionate  percentage  of related  project
debt.  The effect of the sale  leaves  AES with a 60%  controlling  interest  in
EDELAP  with a 30%  interest  owned by PSEG and the  remaining  10%  owned by an
EDELAP employee fund.

BUSINESSES IN ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

     In Asia and the Pacific,  AES currently  operates and owns  (entirely or in
part),  through  subsidiaries and affiliates,  interests in nineteen  generation
facilities  representing  approximately  7,604  MW of  generating  capacity.  In
addition, AES has majority ownership and operates the heat distribution networks
of Altai in Kazakhstan.

     The  Company  founded  AES China  Generating  Co.  Ltd.  ("AES  Chigen") in
December 1993 to develop, acquire, finance,  construct, own and operate electric
power  generation  facilities in the People's  Republic of China ("China" or the
"PRC").  AES Chigen has developed  nine power  projects  which  currently are in
operation or under construction in China.

     Cili Misty Mountain,  located in Cili County, Hunan Province, PRC, consists
of three hydroelectric  generating units amounting to 26 MW. Cili Misty Mountain
is owned by  Xiangci-AES,  a 25-year joint venture formed by Hunan Cili Electric
Power Company and AES Chigen.  Power is purchased by Hunan Cili  Electric  Power
Company.

     Yangchun Sun Spring, located in Yangchun,  Guangdong Province,  consists of
one existing 8.6 MW diesel  engine  generating  facility  which was  constructed
prior to the Company's involvement,  and another 6.5 MW diesel engine generating
facility  which  commenced  commercial  operation in April 1996. The facility is
owned by  Yangchun  Fuyang,  a 12.5-year  cooperative  joint  venture  formed by
Yangchun Municipal Power Supply, Shenzhen Futian Gas Turbine Power Co., Ltd. and
a wholly-owned  subsidiary of AES Chigen. Yangchun Municipal Power Supply Bureau
purchases the plant's  electricity and Yangchun  Municipal Power Supply provides
fuel, both in accordance with 12.5-year agreements.

     Wuxi Tin Hill is an oil-fired, combined cycle power plant which consists of
a 48 MW gas turbine generating  facility and a 15 MW heat recovery steam turbine
generating facility located in Xishan (previously known as Wuxi County), Jiangsu
Province,  PRC. The gas turbine generating plant commenced  commercial operation
in March 1996.  The heat  recovery  steam  turbine  generating  plant  commenced
commercial  operation  in the first  quarter of 1997.  Wuxi Tin Hill is owned by
Wuxi-AES-CAREC and Wuxi-AES-  Zhonghang,  two 16-year cooperative joint ventures
formed among AES Chigen and China National Aero-Engine Corporation ("CAREC") and
Wuxi Power Industry.  Xishan  Electricity  Management Office purchases the power
and steam generated by the plant in accordance with a 16-year purchase contract.
Fuel to the plant is supplied  via two local  State-owned  oil  companies  under
16-year contracts.

     Wuhu Grassy Lake is a 250 MW  coal-fired  power  plant  located  near Wuhu,
Anhui  Province,






PRC.  It is the  phase IV  expansion  of an  existing  325 MW  coal-fired  power
station. Both units of the power plant have now commenced commercial operations.
Wuhu Grassy Lake is owned by Wuhu Shaoda,  a 20-year  equity joint venture owned
by an AES Chigen subsidiary,  China Power International  Holdings Limited, Anhui
Liyuan Electric Power Development  Company Limited,  and Wuhu Energy Development
Company Limited. Power is purchased pursuant to a 20-year operation and off-take
contract with Anhui Provincial Electric Power Corporation.

     Chengdu  Lotus City is a 48 MW natural  gas-fired  power  plant  located in
Chengdu,  Sichuan  Province,  PRC.  Construction of the power plant commenced in
September 1996 and commenced  commercial  operation  during 1997.  Chengdu Lotus
City is owned by Chengdu AES-Kaihua,  a 16-year cooperative joint venture formed
by AES  Chigen,  Huaxi  Electric  Power  Shareholding  Company  Ltd.  ("Huaxi"),
Huachuan  Petroleum  & Natural  Gas  Exploration  ("Huachuan")  and  Development
Company and CAREC.  Huaxi  purchases the facility s generated power and Huachuan
provides fuel, both pursuant to separate 15-year agreements.

     Hefei Prosperity Lake is an oil-fired combined cycle power plant consisting
of two 38 MW gas turbine  generating  units ("gas  turbine  unit") and one 39 MW
heat recovery  steam  turbine  generating  unit ("steam  turbine  unit").  It is
located  within the  boundaries of an existing 325 MW coal-fired  power plant in
Hefei,  Anhui  Province,  PRC.  Construction  of the power  plant  commenced  in
November 1996. The gas turbine unit commenced  commercial operation in the third
quarter of 1997 and the steam turbine unit went into commercial operation in the
fourth quarter of 1998.  Hefei  Prosperity Lake is owned  Liyuan-AES and Zhongli
Energy, two 16-year  cooperative joint ventures formed among a subsidiary of AES
Chigen, Hefei Municipal  Construction and Investment Company and by Anhui Liyuan
Electric Power  Development  Company Limited.  Anhui  Provincial  Electric Power
Corporation  purchases power from the plant pursuant to a 16-year  operation and
off-take contract.

     Jiaozuo  Aluminum Power is a 250 MW coal-fired power plant located adjacent
to the Jiaozuo Aluminum Mill ("Jiaozuo Mill") in Jiaozuo,  Henan Province,  PRC.
The first 125 MW unit of the power facility  commenced  commercial  operation in
1997, while the second unit became commercial in 1998. Jiaozuo Aluminum Power is
owned by Jiaozuo Wan Fang, a 23-year  cooperative joint venture owned 70 percent
by an AES Chigen  wholly-owned  subsidiary and 30 percent by Jiaozuo Mill. Power
is purchased  under 23-year  contracts by Jiaozuo Mill and by the Henan Electric
Power  Corporation.   Jiaozuo  Aluminum  Power  purchases  fuel  under  one-year
negotiated contracts from the local area.

     Ekibastuz  is a 4,000 MW (design  capacity)  mine-mouth,  coal-fired  power
facility in eastern Kazakhstan.  Due to economic difficulties over the ten years
prior to the  Company's  purchase,  the facility has  experienced a reduction in
performance  and has  operated at a capacity  factor of up to  approximately  25
percent.  In its 1996  acquisition  of the facility,  AES agreed to increase the
capacity to 63 percent over a five-year  period  (contingent on the  purchaser's
performance of its obligations  under the power sales  contract).  For a further
description of Ekibastuz,  see the information contained in the section entitled
"Results  of  Operations"  contained  in Item 7,  "Discussion  and  Analysis  of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations"  incorporated herein by reference
to the March 1999 Form 8-K.

     Tau  Power,  also  known  as  Altai,  is a joint  venture  owned by AES and
Israel-based Suntree Power. In October 1997, Tau Power completed its acquisition
and  takeover of two  hydroelectric  stations and four  combined  heat and power
stations in the province of East Kazakhstan.  The total electric capacity of the
stations included in the agreement is 1,384 MW, with additional thermal capacity
of over  1,000 MW  electric  equivalent.  The  power  stations  included  in the
agreement signed are: the 332 MW Ust-Kamenogorsk  GES, the 702 MW Shulbinsk GES,
the 240 MW Ust-Kamenogorsk  TETS, the 50 MW Leninogorsk TETS, the 50 MW Sogrinsk
TETS and the 10 MW Semipalatinsk TETS. Included in the transaction, AES obtained
ownership and control of the retail sales  department of the former  utility and
assumed the existing power supply contracts with the fifty largest  customers in
East  Kazakhstan,






including the electricity  distribution  companies.  Altai controls and operates
the local heat  distribution  networks  supplying heat to approximately  150,000
customers in its service area.

     Lal Pir and Pak Gen are  adjacent 344 and 351 MW,  respectively,  oil-fired
facilities in Punjab Province,  Pakistan. Lal Pir commenced commercial operation
during the fourth quarter of 1997 and Pak Gen commenced  commercial operation in
the first quarter of 1998.  The Pakistan Water and Power  Development  Authority
("WAPDA")  purchases  the  electrical  capacity  and  electrical  output  of the
facilities  through two separate  30-year power sales  agreements.  The Pakistan
State Oil Company Limited ("PSO"), the state-owned  petroleum company,  supplies
fuel under 30-year  agreements.  Certain of the  obligations  of WAPDA under the
power  sales  agreements  and  of PSO  under  the  fuel  supply  agreements  are
guaranteed by the Government of Pakistan.

     Aixi Heart River is a 50 MW coal-fired CFB power plant located in Nanchuan,
Sichuan Province,  PRC that commenced  commercial  operation in 1998. Aixi Heart
River is owned by Fuling Aixi, a 25-year  cooperative  joint  venture  formed by
Sichuan Fuling Banxi Colliery and a wholly owned  subsidiary of AES Chigen.  The
minority partner will provide fuel to the plant and Sichuan Fuling Power Company
will  purchase the power  generated by the  facility,  both pursuant to separate
25-year agreements.

     In January 1999,  the Company  completed its  acquisition of a 49% share in
the Orissa Power Generation  Corporation ("OPGC") for approximately $144 million
from the  government  of the  eastern  Indian  State of  Orissa.  OPGC  owns and
operates a 420 MW  mine-mouth  coal-fired  power station in the State of Orissa.
OPGC will be managed by the Company in accordance with a shareholders' agreement
between a subsidiary  of the Company and the State of Orissa.  Electricity  from
the plant is sold to the Grid Corporation of Orissa under the terms of a 30-year
power purchase agreement.  The base load facility generates low cost competitive
electricity and is located adjacent to the 500 MW Ib Valley  greenfield  project
that is being developed by AES which is discussed below.

     Mt.  Stuart  is a  288  MW  power  station  located  at  Townsville,  North
Queensland,  Australia that commenced  commercial  operation on January 1, 1999.
The facility  consists of two 144 MW open-cycle  gas  turbines.  The plant burns
liquefied petroleum gas and sells electricity to the Queensland Transmission and
Supply Corporation under a 10-year power purchase agreement. Mt. Stuart operates
as a peaking  station and,  therefore,  it is estimated  that the facility  will
operate for only three to five percent of the year.

BUSINESSES IN EUROPE

     AES currently owns and operates, through subsidiaries and affiliates,  nine
plants in Europe  representing  approximately  3,504  MW. In  addition,  AES has
majority  ownership in an  electricity  distribution  company in the Republic of
Georgia.

     NIGEN is a joint venture between AES and a Belgian utility that consists of
two power plants in Northern  Ireland:  Kilroot,  a 520 MW dual-fired  (coal and
oil) power plant, and Belfast West, a 240 MW coal-fired power plant. The Kilroot
and Belfast  West plants have  entered  into power sales  contracts,  subject to
cancellation in 13 years and three years,  respectively,  with Northern  Ireland
Electricity, plc, a transmission and distribution company.

     Medway Power Limited is a 688 MW combined  cycle  gas-fired  power plant in
Southeast England on the Isle of Grain. Medway is owned by a joint venture among
an AES subsidiary and  subsidiaries of Southern  Electric plc  ("Southern")  and
SEEBOARD plc  ("SEEBOARD").  The plant began  operations in November 1995.  AES,
through a subsidiary,  operates and maintains the plant.  Medway Power sells its
entire  output  through  national  electricity  pool trading  arrangements  (the
"Pool") at prices based on the supply of, and demand for, electricity  available
in the Pool. In addition, Medway






Power  has  entered  into a  so-called  Contract  for  Differences  with each of
Southern and  SEEBOARD.  Under the  contracts,  Southern and SEEBOARD pay Medway
Power capacity payments based on the plant's available capacity, and energy cost
payments  based on the plant's  actual  sales of  electricity  to the Pool.  The
contracts reflect fuel costs and the variable  transmission charges incurred for
delivery  of the  electricity.  The basis of the  contracts  is 660 MW such that
sales in excess of 660 MW are sold into the Pool at market prices.

     Tiszai Eromu Rt. owns and operates three power plants  totaling 1,281 MW of
gross capacity and two associated  coal mines in Hungary.  The plants consist of
(i) the Tisza II facility,  an 860 MW oil and natural gas-fired  facility,  (ii)
the Tiszapalkonya  facility, a 250 MW coal-fired facility,  and (iii) the Borsod
facility, a 171 MW coal-fired  facility.  Each plant sells electricity to Magyar
Villamos  Muvek Rt., a Hungarian,  state-owned  integrated  utility.  Tisza II's
contract  with MVM was to  expire  in 2010,  but in 1998  Tisza II  executed  an
extension  on its contract to run through 2017 and allow the facility to deliver
60 MW more of capacity through upgrades to the facility.  Borsod's contract with
MVM  expires  in 2001 and  development  work for the  replacement  of the Borsod
facility  has been  ongoing.  Tiszapalkonya's  contract  to supply  power to MVM
expires in 2000.

     Indian Queens is a 140 MW oil-fired, simple cycle plant located in Cornwall
County,  England. The plant began commercial  operation in October,  1996. Power
generated by Indian Queens is sold into the national electricity pool in the UK.
Indian  Queens,  because of its  design,  also sells  ancillary  services to the
National  Grid  Company,  the  operator  of the UK's  high-voltage  transmission
system.

     Elsta  is a  405  MW  gas-fired,  combined-cycle  cogeneration  plant  that
achieved  commercial  operation  in  September  1998  located  at  the  chemical
manufacturing  facilities  of Dow Benelux  N.V.  in the Zeeland  Province of the
Netherlands.  AES owns 50% of Elsta and the remaining  interest in Elsta is held
equally by two Dutch  utilities:  N.V. Delta  Nutsbedrijven  ("Deltan") and N.V.
Provinciale Noordbrabantse  Energie-Maatschappij ("PNEM"). Pursuant to a 20-year
power sales agreement, Dow Benelux purchases between 85 and 125 MW of electrical
capacity,  and an average of 500 MT/hr of  multi-pressure  process steam energy.
Dow Benelux  also has  dispatch  rights on steam  energy  subject to minimum and
maximum purchase obligations.  The project's minority partners, Deltan and PNEM,
have agreed to purchase  electrical capacity from the plant not purchased by Dow
(280-320 MW) for an initial contract period of 20 years following the commercial
operation date.

     Barry is a 230 MW gas-fired combined cycle facility located in Barry, South
Wales,  United  Kingdom.  Construction  began in October  1996 and the  facility
commenced  commercial operation in the third quarter of 1998. The Barry facility
sells  electricity  into the  national  electricity  spot  market in the  United
Kingdom.  In February 1997,  Barry raised 112 million  British Pound Sterling of
non-recourse  project financing,  underwritten  solely by The Industrial Bank of
Japan, Limited.

     Telasi is the  electricity  distribution  company of Tbilisi,  Georgia.  In
December 1998, the Company completed its acquisition of a 75% interest in Telasi
for  approximately  $26 million.  It was acquired from the Georgian  government,
which sold this stake in Telasi pursuant to a competitively  bid process marking
the first significant  privatization in the Georgian power sector. Telasi serves
370,000 industrial, commercial, and residential customers or roughly half of the
total  power  needs of  Georgia.  Telasi  operates  no power  plants  but rather
purchases power from the state-owned  electric  utility,  Sakenergo,  as well as
directly from a number of hydro-electric  stations.  As part of the acquisition,
the Company has the right to purchase some of those hydro facilities.

     For a further  description of the tariff rate  structures,  the tariff rate
adjustment escalators and the currency exchange rate adjustments that may affect
the  tariff  structures  in  future  years for  AES's  distribution  businesses,
especially those located in Latin America,  please see the information contained
in Item 7,  "Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations" incorporated herein by reference to the March 1999 Form 8-K.






PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION

     In September  1995,  AES  successfully  completed  the  financing and began
construction of Warrior Run, a 180 MW coal-fired thermal  cogeneration  facility
near  the  city  of  Cumberland  in  Allegheny  County,  Maryland.  Engineering,
procurement  and  construction  of the project  under a turn-key  contract  with
Raytheon  Engineers  &  Contractors,  Inc.  and  ABB/Combustion  Engineering  is
expected  to be  completed  in the fourth  quarter of 1999.  Potomac  Edison,  a
subsidiary of Allegheny  Power System,  Inc. will purchase  electricity  under a
30-year  agreement,  which has been  approved  by the  Maryland  Public  Service
Commission.

     The Company began  preliminary  construction  work on its Parana project in
September  1997.  Parana is an 830 MW  gas-fired,  combined  cycle power  plant.
Parana will be located in San Nicolas,  Argentina,  adjacent to San Nicolas,  in
which AES owns a controlling interest. Parana is in the process of arranging for
project  financing  for the facility  and has entered  into a lump sum,  turnkey
construction  contract with Nichimen Corporation and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
for the plant.  Project output will be sold into the Argentine  electric market.
Total capital cost is estimated at $440 million,  and the project is expected to
commence commercial operation in 2001.

     Yangcheng Sun City, currently under construction,  is a 2,100 MW coal-fired
mine-mouth power plant located in Yangcheng,  Shanxi Province, PRC. Construction
of the power  plant  commenced  in the  second  quarter of 1997 and AES made its
initial equity  investment in the third quarter of 1997.  AES Chigen,  through a
wholly-owned  subsidiary,  is  responsible  for  overseeing  the  management  of
construction  and operations of the plant. AES Chigen is committed to invest $98
million of equity in the project  and will own 25 percent of the  20-year  joint
venture with five other  partners  owning the remaining 75 percent.  The project
will be funded with $1.21  billion of debt  provided  by the China  Construction
Bank, China State Development Bank, U.S.  Export-Import  Bank, and Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and $393 million of equity.

     Yangcheng  Sun City is one of the first  "coal-by-wire"  power  projects in
China.  The power will be  produced  in Shanxi  Province  and  shipped via a 755
kilometer transmission line to Jiangsu Province, a coastal province. The project
is being  constructed  over a  60-month  period by the Shanxi  Provincial  Power
Company under a fixed-price,  fixed-schedule turnkey contract. The first unit is
scheduled  to commence  commercial  operation  in 2000.  Low sulfur coal will be
supplied by the Shanxi Provincial Coal Transportation and Sales Company.

     In 1998, the Company began constructing a 484 MW combined-cycle,  gas fired
power generation facility ("Merida III") in the city of Merida, Yucatan, Mexico.
The Comision Federal de Electricidad  ("CFE"), a decentralized  public agency of
the Federal Government of the United Mexican States selected a consortium led by
AES to develop, construct, own, operate and maintain Merida III. Merida III will
consist of two natural gas-fired turbines, two heat recovery steam generators, a
single  steam  turbine,  and  certain  other  common  facilities.   Engineering,
procurement and  construction  of the project is under a turn-key  contract with
Westinghouse  that began in 1998 and is expected to be  completed  in 2000.  CFE
will  purchase  energy and  capacity  from Merida III under a 25-year  agreement
signed by CFE and Merida III in March of 1997. In June 1998,  the Company raised
$173 million of non-recourse  project financing for constructing Merida III from
a consortium of  institutions,  including the Japan  Export-Import  Bank and the
International Financial Corporation.

     In 1998,  AES began  constructing  a 600 MW gas-fired  combined cycle power
plant to be located at the border city of Uruguaiana, in the State of Rio Grande
do Sul,  Brazil  ("AES  Uruguaiana").  AES  Uruguaiana  will  purchase  gas from
Argentina  and  sell  its  electrical  output  under a  20-year  power  purchase
agreement to the privatized distribution companies that made up CEEE, the former
electric distribution company for the State of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. One of
these distribution companies is AES Sul, which the Company operates and in which
it owns an approximately 96% interest






(see  above  description  of that  business).  Uruguaiana  will  consist  of two
gas-fired  turbines,  two heat  recovery  steam  generators  and a single  steam
turbine.  Engineering,  procurement  and  construction of the project is under a
turn-key contract with Siemens Westinghouse. The plant is expected to reach full
commercial operations in the third quarter of 2000.

     In January  1998,  the Company  acquired AES Fifoots  Point for 5.2 million
British Pounds Sterling.  AES Fifoots  Point is a 360 MW  coal-fired  generating
plant  located near  Newport,  South Wales that was  decommissioned  by National
Power in 1995; the plant was originally  commissioned between 1961 and 1963. The
Company  intends to refurbish AES Fifoots  Point and executed a  re-construction
agreement  with a consortium  of General  Electric  International,  Inc. and ABB
Combustion  Services  in  December  1999  that  provides  for the plant to be in
commercial  operation by January 2000.  Total capital cost for the project is an
estimated 109 million pounds. Following refurbishment,  the plant is expected to
have a gross  electricial  output of 393 MW and deliver power to the U.K.  power
pool. Coal will be provided by Celtic Energy under a 10-year  agreement  wherein
the coal price is indexed to the market price of electricity.  The Company is in
the process of arranging for project financing for AES Fifoots Point and expects
a closing to occur early in the second  quarter of 1999. The Company can provide
no assurances, however, that the financing will occur and the project is subject
to  a  number  of  other  risks  including   those  relating  to   construction,
governmental approvals and project operational agreements.

     AES Ironwood is a planned 700 MW natural  gas-fired,  combined  cycle power
generating  facility  to be located  in South  Lebanon  Township,  Pennsylvania.
Originally  slated to sell its output to  affiliates  of GPU  Energy,  the power
purchase  agreements  (the  "PPAs")  that AES  Ironwood  had  executed  with the
affiliates  were   terminated  in  December  1998.  The   termination   occurred
automatically  under the PPAs as a result of outstanding appeals associated with
the restructuring plans submitted to the Pennsylvania  Utility Commission by GPU
Energy, which were not resolved by the date specified in the PPAs. In accordance
with the PPAs, GPU Energy  reimbursed AES Ironwood  approximately $31 million in
development fees, plus accrued interest, on December 31, 1998. In February 1999,
AES  Ironwood  executed a new PPA with  Williams  Energy  Marketing  and Trading
Company,  a subsidiary of The Williams  Company,  Inc., for the entire output of
the planned 700 MW facility.  The PPA is a twenty-year tolling arrangement under
which AES Ironwood  will  provide  capacity and fuel  conversion  services,  and
Williams  will supply the fuel,  and will own and market the power  output.  AES
Ironwood began  preliminary  construction in 1998 and plans for  commencement of
commercial operation in 2002.

PROJECTS IN ADVANCED STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT

     The Company  currently is pursuing over 100 new business  opportunities  in
various stages of development.  Successful  completion of each of these projects
are subject to numerous  risks as discussed  elsewhere in this Annual  Report on
Form 10-K,  and no assurance can be given that any of the projects or businesses
will be completed or acquired.  Listed below are development  projects that have
achieved certain milestone objectives the Company deems significant.

     San Francisco Energy Company,  L.P. ("SFEC") is developing a 240 MW natural
gas-fired facility to be located in San Francisco,  California.  SFEC is a joint
venture between AES Pacific,  Inc., which is a subsidiary of the Company and the
general partner in SFEC, and Sonat Inc. SFEC signed a Standard Offer Contract in
1994 with  Pacific Gas & Electric  ("PG&E")  as the winner of the San  Francisco
portion  of the  California  Public  Utilities  Commission's  ("CPUC")  Biennial
Resource Plan Update  ("BRPU").  The contract calls for the full capacity of the
plant to be purchased by PG&E for 30 years, with an option to terminate after 17
years.  However, a ruling by the Federal Energy Regulatory  Commission  ("FERC")
has  questioned  the  validity of the BRPU  process,  pursuant to which SFEC was
awarded its contract.  The Company  believes  that SFEC's  contract with PG&E is
valid, but the Company is currently  involved in a regulatory  proceeding before
the CPUC with PG&E over the  validity  of the  contract.  The  Company  does not
believe that the ultimate resolution of this matter will have a material adverse
effect on the Company.  Substantial  risks to the successful  completion of this
project exist, including those relating to the regulatory  proceedings,  project
siting, financing, construction and permitting.

     AES has been  developing AES Puerto Rico which is to be a 454 MW coal-fired
cogeneration facility in Guayama, Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rico Electricity Power
Authority has agreed to purchase the electrical  output of the facility pursuant
to a 25-year power sales agreement.  The project originally received approval of
its environmental  impact statement from the Puerto Rico  Environmental  Quality
Board,  but that approval was challenged.  In June 1998, the Puerto Rico Supreme
Court  ruled in favor of the  project on an appeal to its  environmental  impact
statement.  The  environmental  impact  statement  approval  is  now  final  and
unappealable.  The project received its Prevention of Significant  Deterioration
permit from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") in September of
1998 and that permit is  currently  under  appeal  with the EPA's  Environmental
Appeals Board.






     AES also has been  developing a 500 MW coal-fired  facility in the State of
Orissa,  India ("Ib  Valley").  Ib Valley has been  re-configured  and therefore
re-permitted over the past two years. Ib Valley signed an amended power purchase
agreement  with the  Grid  Corporation  of  Orissa  in 1998 and a new  sovereign
payment  guarantee is expected to be executed in the near future.

     In January 1998, the Company was selected by the Government of Bangladesh's
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources as the winning bidder to build, own and
operate  a 360 MW (net)  gas-fired  combined  cycle  power  plant at a site near
Dhaka,  Bangladesh  ("Haripur").  Haripur is  expected  to  commence  commercial
operations  in the year 2000,  and  electricity  will be sold to the  Bangladesh
Power Development Board under the terms of a 22-year power purchase agreement.

     Also, in June 1998,  the  Government of Bangladesh  selected the Company as
the  First-Ranked  Sponsor to build,  own and  operate a 450 MW (net)  gas-fired
combined cycle power plant at a site near Dhaka,  Bangladesh on the Meghna River
(the  "Meghnaghat  Project").  The site is about three miles from AES's  Haripur
project.  Electricity  from the Meghnaghat  Project is anticipated to be sold to
the  Bangladesh  Power  Development  Board  under the  terms of a 22-year  power
purchase  agreement,  which  is  expected  to  be  signed  shortly.   Commercial
operations  of the  Meghnaghat  plant is  expected to commence in the year 2000.
Titus Gas Transmission and  Distribution  Company,  a subsidiary of Petrobangla,
will supply  natural gas to the facility from a nearby  pipeline for the term of
the power purchase agreement.

     In August 1998, the Company won a bid to acquire six  coal-fired,  electric
generating  plants from NGE  Generation,  Inc.,  an  affiliate of New York State
Electric & Gas  Corporation  ("NYSEG"),  for  approximately  $950  million.  The
facilities  represent the bulk of NYSEG's coal-fired  generation assets and were
auctioned  as  part  of  NYSEG's  implementation  of its  restructuring  plan in
accordance with New York's introduction of wholesale and retail competition into
the  state's  electricity  generation  market.  The six  facilities,  located in
western  and  west-central  New  York,  are the  675 MW  Kintigh  facility  (AES
Somerset), the 306 MW Milliken facility (AES Cayuga), the 126 MW Goudey facility
(AES  Westover),  the  161 MW  Greenidge  facility  (AES  Greenidge),  the 85 MW
Hickling facility (AES Hickling) and the 71 MW Jennison facility (AES Jennison).
The facilities  include  low-cost  generating  plants and, with the exception of
some  of the  smaller  units,  are  expected  to run as  based-load  units  in a
competitive New York electricity  generation  market.  Sulfur dioxide  scrubbers
have already been  installed at the largest  plants,  Kintigh and Milliken.  The
acquisition is expected to be completed during the second quarter of 1999 and is
subject  to  customary  closing  conditions,  including  the  receipt of various
governmental approvals.

     In November  1998, an agency of the  Government  of Sri Lanka  selected the
Company as the preferred bidder to develop a 160 MW  combined-cycle  power plant
to be located at  Kelanitissa,  Sri Lanka. A letter of intent has been issued by
the Government of Sri Lanka to a new company,  AES Kelanitissa  Private Limited,
formed  by a  consortium  led by AES and  Hayley's  Engineering  Ltd,  the local
minority  partner.  AES will build, own, operate and transfer ("BOOT") the power
plant under a concession that would be valid for a period of 20 years,  with the
facility's  electrical  output sold into the national  grid. It is expected that
the open cycle mode of the plant will reach 100 MW  capacity by the end of 2000,
with capacity  increasing to 160 MW at commencement of combined cycle operations
thereafter in 2001.

     In  November  1998,  the  Company  and  CILCORP  Inc.  agreed to terms on a
definitive  agreement  under which AES will acquire all of CILCORP's  13,610,680
common  shares  at a price of $65 per  share,  or  approximately  $885  million.
CILCORP was formed in 1985 and is headquartered in Peoria, Illinois.  CILCORP is
an energy services  company whose largest  subsidiary,  CILCO, is an 85 year-old
natural gas and electric  utility  serving  approximately a quarter of a million
retail customers in central Illinois. In






1997,  CILCORP had consolidated  revenues of $976 million and net assets of $1.3
billion.  CILCORP and its  subsidiaries  employ  approximately  1,800 people and
operate two coal-fired  generating  facilities with a combined  capacity of 1150
megawatts.

     The transaction,  under which CILCORP will become a wholly-owned subsidiary
of AES,  requires  the  approval of CILCORP  shareholders,  which is expected to
occur in the second quarter of 1999. The acquisition is subject to review by the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC"),  the Illinois Commerce Commission
("ICC"),  the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  ("SEC"),  the United States
Department of Justice  ("DOJ"),  and the Federal Trade Commission  ("FTC").  The
project has passed  review by the ICC, DOJ and the FTC. The Company  expects the
transaction  to be completed by mid-1999,  subject to ongoing review by the FERC
and the SEC.

     In January 1999,  the Company was selected by Florida's  Orlando  Utilities
Commission ("OUC") to enter into exclusive negotiations with OUC to purchase its
Indian River Steam Electric  Plant.  The Indian River Plant is a 610 MW facility
burning oil and natural gas, located in Titusville,  Florida. The plant consists
of three  steam  turbines  that were built in the 1970s.  Recently,  the OUC has
informed  the  Company  that it is also  negotiating  with  other  bidders.  The
successful  completion of this transaction is subject to a number of conditions,
including  certain  regulatory  approvals and the  negotiation  and execution of
definitive documentation.

     In February 1999, a subsidiary of the Company was selected by the Hungarian
utility,  the MVM, to build,  own and operate a 190 MW gas-fired  combined cycle
power plant at the site of one of AES's existing  power plants in  Tiszaujvaros,
located in eastern  Hungary (the "Phoenix  Project").  Electricity  from Phoenix
Project  will be sold to the MVM under the terms of a 15-20 year power  purchase
agreement,  that is  expected  to be signed  during the second  quarter of 1999.
Commercial  operation  of the Phoenix  plant is expected to commence in the year
2004. Fuel for the facility will either come from a nearby pipeline owned by the
Hungarian  oil and gas company,  MOL or from Gazprom.  Successful  completion of
this  transaction  is subject to a number of  conditions,  including  financing,
permits and other government approvals.

     In March  1999,  the  Company  won a bid to  acquire  Ecogen  Energy  which
operates two gas-fired power stations in Victoria,  Australia for  approximately
A$350 million. The power stations,  Newport and Jeeralang, have a total capacity
of 966 MW.  Successful  completion  of the  transaction  remains  subject to the
transfer of various approvals and licenses.

REGULATORY OUTLOOK

     Currently eighteen states in the United States have passed legislation that
permit utility customers to choose their  electricity  supplier in a competitive
electricity  market  (so-called  "retail access" or "customer choice" laws), and
all but two of the remaining states are considering such legislation. While such
"customer choice" plans differ in detail, they usually share important elements:
(1) they allow customers to choose their electricity suppliers by a certain date
(the dates in the existing or proposed  legislation vary between 1998 and 2003);
(2) they allow utilities to recover so-called  "stranded  costs"--the  remaining
costs of uneconomic  generating or regulatory  assets; and (3) they reaffirm the
validity of existing QF contracts,  and make  provisions to assure  payment over
the contract life.

     In order to  guarantee  payment  of  utilities'  costs  and the costs of QF
contracts,  some states have used or are proposing to use  financial  methods to
"securitize"  these  payments.  The  "securitization"  process might involve the
following steps:  first, the financial  obligations to be "securitized" would be
legally  affirmed  through  legislation.  This legal  obligation then is used to
borrow  money in  public  debt  markets  to pay off the  obligation.  The  legal
obligation  allows the borrower to obtain a good credit  rating and  therefore a
lower interest rate. In some cases,  the benefits of the lower interest rate are
passed on to retail electric customers (perhaps in the form of a rate decrease).
"Securitization" of QF contract obligations,  if applied to AES contracts in the
future,  would  significantly  reduce  the  risk to AES  that  its  power  sales
contracts  would not be honored due to potential  financial  difficulties of the
utility purchaser.

     In addition to state  restructuring  legislation,  members of Congress have
proposed new federal






legislation to encourage  customer choice and recovery of stranded assets.  Some
argue that federal legislation is needed to avoid the "patchwork" effect of each
state acting  separately to pass  restructuring  legislation;  others argue that
each state should decide whether to allow retail  choice.  In 1997 several bills
were (and others are  expected  to be)  submitted  to  Congress  on  electricity
restructuring. While it is uncertain whether or when federal legislation dealing
with electricity restructuring might be passed, it is the opinion of the Company
that  such  legislation  would  not  have a  materially  adverse  effect  on the
Company's U.S. business.

     In addition to the federal restructuring legislation proposals, a number of
bills have been  proposed  by members of  Congress  to repeal all or portions of
PURPA and/or  PUHCA--as  separate  legislation if a comprehensive  restructuring
bill fails to pass.  The Company  believes that the repeal of PURPA and/or PUHCA
is  unlikely  (and  inappropriate)  unless  it  is a  part  of  a  comprehensive
restructuring bill.

     In  anticipation  of  restructuring  legislation,  many U.S.  utilities are
seeking  ways to lower their costs in order to become  more  competitive.  These
include the costs that  utilities are required to pay under QF contracts,  which
the utilities may view as excessive when compared to current market prices. Many
utilities  are  therefore  seeking  ways  to  lower  these  contract  prices  by
renegotiating the contracts,  or in some cases by litigation.  While the Company
is generally open to renegotiation of existing  contracts,  it believes that the
aforementioned  electricity market restructuring  legislation will likely reduce
both the pressure to renegotiate and the need for such contract renegotiations.

     Despite the recent movement toward electricity  restructuring,  electricity
markets in the United States are still heavily regulated. United States laws and
regulations still govern to some extent wholesale electricity transactions,  the
type of fuel utilized,  the type of energy produced,  and power plant ownership.
State  regulatory   commissions  have  jurisdiction   over  retail   electricity
transactions.  United  States  power  projects  also  are  subject  to laws  and
regulations  controlling  emissions and other substances produced by a plant and
the siting of plants.  These laws and regulations  generally require that a wide
variety of permits and other  approvals be obtained  before the  construction or
operation  of a  power  plant  commences,  and  that  the  facility  operate  in
compliance with these permits  thereafter.  FERC must also approve rates charged
by certain power marketers such as those of the Company's subsidiary, AES Power.

     In the United States,  so-called Qualifying Facilities ("QFs") are relieved
of  compliance  with  extensive  federal,  state  and local  regulations  by the
provisions of the Public Utility Regulatory  Policies Act, as amended ("PURPA").
Each of  AES's  current  domestic  plants  is a QF.  Loss of QF  status,  if not
prevented, would subject these plants to more extensive regulations. The Company
believes,  however, that it will usually be able to react in a manner that would
avoid the loss of QF status.

     AES must obtain  exemptions  from, or become  subject to regulation by, the
Securities and Exchange  Commission under the Public Utility Holding Company Act
("PUHCA") in regard to both its domestic and foreign utility  company  holdings.
There are a number of exemptions from PUHCA that are available for both domestic
and foreign utility company  owners,  including those for QFs, Exempt  Wholesale
Generators and Foreign Utility Companies. AES has obtained, and believes that it
will be able to obtain and maintain in the future,  appropriate PUHCA exemptions
for its utility acquisitions although no assurances can be given.

     In addition,  as one of the Company's  major non-U.S.  markets,  changes in
Brazilian  regulatory  structures  will  have  an  impact  on the  Company.  The
electricity industry in Brazil is regulated by the Brazilian federal government,
acting through the Ministry of Mines and Energy,  which has exclusive  authority
over the  electricity  sector  through  regulatory  powers  assigned to it. This
sector is currently in a state of rapid change in Brazil. For example,  pursuant
to a federal law enacted in 1996,  regulatory  policy






for the sector,  which was  implemented by the  Departmento  Nacional de Aguas e
Energia  Eletrica  ("DNAEE"),  is now  implemented by a new autonomous  national
electric energy agency (Agencia Nacional de Energia Eletrica or "ANEEL").  ANEEL
is an  independent  regulatory  agency  and to  delegate  certain  functions  to
agencies based in certain states of Brazil.  However,  ANEEL cannot delegate any
authority regarding tariffs to state agencies.

     ANEEL is  responsible  for (i) granting  and  supervising  concessions  for
electricity  generation,  transmission and distribution,  including  approval of
applications  for the  setting of  electricity  tariffs;  (ii)  supervising  and
performing financial examinations of the concessionary companies;  (iii) issuing
regulations  for the electricity  sector;  and (iv) planning,  coordinating  and
executing water resource  studies and granting and  supervising  concessions for
the use of water resources.  Due to electricity  tariffs'  significant weight in
the measurement of national inflation,  tariff increases have been controlled by
the Ministry of Finance, although it is not its official responsibility.

     In  addition  to the  powers  currently  granted  to  DNAEE,  ANEEL has the
following  responsibilities:  (i) to implement and regulate the  exploitation of
electric energy and the use of hydroelectric  power pursuant to the Power Sector
Law;  (ii) to promote the bidding  process for the granting of new  concessions;
(iii)  to  solve  administrative   disputes  among  utilities,   IPP  companies,
self-producers  and  customers;  and  (iv) to  determine  the  criteria  for the
establishment  of the cost of the  transmission  of energy pursuant to the Power
Sector Law.  Nevertheless,  until  regulations  regarding the  implementation of
ANEEL are promulgated, DNAEE will continue to monitor and regulate the Brazilian
electricity sector.

UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

     The  construction  and operation of power projects are subject to extensive
environmental  and land use regulation.  In the United States those  regulations
applicable to AES primarily  involve the discharge of effluents  into the water,
emissions  into  the air and the use of  water,  but can also  include  wetlands
preservation,  endangered  species,  waste disposal and noise regulation.  These
laws and  regulations  often require a lengthy and complex  process of obtaining
licenses,  permits and approvals from federal, state and local agencies. If such
laws and  regulations are changed and AES's  facilities are not  "grandfathered"
(that is,  made  exempt by the fact that the  facility  pre-existed  the law) or
otherwise are not excluded,  extensive modifications to a project's technologies
and facilities could be required.  If environmental  laws or regulations were to
change  in the  future,  there  can be no  assurance  that AES  would be able to
recover all or any  increased  costs from its customers or that its business and
financial condition would not be materially and adversely affected. In addition,
the Company may be required to make significant capital or other expenditures in
connection with such changes in  environmental  laws or  regulations.  While AES
expects that  environmental  and land use  regulations in the United States will
continue to become  more  stringent  over time,  the Company is not aware of any
currently  planned changes in law that would result in a material adverse effect
on its consolidated financial position.

     Clean  Air Act.  The  original  Clean  Air Act of 1970 set  guidelines  for
emissions  standards for major  pollutants  (e.g. SO2 and NOx) from  newly-built
sources.  In late 1990, Congress passed a set of amendments to the Clean Air Act
(the "1990  Amendments").  All of AES's  domestic  operating  plants  perform at
levels better than federal emission standards mandated for such plants under the
Clean Air Act (as  amended).  The 1990  Amendments  attempt to reduce  acid rain
precursor  emissions (SO2 and NOX) from existing sources -- particularly  large,
older  power  plants  that were  exempted  from  certain  regulations  under the
original Clean Air Act. Because AES's facilities are relatively new cogeneration
units with low air emissions  that qualify as "existing  sources" under the 1990
Amendments,  they have been  "grandfathered"  from certain acid rain  compliance
provisions of the 1990 Amendments. Other provisions of the Clean Air Act related
to the reduction of ozone  precursor  emissions  (VOC and NOx) have  triggered "
reasonably available control technology" ("RACT") requirements by various states
to






reduce such emissions.

     The  hazardous air pollutant  provisions of the 1990  Amendments  presently
exclude  electric steam  generating  facilities  such as AES's domestic  plants;
however,  the 1990 Amendments directed that the Environmental  Protection Agency
("EPA" or the  "Agency")  prepare a study on  hazardous  air  pollutant  ("HAP")
emissions from power plants. In the fall of 1996, EPA released an interim report
on HAP emissions from power plants that  tentatively  concluded that the risk of
contracting  cancer from exposure to HAPs (except  mercury) from most plants was
very low (less than one in 1 million).  EPA is  developing  a separate  study on
mercury emissions from power plants. The draft mercury study report is currently
being  reviewed by the federal  Scientific  Advisory Board and it is not certain
when a final  report will be  released.  A final  comprehensive  HAP report with
recommendations is expected to be issued after EPA's review of mercury emissions
from power  plants is  complete.  If it is  determined  that  mercury from power
plants should be regulated,  the use of "maximum  available control  technology"
("MACT") for mercury (which is now not subject to regulation) could be required.

     In 1997, EPA published new rules that tighten ambient air quality standards
for ozone and small  particulate  matter (so-called PM 2.5). These new standards
increase  the  number  of  so-called   "nonattainment  regions"  for  ozone  and
particulates.  If new  ozone  and  particulate  matter  nonattainment  areas are
created,  AES's plants may be faced with further emission reduction requirements
that could necessitate the installation of additional control technology.

     In order to make further  improvements in air quality in the eastern United
States,   EPA  in  1997  issued  a  call  for  states  to  revise  their  "state
implementation   plans"   (SIPs)  for  ozone   precursors--primarily   NOX.  EPA
recommended further reductions of up to 65% for some states,  depending on local
conditions.  As a result, AES will be required to make further reductions in NOX
emissions at its Beaver  Valley plant in  Pennsylvania  (AES's other plants have
emission levels well below baseline levels).

         The  Company  does not  believe  that any of the  potential  additional
requirements  discussed above will have a material adverse effect on its results
of operations and consolidated financial position.

     Hazardous Waste  Regulation.  Based on a 1988 study, EPA has decided not to
regulate most coal combustion ash as a hazardous  waste;  however,  EPA reserved
making a decision with respect to coal ash from  fluidized bed  combustion  (the
burning of coal in the presence of limestone), which is still being evaluated by
the Agency.  AES,  along with other CFB owners and  manufacturers,  is currently
participating in a study to evaluate whether or not CFB ash should be classified
as hazardous. EPA is required to make a determination on whether to regulate CFB
ash in 1998. If EPA decides to regulate fluidized bed coal ash as a hazardous or
special waste,  AES could incur  additional ash disposal costs to dispose of ash
from its plants that utilize fluidized bed boilers.

FOREIGN ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

     AES now has ownership  interests in operating power plants and distribution
companies in many countries  outside the United States.  Each of these countries
and the  localities  therein have  separate laws and  regulations  governing the
siting, permitting,  ownership and power sales from AES's plants. These laws and
regulations  are often  quite  different  than  those in  effect  in the  United
States--and AES's non-U.S.  businesses have been in substantial  compliance with
these different laws and regulations.  In addition, projects funded by the World
Bank are  subject  to World  Bank  environmental  standards,  which  may be more
stringent  than local country  standards but are typically not as strict as U.S.
standards.  Whenever  feasible,  AES  attempts  to  use  advanced  environmental
technologies  (such as CFB coal technology or advanced gas turbines) in order to
minimize environmental impacts.

     Based on  current  trends,  AES  expects  that  environmental  and land use
regulations  affecting its






plants located  outside the United States will likely become more stringent over
time.  This  appears  to be due in  part to a  greater  participation  by  local
citizenry in the  monitoring  and  enforcement  of  environmental  laws,  better
enforcement of applicable environmental laws by the regulatory agencies, and the
adoption  of  more   sophisticated   environmental   requirements.   If  foreign
environmental and land use regulations were to change in the future, the Company
may be required to make  significant  capital or other  expenditures in order to
comply.  There can be no assurance  that AES would be able to recover all or any
increased costs from its customers or that its business,  financial condition or
results of operations  would not be materially and adversely  affected by future
changes in foreign environmental and land use regulations.

EMPLOYEES

     At December  31,  1998,  AES and its  subsidiaries  employed  approximately
11,700  people.  The total  number of people  employed in  facilities  which AES
operates or has an equity interest in is approximately 39,400.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND SIGNIFICANT EMPLOYEES OF THE REGISTRANT

     The  following  is certain  information  concerning  the present  executive
officers and  significant  employees of the Registrant  set out in  alphabetical
order.

     Dennis W. Bakke, 53 years old, co-founded the Registrant with Roger Sant in
1981 and has been a director of the Registrant since 1986. He has been President
of the  Registrant  since 1987 and Chief  Executive  Officer since January 1994.
From 1987 to 1993, he served as Chief Operating Officer of the Registrant;  from
1982 to 1986, he served as Executive Vice President of the Registrant;  and from
1985 to 1986 he also served as Treasurer of the  Registrant.  He served with Mr.
Sant as Deputy Assistant Administrator of the Federal Energy Agency ("FEA") from
1974 to 1976 and as Deputy Director of the Energy Productivity Center, an energy
research  organization  affiliated with The Mellon Institute at  Carnegie-Mellon
University,  from 1978 to 1981. He is a trustee of Rivendell School and a member
of the Board of Directors of MacroSonix Corporation in Richmond, Virginia.

     Mark S. Fitzpatrick, 48 years old, has served as a Senior Vice President of
the  Registrant  since January 1998,  and was  appointed  Vice  President of the
Registrant in 1987. Mr.  Fitzpatrick  became Managing Director of Applied Energy
Services  Electric Limited for the United Kingdom and Western Europe  operations
in 1990.  From 1984 to 1987,  he served as a project  director of the AES Beaver
Valley and AES Thames projects.

     Paul T.  Hanrahan,  41 years old,  has been a Senior Vice  President of the
Registrant since January 1998 and was appointed Vice President of the Registrant
effective  January  1994.  Since May 1, 1998,  Mr.  Hanrahan  has been  Managing
Director of AES Americas  South, a business group within AES responsible for all
of AES's activities in Argentina,  Paraguay,  Southern  Brazil,  Peru and Chile.
From February 1995 until becoming Managing Director of AES Americas South he was
President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of AES  Chigen,  where he  served  as
Executive Vice President,  Chief  Operating  Officer and Secretary from December
1993 until  February  1995. He was General  Manager of AES  Transpower,  Inc., a
subsidiary of the Registrant, from 1990 to 1993.

     Lenny  M.  Lee,  40 years  old,  was  appointed  Managing  Director  of AES
Transpower in June 1998. As Managing  Director of AES Transpower,  Mr. Lee leads
the  AES  group  responsible  for  all  of  AES's  business,  including  project
development  and plant  operations,  in  Australia,  New  Zealand,  portions  of
Southeast Asia (Thailand,  Indonesia, Malaysia and Vietnam), Hawaii and Southern
China.  Prior to his appointment,  Mr. Lee developed various projects within the
same group. Mr. Lee has been with the Company since August 1987.






     William  R.  Luraschi,  35  years  old,  has  been  Vice  President  of the
Registrant since January 1998, Secretary since February 1996 and General Counsel
of the  Registrant  since  January  1994.  Prior to that,  Mr.  Luraschi  was an
attorney with the law firm of Chadbourne & Parke L.L.P.

     David G. McMillen, 60 years old, was named Vice President of the Company in
December  1991.  He was  appointed  President  of AES Shady Point in 1995 and is
currently plant manager of the AES Shady Point facility. He was President of AES
Thames from 1989 to 1995.  From 1985 to 1988,  he served as plant manager of the
AES  Beaver  Valley  plant and from 1986 to 1988 he served as  President  of AES
Beaver Valley.

     Dr. Roger F. Naill,  51 years old, has been Vice  President for Planning at
AES since 1981.  Prior to joining the Registrant,  Dr. Naill was Director of the
Office of Analytical Services at the U.S. Department of Energy.

     Shahzad S. Qasim,  44 years old,  was  appointed  Managing  Director of AES
Oasis effective April 1998. As Managing  Director of AES Oasis,  Mr. Qasim leads
the  AES  group  responsible  for  all  of  AES's  business,  including  project
development and plant operations, in Pakistan, India, portions of South Asia and
the Middle East. Prior to his appointment, Mr. Qasim had been developing various
projects within the same geographical region for the Company. Mr. Qasim has been
with the Company since November 1992; before he joined the Company Mr. Qasim was
with the international management consulting fim of McKinsey & Company.

     William  Ruccius,  47 years old,  was  appointed  Managing  Director of AES
Orient in June 1998. As Managing  Director of AES Orient,  Mr. Ruccius leads the
AES group responsible for all of AES's business,  including project  development
and  plant  operations,  in  Northern  China  and  most of North  and East  Asia
including  the  Philippines.  From June 1996 until his  appointment  as Managing
Director, he was President and CEO of AES Lal Pir and AES Pak Gen, the Company's
duel  Pakistani  generating  facilities.  Prior to that Mr.  Ruccius  was  Plant
Manager at AES Hawaii  from April 1995 to June 1996 and worked at AES  Deepwater
from June 1993 to April 1995.

     John  Ruggirello,  48 years old,  has been  Senior  Vice  President  of the
Registrant since January 1999, and was appointed Vice President in January 1997.
Mr.  Ruggirello  heads  an  AES  group  responsible  for  project   development,
construction  and plant  operations  in much of the  eastern  United  States and
Canada. He served as President of AES Beaver Valley from 1990 to 1996.

     J. Stuart Ryan,  40 years old, was appointed  Senior Vice  President of the
Registrant  effective January 1998, was appointed Vice President in January 1994
and is Managing  Director of the AES Pacific group which is responsible  for the
Company's business in the western United States. Between 1994 and 1998, Mr. Ryan
lead  the  AES  Transpower  group  responsible  for  AES's  activities  in  Asia
(excluding  China).  From 1994 through 1997, he served as Vice  President of the
Registrant.  Prior to 1994, Mr. Ryan served as general manager of a group within
AES.

     Roger W. Sant,  67 years old,  co-founded  the Company with Dennis Bakke in
1981. He has been Chairman of the Board and a director of the  Registrant  since
its  inception,  and he held the  office  of  Chief  Executive  Officer  through
December  31,  1993.  He currently is Chairman of the Boards of Directors of The
Summit  Foundation and The World Wildlife Fund U.S., and serves on the Boards of
Directors of The World Resources  Institute,  the World Wide Fund for Nature and
Marriott   International,   Inc.  He  was  Assistant  Administrator  for  Energy
Conservation  and the Environment of the Federal Energy Agency ("FEA") from 1974
to 1976 and the Director of the Energy  Productivity  Center, an energy research
organization affiliated with The Mellon Institute at Carnegie-Mellon University,
from 1977 to 1981.






     Barry J. Sharp, 39 years old, was appointed Senior Vice President effective
January 1998 and had been Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 1987.
He also served as Secretary of the Registrant  until February 1996. From 1986 to
1987, he served as the  Company's  Director of Finance and  Administration.  Mr.
Sharp is a certified public accountant.

     Sarah Slusser, 36 years old, was appointed Vice President of the Registrant
in January 1999,  and was  appointed  President of AES Aurora,  Inc.,  effective
April 1997.  AES Aurora is a wholly owned  subsidiary of the Company and a group
of  AES  which  is  responsible  for  business  development,   construction  and
operations of facilities and projects in Mexico,  Central America, the Caribbean
and the Gulf States in the United  States.  Prior to that, Ms. Slusser served as
Project Director for various AES projects in the same region from 1993 to 1997.

     Paul D.  Stinson,  42  years  old,  was  appointed  Vice  President  of the
Registrant  effective  January  1998.  Since  April  1997 Mr.  Stinson  has been
Managing  Director of AES Silk Road,  Ltd.,  a wholly  owned  subsidiary  of the
Company,  which  is  a  group  of  AES  responsible  for  business  development,
construction  and operations of facilities  and projects in Russia,  Kazakhstan,
Pakistan and other parts of Asia.  Mr.  Stinson  served as Managing  Director of
Medway Power Ltd. from 1994 until 1997 and was Plant Manager of the Medway Power
Station owned by Medway Power Ltd. from 1992 to 1997.

     Thomas A. Tribone, 46 years old, has been an Executive Vice President since
January 1998, and was appointed Senior Vice President of the Registrant in 1990.
Mr. Tribone leads AES Americas, a group responsible for power marketing, project
development,  construction  and plant  operations in northern  portions of South
America including much of Brazil.  From 1987 to 1990 he served as Vice President
for project  development and from 1985 to 1987 he served as project  director of
the AES Shady Point plant.

     Kenneth R.  Woodcock,  55 years old, has been Senior Vice  President of the
Registrant  since 1987 and now handles  AES  relationships  with the  investment
community as well as support for AES business development  activities worldwide.
From 1984 to 1987, he served as a Vice President for Business Development. Prior
to the  founding of AES he served in the United  States  federal  government  in
energy and environment departments.

     (d)  Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export
          Sales.

     See the  information  contained  in Note 12 to the  consolidated  financial
statements of the Company contained in the March 1999 Form 8-K, such information
being incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     Offices are  maintained  by the  Registrant in many places around the world
which are generally  occupied pursuant to the provisions of long- and short-term
leases,  none of which is material to the Company.  With a few  exceptions,  the
Registrant's  facilities  which are  described  in Item 1 hereof are  subject to
mortgages  or  other  liens  or  encumbrances  as  part of the  related  project
financings.  The land interest held by the majority of the facilities is that of
a lessor or, in the case of the facilities  located in the People's  Republic of
China,  a land use right that is leased or owned by the  related  joint  venture
that owns the project.  However, in a few instances there exists no accompanying
project financing for the facility and in a few of these cases the land interest
may  not be  subject  to any  encumbrance  and is  owned  by the  subsidiary  or
affiliate owning the facility outright.






ITEM 3. LITIGATION.

     The Company is involved in certain legal  proceedings  in the normal course
of  business.  It is the  opinion  of  the  Company  that  none  of the  pending
litigation  is  expected  to have a material  adverse  effect on its  results of
operations or financial position.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     No matter was  submitted  to a vote of security  holders  during the fourth
quarter of 1998.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

     (a)  Market Information.

     The common stock of the Company is  currently  traded on the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol "AES".  The following tables set forth the high
and low sale prices for the common stock as reported by the NYSE for the periods
indicated.



     (b)  Holders.

     As  of  March  3,  1999,  there  were  1,091  registered   holders  of  the
Registrant's Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share.

     (c)  Dividends.

     Under the terms of the Company's $600 million corporate  revolving loan and
letters of credit facility  entered into with a commercial  bank syndicate,  the
Company is currently  prohibited  from paying cash dividends.  In addition,  the
Registrant is precluded from paying cash dividends on its Common Stock under the
terms of a guaranty to the utility  customer in  connection  with the AES Thames
project in the event certain net worth and liquidity tests of the Registrant are
not met.  The  Registrant  has met these  tests at all times  since  making  the
guaranty.

     The ability of the  Registrant's  project  subsidiaries  to declare and pay
cash  dividends  to the  Registrant  is subject to  certain  limitations  in the
project loans and other  agreements  entered into by such project  subsidiaries.
Such  limitations  permit the payment of cash dividends out of current cash flow
for quarterly,  semiannual or annual periods only at the end of such periods and
only after  payment of principal and interest on project loans due at the end of
such periods, and in certain cases after providing for debt service reserves.







ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.



     (1) For the purposes of this ratio,  earnings  include  income before taxes
and  fixed  charges  excluding  capitalized  interest.   Fixed  charges  include
interest,   whether  capitalized  or  expensed,  and  amortization  of  deferred
financing costs,  whether  capitalized or expensed.  Due to the project specific
nature of the Company's construction  financing,  fixed charges on most projects
in construction are funded with proceeds from project finance  borrowings and do
not require the use of funds from operations. If such construction-related fixed
charges had been excluded in calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges,
such ratios would have been 2.10x,  2.23x,  2.03x, 1.69x, and 1.92x for the five
years ended December 31, 1998, respectively.





ITEM 7.  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  FINANCIAL   CONDITION  AND  RESULTS  OF
         OPERATIONS.

     For the  discussion  and  analysis of  financial  condition  and results of
operations,  see the information contained in Item 5 of the March 1999 Form 8-K,
such information being incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

     See the information contained under the caption "Market Risks" contained in
Item 5 of the March 1999 Form 8-K, such information being incorporated herein by
reference.


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

     See the  information  contained in Item 7 of the March 1999 Form 8-K,  such
information being incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 9. CHANGES  IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.





                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     See the information with respect to the ages of the Registrant's  directors
in the table  and the  information  contained  under the  caption  "Election  of
Directors"  contained  in of the  Proxy  Statement  for the  Annual  Meeting  of
Stockholders of the Registrant to be held on April 20, 1999 filed by the Company
with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  on  the  date  hereof,   which
information is incorporated  herein by reference.  See also the information with
respect to  executive  officers of the  Registrant  under the  caption  entitled
"Executive  Officers and  Significant  Employees of the Registrant" in Item 1 of
Part I hereof, which information is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     See the information contained under the captions "Compensation of Executive
Officers" and  "Compensation of Directors"  contained in the Proxy Statement for
the Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders  of the  Registrant to be held on April 20,
1999 filed by the Company with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  on the
date hereof, which information is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM  12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP  OF  CERTAIN  BENEFICIAL  OWNERS,  DIRECTORS  AND
            EXECUTIVE OFFICERS.

     (a)  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners.

     See the  information  contained  under the caption  "Security  Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners,  Directors,  and Executive Officers" contained in the
Proxy  Statement for the Annual Meeting of  Stockholders of the Registrant to be
held on April 20, 1999 filed by the Company  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  on the date hereof,  which  information  is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

     (b)  Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers.

     See the  information  contained  under the caption  "Security  Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners,  Directors,  and Executive Officers" contained in the
Proxy  Statement for the Annual Meeting of  Stockholders of the Registrant to be
held on April 20, 1999 filed by the Company  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  on the date hereof,  which  information  is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

     (c)  Changes in Control.

     None.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     See  the  information  for Mr.  Thomas  I.  Unterberg,  a  director  of the
Registrant, contained under the caption "Election of Directors" contained in the
Proxy  Statement for the Annual Meeting of  Stockholders of the Registrant to be
held on April 20, 1999 filed by the Company  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  on the date hereof,  which  information  is  incorporated  herein by
reference.



                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

     (a)  Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules and Exhibits.

          (1)  Financial  Statements (all financial  statements listed below are
               of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries).

               -    Independent  Auditors'  Report is contained in Item 7 of the
                    March  1999 Form 8-K and such  information  is  incorporated
                    herein by reference.
               -    Consolidated  Balance  Sheets at December  31, 1997 and 1998
                    are  contained in Item 7 of the March 1999 Form 8-K and such
                    information is incorporated herein by reference.
               -    Consolidated Statements of Operations -- For the Years Ended
                    December 31, 1996,  1997 and 1998 are contained in Item 7 of
                    the March 1999 Form 8-K and such information is incorporated
                    herein by reference.
               -    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows -- For the Years Ended
                    December 31, 1996,  1997 and 1998 are contained in Item 7 of
                    the March 1999 Form 8-K and such information is incorporated
                    herein by reference.
               -    Consolidated  Statements of Changes in Stockholders'  Equity
                    -- For the Years Ended December 31, 1996,  1997 and 1998 are
                    contained  in Item 7 of the March  1999  Form 8-K,  and such
                    information is incorporated herein by reference.
               -    Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements -- For the Years
                    Ended December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998 are contained in Item
                    7 of the  March  1999  Form  8-K  and  such  information  is
                    incorporated herein by reference.

          (2)  Financial Statement Schedules

               -    See Index to Financial Statement Schedules of the Registrant
                    and  subsidiaries  at  page  S-1  hereof,   which  index  is
                    incorporated herein by reference.

          (3)  Exhibits

          3.1  Fifth Amended and Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation  of The
               AES Corporation is  incorporated  here in by reference to Exhibit
               3.1 to the Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q of the  Registrant  for
               the quarterly period ended June 30, 1998 filed August 14, 1998.
          3.2  By-Laws of The AES Corporation,  as amended is incorporated  here
               in by  reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the  Quarterly  Report on Form
               10-Q of the  Registrant  for the quarterly  period ended June 30,
               1998 filed August 14, 1998.
          4.1  Amended and Restated  Declaration  of Trust of AES Trust I, among
               The AES Corporation, The First National Bank of Chicago and First
               Chicago  Delaware,  Inc.,  to  provide  for the  issuance  of the
               $2.6875 Term  Convertible  Securities,  Series A is  incorporated
               herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Annual  Report on Form 10-K
               of the  Registrant  for the year ended  December  31,  1997 filed
               March 30, 1998.
          4.2  Junior  Subordinated  Indenture,  between The AES Corporation and
               The First  National Bank of Chicago,  to provide for the issuance
               of  the  $2.6875  Term  Convertible   Securities,   Series  A  is
               incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Annual Report
               on Form 10-K of the  Registrant  for the year ended  December 31,
               1997 filed March 30, 1998.
          4.3  First Supplemental  Indenture to Junior  Subordinated  Indenture,
               between  The AES  Corporation  and  The  First  National  Bank of
               Chicago,  as trustee,  to provide for the issuance of the $2.6875
               Term Convertible  Securities,  Series A is incorporated herein by
               reference  to  Exhibit  4.1 to Annual  Report on Form 10-K of the
               Registrant  for the year ended  December 31, 1997 filed March 30,
               1998.



          4.4  Guarantee  Agreement,  between The AES  Corporation and The First
               National  Bank of  Chicago,  as  initial  guarantee  trustee,  to
               provide  for  the  issuance  of  the  $2.6875  Term   Convertible
               Securities,  Series A is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to
               Exhibit 4.1 to Annual Report on Form 10-K of the  Registrant  for
               the year ended December 31, 1997 filed March 30, 1998.
          4.5  Second  Supplemental  Indenture  dated  as of  October  13,  1997
               between the Company and the First  National  Bank of Chicago,  as
               trustee,  to provide  for the  issuance  from time to time of the
               10.25% Senior Subordinated Notes Due 2006, is incorporated herein
               by reference to Exhibit  4.2.1 of the  Registration  Statement on
               Form S-3/A (Registration No. 333-39857) filed November 19, 1997.
          4.6  Indenture   dated  as  of  October  29,  1997   between  The  AES
               Corporation  and The First National Bank of Chicago,  as trustee,
               to provide for the issuance from time to time of the 8.50% Senior
               Subordinated  Notes due 2007 of the Company and the 8.875% Senior
               Subordinated  Debentures  due  2027,  is  incorporated  herein by
               reference  to Exhibit 4.1 to the  Registration  Statement on Form
               S-4 (Registration No. 333-44845) filed January 23, 1998.
          4.7  First  Supplemental  Indenture  dated  as of  November  21,  1997
               between  The AES  Corporation  and  The  First  National  Bank of
               Chicago,  as trustee,  to provide for the  issuance  from time to
               time of the  8.50%  Senior  Subordinated  Notes  due  2007 of the
               Company and the 8.875% Senior  Subordinated  Debentures due 2027,
               is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1.2 to the
               Registration  Statement on Form S-4  (Registration No. 333-44845)
               filed January 23, 1998.
          4.8  Junior  Subordinated Debt Trust Securities  Indenture dated as of
               March 1, 1997 between the Company and The First  National Bank of
               Chicago,   to  provide  for  the   issuance  of  the  $2.75  Term
               Convertible  Securities,  Series  B, is  incorporated  herein  by
               reference  to Exhibit 4.1 to the  Registration  Statement on Form
               S-3 (Registration No. 333-46189) filed February 12, 1998.
          4.9  Second  Supplemental  Indenture  dated  as of  October  29,  1997
               between the Company and The First  National  Bank of Chicago,  to
               provide  for  the   issuance   of  the  $2.75  Term   Convertible
               Securities,  Series B, is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to
               Exhibit  4.1.1  to  the   Registration   Statement  on  Form  S-3
               (Registration No. 333-46189) filed February 12, 1998.
          4.10 Amended  and  Restated  Declaration  of Trust of AES Trust II, to
               provide  for  the   issuance   of  the  $2.75  Term   Convertible
               Securities,  Series B, is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to
               Exhibit   4.3  to  the   Registration   Statement   on  Form  S-3
               (Registration No. 333-46189) filed February 12, 1998.
          4.11 Restated Certificate of Trust of AES Trust II, to provide for the
               issuance of the $2.75 Term Convertible  Securities,  Series B, is
               incorporated   herein  by   reference   to  Exhibit  4.4  to  the
               Registration  Statement on Form S-3  (Registration No. 333-46189)
               filed February 12, 1998.
          4.12 Form of  Preferred  Security,  to provide for the issuance of the
               $2.75  Term  Convertible  Securities,  Series B, is  incorporated
               herein by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the Registration  Statement
               on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-46189) filed February 12, 1998.
          4.13 Form of Junior  Subordinated Debt Trust Security,  to provide for
               the issuance of the $2.75 Term Convertible Securities,  Series B,
               is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.6  to the
               Registration  Statement on Form S-3  (Registration No. 333-46189)
               filed February 12, 1998.
          4.14 Preferred   Securities   Guarantee   with  respect  to  Preferred
               Securities,  to  provide  for  the  issuance  of the  $2.75  Term
               Convertible  Securities,  Series  B, is  incorporated  herein  by
               reference  to Exhibit 4.7 to the  Registration  Statement on Form
               S-3 (Registration No. 333-46189) filed February 12, 1998.




          4.15 Junior  Subordinated  Indenture  dated  as of  August  10,  1998,
               between  The AES  Corporation  and  The  First  National  Bank of
               Chicago,  as  trustee,  to provide  for the  issuance of the 4.5%
               Convertible   Junior   Subordinated   Debentures   due   2005  is
               incorporated  here  in  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.15  to  the
               Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of the Registrant for the quarterly
               period ended June 30, 1998 filed August 14, 1998.
          4.16 First Supplemental  Indenture dated as of August 10. 1998, to the
               Junior  Subordinated  Indenture  dated  as of  August  10,  1998,
               between  The AES  Corporation  and  The  First  National  Bank of
               Chicago,  as  trustee,  to provide  for the  issuance of the 4.5%
               Convertible   Junior   Subordinated   Debentures   due   2005  is
               incorporated  here  in  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.16  to  the
               Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of the Registrant for the quarterly
               period ended June 30, 1998 filed August 14, 1998.
          4.17 Senior  Indenture  dated  December 8, 1998 between the Registrant
               and  the  First  National  Bank of  Chicago  to  provide  for the
               issuance  of  $200   million  of  8%  Senior  Note  due  2008  is
               incorporated  herein by  reference to Exhibit 4.01 to the Current
               Report on Form 8-K of the Registrant filed December 11, 1998.
          4.18 First Supplemental Indenture dated December 8, 1998 to the Senior
               Indenture  between the  Registrant and the First National Bank of
               Chicago to provide for the  issuance of $200 million of 8% Senior
               Note due 2008 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.02
               to the  Current  Report  on  Form  8-K of  the  Registrant  filed
               December 11, 1998.
          4.19 Other  instruments  defining  the rights of holders of  long-term
               indebtedness of the Registrant and its consolidated  subsidiaries
               is  incorporated  here in by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.17 to the
               Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of the Registrant for the quarterly
               period ended June 30, 1998 filed August 14, 1998.
          10.1 Amended  Power Sales  Agreement,  dated as of December  10, 1985,
               between  Oklahoma Gas and  Electric  Company and AES Shady Point,
               Inc. is  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the
               Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).
          10.2 First Amendment to the Amended Power Sales Agreement, dated as of
               December 19, 1985,  between Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company and
               AES Shady  Point,  Inc. is  incorporated  herein by  reference to
               Exhibit  10.45  to  the   Registration   Statement  on  Form  S-1
               (Registration No. 33-46011).
          10.3 Electricity  Purchase  Agreement,  dated as of  December 6, 1985,
               between The  Connecticut  Light and Power Company and AES Thames,
               Inc. is  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
               Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).
          10.4 Power  Purchase  Agreement,  dated  March 25,  1988,  between AES
               Barbers  Point,  Inc. and Hawaiian  Electric  Company,  Inc.,  as
               amended,  is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to
               the  Registration   Statement  on  Form  S-1   (Registration  No.
               33-40483).
          10.5 The AES  Corporation  Profit Sharing and Stock  Ownership Plan is
               incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4(c)(1)  to the
               Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 33-49262).
          10.6 The AES  Corporation  Incentive  Stock  Option  Plan of 1991,  as
               amended,  is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to
               the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the  Registrant  for the fiscal
               year ended December 31, 1995.
          10.7 Applied Energy Services, Inc. Incentive Stock Option Plan of 1982
               is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.31 to the
               Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-40483).
          10.8 Deferred Compensation Plan for Executive Officers, as amended, is
               incorporated  herein by reference  to Exhibit  10.32 to Amendment
               No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No.
               33-40483).
          10.9 Deferred  Compensation Plan for Directors is incorporated  herein
               by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
               of the Registrant for the quarter ended March 31, 1998, filed May
               15, 1998.



          10.10   The AES Corporation Stock Option Plan for Outside Directors is
                  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.43 to the
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K of  Registrant  for the Fiscal Year
                  ended December 31, 1991.
          10.11   The   AES   Corporation   Supplemental   Retirement   Plan  is
                  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.64 to the
                  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K of the  Registrant  for the year
                  ended December 31, 1994.
          11      Statement of computation of earnings per share.
          12      Statement  of  computation  of  ratio  of  earnings  to  fixed
                  charges.
          21      Significant subsidiaries of The AES Corporation.
          23      Consent of independent auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP.
          24      Powers of attorney.
          27      Financial Data Schedule (Article 5).

     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

          -    Registrant  filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 30,
               1998 to disclose certain recent  developments  related to various
               acquisitions  and project  developments,  including the Agreement
               and Plan of Merger among The AES Corporation,  Cilcorp, Inc., and
               Midwest Energy, Inc. dated as of November 22, 1998.

          -    Registrant  filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 11,
               1998 to disclose  certain  agreements  relating to the  Company's
               offering of $200 million of 8% Senior Notes due 2008.






SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13 or 15 (d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  the Company has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  March 30, 1999                         THE AES CORPORATION
                                              (Company)

                                              By: /s/ Dennis W. Bakke
                                                 ----------------------
                                              Name: Dennis W. Bakke
                                              Title: President

     Pursuant to the  requirements  of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the Company and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.








                      THE AES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

     Independent Auditors' Report                                            S-2

     Schedule I - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant              S-3

     Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                         S-7

     Schedules  other than those listed above are omitted as the  information is
either not  applicable,  not  required,  or has been  furnished in the financial
statements or notes thereto incorporated by reference into Item 8 hereof.





                                       S-1




INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Stockholders of The AES Corporation:

We have audited the consolidated  financial statements of The AES Corporation as
of  December  31,  1998 and 1997,  and for each of the three years in the period
ended  December 31, 1998,  and have issued our report  thereon dated February 4,
1999; such financial statements and report are included in The AES Corporation's
Current Report on Form 8-K, filed March 18, 1999, and are incorporated herein by
reference.  Our  audits  also  included  the  consolidated  financial  statement
schedules  of The AES  Corporation,  listed  in the  index  to the  consolidated
financial  statement  schedules  on  page  S-1.  These  consolidated   financial
statement schedules are the responsibility of the AES Corporation's  management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion,
such consolidated financial statement schedules,  when considered in relation to
the basic consolidated  financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.


/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP


Washington, DC
February 4, 1999



                                      S-2


                               THE AES CORPORATION
                                   SCHEDULE I
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                   STATEMENTS OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                  (in millions)



                             See notes to Schedule I


                                       S-3





                               THE AES CORPORATION
                                   SCHEDULE I
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                     STATEMENTS OF UNCONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS
                                  (in millions)

                                                                   
                                                                        


                             See notes to Schedule I

                                      S-4





                               THE AES CORPORATION
                                   SCHEDULE I
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                     STATEMENTS OF UNCONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS
                                  (in millions)




                             See notes to Schedule I


                                      S-5





                               THE AES CORPORATION
                                   SCHEDULE I
                               NOTES TO SCHEDULE I

1.   SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES

     Accounting for  Subsidiaries  -- The AES  Corporation has accounted for the
earnings  of  its  subsidiaries  on the  equity  method  in  the  unconsolidated
condensed financial information.

     Revenues  --  Construction  management  fees  earned by the parent from its
consolidated subsidiaries are eliminated.

     Income Taxes -- The  unconsolidated  income tax expense or benefit computed
for the Company in accordance with Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards
No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, reflects the tax assets and liabilities of
the Company on a stand alone basis and the effect of filing a consolidated  U.S.
income tax return with certain other affiliated companies.

     Accounts and Notes  Receivable from  Subsidiaries -- Such amounts have been
shown  in  current  or  long-term  assets  based on  terms  in  agreements  with
subsidiaries,  but payment is dependent upon meeting conditions precedent in the
subsidiary loan agreements.

2.   NOTES PAYABLE




(1)  Weighted average interest rate at December 31, 1998 on floating rate loan.


                                      S-6





                               THE AES CORPORATION
                                   SCHEDULE II
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                  (IN MILLIONS)






                                      S-7





                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

                                                                    Sequentially
Exhibit               Description of Exhibit                       Numbered Page
- -------               ----------------------                       -------------


11   Statement of computation of earnings per share.

12   Statement of computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges.

21   Significant subsidiaries of The AES Corporation.

23   Consent of Independent Auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP.

24   Powers of Attorney.

27   Financial Data Schedule (Article 5).



