10-K


f88540e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

eBay Inc. Form 10-K for period ended 12/31/2002


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 for the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2002.

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 for the Transition Period
    from

to

.

Commission file number 000-24821

eBay Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

(408) 376-7400

(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: None

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934:
Common Stock

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.     Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2).     Yes

x

No

o

As of June 28, 2002, the last business day
of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal
quarter, there were 281,627,707 shares of the registrant’s
common stock, $0.001 par value, outstanding, which is the only
class of common or voting stock of the registrant issued as of
that date. The aggregate market value of the voting stock held
by non-affiliates, computed by reference to the closing price
for the common stock as quoted by the Nasdaq National Stock
Market as of that date, was approximately $10,505,600,000.
Shares of common stock held by each executive officer and
director and by each person who owns 5% or more of the
outstanding common stock have been excluded in that such persons
may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate
status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other
purposes.

As of March 1, 2003, there were 314,555,966
shares of the registrant’s common stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain exhibits filed with the registrant’s
prior annual reports to security holders, registration
statements and current reports are incorporated by reference
into Item 15(a)(3) of this report.



PART I

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains
forward-looking statements based on our current expectations
about our company and our industry. You can identify these
forward-looking statements when you see us using words such as
“may,” “will,” “should,”
“expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,”
“estimate,” “intend,” “plan” and
other similar expressions. You can also identify forward-looking
statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and
uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from
those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a
result of the factors described in the “Risk Factors That
May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition”
section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in
this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any
forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new
information becomes available or other events occur in the
future.

ITEM 1:

BUSINESS

eBay Inc. was formed as a sole proprietorship in
September 1995, and was incorporated in California in May 1996.
In April 1998, we reincorporated in Delaware and in September
1998 we completed the initial public offering of our common
stock. Our principal executive offices are located at 2145
Hamilton Avenue, San Jose, California, 95125, and our telephone
number is (408) 376-7400. When we refer to “we,”
“our” or “eBay” in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, we mean the current Delaware corporation (eBay
Inc.) and its California predecessor, as well as all of our
consolidated subsidiaries. When we refer to
“eBay.com,” we mean the online marketplace located at

www.ebay.com

. When we refer to “PayPal,” or
“PayPal.com,” we mean the global payments platform
located at

www.paypal.com

.

Our Mission

Our mission is to build the world’s most
efficient and abundant marketplace in which anyone, anywhere,
can buy or sell practically anything. We pioneered online
trading by developing a Web-based marketplace in which a
community of buyers and sellers are brought together in an
entertaining, intuitive, easy-to-use environment to browse, buy
and sell an enormous variety of items. Through our PayPal
service, we enable any business or consumer with email to send
and receive online payments securely, conveniently and
cost-effectively.

Our Marketplace

Our marketplace exists as an online trading
platform that enables a global community of buyers and sellers
to interact and trade with one another. Our role is to create,
maintain, and expand the technological functionality, safety,
ease-of-use, and reliability of the trading platform while at
the same time, supporting the growth and success of our
community of users.

Our Platform

Our trading platform is a fully automated,
topically arranged, intuitive and easy-to-use online service
that is available, 24 hours-a-day, seven days-a-week (subject to
a weekly scheduled two-hour maintenance period), enabling
sellers to list items for sale in either auction or fixed-price
formats, buyers to bid for and/or purchase items of interest,
and all eBay users to browse through listed items from any place
in the world at any time. The platform includes software tools
and services available either for no charge or for a fee, that
allow buyers and sellers to more easily trade with one another.
Our software tools such as: eBay Anywhere, which provides
wireless connectivity to eBay; Seller’s Assistant, Turbo
Lister, and Selling Manager, which automate the selling process;
the Freight Resource Center, which allows users to calculate
shipping costs; and PayPal, which facilitates online exchange of
funds, are all designed to make our trading



process easier and more efficient. Whether
provided by us or our commercial partners, services such as our
trust and safety programs, user verification, buyer protection
and assurance programs, vehicle inspections, escrow,
authentication and appraisal are all intended to create a safer
trading environment.

Our Community

Our community of users is the largest and one of
the most loyal online trading communities on the Web. We have
aggregated a significant number of buyers, sellers and items
listed for sale, which in turn has resulted in an extremely
vibrant trading environment. Our sellers enjoy generally high
conversion rates and buyers enjoy an extensive selection of
broadly priced goods and services. Key components of our
community philosophy are maintaining an honest and open
marketplace and treating individual users with respect. We seek
to maintain the satisfaction and loyalty of our frequent buyers
and sellers by offering a variety of community and support
features such as announcement and bulletin boards, customer
support boards and personal pages as well as other topical or
category-specific information exchanges. By ensuring that all
users are subject to the same rules and fees, we have created a
level playing field enabling individuals and businesses of all
types and sizes to access broad markets and compete equally.

Our Value Proposition

Our marketplace makes inefficient markets more
efficient.

Traditional offline marketplaces can be
inefficient because:

We make these inefficient marketplaces more
efficient because:

In particular, large markets with broad buyer and
seller bases, wide product ranges, and moderate shipping costs
have been successful on eBay. Our marketplace is most effective,
relative to available alternatives, at addressing markets of new
and scarce goods, end-of-life products, and used and vintage
items.

Our Strategy

We intend to achieve our mission of becoming the
world’s most efficient and abundant marketplace by creating
marketplace conditions that enable our users’ success. By
continuing to foster the vibrancy of the world’s largest
network of buyers and sellers and by making the online trading
experience faster, easier and safer, we better enable the
success of our user community.



Growth of eBay User Activity

Our success has been largely dependent upon the
success of our community of individual users. This success is
reflected in the growth of confirmed, registered users from two
million at December 31, 1998 to 62 million at
December 31, 2002. At December 31, 2002, we had nearly
28 million active users, based on activity over a trailing
12-month period, compared to nearly 18 million at
December 31, 2001. We define an active user as any user who
bid on, purchased, or listed an item during the prior
12 months. We attract buyers and sellers to our community
by offering:

Buyers

•

Selection

•

Convenience

•

Entertainment

•

Value

Sellers

•

Access to broad markets

•

Low distribution costs

•

Ability to maximize prices and increase sales

A Faster, Easier and Safer Trading
Experience

Payment Services

Providing more efficient and more effective
methods of payment is essential to creating a faster, easier and
safer online trading experience. Traditional payment methods
such as checks, money orders, and credit cards via merchant
accounts all present various obstacles to the online trading
experience, including lengthy processing time, inconvenience,
and high costs.

Through our acquisition of PayPal, Inc. on
October 3, 2002, we intend to accelerate the velocity of
trade on eBay by eliminating the various obstacles presented by
traditional payment methods. PayPal enables any business or
consumer with email access in 38 countries to send and receive
online payments securely, conveniently and cost-effectively.
PayPal’s network builds on the existing financial
infrastructure of bank accounts and credit cards to create an
international payment system. PayPal delivers a product well
suited for small businesses, online merchants, individuals and
others.

Our goal for PayPal is to become the Web’s
most convenient, secure, and cost-effective payment solution.
PayPal currently offers its account-based system in English to
users in 38 countries including the United States. For the
post-acquisition period from October 4, 2002 through
December 31, 2002, PayPal’s payment volume sent to
business accounts, which we refer to as Total Payment Volume, or
TPV, totaled $2.1 billion. PayPal’s TPV consists
mainly of payments to small businesses. Currently, the majority
of these payments relate to sales of goods and services through
online trading platforms, primarily on eBay. As of
December 31, 2002, PayPal had 23 million accounts.
During the post-acquisition period from October 4, 2002
through December 31, 2002, users of eight million of
these accounts sent or received a payment that resulted in a
fee. As of December 31, 2001, PayPal had nearly
13 million total accounts, of which eight million sent or
received a payment that resulted in a fee during the year ended
December 31, 2001.

PayPal has achieved its rapid growth through a
combination of wide adoption on eBay.com and our website in the
United Kingdom, user convenience, competitive pricing and robust
customer safeguards. During the year ended December 31,
2002, PayPal’s total number of accounts grew by
10.5 million, an average of 29,000 per day. For the
post-acquisition period from October 4, 2002 through
December 31, 2002, PayPal processed an average of 440,000
payments per day, totaling $24.0 million in daily volume.
The average payment amount sent during this period was $55.

Geographic Expansion

The continued geographic expansion of the eBay
marketplace is critical to creating a faster, easier and safer
online trading experience. In 2002, eBay, together with certain
minority-owned companies, unconsolidated subsidiaries and
affiliates, increased its geographic reach to 27 countries
including websites



in the People’s Republic of China and
Taiwan. As of December 31, 2002, through our wholly owned
and majority-owned subsidiaries and affiliates, we reached the
following countries:

•

Australia

•

Austria

•

Belgium

•

Canada

•

France

•

Germany

•

Ireland

•

Italy

•

the Netherlands

•

New Zealand

•

Singapore

•

South Korea

•

Spain

•

Sweden

•

Switzerland

•

Taiwan

•

United Kingdom

•

United States

As of December 31, 2002, through investments
in unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates, we reached the
following countries:

•

Argentina

•

Brazil

•

Chile

•

Columbia

•

Ecuador

•

Mexico

•

People’s Republic of China

•

Uruguay

•

Venezuela

The globalization of the eBay marketplace
provides buyers access to an even greater supply of items and
provides sellers an even broader audience of potential customers.

Category Growth

Category growth both in number and size within
the eBay marketplace is a key element in creating a faster,
easier, and safer online trading experience. In 2002, we made
significant investments to grow existing categories and to
expand the number of categories in the eBay marketplace. By
focusing development and marketing efforts around re-organized
major categories, we achieved greater than 10% growth in all of
our major categories and increased the number of categories
under which eBay users can list goods for sale from 10, when
eBay was first introduced, to more than 22,000 as of
December 31, 2002.

As of December 31, 2002, listings on eBay
were organized under the following categories:

Major Categories

•

Antiques

•

Art

•

Books

•

Business & Industrial

•

Cars & Other Vehicles

• Cars

• Motorcycles

• Parts

•

Clothing and Accessories

•

Coins

•

Collectibles

•

Dolls & Bears

•

Electronics and Computers

• Computers & Office

• Consumer Electronics

• Networking

• PDAs

• Photo

• Video Games

•

Home

• Baby

• Home Décor

• Lawn & Garden

• Kitchen

• Pet Supplies

• Tools

•

Jewelry & Watches

•

Movies & DVDs

•

Music

•

Musical Instruments

•

Pottery & Glass

•

Real Estate

•

Sports

• Fan Shop

• Memorabilia

• Sporting Goods

•

Stamps

•

Tickets

•

Toys & Hobbies

•

Crafts

•

Diecast

•

Travel

•

Everything Else

•

Gifts

•

Health & Beauty

•

More

Specialty Sites

•

eBay Motors

•

eBay Stores

•

Half.com by eBay

•

PayPal

•

Sothebys.com



Each major category has numerous subcategories,
with the most popular items sold on eBay being those that are
relatively standardized, well represented with a photo, small
and easily shipped and relatively inexpensive.

The eBay Online Trading Experience

The eBay online trading experience begins with a
visit to the eBay home page at www.ebay.com or any of
eBay’s international sites. eBay’s home page contains
a listing of major categories, featured items and theme-oriented
promotions. Users can search for items to browse and buy, go to
a specific item category, go to a specialty site such as eBay
Motors, eBay Stores, or Half.com or begin listing an item for
sale.

Registration

Any visitor to eBay.com and our international
websites can browse through the eBay service and view the items
listed for sale. To bid on, list or purchase an item, buyers and
sellers must first register with eBay by completing a short
online form and confirmation process.

Buying on eBay

Users can search for specific items by browsing
through a list of items within a category or subcategory and
then “click through” to a detailed description for a
particular item. Users can also search specific categories,
interest pages or the entire database of listings using keywords
to describe their areas of interest. Our search engine generates
lists of relevant items with links to detailed descriptions.
Each item is assigned a unique identifier so that users can
easily search for and track specific items. Users also can
search for a particular bidder or seller by name to review his
or her listings and feedback history and search for products by
specific region or other attributes. Once a user has found an
item and registered on eBay.com, the user may enter a bid for
the maximum amount he or she is willing to pay at that time, or
for those listings that offer the Buy-It-Now feature, purchase
the item by accepting the Buy-It-Now price established by the
seller. In the event of competitive bids, the eBay service
automatically increases bidding in increments based upon the
current high bid, up to the bidder’s maximum price.

We encourage direct interaction between buyers
and sellers. Potential buyers wishing additional information
about a listed item can contact the seller through email. We
believe that this interaction between potential buyers and
sellers enhances the trading experience on eBay and is an
important element of our service. Once each bid is made, we send
an email confirmation to the bidder and an outbid notice to the
next highest bidder and automatically update the item’s
auction status. During the course of the transaction, we notify
bidders immediately via email if they are outbid. Buyers are not
charged for making bids or purchases through eBay. In addition,
buyers can specify items of interest on a service called
“Favorite Searches” (previously called “Personal
Shopper”) and receive automated email messages when these
particular items are available for sale on eBay.com.

Selling on eBay

Users can sell items on eBay.com by registering
and selling items on their own, or with the help of a Trading
Assistant.

Registering and Selling Items

Registered sellers can list a product for sale by
completing a short online form or using “Seller’s
Assistant,” “Turbo Lister” or third-party tools
that facilitate the listing of multiple items. The seller
selects a minimum price for opening bids for the item and
chooses whether the sale will last three, five, seven or
10 days. Additionally, a seller may select a reserve price
for an item, which is the minimum price at which the seller is
willing to sell the item and is typically higher than the
minimum price set for the opening bid. The reserve price is not
disclosed to bidders. Sellers with appropriate feedback ratings
may also choose to



use the Buy-It-Now feature at the time of
listing, which allows sellers to name a price at which they
would be willing to sell the item to any buyer. Listings that
offer the Buy-It-Now feature are conducted in the normal
auction-style format, but will also feature a Buy-It-Now icon
and price. Until the first bid is placed, or in the case of a
reserve auction, until the reserve price is met, buyers have the
option to buy the item instantly at the specified price without
waiting for the auction to end. A seller can elect to sell items
in individual item listings or, if he or she has multiple
identical items, can elect to hold a “Dutch Auction.”
For example, an individual wishing to sell 10 identical watches
could hold 10 individual auctions or hold a Dutch Auction in
which the 10 highest bidders would each receive a watch at the
price bid by the tenth highest bidder. To be eligible to hold a
Dutch auction, a seller must have a sufficiently high feedback
rating and must have been a registered seller for at least
60 days. A seller may also specify that an auction will be
a private auction. With this format, bidders’ email
addresses are not disclosed on the item screen or bidding
history screen.

Sellers generally pay a nominal listing fee to
list items for sale. By paying incremental placement fees,
sellers can have items featured in various ways. For example, a
seller can highlight his or her item for sale by utilizing a
bold font for the item heading, have his or her auction
displayed as a “Featured Auction,” which allows the
seller’s item to be rotated on the eBay home page, or
utilize the Buy-It-Now feature, which enables a seller to close
an auction instantly once a specified price is reached.

When an auction ends, the eBay system validates
whether a bid has exceeded the minimum price, and the reserve
price if one has been set. If the auction was successful or if
the buyer elected the Buy-It-Now feature, we automatically
notify the buyer and seller via email, and the buyer and seller
can then complete the transaction independent of us. At the time
of the email notification, we generally charge the seller a
final value fee. eBay does not take possession of either the
item being sold or the buyer’s payment for the item.
Rather, the buyer and seller must independently arrange for the
shipment of and payment for the item, with the buyer typically
paying for shipping.

Under the terms of our user agreement, if a
seller receives one or more bids above the stated minimum or
reserve price, whichever is higher, the seller is obligated to
complete a transaction. We have no power to force the seller or
buyer to complete the transaction, other than to suspend them
from using the eBay service in the future. In the event the
buyer and seller are unable to complete the transaction and the
seller notifies us, we have the right to credit the seller the
amount of the final value fee.

Invoices for listing, feature and final value
fees are sent via email to sellers on a regular (at least
monthly) basis. We require all new sellers to have a credit card
account on file. Sellers who pay us by credit card are charged
shortly after the invoice is sent. A summary of our eBay.com fee
structure, as of March 15, 2003, is provided below. All
pricing is subject to change.

Listing Fees

*

Reserve price fee is fully refundable if item
    sells



Feature Fees

Final Value Fees

Trading Assistants

The eBay Trading Assistants program is a network
of experienced eBay sellers who have indicated their willingness
to assist others in the sale of items for a fee. Interested
sellers can search the Trading Assistant Directory to find
someone to sell items on their behalf. The Trading Assistants
and their clients negotiate the terms and conditions of these
services.

Payments

Following a completed transaction, eBay buyers
and sellers can exchange funds by the payment method of their
choice, typically electronically through our PayPal global
payments platform and also via check or money order. PayPal
enables any business or consumer with email to send and receive
online payments securely, conveniently and cost-effectively.
PayPal’s email-driven system builds on the legacy financial
infrastructure of bank accounts and credit cards to create an
online payment network available to users in 38 countries.

How PayPal Works

Joining the
Network

To send or receive a payment, a user first must
open a PayPal account. A new user typically opens an account to
send money for an eBay purchase or a purchase on another
website, for services rendered, or for a payment to an
individual in lieu of cash. Allowing new users to join the
network at the time of making or receiving payments encourages
PayPal’s natural, user-driven growth. PayPal’s account
sign-up process asks each new user to register with PayPal his
or her name, street address and email address, which serves as
the unique account identifier.



Making
Payments

Senders make payments at the PayPal website, at
an item listing on eBay or another online marketplace where the
seller has integrated PayPal’s Instant Purchase Feature, or
at the sites of merchants that have integrated PayPal’s Web
Accept feature. To make a payment at PayPal’s website, a
sender logs in to his or her account and enters the
recipient’s email address and the amount of the payment. To
make a payment through Instant Purchase or Web Accept, a sender
selects an item for purchase, confirms the payment information
and enters his or her email address and password to authorize
the payment. In both scenarios, PayPal debits the money from the
sender’s PayPal balance, credit card or bank account and
instantly credits it to the recipient’s PayPal balance in
the case of an eCheck payment, the funds are credited to the
recipient’s PayPal balance after two to three business
days. In turn, the recipient can make payments to others or
withdraw his or her funds at any time via check, electronic
funds transfer, or via the PayPal debit card. PayPal earns
revenues when an account receives a payment.

Funding
Payments

Senders fund payments in three ways:

•

from the sender’s existing PayPal balance;

•

from the sender’s bank account, using the
    Automated Clearing House, or ACH, network; or

•

from the sender’s credit card.

We incur funding costs on payments at varying
levels based on the nature of the payment. To those users who
choose to maintain PayPal balances, we offer a money market rate
of return on balances placed in PayPal’s Money Market Fund.
The PayPal Money Market Fund, which is invested in a portfolio
managed by Barclays Global Fund Advisors, bore a current
compound annual yield of 1.44% as of December 31, 2002.

We use the terms “balance” and
“PayPal balance” to refer to funds that PayPal
customers choose either to invest in the PayPal Money Market
Fund (offered only to U.S. customers) or to authorize PayPal to
place in FDIC-insured pooled bank accounts as agent of
PayPal’s customers. These funds belong to our customers and
hence are not reflected in our statement of financial position.
Funds belonging to our customers that are not invested in
FDIC-insured accounts, such as funds in transit to or from the
customer’s bank, are shown as a liability on our balance
sheet.

Verification of
PayPal’s Account Holders

In order for senders to fund payments from their
bank accounts, they first must become verified PayPal users
through our Random Deposit technique. Under this technique, we
make two deposits ranging from 1 to 99 cents to the user’s
bank account. To verify ownership of the account, the user then
enters the two amounts as a four-digit code at the PayPal
website. In addition to allowing funding via bank accounts,
verification also removes some spending limits on users’
accounts and gives them reputational advantages when transacting
with other members of the PayPal community.

Withdrawing
Money

Each U.S.-based account holder may withdraw money
from his or her PayPal account via an ACH transfer to his or her
bank account or by a mailed check from PayPal. ACH withdrawals
may take three to five business days to arrive in the account
holder’s bank account, depending on the bank. Mailed checks
may take one to two weeks to arrive and PayPal charges $1.50 per
check. Qualifying PayPal business users also can receive a
PayPal ATM/debit card, which provides instant liquidity to their
respective PayPal account balances. ATM/debit card holders can
withdraw cash, for a $1.00 fee per transaction, from any ATM
connected to the Cirrus or Maestro networks and can make
purchases at any merchant accepting MasterCard.



Other Services

Customer Support

We devote significant resources to providing
personalized, accurate and timely support services to our
community of users. Buyers and sellers can contact us through a
variety of means, including email, text chat and an expanding
phone capability. We are focusing our resources on expanding our
accessibility and capacity, increasing our category specific
support, extending our online self-help features, and improving
our systems and processes to enable us to provide the most
efficient and effective support possible.

Value-Added Services

We provide a variety of “pre-trade” and
“post-trade” services to enhance the user experience
and make trading faster, easier, and safer.
“Pre-trade” services simplify the listing process and
include photo hosting, authentication and seller productivity
software. “Post-trade” services make transactions
easier and more comfortable to complete, and include payment
processing, insurance, vehicle inspections, escrow, shipping and
postage. We currently provide these services directly or through
contractual arrangements with third parties.

Trust and Safety Programs

We have developed a number of programs to make
eBay users more comfortable dealing with unknown trading
partners and completing commerce transactions on the Internet.

Feedback Forum

eBay’s Feedback Forum encourages every user
to provide comments and feedback on other eBay users with whom
he or she interacts and enables every user to view other
users’ profiles that include feedback ratings and
incorporate user experiences. Every registered eBay user has a
feedback profile containing compliments, criticisms and other
comments by users who have conducted business or interacted with
the person. The Feedback Forum requires feedback to be related
to specific transactions and provides an easy tool for users to
match transaction numbers with the user names of their trading
partners. This information is recorded in a feedback profile
that includes a feedback rating for the person and comments from
other eBay users who have interacted with that person over the
past seven days, the past month, the past six months and beyond.
Users who develop positive reputations will have a color-coded
star symbols displayed next to their user names to indicate the
number of positive feedback ratings they have received. Before
bidding on items listed for sale, eBay users are encouraged to
review a seller’s feedback profile to check his or her
reputation within the eBay community.

The terms of our user agreement prohibit actions
that would undermine the integrity of the Feedback Forum, such
as a person’s leaving positive feedback about himself or
herself through multiple accounts or leaving multiple negative
feedback for others through multiple accounts. The Feedback
Forum has several automated features designed to detect and
prevent some forms of abuse. For example, feedback posting from
the same account, positive or negative, cannot affect a
user’s net feedback rating (i.e., the number of positive
postings, less the number of negative postings) by more than one
point, no matter how many comments an individual makes. Also, a
user can only leave feedback for completed transactions. Users
who receive a sufficiently negative net feedback rating have
their registrations suspended and are unable to bid on or list
items for sale. We believe our Feedback Forum is extremely
useful in overcoming initial user hesitancy when trading over
the Internet, as it reduces the anonymity and uncertainty of
dealing with an unknown trading partner.

SafeHarbor

TM

Program

In addition to the Feedback Forum, we offer the
SafeHarbor

TM

program, which provides guidelines for
trading, provides information to resolve user disputes and
responds to reports of misuses of the eBay service. eBay’s
SafeHarbor

TM

staff investigates users’
complaints of possible misuse of the eBay service and



takes appropriate action, including issuing
warnings to users or suspending users from bidding on or listing
items for sale. Some of the complaints the
SafeHarbor

TM

staff investigates include various forms
of bid manipulation, malicious posting of negative feedback and
posting of illegal items for sale. The SafeHarbor

TM

group is organized into three areas: Investigations, Fraud
Prevention and Community Watch. The Investigations team
investigates reported trading infractions and misuse of the eBay
service. The Fraud Prevention department provides information to
assist users with disputes over the quality of the goods sold or
potentially fraudulent transactions and, upon receipt of an
officially filed, written claim of fraud from a user, will
generally suspend the offending user from the eBay service or
take other action as appropriate. The Community Watch department
investigates the listing of illegal, infringing or inappropriate
items on the eBay.com site and our international websites and
violations of certain of our policies. Upon receipt of a valid
written claim of intellectual property infringement by the owner
of the intellectual property, we will remove the offending item.
Users who repeatedly infringe intellectual property rights are
suspended. In addition, we have increased the number of people
reviewing potentially illegal items. Our trust and safety
initiatives, including user identity verification, insurance,
integrated escrow and authentication, are key elements of our
programs designed to make eBay a safe place to trade.

My eBay

We offer My eBay, which permits users to receive
a report of their recent eBay activity, including bidding,
selling, account balances, favorite categories and recent
feedback. Users with their own Web pages also may post links
from their Web pages to eBay and list the items they are selling
on eBay. We also offer About Me, which provides users the
opportunity to create their own personal home page free of
charge on eBay using step-by-step instructions. The About Me
home page can include personal information, items listed for
sale, eBay feedback ratings, images and links to other favorite
sites.

eBay Foundation

In June 1998, we donated 643,500 shares of our
common stock to the Community Foundation Silicon Valley, a
tax-exempt donor-advised public charity, and established a fund
known as the “eBay Foundation.” Since its inception,
the eBay Foundation has made millions of dollars in grants to
dozens of programs and initiatives focused on education and
expanded access to technology. We also seek user suggestions for
worthwhile charities through our website, where charity auctions
and other unique promotions are held to support such causes.

Technology

Our eBay Platform

The eBay platform is composed of a scalable
transaction processing system, consumer user interface, and
externally accessible Application Programming Interface, API,
for third-party integrations. The scalable system is primarily
based on internally developed proprietary software, but also
includes selected vendor components. The eBay platform supports
the full selling and buying processes, including initial
registration for the service, placing bids and managing outbids,
listing items for sale, and auction close. The platform also
manages various notifications for sellers and buyers, including
daily status updates, bid and outbid notices, registration
confirmations, account change notices, billing notices, and
end-of-auction notices. The platform maintains user registration
information, billing accounts, current item listings and
historical listings. All information is regularly archived for
record-keeping and analysis purposes. The platform regularly
updates a comprehensive search engine with the titles and
descriptions of items, as well as pricing and bidding updates
for active items. The platform also updates the seller’s
billing account every time an item is listed, a feature is
selected, or an auction closes with a bid in excess of the
seller-specified minimum bid. The platform sends electronic
invoices to all sellers on a regular (at least monthly) basis.
In addition to these features, the eBay service also supports a
community bulletin board and chat areas where users and eBay
customer support personnel can interact. Our overall system
volume is significant, with



peak usage of 580 million pageviews per day,
60 million item searches per day, and 4.5 gigabits per
second of data traffic.

Our platform is designed around industry standard
architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or
catastrophic occurrences. The eBay service provides 24
hours-a-day, seven days-a-week availability, subject to a weekly
scheduled two hour maintenance period. Substantially all of our
system hardware is hosted at Cable & Wireless and Qwest
facilities in the San Jose, California, area and Sprint
Communications facilities in Sacramento, California, each of
which provides redundant communications lines and emergency
power backup. These systems and operations are vulnerable to
damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power
loss, telecommunication failures and similar events. They are
also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of
vandalism, and also to potential disruption if the operators of
these facilities have financial difficulties.

We do not maintain fully redundant systems or
alternative providers of hosting services, and we do not carry
business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for
losses that may occur. Despite any precautions we may take, the
occurrence of a natural disaster, or any decision by Cable &
Wireless, Sprint or Qwest to close a facility we are using for
financial reasons without providing us adequate notice or other
unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in
our services. In addition, the failure by Cable & Wireless,
Qwest or Sprint to provide our required data communications
capacity could result in interruptions in our service. Any
damage to or failure of our systems could result in
interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service will
reduce our net revenues and profits, and our future net revenues
and profits will be harmed if our users believe that our system
is unreliable.

Our platform consists of Sun database servers
running Oracle relational database management applications with
a mix of Sun and Hitachi storage devices along with a suite of
Pentium-based Internet servers running the Windows NT and Linux
operating systems. We use F5 Networks, Inc.’s load
balancing systems and our own redundant servers along with
select software from Veritas Inc. to provide for fault
tolerance, and we use IBM’s WebSphere application server
for certain platform functions. These third-party technology
licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially
reasonable terms. The loss of these technologies could require
us to obtain substitute technologies of lower quality or
performance standards or at greater cost.

We have experienced occasional system
interruptions, which we believe will continue to occur from time
to time. These outages have stemmed from a variety of causes,
including third-party hardware and software problems, human
error, intentional external attacks (denial of service
attempts), and eBay proprietary software issues. The volume of
traffic on our websites and the number of items being listed by
users has been increasing continually, requiring us to expand
and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems, API
capacity, security infrastructure, and network infrastructure
and to add new engineering and operations personnel. The process
of upgrading and expansion is part of the regular maintenance
and site revisions. We may be unable to accurately project the
rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of the eBay
service or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to
accommodate these increases in a timely manner. Any failure to
expand or upgrade our systems at least as fast as the growth in
demand for capacity could cause the website and API functions to
become unstable and possibly cease to operate for periods of
time. Unscheduled downtime would harm our business.

We use internally developed systems to operate
our service and for transaction processing, including billing
and collections processing. We have announced our intention to
enhance our billing system with products from CSG Systems. We
must continually improve our systems to accommodate the
increasing levels of use of our websites. In addition, we may
add new features and functionality to our services that would
result in the need to develop or license additional
technologies. The cost of our development efforts, including the
required capitalization of certain site-related software and
development costs, totaled $65.3 million in the year ended
December 31, 2000, $82.0 million in 2001, and
$120.1 million in 2002, and are reflected in our
Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading
“Product Development.” Our inability to add additional
software and hardware or to upgrade our technology, transaction
processing systems, security infrastructure, or network
infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic or transaction



volume could have adverse consequences. These
consequences may include unanticipated system disruptions,
slower response times, degradation in levels of customer
support, impaired quality of users’ experience on our
services, impaired quality of services for third-party
application developers using our API, and delays in reporting
accurate financial information. Our failure to provide new
features or functionality also could result in these
consequences. We may be unable to upgrade and expand our systems
in a timely and effective manner or to integrate smoothly any
newly developed or purchased technologies with our existing
systems. These difficulties could harm or limit our ability to
expand our business.

Our competitive space is characterized by rapidly
changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new
service and product announcements, introductions and
enhancements and changing customer demands. Accordingly, our
future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly
changing technologies, adapt our services to evolving industry
standards and to improve the performance, features and
reliability of our services in response to competitive services
and product offerings and evolving demands of the Internet. Our
failure to adapt to these changes would harm our business. In
addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or
telecommunications technologies or other technological changes
could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our
services or infrastructure. To address the need for rapid change
as well as stability, we have undertaken a project to enhance
and evolve our current architecture. The new architecture is
intended to facilitate continued stability, improved scalability
and improved efficiency. As of the fourth quarter of 2002, the
new architecture is serving 70% of overall traffic on the eBay
websites. This project is ongoing, with phased rollouts through
2004. We plan to time these rollouts in a manner that minimizes
the impact to our user community.

Our PayPal Platform

Our PayPal technology assures user access to the
PayPal website, both to acquire new customers and to allow
existing ones to conduct financial transactions. We focus much
of PayPal’s development efforts on creating specialized
software that enhances its Internet-based customer
functionality. One of PayPal’s key challenges remains
building and maintaining a scalable and reliable system, capable
of handling traffic and transactions for a growing customer
base. The major components of our PayPal network reside at our
PayPal facilities in Mountain View, California, at an Equinix
data center in San Jose, California, at a Cable & Wireless
data center in Santa Clara, California, and at our PayPal
operations and customer support facility in Omaha, Nebraska.

Because of the financial nature of the PayPal
product, we seek to offer a high level of data security in order
to build customer confidence and to protect our customers’
private information. We have designed our PayPal security
infrastructure to protect data from unauthorized access, both
physically and over the Internet. PayPal’s most sensitive
data and hardware reside at its Equinix data center and Cable
& Wireless data centers. These data centers have redundant
connections to the Internet, as well as fault-tolerant power and
fire suppression systems. Because of PayPal’s special
security needs, we house our PayPal equipment in physically
secure areas and we tightly control physical access to our
systems. PayPal’s systems and operations are located in the
same geographic area and are vulnerable to damage or
interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss,
telecommunication failures and similar events. They are also
subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of
vandalism, and to potential disruption if the operators of these
facilities have financial difficulties. PayPal does not maintain
fully redundant systems or alternative providers of hosting
services, and does not carry business interruption insurance
sufficient to compensate it for losses that may occur. Any
damage to or failure of PayPal’s systems could result in
interruptions in its service, which could reduce our net
revenues and profits, and our future net revenues and profits
will be harmed if PayPal’s users believe that its system is
unreliable.

Multiple layers of network security and network
intrusion detection devices further enhance the security of our
PayPal systems. We segment various components of the system
logically and physically from each other on our PayPal networks.
Components of the system communicate with each other via Secure
Sockets Layer, or SSL, an industry standard communications
security protocol, and require mutual authentication. Access to
a system component requires at least two authorized staff members



simultaneously to enter secret passphrases. This
procedure is designed to protect us from the unauthorized use of
PayPal’s infrastructure components. Finally, we store all
PayPal data we deem private or sensitive only in encrypted form
in our PayPal database. PayPal decrypts data only on an
as-needed basis, using a specially designated component of our
PayPal system that requires authentication before fulfilling a
decryption request.

Competition

We encounter vigorous competition in our business
from numerous sources. Our users can buy and sell similar items
through a variety of competing channels, including online and
offline retailers, distributors, liquidators, import and export
companies, auctioneers, catalog and mail-order companies,
virtually all online and offline commerce participants
(consumer-to-consumer, business-to-consumer and
business-to-business) and online and offline shopping channels
and networks. For our PayPal service, our users may choose to
pay through a variety of competing channels, including other
online payment services, payment methods (e.g. cash, money
order), and traditional online or offline merchant accounts. As
our product offering continues to broaden into new categories of
items, we expect our competition to continue to broaden to
include other online and offline channels for those new
offerings. We also compete on the basis of price, product
selection, and services, which are derived from our abundant and
diverse user community and the quality of the eBay user
experience. To compete effectively, we may need to expend
significant resources in technology and marketing. These efforts
may be expensive and could reduce our margins and have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial position,
operating results, cash flows and reduce the value of our stock.
We believe that we will be able to maintain profitability by
preserving and expanding the abundance and diversity of our user
community and enhancing our user experience, but there can be no
assurance that we will be able to continue to manage our
operating expenses to mitigate a decline in net income. For more
information regarding these risks, see “Risk Factors That
May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition —
Our industry is intensely competitive.”

Seasonality

Our results of operations historically have been
seasonal in nature because many of our users reduce their
activities on our websites during the holidays, such as during
the Thanksgiving (in the U.S.) and Christmas periods, and with
the onset of good weather during the summer months. We have
historically experienced our strongest quarters of online growth
in our first and fourth fiscal quarters. PayPal has shown
similar seasonality, except that its strongest quarter of online
growth has historically been the fourth quarter.

Intellectual Property

We regard the protection of our trademarks,
copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets
as critical to our success. We have entered into confidentiality
and invention assignment agreements with our employees and
contractors, and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom
we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure
of our proprietary information.

We aggressively protect our intellectual property
rights by relying on a combination of trademark, copyright,
patent, trade dress and trade secret laws and through the domain
name dispute resolution system. As a result, we actively pursue
the registration of our trademarks, copyrights, patents and
domain names in the U.S. and major countries internationally.
Furthermore, we must also protect our trademarks, patents and
domain names in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process
that is expensive, may require litigation, and may not be
successful in every location. We have registered or applied for
our “eBay” trademark in the U.S. and over 50 non-U.S.
jurisdictions and have in place an active program to continue
securing the “eBay” and “PayPal” domain
names in major non-U.S. jurisdictions. We have filed to protect
our rights to the “eBay” and “PayPal” names
in certain new top level domains such as “.biz”
“.info” and ”.us” that have recently become
operational. Our inability to secure our trademarks or domain
names could adversely affect us in any jurisdiction in which we
are not able to register.



Third parties have from time to time claimed, and
others may claim in the future, that we have infringed their
past, current or future intellectual property rights. We are
involved in several such legal proceedings. Please see the
information under “Risk Factors That May Affect Results of
Operations and Financial Condition — We are subject to
intellectual property and other litigation” and
“— We may be unable to protect or enforce our own
intellectual property rights adequately” and
“Item 3: Legal Proceedings.”

Employees

As of December 31, 2002, eBay Inc. and its
consolidated subsidiaries employed approximately 4,000 persons,
of whom approximately 3,100 were in the United States. Our
future success is substantially dependent on the performance of
our executive and senior management and key technical personnel,
and our continuing ability to find and retain highly qualified
technical and managerial personnel.

Segments

Segment selection is based upon our internal
organization structure, the manner in which our operations are
managed, the measurement of the performance of our operations
evaluated by management in the chief operating decision-maker
capacity, the availability of separate financial information and
overall materiality considerations.

During the fourth quarter of 2002, the growth of
our international operations and our acquisition of PayPal
prompted us to change the basis for measuring our financial
performance and evaluating resource allocations, and therefore
our reportable segments. We changed our business segments from
Online and Offline services to U.S., International, and Payments
operations. This new segment structure reflects the new
composition of our business. Additionally, we changed the
internal measurement basis of segment performance from operating
income before certain items to a direct contribution measure of
profitability.

Direct contribution consists of net revenues less
direct costs. Direct costs include specific costs of net
revenues, sales and marketing expenses, and general and
administrative expenses over which segment managers have direct
discretionary control such as advertising and marketing
programs, customer support expenses, bank charges, provisions
for doubtful accounts, authorized credits and transaction
losses. Expenses over which segment managers do not have
discretionary control, such as site operations costs, product
development expenses, and general and administrative costs, are
monitored by management through shared cost centers and are not
evaluated in the measurement of segment performance.

The U.S. segment comprises U.S. online trading
platforms other than PayPal and Billpoint, Inc. The
International segment comprises our international online trading
platforms. The Payments segment comprises our global payments
platform consisting of our PayPal and Billpoint subsidiaries.
The Payments amounts reflect Billpoint’s historical
operations and PayPal’s operations for the post-acquisition
period from October 4, 2002 through December 31, 2002.
We have previously announced that we intend to discontinue
Billpoint’s operations in the first half of 2003.
Billpoint’s operations will continue to be reflected in the
Payments segment results until the wind-down of Billpoint
operations is completed.

For geographic reporting purposes, net revenues
and long-lived assets of the Payments segment are allocated
between the U.S. and International regions based upon the
country in which the revenue was generated or in which the asset
is located. See “Note 4 — Segment Information” of
the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is
incorporated by reference herein.

Available Information

Our Internet address is

www.ebay.com

. Our
investor relations website is located at

www.shareholder.com/ebay

. We make available free of
charge on this website under “SEC Filings” our Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,
Current Reports on Form 8-K and



amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file or furnish such
materials to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 2:

PROPERTIES

On March 1, 2000, we entered into a
five-year lease for general office facilities located in San
Jose, California. This five-year lease is commonly referred to
as a synthetic lease because it represents a form of off-balance
sheet financing under which an unrelated third-party funds 100%
of the costs of the acquisition of the property and leases the
asset to us as lessee. Under our lease structure, upon
termination or expiration, at our option, we must either
purchase the property from the lessor for a predetermined amount
or sell the real property to a third party. Our San Jose lease
consists of approximately 460,000 square feet of office space.
As of December 31, 2002, we occupied approximately 314,000
square feet of this total office space and subleased additional
space in the facility to third parties.

Payments under our lease are based on the
$126.4 million cost of the property funded by the third
party and are adjusted as the London Interbank Offered Rate, or
LIBOR, fluctuates. Under the terms of the lease agreement, the
lease terminates on March 1, 2005, unless extended to
September 1, 2006. At any time prior to the final
12 months of the lease term, we may, at our option,
purchase the property for approximately $126.4 million. If
we elect not to purchase the property, we will undertake to sell
the facility to one or more third parties and have guaranteed to
the lessor a residual value equal to approximately 88% of the
$126.4 million cost of the property. Our maximum exposure
to loss is the entire amount of $126.4 million if we
default on any of certain lease obligations and financial
covenants. If this payment were made, we would then receive
title to the property. At December 31, 2002, we had not
made a decision with respect to which option we will pursue at
the end of the lease term. Management believes that the
contingent liability relating to the residual value guarantee
will not have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows. See “Note 9
— Operating Lease Arrangements” and “Note 6
— Derivative Instruments” of the notes to our
Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated by
reference herein.

In January 2003, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board, or FASB, issued FASB Interpretation
No. 46, or FIN 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities.” This interpretation of Accounting Research
Bulletin No. 51, “Consolidated Financial Statements,”
addresses consolidation by business enterprises of certain
variable interest entities where there is a controlling
financial interest in a variable interest entity or where the
variable interest entity does not have sufficient equity at risk
to finance its activities without additional subordinated
financial support from other parties. This interpretation
applies immediately to variable interest entities created after
January 31, 2003 and applies in the first year or interim
period beginning after June 15, 2003 to variable interest
entities in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that
it acquired before February 1, 2003. We expect that the
adoption of FIN 46 will require us to include our San Jose
facilities lease and potentially certain investments in our
Consolidated Financial Statements effective July 1, 2003.
In connection with our San Jose facilities lease arrangement,
our balance sheet following the July 1, 2003 adoption of
FIN 46 will reflect changes to record assets of
$126.4 million, liabilities of $122.5 million and
non-controlling interests of $3.9 million. In addition, our
post-adoption income statement will reflect the reclassification
of rent expense payments from operating expenses to interest
expense as well as the recognition of depreciation expense,
within operating expenses, for our use of the buildings. We
estimate that the income statement impact of consolidating our
San Jose facilities lease will consist of a charge against
earnings, net of taxes, of $5.6 million upon the adoption
of FIN 46 on July 1, 2003. This charge will reflect the
accumulated depreciation charges that would have been recorded
in previous periods had consolidation of the San Jose facilities
been required. Additionally, we have not decided whether we will
keep the existing financing arrangement or purchase the San Jose
facilities. Whether or not we keep the existing financing
arrangement, we anticipate recording additional annual operating
expenses of $1.7 million, net of taxes, for the recognition
of depreciation expense on the buildings. In the event we
purchase the San Jose facilities, we will also pay
$126.4 million, eliminate financing payments and settle our
two interest rate swaps we used to establish a fixed rate of
interest for $95 million of our financing arrangement.
During the year ended December 31, 2002, our financing



payments related to the San Jose facilities
totaled $7.9 million. At December 31, 2002, settlement
of our two interest rate swaps would have resulted in a loss of
$10.9 million.

Our U.S. segment occupies approximately 434,000
square feet of commercial office space in the United States. We
occupy 314,000 square feet of commercial office space in San
Jose, California under the terms of our synthetic lease for our
corporate headquarters. We own and occupy approximately 72,000
square feet of commercial office space in Salt Lake City, Utah
for our domestic customer support center. We lease and occupy an
additional 48,000 square feet of commercial office space in
various domestic locations for the operations of certain U.S.
subsidiaries.

Our International segment leases approximately
210,000 square feet of commercial office space in 12 countries
for our international operations, including the operations of
our South Korean majority-owned subsidiary.

Our Payments segment leases approximately 126,000
square feet of commercial office space in the United States and
the United Kingdom. In addition, our Payments segment owns
approximately 22 acres of land near Omaha, Nebraska, on which a
115,000 square foot facility is under construction. Upon
completion, this facility will house the primary customer
service operations center for our Payments segment.

In 2002, we sold commercial real estate
properties in California and Indiana totaling approximately
551,000 square feet, primarily in connection with the sales of
our Butterfields and Kruse subsidiaries. As of December 31,
2002, we continued to be the majority interest holder in
approximately 156,000 square feet of commercial real estate in
California.

In February 2003, we entered into an operating
sublease for approximately 110,000 square feet of commercial
office space (offset by a sublease back to the prime lessee of
approximately 37,000 square feet of that space) in Vancouver,
British Columbia to house a customer support center. For further
discussion of the Vancouver lease, see
“Note 17 — Subsequent Events —
Unaudited” to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which
is incorporated by reference herein.

We are currently considering various alternatives
related to our long-term facilities needs. While we believe our
existing facilities are adequate to meet our immediate needs, it
may become necessary to lease or acquire additional or
alternative space to accomodate our future growth.

ITEM 3:

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

On April 25, 2001, our European
subsidiaries, eBay GmbH and eBay International AG, were sued by
Montres Rolex S.A. and certain Rolex affiliates, or Rolex, in
the regional court of Cologne, Germany. The suit subsequently
was transferred to the regional court in Dusseldorf, Germany.
Rolex alleged that our subsidiaries were infringing Rolex’s
trademarks as a result of users selling counterfeit Rolex
watches through our German website. The suit also alleges unfair
competition. Rolex sought an order forbidding the sale of Rolex
watches on the website as well as damages. In December 2002, a
trial was held in the matter and the court ruled in favor of
eBay on all causes of action. Rolex has appealed the ruling, but
the appeal has not yet been briefed or heard.

On September 26, 2001, a complaint was filed
by MercExchange LLC against us, our Half.com subsidiary and
ReturnBuy, Inc. in the Eastern District of Virginia
(No. 2:01-CV-736) alleging infringement of three patents
(relating to online auction technology, multiple database
searching and electronic consignment systems) and seeking a
permanent injunction and damages (including treble damages for
willful infringement). We answered the complaint, denying the
allegations. In April 2002, we filed four motions for summary
judgment relating to the three patents in suit. The court denied
three of those motions and deferred ruling on the fourth motion.
A “Markman” hearing was held in July 2002 to define
certain disputed terms in the patents, and in October 2002 the
court issued its claim construction findings. In October 2002,
the court gave us leave to amend our answer to include a claim
that MercExchange committed fraud on the patent office during
the prosecution of one of the patents. On the same date, the
court granted in part our pending summary judgment motion,
effectively invalidating the



patent related to online auction technology and
rendering it unenforceable. In November 2002, we filed two
additional summary judgment motions regarding the patents. One
motion was denied as moot; the other was denied because the
court found there were triable issues of fact. In February 2003,
we filed an additional summary judgment motion, which is still
pending. Only two patents remain in the case at this time. Trial
is scheduled for April 22, 2003. We believe we have
meritorious defenses and will defend ourselves vigorously.
However, even if successful, our defense against this action
will be costly and could divert our management’s time. If
the plaintiff were to prevail on any of its claims, we might be
forced to pay significant damages and licensing fees, modify our
business practices or even be enjoined from conducting a
significant part of our U.S. business. Any such results could
materially harm our business. We are unable to determine what
potential losses we may incur if this lawsuit were to have an
unfavorable outcome.

On September 6, 2002, a complaint was filed
by First USA Bank, N.A. against PayPal in the District of
Delaware (No. 02-CV-1462) alleging infringement of two
patents relating to assigning an alias to a credit card so as to
eliminate the need for the physical presence of the card in a
transaction and seeking a permanent injunction and damages.
PayPal believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to
defend itself vigorously. However, even if successful, our
defense against this action will be costly and could divert
management’s time. If the plaintiff were to prevail on its
claims, PayPal might be forced to pay significant damages and
licensing fees or modify its business practices. Any such result
could materially harm our business. We are unable to determine
what potential losses we may incur if this suit were to have an
unfavorable outcome.

On August 16, 2002, Charles E. Hill &
Associates, Inc., or Hill, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Texas (No. 2:02-CV-186)
alleging that we and 17 other companies, primarily large
retailers, infringed three patents owned by Hill generally
relating to electronic catalog systems and methods for
transmitting and updating data at a remote computer. The suit
seeks an injunction against continuing infringement, unspecified
damages, including treble damages for willful infringement, and
interest, costs, expenses and fees. In January 2003, the court
granted the collective defendants’ motion to transfer the
case from the court where it was filed in Marshall, Texas to the
Federal District Court for the Southern District of Indiana. We
believe that we have meritorious defenses and intend to defend
ourselves vigorously.

On February 20, 2002, PayPal was sued in
California state court in a purported class action alleging that
its restriction of customer accounts and failure to promptly
unrestrict legitimate accounts violates state consumer
protection law and is an unfair business practice and a breach
of PayPal’s User Agreement. This action was refiled with a
different named plaintiff on June 6, 2002, and a related
action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California on the same day. On March 12, 2002,
PayPal was sued in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California in a purported class action alleging that
its restrictions of customer accounts and failure to promptly
unrestrict legitimate accounts violates federal and state
consumer protection and unfair business practice law. The court
has denied PayPal’s motion to compel individual arbitration
as required by the PayPal User Agreement and has invalidated
that provision of the User Agreement. The two federal court
actions have been consolidated into a single case. PayPal is
defending itself vigorously, but if it is unable to prevail in
these lawsuits, it may have to change its anti-fraud operations
in a manner that will harm its business and pay substantial
damages. Even if its defense is successful, the litigation could
damage PayPal’s reputation, could require significant
management time, will be costly and could require changes to its
customer service and operations that could increase its costs
and decrease the effectiveness of its anti-fraud program.

Three purported class action complaints were
filed following announcement of the PayPal merger in July 2002
in the court of Chancery in the State of Delaware in and for New
Castle County by alleged stockholders of PayPal. Two additional
purported class action complaints were filed in the Superior
Court of the State of California, County of Santa Clara, by
alleged PayPal stockholders. These complaints name as defendants
PayPal and each member of its board of directors as well as
eBay. The complaints are purported class actions that allege,
among other things, that eBay controlled PayPal prior to the
execution of their merger agreement, the defendants breached
fiduciary duties they assertedly owed to PayPal’s



stockholders in connection with PayPal entering
into the merger agreement and the exchange ratio in the merger
was unfair and inadequate. The plaintiffs seek, among other
things, an award of unspecified compensatory damages. We believe
that each of the lawsuits is without merit and intend to defend
ourselves vigorously.

Other third parties have from time to time
claimed, and others may claim in the future that we have
infringed their past, current or future intellectual property
rights. We have in the past been forced to litigate such claims.
We may become more vulnerable to such claims as laws such as the
Digital Millennium Copyright Act and Communications Decency Act
are interpreted by the courts and as we expand into
jurisdictions where the underlying laws with respect to the
potential liability of online intermediaries like ourselves is
less favorable. We expect that we will increasingly be subject
to copyright and trademark infringement claims as the
geographical reach of our services expands. We also expect that
we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims as
our services expand. In particular, we expect that patent
infringement claims involving various aspects of our Payments
business will continue to be made. We have been notified of
several potential disputes and are subject to a suit by
Tumbleweed Communications Corporation that is currently ongoing.
These claims, whether meritorious or not, could be
time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause service
upgrade delays, require expensive changes in our methods of
doing business or could require us to enter into costly royalty
or licensing agreements, if available. As a result, these claims
could harm our business.

ITEM 4:

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
    HOLDERS

There were no submissions of matters to a vote of
security holders during the fourth quarter ended
December 31, 2002.



PART II

ITEM 5:

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Price Range of Common Stock

eBay’s common stock has been traded on The
Nasdaq Stock MarketSM under the symbol “EBAY” since
September 24, 1998. The following table sets forth the
intra-day high and low per share bid prices of eBay’s
common stock for the periods indicated, as reported by The
Nasdaq Stock Market

SM

.

As of February 28, 2003, there were
approximately 2,000 stockholders of record of eBay’s common
stock, although eBay believes that there is a significantly
larger number of beneficial owners of our common stock.

Dividend Policy

We have never paid cash dividends on our stock,
and currently anticipate that we will continue to retain any
future earnings to finance the growth of our business.

Equity Compensation Plans

For information on securities authorized for
issuance under our equity compensation plans, refer to
“Equity Compensation Plan Information” under Item 12,
which is incorporated by reference herein.



ITEM 6: SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
DATA

The following selected consolidated financial
data should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by
reference to, the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes
thereto and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” appearing
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The
consolidated statement of income and the consolidated balance
sheet data for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1999,
2000, 2001 and 2002 are derived from, and are qualified by
reference to, our audited Consolidated Financial Statements.

On October 3, 2002, we completed our
acquisition of PayPal, Inc. in a tax-free, stock-for-stock
transaction. PayPal provides a global payments platform and is
headquartered in Mountain View, California. The PayPal financial
statements are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements
for the post-acquisition period from October 4, 2002
through December 31, 2002.



(1)

Amounts shown are for the post-acquisition period
    from October 4, 2002 through December 31, 2002.

ITEM 7:

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
    FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains
forward-looking statements based on our current expectations
about our company and our industry. You can identify these
forward-looking statements when you see us using words such as
“may,” “will,” “should,”
“expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,”
“estimate,” “intend,” “plan” and
other similar expressions. You can also identify forward-looking
statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and
uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from
those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a
result of the factors described in the “Risk Factors That
May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition”
section below and elsewhere in this report. We undertake no
obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements for
any reason, even if new information becomes available or other
events occur in the future.

Overview

About eBay

We pioneered online trading by developing a
Web-based marketplace in which a community of buyers and sellers
are brought together in an entertaining, intuitive, easy-to-use
environment to browse, buy and sell an enormous variety of
items. Through our PayPal service, we enable any business or
consumer with email to send and receive online payments
securely, conveniently and cost-effectively.



Business Combinations

Historically, we have completed several business
combinations accounted for using the pooling-of-interests and
purchase methods of accounting. The historical financial
information related to companies acquired in
pooling-of-interests transactions was retroactively restated at
the time of acquisition, whereas the results of companies
acquired under the purchase method of accounting were
consolidated with our results on a prospective basis from the
acquisition date. During the years ended December 31, 2000,
2001 and 2002, the aggregate purchase price of acquisitions
accounted for under the purchase method totaled approximately
$1.9 billion. This aggregate purchase price was allocated
to goodwill of $1.5 billion, identifiable intangible assets
of $297 million, net tangible assets of $189 million,
deferred tax liabilities of $43 million, minority interest
of $34 million and unearned compensation of
$10 million. See “Note 3 — Business
Combinations, Goodwill and Intangible Assets” to our
Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated by
reference herein.

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth, for the
periods presented, certain data from our consolidated statement
of income as a percentage of net revenues. The information
contained in the table below should be read in conjunction with
Critical Accounting Policies, Judgments and Estimates as well as
the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Net Revenues

Net Revenues by Geography

Net revenues are allocated between U.S. and
International geographies based upon the country in which the
seller, advertiser or end-to-end service provider is located.



(1)

Amounts shown are for the post-acquisition period
    from October 4, 2002 through December 31, 2002.

Our net revenues result from fees associated with
our transaction, third-party advertising, end-to-end services,
and offline services in our U.S., International and Payments
segments. Transaction revenue is derived primarily from listing,
feature and final value fees paid by sellers and fees from
payment processing services. Revenue from third-party
advertising is derived principally from the sale of online
banner and sponsorship advertisements for cash and through
barter arrangements. End-to-end services revenue is derived
principally from contractual arrangements with third parties
that provide transaction services to eBay and PayPal users.
Offline services revenue is derived from a variety of sources
including seller commissions, buyer premiums, bidder
registration fees and auction-related services including
appraisal and authentication.

The successive year-over-year growth in net
revenues from 2000 through 2002, was primarily the result of
increased auction transaction activity, reflected in the growth
of the number of registered users, listings and gross
merchandise sales. Our acquisition of iBazar S.A. and of a
majority interest in Internet Auction Co., Ltd. during 2001
contributed less than 3% of our net revenues during the year
ended December 31, 2001. Acquisitions of PayPal, Inc.,
NeoCom Technology Co., Ltd. and the remaining 50% interest in
our Australian subsidiary during 2002, contributed approximately
6% of our net revenues during the year ended December 31,
2002. Our revenue growth during these periods was also
positively impacted by fee increases in the U.S. and various
international locations.

Revenue from U.S. and International
Segments

Transaction Net Revenue

U.S. segment transaction net revenue increased
51% between 2000 and 2001 and 51% between 2001 and 2002.
International segment transaction net revenue increased 297%
between 2000 and 2001 and 168% between 2001 and 2002. The
successive year-over-year growth in U.S. and International
segment transaction net revenues from 2000 to 2002 was primarily
the result of increased auction transaction activity, reflected
in the growth of the number of registered users, listings and
gross merchandise sales. We experienced transaction net revenue
growth across all categories during 2001 and 2002 with motors,
computers, consumer electronics, collectibles, and
books/music/movies making the most significant impact.
International segment transaction net revenue as a percentage of
consolidated transaction net revenue was 8% in 2000, 18% in 2001
and 27% in 2002. This growth is primarily the result of strong
performance in Germany, the United Kingdom, Canada and South
Korea. We expect international segment transaction net revenues
will continue to grow in significance to our business as we
develop and deploy our global marketplace. In addition, new
regulations in the European Union relating to the collection of
value-added taxes, or VAT, on digital services will require us
to collect and remit VAT on our own fees beginning in July 2003.
We intend to work with the relevant tax authorities to clarify
our obligations under these regulations and to change our
software to permit the billing of these taxes. The increased
costs to our European users may reduce their activity on our
websites and could adversely affect our international
transaction net revenues.



Third-party Advertising Net Revenue

U.S. third-party advertising net revenue
increased as a percentage of total U.S. segment net revenues
from 3% in 2000 to 13% in 2001. The increase during 2001 was
primarily the result of our strategy to increase overall site
monetization and the efforts of AOL Time Warner, Inc. or AOL,
our exclusive advertising sales representative. During the year
ended December 31, 2002, U.S. segment third-party
advertising decreased in both absolute dollars, from
$80.5 million in 2001 to $54.9 million in 2002, and as
a percentage of total U.S. segment net revenues, from 13%
in 2001 to 7% in 2002. Revenues from U.S. segment
third-party advertising decreased during 2002 primarily as a
result of a general deterioration in the online advertising
market that adversely impacted our advertising sales through
AOL. International segment third-party advertising net revenue
decreased as a percentage of total International net revenues
from 4% to 3% to 2% in 2000, 2001 and 2002, respectively.
Although the absolute dollar amount of International segment
third-party advertising net revenues increased during each of
these periods, the decreases in International segment
third-party advertising as a percentage of total International
segment net revenues were primarily the result of transaction
net revenues growing faster than advertising net revenues. We
continue to view our business as primarily transaction driven
and we expect third-party advertising net revenues in future
periods to continue to decrease as a percentage of total net
revenues and in absolute dollars. Additionally, our advertising
sales representative agreement with AOL has not been extended or
renewed and is scheduled to terminate on March 31, 2003,
with AOL to continue its electronic delivery of our online
advertisements for a specified wind-down period. After
March 31, 2003, our third-party advertising revenues will
be dependent on the efforts of our existing internal sales staff.

End-to-End Services Net Revenue

U.S. segment end-to-end services net revenue
decreased successively in absolute dollars from
$30.8 million in 2000 to $27.1 million in 2001 to
$21.6 million in 2002 and as a percentage of total
U.S. segment net revenues from 8% in 2000 to 4% in 2001 to
3% in 2002. As end-to-end services are contractual and are
largely dependent upon contractual terms and our users’
adoption of third-party products and services, we expect
end-to-end services revenue in future periods to fluctuate from
period to period, however, in general, we expect these revenues
to decrease as a percentage of total net revenues and in
absolute dollars.

Offline Net Revenue

Offline net revenue decreased as a percentage of
total U.S. segment net revenues from 9% to 5% to 2% in
2000, 2001 and 2002, respectively. During the year ended
December 31, 2001, offline net revenue decreased in both
absolute dollars and as a percentage of total U.S. segment
net revenues compared to 2000, primarily as a result of a
general softening in the offline auction and high-end art
markets. During the year ended December 31, 2002, offline
net revenue decreased in both absolute dollars and as a
percentage of total U.S. segment net revenues compared to
2001, primarily as a result of our divestiture of both our
Butterfields and Kruse subsidiaries. Accordingly, we do not
expect to earn offline net revenue in the foreseeable future.

Net Revenues from Payments Segment

Net revenues from the Payments segment are
generated from eBay’s Billpoint operations for each of the
years presented and PayPal’s operations for the
post-acquisition period from October 4, 2002 through
December 31, 2002. See “Note 3 —
Business Combinations, Goodwill and Intangible Assets” to
the consolidated notes to the financial statements for pro forma
results of operations.

Transaction Net Revenue

Payments segment transaction net revenue
increased 235% year-over-year between 2000 and 2001 and 452%
between 2001 and 2002. The year-over-year growth in 2001 was the
result of increased transaction volume processed by eBay’s
Billpoint payment services. The growth in 2002 was primarily the
result of our



acquisition of PayPal. For the post-acquisition
period from October 4, 2002 through December 31, 2002,
PayPal recorded transaction net revenue of $72.6 million.
We expect to wind-down our Billpoint payment operations during
the first half of 2003.

Third-party Advertising and End-to-End
Services Net Revenues

Payments segment revenues from third-party
advertising and end-to-end services decreased as a percentage of
total Payments segment net revenues from 4% in 2001 to 2% in
2002 as transaction net revenues grew faster than third-party
advertising and end-to-end services net revenues. We continue to
view our business as primarily transaction driven, and we expect
Payments segment third-party advertising and end-to-end net
revenues in future periods to continue to decrease as a
percentage of total net revenues and in absolute dollars.

Cost of Net Revenues

Cost of net revenues consists primarily of costs
associated with customer support, site operations, and payment
processing. Significant cost components include employee
compensation and facilities costs for customer support, site
operations, Internet connectivity charges, depreciation of site
equipment, payment processing fees, amortization of required
capitalization of major site and product development costs,
including the amortization of capitalized costs related to the
development of our third generation “V3” site
architecture, costs to provide end-to-end services and
promotions and corporate overhead allocations.

Cost of net revenues increased in absolute
dollars but decreased as a percentage of net revenues from 2000
to 2001. This increase in absolute dollars was due almost
entirely to our online business as we continued to develop and
expand our customer support and site operations infrastructure.
The increases were primarily the result of personnel costs,
depreciation of the equipment required for site operations,
software licensing fees, Internet connectivity charges and the
increased costs associated with acquired businesses. The
decrease in cost of net revenues as a percentage of net revenue
resulted from cost management initiatives and lower technology
costs in site operations and increases in higher gross margin
businesses such as autos, third-party advertising and end-to-end
services and promotions. The combined effect of these activities
resulted in our cost of net revenues per listing decreasing from
$0.36 in 2000 to $0.32 in 2001.

Cost of net revenues increased in absolute
dollars but remained constant as a percentage of net revenues
from 2001 to 2002. This increase in absolute dollars was due to
increased payment processing costs resulting from our
acquisition of PayPal and continued development and expansion of
our customer support and site operations infrastructure. The
increase in payment processing costs totaled $50.4 million
and consists of bank charges, credit card interchange fees, and
other processing charges. The increase in customer support and
site operations costs were primarily the result of increased
depreciation of site operations software and equipment of
$10.9 million and personnel costs of $7.7 million.
Cost of net revenues stayed constant as a percentage of net
revenue from 2001 to 2002 and reflects cost efficiencies in both
customer support and site operations offset by the addition of
PayPal’s lower margin payments processing business. The
combined effect of these activities resulted in our cost of net
revenues per listing increasing from $0.32 in 2001 to $0.34 in
2002. We expect the cost of net revenues to increase in absolute
dollars and increase as a percentage of net revenues in 2003 as
a result of the addition of a full year of PayPal’s lower
margin payments processing business.



Operating Expenses

Sales and Marketing

Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of
employee compensation for our category development and marketing
staff, advertising, tradeshow and other promotional costs,
certain trust and safety programs and corporate overhead
allocations.

The growth in absolute dollars from 2000 to 2001
was primarily the result of growth in online and offline
advertising, employee compensation costs, costs associated with
the use of outside services and consultants, additional costs
associated with acquired businesses, and miscellaneous user and
promotional costs.

The growth in absolute dollars from 2001 to 2002
was primarily the result of increased advertising and marketing
costs. Our advertising costs increased by $54.7 million and
were directed towards a national television advertising campaign
and several category focused print and on-line advertising
campaigns. Additionally, our referral fees paid to marketing
partners increased by $12.6 million during the year in
connection with the growth of specific categories, our expenses
related to tradeshows and user programs increased by
$5.4 million and our professional services fees increased
by $5.1 million. Our advertising efforts target the
acquisition of registered users and activation of existing users
through television, print media placements, promotional
agreements with Internet portals and other online service
providers. Sales and marketing expenses are expected to increase
in absolute dollars, and to decrease as a percentage of net
revenues in 2003. See “Note 11 — Commitments
and Contingencies — Advertising” to our
Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated by
reference herein.

Product Development

Product development expenses consist primarily of
employee compensation, payments to outside contractors,
depreciation on equipment used for development and corporate
overhead allocations. Product development expenses do not
reflect required capitalization of major site and product
development efforts, including the development of our third
generation “V3” site architecture. These capitalized
costs totaling $9.4 million in 2000, $6.7 million in
2001, and $15.5 million in 2002 are reflected as a cost of
revenue when amortized. We anticipate that we will continue to
devote significant resources to product development in the
future as we add new features and functionality to the eBay and
PayPal platforms.

The increase in absolute dollars from 2000 to
2001 was primarily the result of increases in employee
compensation costs, reflected by the growth in our development
staff, which increased from 203 at December 31, 2000 to 320
at December 31, 2001, and maintenance and depreciation
costs for equipment used in product development. The increase in
these costs results from the development of additional site
features and functionality such as eBay Stores, eBay Checkout,
enhanced payment features and expanded search capabilities.

The increase in absolute dollars from 2001 to
2002 was primarily as a result of an $18.9 million increase
in employee compensation costs, reflected by the growth in our
development staff, which increased from 320 at December 31,
2001 to 635 at December 31, 2002, and a $7.3 million
increase in



maintenance and depreciation costs for equipment
used in research and development. The increase in these costs
results from the development of additional site features and
functionality such as enhanced search functionality, improved
seller tools, expanded eBay Stores merchandising capabilities,
added fixed price functionality and improved site security.
Product development expenses are expected to increase in
absolute dollars in 2003, as we develop new site features and
functionality and continue to improve and expand operations
across all our segments. We expect product development expenses
as a percentage of net revenues in 2003 to remain generally
consistent with 2002 levels.

General and Administrative

General and administrative expenses consist
primarily of employee compensation, provision for doubtful
accounts, provisions for transaction losses associated with our
Payments segment, insurance, fees for external professional
advisors and corporate overhead allocations.

The increase in absolute dollars from 2000 to
2001 was primarily the result of increases in employee
compensation costs, reflected by the growth in our general and
administrative staff, which increased from 302 at
December 31, 2000 to 415 at December 31, 2001,
provisions for doubtful accounts, fees for professional services
and facilities costs. The increase in these costs reflected our
investment in the infrastructure that is necessary to support
the growth of our business.

The increase in absolute dollars from 2001 to
2002 was primarily the result of increases of $16.0 million
in fees for professional services, $12.2 million in the
provision for doubtful accounts, $7.8 million in the
provision for transaction losses, and $6.5 million in
facilities costs. These costs increased to meet the demands of
our expanding business, including operations in new countries
and the integration of new businesses. To support this growth,
we increased our general and administrative staff from 415 at
December 31, 2001 to 1,253 at December 31, 2002, which
includes the addition of approximately 360 general and
administrative employees resulting from our acquisition of
PayPal. Of these incremental PayPal employees, a substantial
number support PayPal’s various trust and safety programs.
The headcount increase helped us strengthen the existing teams
in corporate finance, corporate development, legal and
accounting departments as well as in our growing international
operations. We expect that general and administrative expenses
will increase in absolute dollars in 2003, as we continue to
invest in the infrastructure that is necessary to support our
business. Additionally, we expect 2003 general and
administrative expense to increase as a percentage of net
revenues with the addition of a full year of PayPal’s
operations.

Payroll Taxes on Stock Option Gains

We are subject to employer payroll taxes on
employee gains resulting from exercises of non-qualified stock
options. These employer payroll taxes are recorded as a charge
to operations in the period in which such options are exercised
and sold based on actual gains realized by employees. Our
quarterly results of operations and cash flows could vary
significantly depending on the actual period that stock options
are exercised by employees and, consequently, the amount of
employer payroll taxes assessed. We expect exercises of employee
stock option grants will result in increased payroll tax costs
in 2003 partially as a



result of gains from the exercise of PayPal
options assumed in the merger. In general, we expect payroll
taxes on employee stock option gains to increase during periods
in which our stock price is high relative to historic levels.

Amortization of Acquired Intangible
Assets

From time to time we have purchased, and we
expect to continue purchasing, assets or businesses to
accelerate category and geographic expansion, increase the
features and functions available to our users and maintain a
leading role in online trading. These purchase transactions may
result in the creation of acquired intangible assets and lead to
a corresponding increase in the amortization expense in future
periods.

Intangible assets are comprised of purchased
customer lists, developed technologies, trade names, and other
intangible assets. Intangible assets, excluding goodwill, are
being amortized using the straight-line method over estimated
useful lives ranging from two to seven years. We believe the
straight-line method of amortization best represents the
distribution of economic value of the identified intangible
assets.

Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase
price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable
intangible assets acquired in a business combination. In
accordance with SFAS No. 142, goodwill is no longer subject
to amortization. Rather, goodwill is subject to at least an
annual assessment for impairment, applying a fair-value based
test.

Amortization of acquired intangible assets
decreased during 2002, primarily from the elimination of
goodwill amortization as part of our adoption of SFAS
No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”
on January 1, 2002.

Identifiable intangible assets arising from our
October 3, 2002 acquisition of PayPal consist of
PayPal’s customer list of $196.9 million, its trade
name of $63.6 million and developed technologies of
$16.5 million. The acquired intangible assets of PayPal
will be amortized over the following estimated useful lives:
customer list — seven years; trade name —
seven years; and developed technologies — three years.
This allocation will result in annual amortization of
approximately $28.1 million for the customer list,
$9.1 million for the trade name and $5.5 million for
the existing technologies. We expect the full year of
amortization from PayPal’s acquired intangible assets to
result in an increase of amortization expense in 2003.

Merger-related Costs

Merger-related costs were primarily attributed to
direct costs associated with mergers accounted for under the
pooling of interests method. These amounts consist primarily of
professional services, contract and facility termination
expenses and various registration and filing fees. Direct costs
associated with mergers accounted for under the purchase method
are capitalized in determining the purchase price.

We incurred direct merger-related transaction
costs in 2000 related to the merger with Half.com. Due to the
elimination of the pooling of interests method of accounting,
merger-related costs related to acquisitions after July 2001
were capitalized as a component of purchase price.



Non-Operating Items

Interest and Other Income, Net

Interest and other income, net consists of
interest earned on cash, cash equivalents, and investments as
well as foreign exchange transaction gains and losses and other
miscellaneous non-operating transactions.

Our interest and other income, net decreased
during 2001 as a result of a lower interest rate environment.
Our weighted-average interest rate was approximately 4.3% in
2000 and 3.6% in 2001. Although, we maintained higher cash, cash
equivalent and investment balances during 2001 as a result of
increased operating and financing cash flows, the decrease in
interest rates resulted in an overall decline in interest income.

Our interest and other income, net increased
during 2002 primarily as a result of gains from the sale of our
Butterfields subsidiary and certain real estate properties of
$10.6 million, a gain on the sale of our Kruse subsidiaries
of $6.5 million and a gain on the sale of an equity
investment in a privately held company of $3.2 million.
These gains were offset by a decrease in interest and investment
income of $4.1 million resulting from lower average
interest rates, despite an increase in our cash, cash
equivalents, and investments balances in 2002 and from decreased
realized gains on the sale of investments, and a decrease in
foreign exchange gains of $3.5 million. Our
weighted-average interest rate was approximately 3.6% in 2001
and 2.8% in 2002. We expect that interest and other income, net
will decrease in 2003, as we do not expect significant gains
from the sale of assets or subsidiaries in 2003.

Interest Expense

Interest expense consists of interest charges on
mortgage notes and capital leases. Interest expense decreased
from 2000 to 2001, as a result of lower interest rates and a
reduction in outstanding debt balances. Interest expense
decreased from 2001 to 2002 as a result of a reduction in the
outstanding mortgage notes balances in connection with the sale
of several of the underlying properties.

In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46,
“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” This
interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51,
“Consolidated Financial Statements,” addresses
consolidation by business enterprises of certain variable
interest entities where there is a controlling financial
interest in a variable interest entity or where the variable
interest entity does not have sufficient equity at risk to
finance its activities without additional subordinated financial
support from other parties. This interpretation applies
immediately to variable interest entities created after
January 31, 2003 and applies in the first year or interim
period beginning after June 15, 2003 to variable interest
entities in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that
it acquired before February 1, 2003. We expect that the
adoption of FIN 46 will require us to include our San Jose
facilities lease arrangement and potentially certain investments
in our Consolidated Financial Statements effective July 1,
2003. In connection with our San Jose facilities lease
arrangement, our balance sheet following the July 1, 2003
adoption of FIN 46 will reflect changes to record assets of
$126.4 million, liabilities of $122.5 million and
non-controlling interests of $3.9 million. In addition, our
post-adoption income statement will reflect the reclassification
of



rent expense payments from operating expenses to
interest expense as well as the recognition of depreciation
expense, within operating expenses, for our use of the
buildings. We estimate that the income statement impact of
consolidating our San Jose facilities lease will consist of a
charge against earnings, net of taxes, of $5.7 million upon
the adoption of FIN 46 on July 1, 2003. This charge
will reflect the accumulated depreciation charges that would
have been recorded in previous periods had consolidation of the
San Jose facilities been required. Additionally, we have not
decided whether we will keep the existing financing arrangement
or purchase the San Jose facilities. Whether or not we keep the
existing financing arrangement, we anticipate recording
additional annual operating expenses of $1.7 million, net
of taxes, for the recognition of depreciation expense on the
buildings. In the event we purchase the San Jose facilities, we
will also pay $126.4 million, eliminate financing payments
and settle our two interest rate swaps we used to establish a
fixed rate of interest for $95 million of our financing
arrangement. During the year ended December 31, 2002, our
financing payments related to the San Jose facilities totaled
$7.9 million. At December 31, 2002, settlement of our
two interest rate swaps would have resulted in a loss of
$10.9 million.

Impairment of Certain Equity
Investments

During the year ended December 31, 2001, we
recorded impairment charges totaling $16.2 million relating
primarily to the impairment in the fair value of certain private
equity investments. We recorded impairment charges for these
investments based upon the deterioration of the financial
condition of certain investees and based upon financing obtained
by certain other investees at a valuation below which we made
our investment.

During the year ended December 31, 2002, we
recorded impairment charges totaling $3.8 million relating
to the impairment in the fair value of certain equity
investments. We recorded an approximately $640,000 impairment
charge for an equity investment in a public company based upon a
significant decline in the market value of our investment during
2002, which we determined to be other than temporary. We
recorded $3.2 million in impairment charges for certain
private equity investments based upon the deterioration of the
financial condition of certain investees and as a result of
financing obtained by certain other investees at a valuation
below which we made our investment.

We expect that the fair value of our equity
investments will fluctuate from time to time and future
impairment assessments may result in additional charges to our
operating results.

Provision for Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes differs from the
amount computed by applying the statutory U.S. federal rate
principally due to non-deductible expenses related to
acquisitions, state taxes, subsidiary losses for which we have
not provided a benefit and other permanent differences that
increase the effective tax rate. These amounts are partially
offset by decreases resulting from foreign income with lower
effective tax rates and tax-exempt interest income.



We receive tax deductions from the gains realized
by employees on the exercise of certain non-qualified stock
options for which the benefit is recognized as a component of
stockholders’ equity. We have provided a full valuation
allowance on the deferred tax assets relating to these stock
option deductions due to the uncertainties associated with our
future stock price and the timing of employee stock option
exercises. To the extent that additional stock option deductions
are not generated in future years, we will have the ability,
subject to carryforward limitations, to utilize up to
$207.3 million of additional deferred tax assets to reduce
future income tax liabilities. When recognized, the tax benefit
of tax deductions related to stock options are accounted for as
a credit to additional paid-in capital rather than a reduction
of the income tax provision.

Minority Interests in Consolidated
Companies

Minority interests in consolidated companies
represents the minority investor’s percentage share of
income or losses from subsidiaries in which we hold a majority
ownership interest and consolidate the subsidiaries’
results in our financial statements.

Third parties held minority interests in
Billpoint and eBay Japan in 2000; in Billpoint, Internet
Auction, and eBay Japan in 2001; in Billpoint for part of 2002
and Internet Auction for all of 2002. The decrease in minority
interests from 2001 to 2002 primarily resulted from Internet
Auction generating net income for the first time in 2002.
Additionally, our January 2002 acquisition of the remaining 35%
minority interest in Billpoint previously held by Wells Fargo
Bank also contributed to the decrease. We expect that minority
interests in consolidated companies will continue to fluctuate
in future periods. If Internet Auction, our majority-owned South
Korean subsidiary, continues to be profitable, the minority
interests adjustment on the statement of income will continue to
decrease our net income by the minority investor’s share of
Internet Auction’s net income.

Impact of Foreign Currency
Translation

The growth in our international operations has
increased our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. We have
foreign currency denominated net revenues, costs and expenses.
These income statement amounts are translated into U.S. dollars
at the average exchange rates in each applicable period. To the
extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the
translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions
results in increased net revenues, operating expenses and net
income. Similarly, our net revenues, operating expenses and net
income will decrease when the U.S. dollar strengthens against
foreign currencies.

A significant portion of our international net
revenues, operating expenses and net income are denominated in
Euros. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the U.S.
dollar weakened against the Euro and our weighted-average
translation rate used to convert Euro denominated transactions
into U.S. dollar equivalents, decreased by approximately 6%
compared to the weighted-average translation rate for the year
ended December 31, 2001. This weighted-average translation
rate change for the Euro resulted in increased net revenues of
approximately $11.0 million and increased operating
expenses of approximately $5.0 million during the year
ended December 31, 2002.

We expect our international operations will
continue to grow in significance as we develop and deploy our
global marketplace. As a result, foreign currency fluctuations
in future periods could become more significant or even have a
negative impact on our net revenues and net income.



Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Flows

Since inception, we have financed operations
primarily from net cash generated from operating activities. In
addition, we have obtained additional financing from the sale of
preferred stock and warrants, proceeds from the exercise of
those warrants, proceeds from the exercise of stock options and
proceeds from our initial and follow-on public offerings. During
2002, we were primarily financed by our income from operations
and from the proceeds of stock option exercises.

Net cash provided by operating activities was
$100.1 million in 2000, $252.1 million in 2001, and
$479.9 million in 2002. Net cash provided by operating
activities resulted primarily from our net income, tax benefits
on the exercise of stock options, non-cash charges for
depreciation and amortization and changes in assets and
liabilities.

Net cash used in investing activities was
$206.1 million in 2000, $29.8 million in 2001, and
$157.8 million in 2002. The primary use for invested cash
in the periods presented was for purchases of property and
equipment and acquisitions, net of proceeds from the sale of
investments and assets.

Net cash provided by financing activities was
$86.0 million in 2000, $101.5 million in 2001, and
$252.1 million in 2002. Net cash provided by financing
activities was primarily due to the issuance of common stock
associated with stock option exercises.

Commitments and Contingencies

Capital Expenditures

We expect capital expenditures to approximate
$200 million during 2003, without taking into account any
acquisitions or costs associated with the potential purchase of
additional office facilities, and consists primarily of hardware
and software for our platform architecture, site operations and
corporate information systems. In the event we purchase
additional office facilities in 2003, our capital expenditures
would be substantially larger. As of December 31, 2002, we
have commitments to purchase a total of $28.8 million in
computer equipment, software and related services from two
vendors.

In June 2002, we entered into an agreement to
purchase computer equipment, software and related services to
expand our data warehousing capabilities. Under the agreement we
are obligated to pay a minimum of $16.0 million to a
third-party vendor during a 30-month period ending in December
2004. Minimum purchases under the commitment total
$7.2 million in 2002, $4.5 million in 2003, and
$4.3 million in 2004. During the year ended
December 31, 2002, we purchased $8.6 million under
this contract.

In December 2002, we entered into an agreement to
purchase computer equipment, software and related services to
further expand our platform architecture, site operations and
corporate information systems. Under the agreement, we are
obligated to pay a minimum of $20.0 million to a
third-party vendor during 2003. The commitment may include a
maximum of $5.4 million in services purchases, and the
remainder must consist of equipment and software purchases. The
agreement automatically renews for additional one-year periods
through 2005, if we do not cancel the agreement at the
conclusion of each year. In addition, this vendor amended an
existing promotions agreement and has agreed to pay us
$5.0 million in quarterly payments for promotion of its
auctions on eBay.com in 2003 and to spend an additional $666,000
in joint promotions during the year. The promotions agreement,
as amended, can be renewed with the mutual agreement of both
parties for additional one-year terms through 2005. Equipment,
software and services purchases will be expensed or capitalized
in accordance with our capitalization policy. Promotions will be
recognized as transaction revenue over the period of delivery.



Leases

On March 1, 2000, we entered into a
five-year lease for general office facilities located in San
Jose, California. This five-year lease is commonly referred to
as a synthetic lease because it represents a form of off-balance
sheet financing under which an unrelated third-party funds 100%
of the costs of the acquisition of the property and leases the
asset to us as lessee. Under our lease structure, upon
termination or expiration, at our option, we must either
purchase the property from the lessor for a predetermined amount
or sell the real property to a third party. Our San Jose lease
consists of approximately 460,000 square feet of office space.
As of December 31, 2002, we occupied approximately 314,000
square feet of this total office space and subleased additional
space in the facility to third parties.

Payments under our lease are based on the
$126.4 million cost of the property funded by the third
party and are adjusted as the London Interbank Offered Rate, or
LIBOR, fluctuates. Under the terms of the lease agreement, the
lease terminates on March 1, 2005, unless extended to
September 1, 2006. At any time prior to the final
12 months of the lease term, we may, at our option,
purchase the property for approximately $126.4 million. If
we elect not to purchase the property, we will undertake to sell
the facility to one or more third parties and have guaranteed to
the lessor a residual value equal to approximately 88% of the
$126.4 million cost of the property. Our maximum exposure
to loss is the entire amount of $126.4 million if we
default on any of certain lease obligations and financial
covenants. If this payment were made, we would then receive
title to the property. At December 31, 2002, we had not
made a decision with respect to the option we will pursue at the
end of the lease term. Management believes that the contingent
liability relating to the residual value guarantee will not have
a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.

In addition, we are required to maintain
$126.4 million of cash and investment securities as
collateral for the term of the lease and to maintain certain
financial covenants. The cash and investment securities are
restricted as to their withdrawal from a third-party trustee and
are classified as long-term restricted cash and investments on
our balance sheet. In the event of a default under the lease,
the collateral could be used to pay the purchase price of the
property and the lease would be terminated. At December 31,
2002, we were in compliance with our financial covenants under
the lease.

If our lease were terminated, and we became
obligated to pay the purchase price of the land and buildings,
we would show the cost as an asset on our balance sheet and our
restricted cash and investments position would be reduced by the
amount of the purchase price. Currently, we reflect rent
payments as an operating expense on our statement of income. In
the event we were required to purchase the land and buildings,
our rent expense would cease and we would subsequently record
depreciation expense for the buildings over their estimated
useful lives.

We entered into two interest rate swaps on
June 19, 2000 and July 20, 2000, to reduce the impact
of changes in interest rates on a portion of the floating rate
operating lease for our facilities. See “Item 7A:
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”
and “Note 6 — Derivative Instruments”
to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated
by reference herein.

In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46,
“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” This
interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51,
“Consolidated Financial Statements,” addresses
consolidation by business enterprises of certain variable
interest entities where there is a controlling financial
interest in a variable interest entity or where the variable
interest entity does not have sufficient equity at risk to
finance its activities without additional subordinated financial
support from other parties. This interpretation applies
immediately to variable interest entities created after
January 31, 2003 and applies in the first year or interim
period beginning after June 15, 2003 to variable interest
entities in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that
it acquired before February 1, 2003. We expect that the
adoption of FIN 46 will require us to include our San Jose
facilities lease and potentially certain investments in our
Consolidated Financial Statements effective July 1, 2003.
In connection with our San Jose facilities lease arrangement,
our balance sheet following the July 1, 2003 adoption of
FIN 46 will reflect changes to record assets of
$126.4 million, liabilities of $122.5 million and
non-controlling interests of $3.9 million. In addition, our
post-adoption income statement will reflect the reclassification
of rent



expense payments from operating expenses to
interest expense as well as the recognition of depreciation
expense, within operating expenses, for our use of the
buildings. We estimate that the income statement impact of
consolidating our San Jose facilities lease will consist of a
charge against earnings, net of taxes, of $5.6 million upon
the adoption of FIN 46 on July 1, 2003. This charge
will reflect the accumulated depreciation charges that would
have been recorded in previous periods had consolidation of the
San Jose facilities been required. Additionally, we have not
decided whether we will keep the existing financing arrangement
or purchase the San Jose facilities. Whether or not we keep the
existing financing arrangement, we anticipate recording
additional annual operating expenses of $1.7 million, net
of taxes, for the recognition of depreciation expense on the
buildings. In the event we purchase the San Jose facilities, we
will also pay $126.4 million, eliminate financing payments
and settle our two interest rate swaps we used to establish a
fixed rate of interest for $95 million of our financing
arrangement. During the year ended December 31, 2002, our
financing payments related to the San Jose facilities totaled
$7.9 million. At December 31, 2002, settlement of our
two interest rate swaps would have resulted in a loss of
$10.9 million.

Our U.S. segment occupies approximately 434,000
square feet of commercial office space in the United States. We
occupy 314,000 square feet of commercial office space in San
Jose, California under the terms of our synthetic lease for our
corporate headquarters. We own and occupy approximately 72,000
square feet of commercial office space in Salt Lake City, Utah
for our domestic customer support center. We lease and occupy an
additional 48,000 square feet of commercial office space in
various domestic locations for the operations of certain U.S.
subsidiaries.

Our International segment leases approximately
210,000 square feet of commercial office space in
12 countries for our international operations, including
the operations of our South Korean majority-owned subsidiary.

Our Payments segment leases approximately 126,000
square feet of commercial office space in the United States and
the United Kingdom. In addition, our Payments segment owns
approximately 22 acres of land near Omaha, Nebraska, on
which a 115,000 square foot facility is under construction. Upon
completion, this facility will house the primary customer
service operations center for our Payments segment.

We also have lease obligations under certain
other non-cancelable operating leases. Future minimum rental
payments under all non-cancelable operating leases, exclusive of
the residual value guarantee on our general office facilities
located in San Jose, California, at December 31, 2002 are
as follows (in thousands):



Minimum annual repayments on notes payable and
capital leases at December 31, 2002 are as follows (in
thousands):

Marketing Agreements

From time to time and in the ordinary course of
business, we enter into arrangements to purchase online and
offline promotions. Such arrangements typically involve minimum
purchase commitments with terms ranging from several months to
five years.

AOL interactive marketing agreement

In April 2002, we amended our Interactive
Marketing Agreement with AOL Time Warner, Inc., or AOL. AOL
attained certain performance goals in the contract year ending
March 23, 2003, and extended the amended agreement for an
additional year, through March 23, 2004. Under the terms of
the amended agreement, we will pay AOL for its advertising
services on a new user performance basis, up to a maximum of
$15 million. We are recognizing these fees as sales and
marketing expense as such services are provided. From time to
time, we have also entered into incremental, discretionary
purchases of advertising from AOL. Discretionary purchases
totaled $1.4 million during 2000, $8.5 million during
2001, and $7.6 million during 2002.

In the event that AOL’s advertising services
during the year achieve certain specified performance goals, AOL
has the right to extend the term of the amended agreement
through March 23, 2005. Our financial obligation for this
renewal year, if any, will also be determined on a new user
performance basis and will amount to a maximum of
$10.0 million.

Disney marketing agreement

In February 2000, we entered a four-year
marketing agreement with The Walt Disney Company, or Disney, to
provide us with online and offline advertising and promotions
and develop a co-branded version of our online service. Subject
to certain Disney performance obligations, we were obligated to
pay a minimum of $30 million to Disney over the four-year
term of the agreement. In August 2001, we amended the terms of
the initial agreement and agreed to purchase a minimum of
$23.0 million in online and offline promotions through
September 2004. We also committed to provide Disney with online
advertising on the eBay.com website valued at $3.5 million.
Through December 31, 2002, we have recognized
$16.9 million in sales and marketing expense associated
with the amended agreement.

Microsoft marketing and services
    agreements

During 2001, we entered into a series of
marketing and services agreements with Microsoft that obligate
us to purchase online advertising promotions, software and
related services through September 2003, totaling
$8 million. In addition, Microsoft has agreed to purchase
online advertising and other services from us totaling
$7 million over a three-year period ending June 2004.
Through December 31, 2002, we have recognized
$4.3 million in sales and marketing expenses for
advertising services received,



incurred $3.0 million for Microsoft software
products used to support our operations and recognized
$5.4 million in revenues for advertising services delivered
to Microsoft.

Subsequent Events

Vancouver Lease

In February 2003, we entered into an operating
sublease for approximately 110,000 square feet of commercial
office space in Vancouver, British Columbia for a customer
support center. The sublease commences on July 1, 2003 and
ends on October 30, 2011. Rental commitments under the
sublease total $11.8 million, including operating costs and
taxes. In addition, we are subleasing approximately 37,000
square feet of the leased space back to the prime lessee for
substantially the same lease term. The prime lessee’s
rental commitments to eBay under the sublease total
$5.2 million, including operating costs and taxes. The
prime lessee has provided an irrevocable letter of credit for
$7.8 million as security for their obligations under this
sublease arrangement. The commitment under our sublease, as well
as the prime lessee’s sublease and letter of credit, are
denominated in Canadian dollars. The dollar figures above are in
U.S. dollars, converted from Canadian dollars at the
exchange rate as of December 31, 2002.

Integration of Half.com Platform

In March 2003, we announced our intention to
fully integrate the platform of Half.com, a wholly owned
subsidiary acquired in July 2000, with the eBay.com platform by
the end of 2004. Half.com’s office in Pennsylvania, where
65 of its employees work, will be shut down once this process is
complete. Management is in the process of formalizing an exit
and integration plan and expects to finalize the plan by the end
of 2003. Based on our preliminary estimates, we anticipate costs
related to employee retention and severance will total
approximately $3 million. If we decide to exit Half’s
leased office facility, the amount of lease termination costs,
excluding any possible sublease income, and fixed asset
write-offs will total approximately $2 million. Costs
related to our exit plan will be recorded as charges on our
income statement over the exit and integration period in
accordance with SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.”

PayPal’s Prior Services to Online
Gambling Merchants

PayPal completed its exit from the business of
processing payments for online gambling merchants in November
2002. Approximately 6% of PayPal’s revenues in 2002 were
derived from this business. Beginning in July 2002, PayPal
provided documents and information related to its services to
online gambling merchants in response to a federal grand jury
subpoena issued at the request of the U.S. Attorney for the
Eastern District of Missouri. On March 28, 2003, PayPal
received a letter from the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern
District of Missouri indicating its contention that
PayPal’s provision of services to online gambling merchants
violated 18 U.S.C. § 1960 of the USA PATRIOT Act,
which prohibits the transmission of funds that are known to have
been derived from a criminal offense or are intended to be used
to promote or support unlawful activity, thereby subjecting
PayPal to potential civil forfeiture of the amounts it received
in connection with such activities as well as potential criminal
liability. The letter offered a complete settlement of all
possible claims and charges from the U.S. Attorney for the
Eastern District of Missouri if Paypal paid the purported amount
of its earnings derived from online gambling merchants during
the nine-month period from October 26, 2001 to
July 31, 2002, plus interest. PayPal acted in the good
faith belief that its conduct did not violate 18
U.S.C. § 1960 and PayPal calculates that the
amount of its earnings from online gaming activities was less
than asserted in the letter. Although the outcome of this matter
is not yet determinable, the monetary amounts associated with
this matter are not expected to have a material impact on our
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

General

We believe that existing cash, cash equivalents
and investments, together with any cash generated from
operations, will be sufficient to fund our operating activities,
capital expenditures and other



obligations for the foreseeable future. However,
if during that period or thereafter we are not successful in
generating sufficient cash flows from operations or in raising
additional capital when required in sufficient amounts and on
terms acceptable to us, our business could suffer.

Critical Accounting Policies, Judgments and
Estimates

The following description of critical accounting
policies and estimates should be read in conjunction with our
Consolidated Financial Statements and other disclosures included
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2002. Senior management and the Audit
Committee of our Board of Directors regularly review the
appropriateness of the methodologies and estimates used in
connection with the application of our critical accounting
policies.

Provisions for Doubtful Accounts and
Authorized Credits

Our U.S. and International segments are exposed
to losses due to uncollectible accounts and credits to sellers.
Provisions for these items represent our estimate of actual
losses and credits based on our historical experience, are
monitored monthly, and are made at the time the related revenue
is recognized. The provision for doubtful accounts is recorded
as a charge to operating expense, while the provision for
authorized credits is recorded as a reduction of revenues. The
following table illustrates the provision for doubtful accounts
and authorized credits as a percentage of net revenues for 2000,
2001, and 2002 (in thousands, except percents).

Historically, our actual losses and credits have
been consistent with these provisions. However, unexpected or
significant future changes in trends could result in a material
impact to future statements of income and cash flows. Based on
our results for the year ended December 31, 2002, a
25 basis point deviation from our estimates would have
resulted in an increase or decrease in expense and/or net
revenues of approximately $3 million. The following
analysis demonstrates the potential effect a 25 basis point
deviation from our estimates would have upon our financial
statements and is not intended to provide a range of exposure or
expected deviation (in thousands, except per share data):

Provision for Transaction
Losses

Our Payments segment is exposed to transaction
losses due to fraud, as well as non-performance of third parties
and customers. We establish allowances for estimated losses
arising from processing customer transactions, such as
charge-backs for unauthorized credit card use and merchant
related charge-backs due to non-delivery of goods or services,
ACH returns, and debit card overdrafts. These allowances
represent an accumulation of the estimated amounts, using an
actuarial technique, necessary to provide for



transaction losses incurred as of the reporting
date, including those to which we have not yet been notified.
The allowances are monitored monthly and are updated based on
actual claims data reported by our claims processors. Customers
typically have up to 180 days to file transaction disputes.
Consequently, the time between estimating the loss provisions
and realization of the actual amount is short. The allowances
are based on known facts and circumstances, internal factors
including our experience with similar cases, historical trends
involving loss payment patterns and the mix of transaction and
loss types. Additions to the allowance, in the form of
provisions, are reflected as a general and administrative
expense in our results of operations, while write-offs to the
allowance are made when a loss is determined to have occurred.
Recoveries, when collected, are recorded as an increase to the
allowance for transaction losses. As of December 31, 2002,
the allowance for transaction losses totaled $10.1 million
and was included in other current liabilities in our
consolidated balance sheet.

The following table illustrates the provision for
transaction losses as a percentage of total payment volume from
PayPal operations for the post-acquisition period from
October 4, 2002 through December 31, 2002 (in
thousands, except percents).

Prior to our October 3, 2002 acquisition of
PayPal, no provision for transaction losses was recorded as our
third-party banking service provider assumed all transaction
loss exposure. The fees charged to us by this banking service
provider reflected the assumption of this loss exposure and
other services rendered. Charges for the services were reported
as a cost of net revenues.

The establishment of appropriate allowances for
transaction losses is an inherently uncertain process, and
ultimate losses may vary from the current estimates. We
regularly update our allowance estimates as new facts become
known and events occur that may impact the settlement or
recovery of losses. The allowances are maintained at a level
deemed appropriate by management to adequately provide for
losses incurred at the balance sheet date. Based on our results
for the post-acquisition period from October 4, 2002
through December 31, 2002, a five basis point deviation
from our estimates would have resulted in an increase or
decrease in expense of approximately $1.0 million. The
following analysis demonstrates the potential effect a five
basis point deviation from our estimates would have upon our
financial statements for the period that we consolidated
PayPal’s operations and is not intended to provide a range
of exposure or expected deviation (in thousands, except per
share data):

Legal Contingencies

In connection with certain pending litigation and
other claims, we have estimated the range of probable loss and
provided for such losses through charges to our income
statement. These estimates have been based on our assessment of
the facts and circumstances at each balance sheet date and are
subject to change based upon new information and future events.



From time to time, we are involved in disputes
that arise in the ordinary course of business, and we do not
expect this trend to change in the future. We are currently
involved in certain legal proceedings as discussed in
“Item 3: Legal Proceedings” and “Note
11 — Commitments and Contingencies —
Litigation” to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which
is incorporated by reference herein. We believe that we have
meritorious defenses to the claims against us, and we will
defend ourselves vigorously. However, even if successful, our
defense against certain actions will be costly and could divert
our management’s time. If the plaintiffs were to prevail on
certain claims, we might be forced to pay significant damages
and licensing fees, modify our business practices or even be
prohibited from conducting a significant part of our
U.S. business. Any such results could materially harm our
business and could result in a material adverse impact on the
financial position, results of operations or cash flows of each
of our three segments.

Accounting for Income Taxes

We are required to recognize a provision for
income taxes based upon the taxable income and temporary
differences for each of the tax jurisdictions in which we
operate. This process requires a calculation of taxes payable
under currently enacted tax laws around the world and an
analysis of temporary differences between the book and tax bases
of our assets and liabilities, including various accruals,
allowances, depreciation and amortization. The tax effect of
these temporary differences and the estimated tax benefit from
our tax net operating losses are reported as deferred tax assets
and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. We also
assess the likelihood that our net deferred tax assets will be
realized from future taxable income. To the extent we believe
that it is more likely than not that some portion of or all of
the deferred tax asset will not be realized, we establish a
valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation
allowance or change the allowance in a period, we reflect the
change with a corresponding increase or decrease in our tax
provision in our income statement. Where the change in the
valuation allowance relates to the deduction for employee stock
option exercises, the change is reflected as a credit to
additional paid-in-capital. As employee stock option exercises
are highly dependent upon the performance of our stock price, it
is extremely difficult to predict the amount of deductions that
will be generated from future option exercises and, therefore,
it is difficult for us to ascertain the amount of deferred tax
assets related to employee stock option exercises that may be
realized in future periods. We have consequently provided a
valuation allowance equal to 100% of our deferred tax assets
related to employee stock option exercises. The deferred tax
asset, net of a valuation allowance of $145.2 million,
totaled $100.2 million at December 31, 2002. The
following table illustrates the provision for income taxes as a
percentage of income before income taxes for 2000, 2001, and
2002 (in thousands, except percents):

Historically, these provisions have adequately
provided for our actual income tax liabilities. However,
unexpected or significant future changes in trends could result
in a material impact to future statements of income and cash
flows. Based on our results for the year ended December 31,
2002, a one-percentage point change in our provision for income
taxes as a percentage of income before taxes would have resulted
in an increase or decrease in expense of approximately
$4.0 million. The following analysis demonstrates the
potential effect such a one-percentage point deviation change
would have upon our financial statements



and is not intended to provide a range of
exposure or expected deviation (in thousands, except per share
data):

Third-party Advertising
Revenues

Our third-party advertising revenues are derived
principally from the sale of online banner and sponsorship
advertisements for cash and through barter arrangements. To
date, the duration of our banner and sponsorship advertising
contracts has ranged from one week to three years, but is
generally one week to three months. Advertising revenues on both
banner and sponsorship contracts are recognized as
“impressions” (i.e., the number of times that an
advertisement appears in pages viewed by users of our websites)
are delivered or ratably over the term of the agreement where
such agreements provide for minimum monthly or quarterly
advertising commitments or where such commitments are fixed
throughout the term. Barter transactions are valued based on
amounts realized in similar cash transactions occurring within
six months prior to the date of the barter transaction. To the
extent that significant delivery obligations remain at the end
of a period or collection of the resulting account receivable is
not considered probable, revenues are deferred until the
obligation is satisfied or the uncertainty is resolved. These
amounts are included in deferred revenue in our balance sheet.
Third-party advertising net revenues, including barter
transactions, totaled 3%, 11% and 5% of our consolidated net
revenues for the years ended December 31, 2000, 2001 and
2002, respectively and were primarily from our
U.S. segment. Revenue from barter arrangements totaled
$2.5 million in 2000, $10.4 million in 2001, and
$10.1 million in 2002.

Third-party advertising revenues may be affected
by the financial condition of our customers and by the success
of online promotions in general. Recently, the industry pricing
of online advertisements has deteriorated. Our third-party
advertising revenue is dependent in significant part on the
performance of AOL Time Warner, Inc., or AOL, over which we do
not have control. Reduction in third-party advertising, whether
due to softening of the demand for online advertising in general
or particular problems facing parties with whom we have
contractual arrangements, would adversely affect our operating
results. Unlike our transaction revenues, third-party
advertising revenues are derived from a highly concentrated
customer base. During the years ended December 31, 2000 and
2001, third-party advertising revenues were all attributable to
approximately 20 customers each year. During the year ended
December 31, 2002, third-party advertising revenues were
all derived from approximately 30 customers. We continue to view
our business as primarily transaction driven and we expect
third-party advertising revenues in future periods to decrease
as a percentage of total net revenues, and in absolute dollars.
Additionally, our advertising sales representative agreement
with AOL has not been extended or renewed and is scheduled to
terminate on March 31, 2003, with AOL to continue its
electronic delivery of our online advertisements for a specified
wind-down period. After March 31, 2003, our third-party
advertising revenues will be dependent on the efforts of our
existing internal sales staff.

End-to-End Services Revenues

Our end-to-end services revenues are derived
principally from contractual arrangements with third parties
that provide transaction services to eBay users. To date, the
duration of our end-to-end services contracts has ranged from
one to three years. End-to-end services revenues are recognized
as the contracted services are delivered to end-users. To the
extent that significant obligations remain at the end of a
period or collection of the resulting receivable is not
considered probable, revenues are deferred until



the obligation is satisfied or the uncertainty is
resolved. End-to-end services net revenues were 7%, 4% and 2% of
our consolidated net revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002, respectively and were
primarily from our U.S. segment.

Similar to our third-party advertising revenues,
our end-to-end services revenues may be affected by the
financial condition of the parties with whom we have these
relationships and by the success of online services and
promotions in general. Additionally, end-to-end services
revenues are also concentrated among a small customer base.
End-to-end services revenues were derived from approximately
10 customers in 2000 and from approximately
20 customers in each of 2001 and 2002. We continue to view
our business as primarily transaction driven and expect
end-to-end services revenues in future periods to decrease as a
percentage of total net revenues and in absolute dollars.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill
    and Investments

Our long-lived assets at December 31, 2002
are property and equipment of $218.0 million and other
intangible assets of $279.5 million. We evaluate long-lived
assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may
not be recoverable in accordance with SFAS No. 144,
“Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets.” An asset is considered impaired if its carrying
amount exceeds the future net cash flow the asset is expected to
generate. If such asset is considered to be impaired, the
impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which
the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
We assess the recoverability of our long-lived and intangible
assets by determining whether the unamortized balances can be
recovered through undiscounted future net cash flows of the
related assets. The amount of impairment, if any, is measured
based on projected discounted future net cash flows using a
discount rate reflecting our average cost of capital.

Our goodwill at December 31, 2002 totaled
$1.46 billion. We evaluate goodwill, at a minimum, on an
annual basis and whenever events and changes in circumstances
suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable in
accordance with SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets.” Impairment of goodwill is tested at the
reporting unit level by comparing the reporting unit’s
carrying amount, including goodwill, to the fair value of the
reporting unit. The fair values of the reporting units are
estimated using a combination of the income or discounted cash
flows approach and the market approach, which utilizes
comparable companies’ data. If the carrying amount of the
reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered
impaired and a second step is performed to measure the amount of
impairment loss, if any.

To date, we have recorded no impairment of
property and equipment, goodwill, or intangible assets. However,
if our estimates or the related assumptions change in the
future, we may be required to record impairment charges in any
or all of our three segments to reduce the carrying amount of
these assets.

The fair value of long-term investments are
dependent on the performance of the companies and instruments in
which we have invested, as well as the volatility inherent in
external markets for these investments. In assessing potential
impairment, we consider these factors as well as the forecasted
financial performance of the companies in which we invest. If
forecasted performance levels are not met or if other events
occur, we may have to record additional impairment charges in
our U.S. and International segments to reduce the carrying
amount of these assets. During the year ended December 31,
2002, we recognized $3.8 million of impairment losses
relating to the impairment in value of certain equity
investments. At December 31, 2002, the total value of our
equity investments in unconsolidated companies was
$44.2 million, with $4.9 million in our
U.S segment, $37.5 million in our International
segment, and none in our Payments segment.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit
    or Disposal Activities

In June 2002, the FASB issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 146 or SFAS
No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or
Disposal Activities,” which nullifies Emerging



Issues Task Force, or EITF, Issue No. 94-3,
“Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination
Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain
Costs Incurred in a Restructuring).” SFAS No. 146
requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or
disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred
and states that an entity’s commitment to an exit plan, by
itself, does not create a present obligation that meets the
definition of a liability. SFAS No. 146 also establishes
that fair value is the objective for initial measurement of the
liability. The provisions of SFAS No. 146 are effective for
exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31,
2002. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 146 to have
a material impact upon our financial position, cash flows or
results of operations.

Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure
    Requirements for Guarantees

In November 2002, the FASB issued FIN 45,
“Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
Others.” FIN 45 requires a guarantor to recognize a
liability for obligations it has undertaken in relation to the
issuance of a guarantee. It requires that the liability be
recorded at fair value on the date that the guarantee is issued.
It also requires a guarantor to provide additional disclosures
regarding guarantees, including the nature of the guarantee, the
maximum potential amount of future payments under the guarantee,
the carrying amount of the liability, if any, for the
guarantor’s obligations under the guarantee, and the nature
and extent of any recourse provisions or available collateral
that would enable the guarantor to recover the amounts paid
under the guarantee. The disclosure requirements under FIN 45
are effective for the interim and annual periods ending after
December 15, 2002. The recognition and measurement
provisions under FIN 45 are effective for guarantees issued
or modified after December 31, 2002. We do not expect the
adoption of FIN 45 to have a material impact upon our financial
position, cash flows or results of operations. See
“Note 11 — Commitments and
Contingencies” to our Consolidated Financial Statements,
which is incorporated by reference herein.

Accounting for Stock Based
    Compensation

In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 148, “Accounting for Stock Based
Compensation — Transition and Disclosure.”
SFAS 148 provides two additional transition methods for
entities that voluntarily adopt the fair value method of
recording expenses when accounting for stock based compensation.
Further, the statement requires disclosure of comparable
information for all companies regardless of whether, when, or
how an entity adopts the preferable, fair value based method of
accounting. These disclosures are now required for interim
periods in addition to the traditional annual disclosure. The
amendments to SFAS No. 123, which provides for additional
transition methods, are effective for periods beginning after
December 15, 2002. The disclosure provisions are effective
for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002 and have
been incorporated into the notes to the accompanying financial
statements. We have chosen not to voluntarily adopt the fair
value method of accounting for employee stock option grants at
this time.

Consolidation of Variable Interest
    Entities

In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46,
“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” This
interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51,
“Consolidated Financial Statements,” addresses
consolidation by business enterprises of certain variable
interest entities where there is a controlling financial
interest in a variable interest entity or where the variable
interest entity does not have sufficient equity at risk to
finance its activities without additional subordinated financial
support from other parties. This interpretation applies
immediately to variable interest entities created after
January 31, 2003 and applies in the first year or interim
period beginning after June 15, 2003 to variable interest
entities in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that
it acquired before February 1, 2003. We expect that the
adoption of FIN 46 will require us to include our San Jose
facilities lease arrangement and potentially certain investments
in our Consolidated Financial Statements effective July 1,
2003. In connection with our San Jose facilities lease
arrangement, our balance sheet following the July 1, 2003
adoption of FIN 46 will reflect changes to record assets of
$126.4 million, liabilities of $122.5 million and
non-controlling



interests of $3.9 million. In addition, our
post-adoption income statement will reflect the reclassification
of rent expense payments from operating expenses to interest
expense as well as the recognition of depreciation expense,
within operating expenses, for our use of the buildings. We
estimate that the income statement impact of consolidating our
San Jose facilities lease will consist of a charge against
earnings, net of taxes, of $5.6 million upon the adoption
of FIN 46 on July 1, 2003. This charge will reflect
the accumulated depreciation charges that would have been
recorded in previous periods had consolidation of the San Jose
facilities been required. Additionally, we have not decided
whether we will keep the existing financing arrangement or
purchase the San Jose facilities. Whether or not we keep the
existing financing arrangement, we anticipate recording
additional annual operating expenses of $1.7 million, net
of taxes, to for the recognition of depreciation expense on the
buildings. In the event we purchase the San Jose facilities, we
will also pay $126.4 million, eliminate financing payments
and settle our two interest rate swaps we used to establish a
fixed rate of interest for $95 million of our financing
arrangement. During the year ended December 31, 2002, our
financing payments related to the San Jose facilities totaled
$7.9 million. At December 31, 2002, settlement of our
two interest rate swaps would have resulted in a loss of
$10.9 million.



Risk Factors That May Affect Results of
Operations and Financial Condition

The risks and uncertainties described below
are not the only ones facing eBay. Additional risks and
uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently
deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any
of the following risks or such other risks actually occur, our
business could be harmed.

Our operating results may
fluctuate.

Our operating results have varied on a quarterly
basis during our operating history. Our operating results may
fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors,
many of which are outside our control. Factors that may affect
our quarterly operating results include the following:



Our limited operating history and the increased
variety of services offered on our websites makes it difficult
for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or
earnings accurately. We believe that period-to-period
comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and
you should not rely upon them as an indication of future
performance. We do not have backlog, and substantially all of
our net revenues each quarter come from transactions involving
sales or payments during that quarter. Due to the inherent
difficulty in forecasting revenues it is also difficult to
forecast income statement expenses as a percentage of net
revenues. Quarterly and annual income statement expenses as a
percentage of net revenues may be significantly different from
historical or projected rates. Our operating results in one or
more future quarters may fall below the expectations of
securities analysts and investors. In that event, the trading
price of our common stock would almost certainly decline.

We may not maintain our level of
profitability.

We believe that our continued profitability at
historical levels will depend in large part on our ability to do
the following:

We are investing heavily in marketing and
promotion, customer support, further development of our
websites, technology and operating infrastructure development.
The costs of these investments are expected to remain
significant into the future. In addition, many of our
acquisitions require continuing investments in these areas and
we have significant ongoing contractual commitments in some of
these areas. As a result, we may be unable to adjust our
spending rapidly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue
shortfall, which may harm our profitability. The existence of
several larger and more established companies that are enabling
online sales as well as other companies, some of whom do not
charge for transactions on their sites and others who are
facilitating trading through varied pricing formats (e.g.,
fixed-price, reverse auction, group buying) may limit our
ability to raise user fees in response to declines in
profitability. In addition, we are spending in advance of
anticipated growth, which may also harm our profitability. In
view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business and our
limited operating history, we believe that period-to-period
comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily
meaningful. You should not rely upon our historical results as
indications of our future performance.

Our integration of PayPal may be
    difficult.

While eBay has acquired smaller companies in the
past, the acquisition of PayPal represents by far the largest
acquisition by eBay to date. We expect that the process of
integrating PayPal’s business into



the eBay platform, and pursuing opportunities for
PayPal’s growth outside of the eBay platform, will be
relatively difficult and will require significant attention from
management. This may divert management’s attention from its
focus on eBay’s principal business for an extended period
of time. In addition, PayPal will continue to operate as an
independent wholly owned subsidiary of eBay. Because PayPal will
be relatively independent, efficient cooperation between eBay
and PayPal following the merger will be crucial for a successful
integration of PayPal’s business into the eBay platform.
PayPal’s pre-merger Chief Executive Officer left the
company at the time the merger was consummated and the
pre-merger Chief Technical Officer, Chief Operating Officer and
Chief Financial Officer left the company shortly thereafter.
Accordingly, PayPal’s new Chief Executive Officer and
certain other members of its management have only limited
experience with PayPal. There can be no assurance that
PayPal’s business will be integrated into the eBay platform
in a timely and efficient manner or that any of the anticipated
benefits of the merger will be realized. If these benefits are
not realized, our business and operating results will be harmed.

Our business is adversely affected by
    anything that causes our users to spend less time on their
    computers, including national events and seasonal
    factors.

Anything that diverts our users from their
customary level of usage of our websites could adversely affect
our business. We would therefore be adversely affected by
geopolitical events such as war, the threat of war or terrorist
activity. Similarly, our results of operations historically have
been seasonal in nature because many of our users reduce their
activities on our websites during the holidays, such as during
the Thanksgiving (in the U.S.) and Christmas periods, and with
the onset of good weather during the summer months. We have
historically experienced our strongest quarters of online growth
in our first and fourth fiscal quarters. PayPal has shown
similar seasonality, except that its strongest quarter of online
growth has historically been the fourth fiscal quarter.

There are many risks associated with our
    international operations.

Our international expansion has been rapid and we
have only limited experience in many of the countries in which
we now do business. Our international business, especially in
Germany, the U.K., Canada and Korea, has also become critical to
our revenues and profits. Expansion into international markets
requires management attention and resources. We have limited
experience in localizing our service to conform to local
cultures, standards and policies. In many countries, we compete
with local companies who understand the local market better than
we do. We may not be successful in expanding into particular
international markets or in generating revenues from foreign
operations. For example, in 2002 we withdrew from the Japanese
market. Even if we are successful, the costs of operating new
sites are expected to exceed our net revenues for at least
12 months in most countries. As we continue to expand
internationally, we are subject to risks of doing business
internationally, including the following:



Some of these factors may cause our international
costs to exceed our domestic costs of doing business. To the
extent we expand our international operations and have
additional portions of our international revenues denominated in
foreign currencies, we also could become subject to increased
difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and risks
relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.

We intend to expand PayPal’s services
internationally. Both we and PayPal have limited experience with
the payments business outside of the U.S. In addition to all of
the factors listed above, we expect that successful
international expansion of PayPal’s business will require
successful integration with local payment providers (including
banks, credit and debit card associations, electronic fund
transfer systems and others) and in some countries may require a
close commercial relationship with a local bank. We do not know
if these or other factors may prevent, delay or limit
PayPal’s expansion or reduce its profitability. Any
limitation on our ability to expand PayPal internationally could
harm our business.

Our business may be subject to sales and
other taxes.

We do not collect sales or other similar taxes on
goods or services sold by users through our services. One or
more states or any foreign country may seek to impose
value-added taxes, or VAT, or sales or use tax collection or
record-keeping obligations on companies such as ours that engage
in or facilitate online commerce. Such taxes could be imposed
if, for example, we were ever deemed to be an auctioneer or the
agent of our sellers. Several proposals have been made at the
state and local level that would impose additional taxes on the
sale of goods and services through the Internet. These
proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of
e-commerce, and could diminish our opportunity to derive
financial benefit from our activities. In 1998, the U.S. federal
government enacted legislation prohibiting states or other local
authorities from imposing new taxes on Internet commerce for a
period of three years, which has been extended through
November 1, 2003. This moratorium does not prohibit states
or the Internal Revenue Service from collecting taxes on our
income, if any, or from collecting taxes that are due under
existing tax rules. New regulations in the European Union
relating to the collection of VAT on digital services will
require us to collect and remit VAT on our own fees beginning in
July 2003. We intend to work with relevant tax authorities to
clarify our obligations under these regulations and to change
our software to permit the billing of these taxes. We expect
substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with the VAT
rules throughout Europe and the increased cost to our users may
reduce their activity on our websites. Both of these effects
could adversely affect our business. A successful assertion by
one or more states or any foreign country that we should collect
sales or other taxes on the exchange of merchandise on our
system would harm our business.



PayPal is subject to unique risks that
could harm our business.

PayPal faces significant risks of loss due to
fraud and disputes between senders and recipients. If PayPal is
unable to deal effectively with fraudulent transactions,
PayPal’s losses from fraud would increase, and its business
would be harmed.

PayPal faces significant risks of loss due to
fraud and disputes between senders and recipients, including:

For the years ended December 31, 2001, and
December 31, 2002, PayPal’s provision for transaction
losses totaled $14.8 million and $28.8 million,
respectively, representing 0.42% and 0.41% of PayPal’s
total payment volume. In January 2003 PayPal increased the
withdrawal limit for unverified international users to $500 per
month in certain countries. This increase may result in higher
transaction losses.

PayPal incurs chargebacks and other losses
from merchant fraud, payment disputes and insufficient funds,
and its liability from these items could have a material adverse
effect on its business and result in PayPal losing the right to
accept credit cards for payment. If PayPal is prohibited from
accepting credit cards for payment, its ability to compete could
be impaired, and our business would suffer.

PayPal incurs substantial losses from merchant
fraud, including claims from customers that merchants have not
performed, that their goods or services do not match the
merchant’s description or that the customer did not
authorize the purchase. PayPal also incurs losses from erroneous
transmissions and from customers who have closed bank accounts
or have insufficient funds in them to satisfy payments.
PayPal’s liability for such items could have a material
adverse effect on its business, and if they become excessive,
could result in PayPal losing the right to accept credit cards
for payment. If PayPal were unable to accept credit cards, the
velocity of trade on eBay could decrease, in which case our
business would suffer. PayPal has been assessed substantial
fines in the past, and excessive chargebacks may arise in the
future. PayPal has taken measures to detect and reduce the risk
of fraud, but these measures may not be effective. If these
measures do not succeed, our business will suffer.

Unauthorized use of credit cards and bank
accounts could expose PayPal to substantial losses. If PayPal is
unable to detect and prevent unauthorized use of cards and bank
accounts, its business would suffer.

The highly automated nature of, and liquidity
offered by, PayPal’s payment product makes PayPal an
attractive target for fraud. In configuring its product, PayPal
faces an inherent trade-off between customer convenience and
security. Identity thieves and those committing fraud using
stolen credit card or bank account numbers, often in bulk and in
conjunction with automated mechanisms of online communication,
potentially can steal large amounts of money from businesses
such as PayPal’s. PayPal believes that several of
PayPal’s current and former competitors in the electronic
payments business have gone out of business or significantly
restricted their businesses largely due to losses from this type
of fraud. PayPal expects that technically knowledgeable
criminals will continue to attempt to circumvent PayPal’s
anti-fraud systems. If they are successful, our business will be
harmed.



PayPal’s processes to reduce fraud losses
depend in part on its ability to restrict the withdrawal of
customer funds while it investigates suspicious transactions.
PayPal has been and could be sued by plaintiffs alleging that
PayPal’s restriction and investigation processes violate
federal and state law on consumer protection and unfair business
practice, and are inconsistent with PayPal’s user
agreement. If PayPal is unable to defend itself successfully, it
could be required to restructure its anti-fraud processes in
ways that would harm its business, and to pay substantial
damages.

As part of PayPal’s program to reduce fraud
losses, it may temporarily restrict the ability of customers to
withdraw their funds if those funds or their account activity
are identified by PayPal’s anti-fraud models as suspicious.
PayPal is subject to several purported class action lawsuits
challenging its procedures and disclosures with respect to
suspicious accounts (See “Item 3: Legal
Proceedings”), and if PayPal’s processes are found to
violate federal or state law on consumer protection and unfair
business practices, it could be subject to an enforcement action
or fines. If PayPal loses this litigation or is subject to an
enforcement action, it could be required to restructure its
anti-fraud processes in ways that would harm its business, and
to pay substantial damages. Even if PayPal is able to defend
itself successfully, the litigation or enforcement action could
cause damage to its reputation, could consume substantial
amounts of its management’s time and attention, and could
require PayPal to change its customer service and operations in
ways that could increase its costs and decrease the
effectiveness of its anti-fraud program.

Any failure to provide effective customer
support could result in the loss of customers and inability to
attract new customers, which would harm PayPal’s
business.

Because it is providing a financial service and
operating in a more regulated environment, PayPal, unlike eBay,
must provide telephone as well as email customer service, and
must resolve certain customer contacts within shorter time
frames. PayPal has received negative publicity with respect to
its customer service and is the subject of purported class
action lawsuits alleging, among other things, failure to resolve
promptly certain account restrictions. If PayPal is unable to
provide quality customer support operations in a cost-effective
manner, its users may have negative experiences, PayPal may
receive additional negative publicity and its ability to attract
new customers may be damaged. Current and future revenues could
suffer, or its operating margins may decrease. In addition,
negative publicity about or experiences with PayPal’s
customer support could cause eBay’s reputation to suffer or
affect consumer confidence in eBay as a whole.

Security and privacy breaches in PayPal’s
electronic transactions may expose PayPal to additional
liability and result in the loss of customers, either of which
events could harm its business.

Any inability on PayPal’s part to protect
the security and privacy of its electronic transactions could
have a material adverse effect on its profitability. A security
or privacy breach could:

•

expose PayPal to additional liability;

•

increase PayPal’s expenses relating to
    resolution of these breaches; and

•

deter customers from using PayPal’s product.

PayPal’s data security measures may not
effectively counter evolving security risks or address the
security and privacy concerns of existing and potential
customers. Any failures in PayPal’s security and privacy
measures could have a material adverse effect on our business.

PayPal could incur substantial losses from
employee fraud and, as a result, its business would
suffer.

The large volume of payments that PayPal handles
for its customers makes it vulnerable to employee fraud or other
internal security breaches. PayPal is required to reimburse
customers for any funds stolen as a result of such breaches. We
cannot assure you that PayPal’s internal security systems
will prevent material losses from employee fraud.



PayPal’s payment system might be used for
illegal or improper purposes, which could expose it to
additional liability and harm its business.

Despite measures PayPal has taken to detect and
prevent identity theft, unauthorized uses of credit cards and
similar misconduct, its payment system remains susceptible to
potentially illegal or improper uses. These may include illegal
online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit
sales of prescription medications or controlled substances,
software and other intellectual property piracy, money
laundering, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking,
prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products and
online securities fraud. Despite measures PayPal has taken to
detect and lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, these
measures may not succeed. The processing of these payments could
expose PayPal to liability. In addition, future regulations
under the USA PATRIOT Act may require PayPal to revise the
procedures it takes to verify the identity of customers and to
monitor more closely international transactions. PayPal’s
business could suffer if customers use its system for illegal or
improper purposes, or if usage of its system is reduced because
of increased verification requirements.

PayPal’s discontinuance of its processing
of payments for online gambling merchants will reduce its
revenue and profits; its past processing of these accounts could
subject it to liability.

PayPal completed its exit from the business of
processing payments for online gambling merchants in November
2002. Approximately 6% of PayPal’s revenues in 2002 were
derived from this business. The loss of these revenues and
related profits will adversely affect PayPal’s financial
results. As a result of having been in this business, PayPal has
become subject to two inquiries related to payments made through
its service to online gambling merchants. In August 2002, PayPal
reached agreement with the Attorney General of the State of New
York that it would cease processing payments from its New York
members to such merchants and pay the State of New York $200,000
in penalties and disgorged profits and to cover the cost of
investigation. Beginning in July 2002, PayPal provided documents
and information related to its services to online gambling
merchants in response to a federal grand jury subpoena issued at
the request of the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of
Missouri. On March 28, 2003, PayPal received a letter from
the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri
indicating its contention that PayPal’s provision of
services to online gambling merchants violated 18
U.S.C. § 1960 of the USA PATRIOT Act, which
prohibits the transmission of funds that are known to have been
derived from a criminal offense or are intended to be used to
promote or support unlawful activity, thereby subjecting PayPal
to potential civil forfeiture of the amounts it received in
connection with such activities as well as potential criminal
liability. The letter offered a complete settlement of all
possible claims and charges from the U.S. Attorney for the
Eastern District of Missouri if Paypal paid the purported amount
of its earnings derived from online gambling merchants during
the nine-month period from October 26, 2001 to
July 31, 2002, plus interest. PayPal acted in the good
faith belief that its conduct did not violate 18
U.S.C. § 1960 and PayPal calculates that the
amount of its earnings from online gaming activities was less
than asserted in the letter. Should this investigation lead to a
civil or criminal charge against PayPal, we would be harmed by
negative publicity, the cost of litigation and the diversion of
management time, even if PayPal ultimately prevails. Any finding
of a civil or criminal violation by PayPal, or potentially any
settlement, could also endanger PayPal’s ability to obtain,
maintain or renew money transmitter licenses in jurisdictions
where it requires such licenses to operate, which would
materially harm our business.

Changes to card association rules or practices
could negatively affect PayPal’s service and, if it does
not comply with the rules, could result in a termination of
PayPal’s ability to accept credit cards. If PayPal is
unable to accept credit cards, our business would
suffer.

Because PayPal is not a bank, it cannot belong to
and directly access the Visa and MasterCard credit card
associations or the Automated Clearing House, or ACH, payment
network. As a result, PayPal must rely on banks and their
service providers to process its transactions. PayPal must
comply with the operating rules of the credit card associations
and the National Automated Clearing House Association, or NACHA,
as they apply to merchants. The associations’ member banks
set these rules, and the associations interpret the rules. Some
of those member banks compete with PayPal. Visa, MasterCard,



American Express or Discover could adopt new
operating rules or interpretations of existing rules which
PayPal or its processors might find difficult or even impossible
to comply with, in which case PayPal could lose its ability to
give customers the option of using credit cards to fund their
payments. If PayPal were unable to accept credit cards, its
business would be seriously damaged. In addition, if PayPal were
unable to accept credit cards, the velocity of trade on eBay
could decrease and our business would suffer.

MasterCard has announced that a clarification of
its rules, effective May 1, 2002, requires each commercial
customer that regularly uses PayPal to accept payment for goods
or services, to enter into a contract directly with the bank
that processes MasterCard transactions for PayPal and to agree
to observe MasterCard rules. PayPal is complying with this rule
through changes to its User Agreement, its internal processes,
its contractual relationship with its credit card processor, and
by obtaining additional information about its larger customers.
As a result, PayPal has changed the interrelationship among
itself, its larger customers and its credit card processing bank
in ways that will increase PayPal’s costs and may reduce
the attractiveness of its service.

In 2001, Visa indicated that some of
PayPal’s practices violated its operating rules, and PayPal
implemented changes in response. In January 2002, PayPal
received correspondence through its credit card processor that
three issues remained unresolved. These issues relate to
PayPal’s international membership fees, its fees for
international credit card funded payments, and its process for
obtaining authorization to charge a customer’s Visa account
if the customer’s ACH transfer fails. In connection with
these issues, PayPal’s processor was assessed fines
totaling $130,000 by Visa in 2002, $110,000 of which
PayPal’s processor has passed through to PayPal. PayPal has
implemented changes to its practices to resolve these issues,
and believes these changes have resolved all outstanding issues
that resulted in compliance fines from Visa. However, these
changes could make the PayPal service less attractive to its
customers.

PayPal’s status under state, federal and
international financial services regulation is unclear.
Violation of or compliance with present or future regulation
could be costly, expose PayPal to substantial liability, force
PayPal to change its business practices or force PayPal to cease
offering its current product.

PayPal operates in an industry subject to
government regulation. PayPal currently is subject to some
states’ money transmitter regulations, to federal
regulations in its role as transfer agent and investment adviser
to the PayPal Money Market Fund, and to federal electronic fund
transfer and money laundering regulations. In the future, PayPal
might be subjected to:

If PayPal is found to be in violation of any
current or future regulations, PayPal could be:

•

exposed to financial liability, including
    substantial fines which could be imposed on a per transaction
    basis and disgorgement of its profits;

•

forced to change its business practices; or

•

forced to cease doing business altogether or with
    the residents of one or more states or countries.

Any change to PayPal’s business practices
that makes the service less attractive to customers or prohibits
its use by residents of a particular jurisdiction could decrease
the velocity of trade on eBay, in which case our business would
suffer.



If PayPal were found to be subject to or in
violation of any laws or regulations governing banking, it could
be subject to liability and forced to change its business
practices.

PayPal believes that the licensing or approval
requirements of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
the Federal Reserve Board and other federal or state agencies
that regulate banks, bank holding companies or other types of
providers of electronic commerce services do not apply to
PayPal, except for certain money transmitter licenses mentioned
below. However, one or more states may conclude that, under its
or their statutes, PayPal is engaged in an unauthorized banking
business. PayPal received written communications from regulatory
authorities in New York, most recently in February 2002, and
Louisiana expressing the view that its service as it formerly
operated constituted an unauthorized banking business, and from
authorities in California and Idaho in 2001 that its service
might constitute an unauthorized banking business. PayPal has
taken steps to address these states’ concerns, and has
received a conclusion from the New York Banking Department that
its current business model does not constitute illegal banking.
PayPal also has obtained licenses to operate as a money
transmitter in California, Louisiana and Idaho. However, we
cannot assure you that the steps PayPal has taken to address
state regulatory concerns will be effective in all states. If
PayPal is found to be engaged in an unauthorized banking
business in one or more states, it might be subject to monetary
penalties and adverse publicity and might be required to cease
doing business with residents of those states. Even if the steps
it has taken to resolve these states’ concerns are deemed
sufficient by the state regulatory authorities, PayPal could be
subject to fines and penalties for its prior activities. The
need to comply with state laws prohibiting unauthorized banking
activities could also limit PayPal’s ability to enhance its
services in the future. Any change to PayPal’s business
practices that makes the service less attractive to customers or
prohibits its use by residents of a particular jurisdiction
could decrease the velocity of trade on eBay, in which case our
business would suffer.

If PayPal were found to be subject to or in
violation of any laws or regulations governing money
transmitters, it could be subject to liability and forced to
change its business practices.

A number of states have enacted legislation
regulating money transmitters and PayPal has applied for
licenses under this legislation in 28 jurisdictions. To date,
PayPal has obtained licenses in 20 states and the District of
Columbia. As a licensed money transmitter, PayPal is subject to
bonding requirements, restrictions on its investment of customer
funds, reporting requirements and inspection by state regulatory
agencies. If PayPal’s pending applications were denied, or
if it were found to be subject to and in violation of any money
services laws or regulations, PayPal also could be subject to
liability or forced to cease doing business with residents of
certain states or to change its business practices. Any change
to PayPal’s business practices that makes the service less
attractive to customers or prohibits its use by residents of a
particular jurisdiction could decrease the velocity of trade on
eBay, in which case our business would suffer. Even if PayPal is
not forced to change its business practices, it could be
required to obtain licenses or regulatory approvals that could
impose a substantial cost on PayPal.

If PayPal were to be found subject to or in
violation of any laws or regulations governing electronic fund
transfers, it could be subject to liability and forced to change
its business practices.

Although there have been no definitive
interpretations to date, PayPal has assumed that its service is
subject to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and
Regulation E of the Federal Reserve Board. As a result,
among other things, PayPal must provide advance disclosure of
changes to its service, follow specified error resolution
procedures and absorb losses from transactions not authorized by
the consumer. In addition, PayPal is subject to the financial
privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related
regulations. As a result, some customer financial information
that PayPal receives is subject to limitations on reuse and
disclosure. Additionally, pending legislation at the state and
federal levels may restrict further PayPal’s information
gathering and disclosure practices. Existing and potential
future privacy laws may limit PayPal’s ability to develop
new products and services that make use of data gathered through
its service. The provisions of these laws and related
regulations are complicated, and PayPal does not have extensive
experience in complying with these laws and related regulations.
Even technical violations of



these laws can result in penalties of up to
$1,000 assessed for each non-compliant transaction. During the
years ended December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2002,
PayPal processed approximately 189,000 and 348,000 transactions
per day, respectively, and any violations could expose PayPal to
significant liability.

PayPal is subject to laws and regulations on
money laundering and reporting of suspicious activities that
could have a material adverse impact on its business and could
subject it to civil and criminal liability.

PayPal is subject to money laundering laws and
regulations that prohibit, among other things, its involvement
in transferring the proceeds of criminal activities. These laws
and regulations require PayPal to operate an anti-money
laundering program that contains at least the following
elements: written policies and procedures (including those
relating to customer identification), training for employees,
designation of a compliance officer, and regular independent
review of the program. PayPal has adopted a program to comply
with these regulations, but any errors or failure to implement
the program properly could lead to lawsuits, administrative
action, fines and/or prosecution by the government. PayPal is
also subject to regulations that require it to report suspicious
activities involving transactions of $2,000 or more and to
obtain and keep more detailed records on the senders and
recipients in certain transfers of $3,000 or more. The
interpretation of suspicious activities in this context is
uncertain. Future regulations under the USA PATRIOT Act may
require PayPal to revise the procedures it takes to verify the
identity of its customers and to monitor more closely
international transactions. These regulations could impose
significant costs on PayPal and make it more difficult for new
customers to join its network. PayPal could be required to learn
more about its customers before opening an account, to obtain
additional verification of international customers and to
monitor its customers’ activities more closely. These
requirements could raise PayPal’s costs significantly and
reduce the attractiveness of its product. Failure to comply with
federal and state money laundering laws could result in
significant criminal and civil lawsuits, penalties and
forfeiture of significant assets.

PayPal’s status under banking or
financial services laws or other laws in countries outside the
U.S. is unclear. The cost of obtaining any required licenses or
regulatory approvals in these countries could affect
PayPal’s future profitability.

PayPal currently offers its product to customers
with credit cards in 37 countries outside the U.S. In 19 of
these countries, customers can withdraw funds to local bank
accounts. In these countries, it is not clear whether, in order
to provide its product in compliance with local law, PayPal
needs to be regulated as a bank or financial institution or
otherwise. If PayPal were found to be subject to and in
violation of any foreign laws or regulations, it could be
subject to liability, forced to change its business practices or
forced to suspend operations in one or more countries.
Alternatively, PayPal could be required to obtain licenses or
regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on it
and involve considerable delay to the provision or development
of its product. Implementation of PayPal’s plans to enhance
the attractiveness of its product for international customers,
in particular its plans to offer customers the ability to
transact business in major currencies in addition to the
U.S. dollar, will increase the risks that it could be found
to be in violation of laws or regulations in countries outside
the U.S. In the fourth quarter of 2002, PayPal began offering
customers the ability to send or receive payments in Pounds,
Euros, Canadian Dollars or Yen, in addition to U.S. dollars.

PayPal’s financial success will remain
highly sensitive to changes in the rate at which its customers
fund payments using credit cards rather than bank account
transfers or existing PayPal account balances. PayPal’s
profitability could be harmed if the rate at which customers
fund using credit cards goes up.

PayPal pays significant transaction fees when
senders fund payment transactions using credit cards, nominal
fees when customers fund payment transactions by electronic
transfer of funds from bank accounts and no fees when customers
fund payment transactions from an existing PayPal account
balance. For the years ended December 31, 2001 and
December 31, 2002, senders funded 51.5% and 49.8%,
respectively, of PayPal’s payment volume using credit
cards. Senders may resist funding payments by electronic
transfer from bank accounts because of the greater protection
offered by credit cards, including



the ability to dispute and reverse merchant
charges, because of frequent flier miles or other incentives
offered by credit cards or because of generalized fears
regarding privacy or loss of control in surrendering bank
account information to a third party.

Increases in credit card processing fees could
increase PayPal’s costs, affect its profitability, or
otherwise limit its operations.

From time to time, Visa, MasterCard, American
Express and Discover increase the interchange fees that they
charge for each transaction using their cards. MasterCard is
implementing an increase to its interchange fees effective April
2003. PayPal’s credit card processors have the right to
pass any increases in interchange fees on to PayPal. Any such
increased fees could increase PayPal’s operating costs and
reduce its profit margins. Furthermore, PayPal’s credit
card processors require it to pledge cash as collateral with
respect to PayPal’s acceptance of Visa, MasterCard,
American Express and Discover and the amount of cash that PayPal
is required to pledge could be increased at any time.

PayPal has limited experience in managing and
accounting accurately for large amounts of customer funds.
PayPal’s failure to manage these funds properly would harm
its business.

PayPal’s ability to manage and account
accurately for customer funds requires a high level of internal
controls. PayPal has neither an established operating history
nor proven management experience in maintaining, over a long
term, these internal controls. As PayPal’s business
continues to grow, it must strengthen its internal controls
accordingly. PayPal’s success requires significant public
confidence in its ability to handle large and growing
transaction volumes and amounts of customer funds. Any failure
to maintain necessary controls or to manage accurately customer
funds could diminish customer use of PayPal’s product
severely.

Customer complaints or negative publicity
about our customer service could affect use of our services
adversely and, as a result, our business could
suffer.

Customer complaints or negative publicity about
our customer service could diminish severely consumer confidence
in and use of our services. Breaches of our customers’
privacy and our security measures could have the same effect.
Measures we sometimes take to combat risks of fraud and breaches
of privacy and security can damage relations with our customers.
These measures heighten the need for prompt and accurate
customer service to resolve irregularities and disputes. PayPal
has received negative media coverage, as well as public
criticism regarding customer disputes. Effective customer
service requires significant personnel expense, and this
expense, if not managed properly, could impact our profitability
significantly. Any inability by us to manage or train our
customer service representatives properly could compromise our
ability to handle customer complaints effectively. If we do not
handle customer complaints effectively, our reputation may
suffer and we may lose our customers’ confidence.

Our failure to manage growth could harm
us.

We currently are experiencing a period of
expansion in our headcount, facilities and infrastructure, and
we anticipate that further expansion will be required to address
potential growth in our customer base and number of listings as
well as our expansion into new geographic areas, types of goods
and alternative methods of sale. This expansion has placed, and
we expect it will continue to place, a significant strain on our
management, operational and financial resources. The areas that
are put under strain by our growth include the following:

•

The Websites.

We
    must constantly add new hardware, update software and add new
    engineering personnel to accommodate the increased use of our
    and our subsidiaries’ websites and the new products and
    features we are regularly introducing. This upgrade process is
    expensive, and the increased complexity of our websites
    increases the cost of additional enhancements. If we are unable
    to increase the capacity of our systems at least as fast as the
    growth in demand for this capacity, our websites may become
    unstable and may cease to operate for periods of time. We are



in the midst of a significant multiyear project
    to enhance our current technical architecture. If this project
    is not successful, our business could be harmed. We have
    experienced periodic unscheduled downtime. Continued unscheduled
    downtime would harm our business and also could anger users of
    our websites and reduce future revenues.

•

Customer Support.

We
    are expanding our customer support operations to accommodate the
    increased number of users and transactions on our websites and
    the increased level of trust and safety activity we provide
    worldwide. If we are unable to provide these operations in a
    cost-effective manner, users of our websites may have negative
    experiences, and current and future revenues could suffer, or
    our operating margins may decrease.

•

Customer Accounts.

Our revenues are dependent on prompt
    and accurate billing processes. If we are unable to grow our
    transaction processing abilities to accommodate the increasing
    number of transactions that must be billed, our ability to
    collect revenue will be harmed.

We must continue to hire, train and manage new
employees at a rapid rate. If our new hires perform poorly, or
if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and
integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in
retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To
manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we
will need to improve our transaction processing, operational and
financial systems, procedures and controls. This is a special
challenge as we acquire new operations with different systems.
Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and
controls may not be adequate to support our future operations.
We may be unable to hire, train, retain and manage required
personnel or to identify and take advantage of existing and
potential strategic relationships and market opportunities. The
additional headcount and capital investments we are adding
increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us
to offset any future revenue shortfalls by offsetting expense
reductions in the short term.

Our business may be harmed by the listing
or sale by our users of illegal items.

The law relating to the liability of providers of
online services for the activities of their users on their
service is currently unsettled. We are aware that certain goods,
such as firearms, other weapons, adult material, tobacco
products, alcohol and other goods that may be subject to
regulation by local, state or federal authorities, have been
listed and traded on our service or paid for through PayPal. We
may be unable to prevent the sale of unlawful goods, or the sale
of goods in an unlawful manner, by users of our service
(including PayPal users), and we may be subject to allegations
of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried
out by users through our service. We have been subject to
several lawsuits based upon such allegations. In order to reduce
our exposure to this liability, we have prohibited the listing
of certain items and increased the number of personnel reviewing
questionable items. In the future, we may implement other
protective measures that could require us to spend substantial
resources and/or to reduce revenues by discontinuing certain
service offerings. Any costs incurred as a result of liability
or asserted liability relating to the sale of unlawful goods or
the unlawful sale of goods, could harm our business. In
addition, we have received significant and continuing media
attention relating to the listing or sale of unlawful goods on
our websites. This negative publicity could damage our
reputation and diminish the value of our brand name. It also
could make users reluctant to continue to use our services.

We are subject to intellectual property and
other litigation.

On April 25, 2001, our European
subsidiaries, eBay GmbH and eBay International AG, were sued by
Montres Rolex S.A. and certain Rolex affiliates, or Rolex, in
the regional court of Cologne, Germany. The suit subsequently
was transferred to the regional court in Dusseldorf, Germany.
Rolex alleged that our subsidiaries were infringing Rolex’s
trademarks as a result of users selling counterfeit Rolex
watches through our German website. The suit also alleges unfair
competition. Rolex sought an order forbidding the sale of Rolex
watches on the website as well as damages. In December 2002, a
trial was held in the matter and the court ruled in favor of
eBay on all causes of action. Rolex has appealed the ruling, but
the appeal has not yet been briefed or heard.



On September 26, 2001, a complaint was filed
by MercExchange LLC against us, our Half.com subsidiary and
ReturnBuy, Inc. in the Eastern District of Virginia
(No. 2:01-CV-736) alleging infringement of three patents
(relating to online auction technology, multiple database
searching and electronic consignment systems) and seeking a
permanent injunction and damages (including treble damages for
willful infringement). We answered the complaint, denying the
allegations. In April 2002, we filed four motions for summary
judgment relating to the three patents in suit. The court denied
three of those motions and deferred ruling on the fourth motion.
A “Markman” hearing was held in July 2002 to define
certain disputed terms in the patents, and in October 2002 the
court issued its claim construction findings. In October 2002,
the court gave us leave to amend our answer to include a claim
that MercExchange committed fraud on the patent office during
the prosecution of one of the patents. On the same date, the
court granted in part our pending summary judgment motion,
effectively invalidating the patent related to online auction
technology and rendering it unenforceable. In November 2002, we
filed two additional summary judgment motions regarding the
patents. One motion was denied as moot; the other was denied
because the court found there were triable issues of fact. In
February 2003, we filed an additional summary judgment motion,
which is still pending. Only two patents remain in the case at
this time. Trial is scheduled for April 22, 2003. We
believe we have meritorious defenses and will defend ourselves
vigorously. However, even if successful, our defense against
this action will be costly and could divert our
management’s time. If the plaintiff were to prevail on any
of its claims, we might be forced to pay significant damages and
licensing fees, modify our business practices or even be
enjoined from conducting a significant part of our U.S.
business. Any such results could materially harm our business.
We are unable to determine what potential losses we may incur if
this lawsuit were to have an unfavorable outcome.

On September 6, 2002, a complaint was filed
by First USA Bank, N.A. against PayPal in the District of
Delaware (No. 02-CV-1462) alleging infringement of two
patents relating to assigning an alias to a credit card so as to
eliminate the need for the physical presence of the card in a
transaction and seeking a permanent injunction and damages.
PayPal believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to
defend itself vigorously. However, even if successful, our
defense against this action will be costly and could divert
management’s time. If the plaintiff were to prevail on its
claims, PayPal might be forced to pay significant damages and
licensing fees or modify its business practices. Any such result
could materially harm our business. We are unable to determine
what potential losses we may incur if this suit were to have an
unfavorable outcome.

On August 16, 2002, Charles E. Hill
& Associates, Inc., or Hill, filed a lawsuit in the
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas
(No. 2:02-CV-186) alleging that we and 17 other companies,
primarily large retailers, infringed three patents owned by Hill
generally relating to electronic catalog systems and methods for
transmitting and updating data at a remote computer. The suit
seeks an injunction against continuing infringement, unspecified
damages, including treble damages for willful infringement, and
interest, costs, expenses and fees. In January 2003, the court
granted the collective defendants’ motion to transfer the
case from the court where it was filed in Marshall, Texas to the
Federal District Court for the Southern District of Indiana. We
believe that we have meritorious defenses and intend to defend
ourselves vigorously.

On February 20, 2002, PayPal was sued in
California state court in a purported class action alleging that
its restriction of customer accounts and failure to promptly
unrestrict legitimate accounts violates state consumer
protection law and is an unfair business practice and a breach
of PayPal’s User Agreement. This action was refiled with a
different named plaintiff on June 6, 2002, and a related
action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California on the same day. On
March 12, 2002, PayPal was sued in the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of California in a purported
class action alleging that its restrictions of customer accounts
and failure to promptly unrestrict legitimate accounts violates
federal and state consumer protection and unfair business
practice law. The court has denied PayPal’s motion to
compel individual arbitration as required by the PayPal User
Agreement and has invalidated that provision of the User
Agreement. The two federal court actions have been consolidated
into a single case. PayPal is defending itself vigorously, but
if it is unable to prevail in these lawsuits, it



may have to change its anti-fraud operations in a
manner that will harm its business and pay substantial damages.
Even if its defense is successful, the litigation could damage
PayPal’s reputation, could require significant management
time, will be costly and could require changes to its customer
service and operations that could increase its costs and
decrease the effectiveness of its anti-fraud program.

Three purported class action complaints were
filed following announcement of the PayPal merger in July 2002
in the court of Chancery in the State of Delaware in and for New
Castle County by alleged stockholders of PayPal. Two additional
purported class action complaints were filed in the Superior
Court of the State of California, County of Santa Clara, by
alleged PayPal stockholders. These complaints name as defendants
PayPal and each member of its board of directors as well as
eBay. The complaints are purported class actions that allege,
among other things, that eBay controlled PayPal prior to the
execution of their merger agreement, the defendants breached
fiduciary duties they assertedly owed to PayPal’s
stockholders in connection with PayPal entering into the merger
agreement and the exchange ratio in the merger was unfair and
inadequate. The plaintiffs seek, among other things, an award of
unspecified compensatory damages. We believe that each of the
lawsuits is without merit and intend to defend ourselves
vigorously.

Other third parties have from time to time
claimed, and others may claim in the future, that we have
infringed their past, current or future intellectual property
rights. We have in the past been forced to litigate such claims.
We may become more vulnerable to such claims as laws such as the
Digital Millennium Copyright Act and Communications Decency Act
are interpreted by the courts and as we expand into
jurisdictions where the underlying laws with respect to the
potential liability of online intermediaries like ourselves is
less favorable. We expect that we will increasingly be subject
to copyright and trademark infringement claims as the
geographical reach of our services expands. We also expect that
we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims as
our services expand. In particular, we expect that patent
infringement claims involving various aspects of our Payments
business will continue to be made. We have been notified of
several potential disputes and are subject to a suit by
Tumbleweed Communications Corporation that is currently ongoing.
These claims, whether meritorious or not, could be
time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause service
upgrade delays, require expensive changes in our methods of
doing business or could require us to enter into costly royalty
or licensing agreements, if available. As a result, these claims
could harm our business.

Our business may be harmed by the listing
or sale by our users of pirated or counterfeit
items.

We have received in the past, and we anticipate
we will receive in the future, communications alleging that
certain items listed or sold through our service by our users
infringe third-party copyrights, trademarks and tradenames or
other intellectual property rights. Although we have sought to
work actively with the content community to eliminate infringing
listings on our websites, some content owners have expressed the
view that our efforts are insufficient. Content owners have been
active in defending their rights against online companies,
including eBay. Allegations of infringement of third-party
intellectual property rights have in the past and may in the
future result in litigation against us. Such litigation is
costly for us, could result in increased costs of doing business
through adverse judgment or settlement, could require us to
change our business practices in expensive ways, or could
otherwise harm our business. Litigation against other online
companies could result in interpretations of the law that could
also require us to change our business practices or otherwise
increase our costs.

Our business may be harmed by fraudulent
activities on our websites.

Our future success will depend largely upon
sellers reliably delivering and accurately representing their
listed goods and buyers paying the agreed purchase price. We
have received in the past, and anticipate that we will receive
in the future, communications from users who did not receive the
purchase price or the goods that were to have been exchanged. In
some cases individuals have been arrested and convicted for
fraudulent activities using our websites. While we can suspend
the accounts of users who fail to fulfill their delivery
obligations to other users, we do not have the ability to
require users to make payments or deliver goods or otherwise
make users whole other than through our limited buyer protection
programs.



Other than through these programs, we do not
compensate users who believe they have been defrauded by other
users. We also periodically receive complaints from buyers as to
the quality of the goods purchased. Negative publicity generated
as a result of fraudulent or deceptive conduct by users of our
service could damage our reputation and diminish the value of
our brand name. We expect to continue to receive communications
from users requesting reimbursement or threatening or commencing
legal action against us if no reimbursement is made. Our
liability for these sort of claims is only beginning to be
clarified and may be higher in some non-U.S. jurisdictions than
it is in the U.S. This sort of litigation could be costly for
us, divert management attention, result in increased costs of
doing business, lead to adverse judgments or could otherwise
harm our business. In addition, affected users will likely
complain to regulatory agencies who could take action against
us, including imposing fines or seeking injunctions.

Government inquiries may lead to charges or
penalties.

On January 29, 1999, we received initial
requests to produce certain records and information to the
federal government relating to an investigation of possible
illegal transactions in connection with our websites. We were
informed that the inquiry includes an examination of our
practices with respect to these transactions. We have continued
to provide further information in connection with this ongoing
inquiry. In order to protect the investigation, the court has
ordered that no further public disclosures be made with respect
to the matter. Should this or any other investigation lead to
civil or criminal charges against us, we would likely be harmed
by negative publicity, the cost of litigation, the diversion of
management time and other negative effects, even if we
ultimately prevail. Our business would suffer if we were not to
prevail in any action like this. Even the process of providing
records and information can be expensive, time consuming and
result in the diversion of management attention.

PayPal completed its exit from the business of
processing payments for online gambling merchants in November
2002. Approximately 6% of PayPal’s revenues in 2002 were
derived from this business. Beginning in July 2002, PayPal
provided documents and information related to its services to
online gambling merchants in response to a federal grand jury
subpoena issued at the request of the U.S. Attorney for the
Eastern District of Missouri. On March 28, 2003, PayPal
received a letter from the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern
District of Missouri indicating its contention that
PayPal’s provision of services to online gambling merchants
violated 18 U.S.C. § 1960 of the USA PATRIOT Act,
which prohibits the transmission of funds that are known to have
been derived from a criminal offense or are intended to be used
to promote or support unlawful activity, thereby subjecting
PayPal to potential civil forfeiture of the amounts it received
in connection with such activities as well as potential criminal
liability. The letter offered a complete settlement of all
possible claims and charges from the U.S. Attorney for the
Eastern District of Missouri if PayPal paid the purported amount
of its earnings derived from online gambling merchants during
the nine-month period from October 26, 2001 to
July 31, 2002, plus interest. PayPal acted in the good
faith belief that its conduct did not violate 18 U.S.C.
§ 1960 and PayPal calculates that the amount of its
earnings from online gaming activities was less than asserted in
the letter. Should this investigation lead to a civil or
criminal charge against PayPal, we would be harmed by negative
publicity, the cost of litigation and the diversion of
management time, even if PayPal ultimately prevails. Any finding
of a civil or criminal violation by PayPal, or potentially any
settlement, could also endanger PayPal’s ability to obtain,
maintain or renew money transmitter licenses in jurisdictions
where it requires such licenses to operate, which would
materially harm our business.

A large number of transactions occur on our
websites. We believe that government regulators have received a
substantial number of consumer complaints about both eBay and
PayPal, which, while small as a percentage of our total
transactions, are large in aggregate numbers. As a result, we
have from time to time been contacted by various foreign,
federal, state and local regulatory agencies and been told that
they have questions with respect to the steps we take to protect
our users from fraud and about our operations. We are likely to
receive additional inquiries from regulatory agencies in the
future, which may lead to action against us. We have responded
to all inquiries from regulatory agencies by describing our
current and planned antifraud efforts, customer support
procedures and operating procedures. If one or more of



these agencies is not satisfied with our response
to current or future inquiries, the resultant investigations and
potential fines or other penalties could harm our business.

We are subject to laws relating to the use and
transfer of personally identifiable information about our users
and their transfers, especially outside of the U.S. Violation of
these laws, which in many cases apply not only to third-party
transfers but also to transfers of information between ourselves
and our subsidiaries, and between ourselves, our subsidiaries
and our commercial partners could subject us to significant
penalties and negative publicity and could adversely affect us.

Acquisitions could result in operating
difficulties, dilution and other harmful
consequences.

We have acquired a number of businesses,
including our acquisitions of Half.com, Internet Auction,
iBazar, HomesDirect.com, NeoCom and PayPal. We expect to
continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential
strategic transactions, including business combinations,
acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, technologies,
services, products and other assets, including interests in our
existing subsidiaries and joint ventures. At any given time we
may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to
one or more of such transactions. Any of such transactions could
be material to our financial condition and results of
operations. There is no assurance that any such discussions or
negotiations will result in the consummation of any transaction.
The process of integrating any acquisition, including the
acquisition of PayPal, may create unforeseen operating
difficulties and expenditures and is itself risky. The areas
where we may face difficulties include:

Foreign acquisitions involve special risks,
including those related to integration of operations across
different cultures, languages, currency risks and the particular
economic, political and regulatory risks associated with
specific countries. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any or
all of our acquisitions may not be realized. Future acquisitions
or mergers could result in potentially dilutive issuances of
equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent
liabilities or amortization expenses related to goodwill and
other intangible assets, any of which could harm our business.
Future acquisitions or mergers may require us to obtain
additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available
on favorable terms or at all. Even if available, this financing
may be dilutive.

Problems with third parties who provide
services to our users could harm us.

A number of third parties provide services to our
users that indirectly benefit us. Such services include seller
tools that automate and manage listings, merchant tools that
manage listings and interface with inventory management
software, photo hosting, and other services. In many cases we
have contractual agreements with these companies, which may give
us a direct financial interest in their success, while in other
cases we have none. In either circumstance, financial,
regulatory or other problems that prevent these companies from
providing services to our users could reduce the number of
listings on our websites or make completing transactions on our
websites more difficult, and thereby harm our business.



In addition, although we generally have been able
to renew or extend the terms of contractual arrangements with
our third party service providers on acceptable terms, there can
be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in the
future. Our contractual arrangement with our third-party photo
hosting service provider is scheduled to expire on
September 30, 2003, subject to certain post-termination
obligations. If we are unable either to renegotiate the contract
on terms acceptable to us, to build equivalent functionality
ourselves or to find an alternative supplier, our business would
be adversely affected.

Third parties or governmental agencies may
view our behavior as anti-competitive.

Third parties, including PayPal before its
acquisition by us, have in the past and may in the future allege
that actions taken by us violate the antitrust or competition
laws of the U.S. or other countries, or otherwise constitute
unfair competition. Such claims typically are very expensive to
defend, involve negative publicity and diversion of management
time and effort and could result in significant judgments
against us, all of which would adversely affect us.

We have provided information to the Antitrust
Division of the Department of Justice in connection with an
inquiry into our conduct with respect to “auction
aggregators” including our licensing program and a
previously settled lawsuit against Bidder’s Edge. Although
the Antitrust Division has closed this inquiry, if the
Department of Justice or any other antitrust agency were to open
other investigations of our activities, we would likely be
harmed by negative publicity, the costs of the action, possible
private antitrust lawsuits, the diversion of management time and
effort and penalties we might suffer if we ultimately were not
to prevail.

Some of our businesses are subject to
regulation and others may be in the future.

As our activities and the types of goods listed
on our site expand, state regulatory agencies may claim that we
are subject to licensure in their jurisdiction, either with
respect to our services in general, or in order to allow the
sale of certain items (e.g., real estate, boats, automobiles).
We are currently subject to potential regulation under the
Office of Banks and Real Estate, or OBRE, in Illinois concerning
the applicability of the Illinois Auction law to our services.
In August 2002, Illinois amended the Illinois auction law to
provide for a special regulatory regime for “Internet
auction listing services.” We expect to register as an
Internet auction listing service in Illinois following the
adoption of regulations under the amended statute. Although we
do not expect this registration to have a negative impact on our
business, other regulatory and licensure claims could result in
costly litigation or could require us to change our manner of
doing business in ways that increase our costs or reduce our
revenues or force us to prohibit listings of certain items for
some locations. We could also be subject to fines or other
penalties. Any of these outcomes could harm our business.

As we have expanded internationally, we have
become subject to additional regulations, including regulations
on the transmission of personal information. These laws may
require costly changes to our business practices. If we are
found to have violated any of these laws, we could be subject to
fines or penalties, and our business could be harmed.

Our revenues from third-party advertising
and end-to-end services are subject to factors beyond our
control and are expected to decrease.

We recognize revenues from end-to-end service
providers and direct advertising promotions. These revenues may
be affected by the financial condition of the parties with whom
we have these relationships and by the success of online
promotions generally. Recently, the pricing of online
advertisements has deteriorated. Our direct advertising revenues
historically have been dependent in significant part on the
performance of AOL’s sales force. Our advertising sales
relationship with AOL has not been extended or renewed and is
scheduled to terminate on March 31, 2003, after which time
we will be dependent on the efforts of our existing internal
sales staff. Reduction in these revenues would adversely affect
our results.



At this time, we expect third-party advertising
and end-to-end services revenues to decrease substantially on an
absolute basis in 2003 relative to 2002.

We are subject to risks associated with
information disseminated through our service.

The law relating to the liability of online
services companies for information carried on or disseminated
through their services is currently unsettled. Claims could be
made against online services companies under both U.S. and
foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy,
negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other
theories based on the nature and content of the materials
disseminated through their services. Several private lawsuits
seeking to impose liability upon us under a number of these
theories have been brought against us. In addition, federal,
state and foreign legislation has been proposed that imposes
liability for or prohibits the transmission over the Internet of
certain types of information. Our service features a Feedback
Forum, which includes information from users regarding other
users. Although all such feedback is generated by users and not
by us, claims of defamation or other injury have been made in
the past and could be made in the future against us for content
posted in the Feedback Forum. Claims like these are more likely
and may have a higher probability of success in jurisdictions
outside the U.S. If we become liable for information provided by
our users and carried on our service in any jurisdiction in
which we operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be
forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this
liability. This may require us to expend substantial resources
and/or to discontinue certain service offerings, which would
negatively affect our financial results. In addition, the
increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of
these lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our
reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any
costs incurred as a result of this liability or asserted
liability could harm our business.

The inability to expand our systems may
limit our growth.

We seek to generate a high volume of traffic and
transactions on our services. The satisfactory performance,
reliability and availability of our websites, processing systems
and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and
our ability to attract and retain large numbers of users. Our
revenues depend primarily on the number of items listed by
users, the volume of user transactions that are successfully
completed, the final prices paid for the items listed and the
volume of payment transactions by our payment customers. We need
to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing
systems and network infrastructure both to meet increased
traffic on our site and to implement new features and functions,
including those required under our contracts with third parties.
We may be unable to project accurately the rate or timing of
increases, if any, in the use of our service or to expand and
upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any
increases in a timely fashion.

We use internally developed systems to operate
our service for transaction processing, including billing and
collections processing. We must continually improve these
systems in order to accommodate the level of use of our
websites. In addition, we may add new features and functionality
to our services that would result in the need to develop or
license additional technologies. We capitalize hardware and
software costs associated with this development in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles and include such
amounts in property and equipment. Our inability to add
additional software and hardware or to upgrade our technology,
transaction processing systems or network infrastructure to
accommodate increased traffic or transaction volume could have
adverse consequences. These consequences include unanticipated
system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels
of customer support, impaired quality of the users’
experiences of our service and delays in reporting accurate
financial information. Our failure to provide new features or
functionality also could result in these consequences. We may be
unable to effectively upgrade and expand our systems in a timely
manner or to integrate smoothly with our existing systems any
newly developed or purchased technologies or businesses such as
PayPal. These difficulties could harm or limit our ability to
expand our business.



Unauthorized break-ins or other assaults on
our services could harm our business.

Our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses,
physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which
could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of data, public
release of confidential data or the inability to complete
customer transactions. In addition, unauthorized persons may
improperly access our data. eBay has experienced an unauthorized
break-in by a “hacker” who has stated that he could,
in the future, damage or change our system or take confidential
information. We have also experienced “denial of
service” type attacks on our system that have made all or
portions of our websites unavailable for periods of time. These
and other types of attacks could harm us. Actions of this sort
may be very expensive to remedy and could damage our reputation
and discourage new and existing users from using our services.

System failures could harm our
business.

Our system has been designed around industry
standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of
outages or catastrophic occurrences. Our services provide 24
hours-a-day, seven days-a-week availability, subject to a weekly
scheduled two-hour maintenance period. Our systems and
operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from
earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication
failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial
of service attacks and similar events. They are also subject to
break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and to
potential disruption if the operators of these facilities have
financial difficulties. Only some of our systems are fully
redundant and we do not carry business interruption insurance
sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Despite
any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural
disaster, a decision to close a facility we are using without
adequate notice for financial reasons or other unanticipated
problems at our hosting facilities could result in lengthy
interruptions in our services. In addition, the failure by our
hosting facilities to provide our required data communications
capacity could result in interruptions in our service. Any
damage to or failure of our systems could result in
interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service will
reduce our revenues and profits, and our future revenues and
profits will be harmed if our users believe that our system is
unreliable.

We have experienced system failures from time to
time. eBay’s primary website has been interrupted for
periods of up to 22 hours. In addition to placing increased
burdens on our engineering staff, these outages create a flood
of user questions and complaints that need to be addressed by
our customer support personnel. Any unscheduled interruption in
our services results in an immediate loss of revenues that can
be substantial and may cause some users to switch to our
competitors. If we experience frequent or persistent system
failures on our websites, our reputation and brand could be
permanently harmed. We have been taking steps to increase the
reliability and redundancy of our systems. These steps are
expensive, reduce our margins and may not be successful in
reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime.

Our infrastructure could prove unable to handle a
larger volume of customer transactions. Any failure to
accommodate transaction growth could impair customer
satisfaction, lead to a loss of customers, impair our ability to
add customers or increase its costs, all of which would harm our
business.

Because our customers may use our products for
critical transactions, any errors, defects or other
infrastructure problems could result in damage to our
customers’ businesses. These customers could seek
significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if
unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time consuming
and costly for us to address.

We are exposed to fluctuations in currency
exchange rates.

Net revenues outside the United States accounted
for approximately 15% of our net revenues in 2001 and 26% in
2002. Because a significant and growing portion of our business
is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to
adverse movements in non-U.S. currency exchange rates. The
results of operations of our internationally focused websites
are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the
financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated
from the local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. In
connection with its multi-currency service, PayPal fixes
exchange rates twice per day, and



thus may face financial exposure if exchange
rates move rapidly or if the rate is set incorrectly. As
exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results, when
translated, may differ materially from expectations. In
particular, to the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against
the Euro, our European revenues and profits will be reduced as
the result of these translation adjustments.

Our stock price has been and may continue
to be extremely volatile.

The trading price of our common stock has been
and is likely to be extremely volatile. Our stock price could be
subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of
factors, including the following:

In addition, the trading prices of Internet
stocks in general, and ours in particular, have experienced
extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent periods. These
fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to
the operating performance of these companies. Notwithstanding a
sharp decline in the prices of Internet stocks in general, the
valuation of our stock remains extraordinarily high based on
conventional valuation standards such as price-to-earnings and
price-to-sales ratios. The trading price of our common stock has
increased enormously from the initial public offering price.
This trading price and valuation may not be sustained. Negative
changes in the public’s perception of the prospects of
Internet or e-commerce or technology companies have in the past
and may in the future depress our stock price regardless of our
results. Other broad market and industry factors may decrease
the market price of our common stock, regardless of our
operating performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general
political and economic conditions, such as recession or interest
rate or currency rate fluctuations, also may decrease the market
price of our common stock. In the past, following declines in
the market price of a company’s securities, securities
class-action litigation often has been instituted. Litigation of
this type, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and
a diversion of management’s attention and resources.

New and existing regulations could harm our
business.

We are subject to the same foreign, federal,
state and local laws as other companies conducting business on
and off the Internet. Today there are relatively few laws
specifically directed towards online services. However, due to
the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online
services, many laws relating to the Internet are being debated
at the state and federal levels (both in the U.S. and abroad)
and it is possible that laws and regulations will be adopted
with respect to the Internet or online services. These laws and
regulations could cover issues such as user privacy, freedom of
expression, pricing, fraud,



content and quality of products and services,
taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and
information security. Applicability to the Internet of existing
laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and
other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity
and personal privacy is uncertain. The vast majority of these
laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and
related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or
address the unique issues of the Internet and related
technologies. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as
the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the European
Union’s (E.U.) Directive on Distance Selling and Electronic
Commerce are only now beginning to be interpreted by the courts
and implemented by the E.U. Member States, and so their
applicability and scope remain somewhat uncertain. In addition,
numerous states and foreign jurisdictions, including the State
of California, where our headquarters is located, have
regulations regarding how “auctions” may be conducted
and the liability of “auctioneers” in conducting such
auctions. No final legal determination has been made with
respect to the applicability of the California regulations to
our business to date and little precedent exists in this area.
Several states and some foreign jurisdictions have attempted,
and may attempt in the future, imposing such regulations upon us
or our users, which could harm our business. In addition, as the
nature of the products listed by our users changes, we may
become subject to new regulatory restrictions, such as licensure
as an auto dealer or real estate broker.

Several domestic jurisdictions have proposed, and
Minnesota has recently passed, legislation that would limit the
uses of personal user information gathered online or offline.
Many jurisdictions already have such laws and continuously
consider strengthening them, especially against online services.
eBay and PayPal in certain instances are subject to some of
these current laws. PayPal may be subject to recently enacted
legislation in several states and countries imposing greater
restrictions on the ability of financial services companies to
share user information with third parties without affirmative
user consent. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission also has settled
several proceedings against companies regarding the manner in
which personal information is collected from users and provided
to third parties. Specific statutes intended to protect user
privacy have been passed in many non-U.S. jurisdictions,
including virtually every non-U.S. jurisdiction where we
currently have a website. Compliance with these laws, given the
tight integration of our systems across different countries and
the need to move data to facilitate transactions amongst our
users (e.g., to payment companies, shipping companies, etc.), is
both necessary and difficult. Failure to comply could subject us
to lawsuits, fines, criminal penalties, statutory damages,
adverse publicity and other losses that could harm our business.
Changes to existing laws or the passage of new laws intended to
address these issues could directly affect the way we do
business or could create uncertainty on the Internet. This could
reduce demand for our services, increase the cost of doing
business as a result of litigation costs or increased service or
delivery costs, or otherwise harm our business. In addition,
because our services are accessible worldwide, and we facilitate
sales of goods to users worldwide, foreign jurisdictions may
claim that we are required to comply with their laws. For
example, the Australian high court has ruled that a U.S. website
in certain circumstances must comply with Australian laws
regarding libel. As we have expanded our international
activities, we have become obligated to comply with the laws of
the countries in which we operate. Laws regulating Internet
companies outside of the U.S. may be less favorable than those
in the U.S., giving greater rights to consumers, content owners
and users. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to
change our business practices or restrict our service offerings
relative to those in the U.S. Our failure to comply with foreign
laws could subject us to penalties ranging from criminal fines
to bans on our ability to offer our services.

We are dependent on the continued growth of
online commerce.

The business of selling goods over the Internet,
particularly through online trading, is new and dynamic. Our
future net revenues and profits will be substantially dependent
upon the widespread acceptance of the Internet and online
services as a medium for commerce by consumers. Rapid growth in
the use of and interest in the Internet and online services is a
recent phenomenon. This acceptance and use may not continue.
Even if the Internet is accepted, concerns about fraud, privacy
and other problems may mean that a sufficiently broad base of
consumers will not adopt the Internet as a medium of commerce.
In particular, our websites require users to make publicly
available personal information that some potential users may be
unwilling to provide. These concerns may increase as additional
publicity over



privacy issues on eBay or generally over the
Internet increase. Market acceptance for recently introduced
services and products over the Internet is highly uncertain, and
there are few proven services and products. In order to expand
our user base, we must appeal to and acquire consumers who
historically have used traditional means of commerce to purchase
goods. If these consumers prove to be less active than our
earlier users, and we are unable to gain efficiencies in our
operating costs, including our cost of acquiring new customers,
our business could be adversely impacted.

We are dependent on key
personnel.

Our future performance will be substantially
dependent on the continued services of our senior management and
other key personnel. Our future performance also will depend on
our ability to retain and motivate our other officers and key
personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive
officers or other key employees could harm our business. We do
not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key
personnel, we do not maintain any “key person” life
insurance policies, and our Chief Executive Officer has fully
vested the vast majority of her equity incentives. Our new
businesses are all dependent on attracting and retaining key
personnel. In addition, employee turnover and other labor
problems frequently increase during the period following an
acquisition as employees evaluate possible changes in
compensation, culture, reporting relationships and the direction
of the business. Such increased turnover could increase our
costs and reduce our future revenues. Our future success also
will depend on our ability to attract, train, retain and
motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing and
customer support personnel. Competition for these personnel is
intense, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate
or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In making employment
decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology
industries, job candidates often consider the value of the stock
options they are to receive in connection with their employment.
Fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult to
retain and motivate employees whose stock option strike prices
are substantially above current market prices.

Our industry is intensely
    competitive.

Depending on the category of product, we
currently or potentially compete with a number of companies
serving particular categories of goods as well as those serving
broader ranges of goods. The Internet provides new, rapidly
evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale of all
types of goods. We expect competition to intensify in the future
as the barriers to entry into these channels are relatively low,
as current offline and new competitors can easily launch online
sites at a nominal cost using commercially available software or
partnering with any one of a number of successful electronic
commerce companies. Our broad-based competitors include the vast
majority of traditional department, warehouse, discount and
general merchandise stores, emerging online retailers, online
classified services, and other shopping channels such as offline
and online home shopping networks. These include most
prominently: Wal-Mart, Kmart, Target, Sears, Macy’s, JC
Penney, Costco, Office Depot, Staples, OfficeMax, Sam’s
Club, Amazon.com, Buy.com, AOL.com, Yahoo! Shopping, MSN, QVC
and Home Shopping Network/ HSN.com.

We face competition from local, regional and
national specialty retailers and exchanges in each of our
categories of products. For example:

Antiques:

Bonhams,
Christie’s, eHammer, Sotheby’s, Phillips (LVMH),
antique dealers and sellers

Coins &
Stamps:

Collectors Universe,
Heritage, US Mint, Bowers and Morena

Collectibles:

Franklin
Mint, Go Collect, Collectiblestoday.com, wizardworld.com, Russ
Cochran Comic Art Auctions, All Star Auctions

Musical
Instruments:

Guitar Center/
Musicians Friend, Sam Ash, Gbase.com, Harmony-Central.com,
musical instrument retailers and manufacturers

Sports
Memorabilia:

Beckett’s,
Collectors Universe, Mastro, Leylands, ThePit.com, Superior



Toys, Hobbies, Dolls,
Bears:

Toys R Us,
Amazon.com/Toysrus.com, KB Toys/KBToys.com, FAO Inc. (FAO
Schwarz, Zany Brainy, the Right Start), Lego, TY Inc.

Premium
Collectibles:

Bonhams, Christies,
DuPont Registry, Greg Manning Auctions, iCollector, Lycos/
Skinner Auctions, Millionaire.com, Phillips (LVMH),
Sotheby’s, other premium collectibles dealers and sellers

Automotive (used cars and
parts):

Advance Auto Parts,
Autonation.com, AutoTrader.com, Autozone, Barrett-Jackson,
California Classics, CarMax, Cars.com, CarsDirect.com,
Collectorcartraderonline.com, Dealix, Discount Auto Parts,
Dupont Registry, eClassics.com, Edmunds, General Parts
(Carquest), Genuine/ NAPA, Hemmings, imotors.com, JC Whitney,
TraderOnline, Trader Publishing, vehix.com, Wal-Mart, newspaper
classifieds, used car dealers, swap meets, car clubs

Books, Movies,
Music:

Amazon.com,
Barnes & Noble, Barnesandnoble.com, Alibris.com,
Blockbuster, BMG, Columbia House, Best Buy, CDNow, Express.com,
Emusic.com, Tower Records/ Tower Records.com

Clothing and
Accessories:

Abercrombie.com,
AE.com, Amazon.com, Bluefly.com, Coldwater-Creek.com,
Delias.com, Dockers.com, Eddie Bauer, The Gap, Gap Online sites,
J. Crew, JCrew.com, LandsEnd.com, The Limited, LLBean.com,
Macy’s, The Men’s Wearhouse, Payless.com, Ross,
Urbanq.com, VictoriasSecret.com

Computers & Consumer
Electronics:

Amazon.com, Best
Buy, Buy.com, Circuit City, CNET, CompUSA, Dell, Electronics
Boutique, Fry’s Electronics, Gamestop, Gateway, The Good
Guys, MicroWarehouse, PC Connection, Radio Shack, Ritz Camera,
Tech Depot, Tiger Direct, Tweeter Home Entertainment, uBid,
Computer Discount Warehouse, computer, consumer electronics and
photography retailers

Home &
Garden:

IKEA, Crate &
Barrel, Home Depot, Williams-Sonoma Inc. (Pottery Barn,
Williams-Sonoma), Bed, Bath & Beyond, Lowes, Linens
‘n Things, Pier One, Ethan Allen, Frontgate, Burpee.com

Jewelry:

Bluenile.com,
Diamond.com, Macy’s

Pottery &
Glass:

Just Glass, Pottery
Auction, Pottery Barn, Go Collect, Pier 1 Imports,
Restoration Hardware

Sporting Goods/
Equipment:

BassPro, Cabellas,
dsports.com, Footlocker, Gear.com, Global Sports,
golfclubexchange, MVP.com, Play It Again Sports, REI, Sports
Authority, Sportsline.com

Tickets:

Ticketmaster,
Tickets.com, ticket brokers

Tool/ Equipment/
Hardware:

Home Depot, HomeBase,
Amazon.com, Ace Hardware, OSH

Business-to-Business:

Ariba,
BidFreight.com, Bid4Assets, BizBuyer.com, bLiquid.com, Buyer
Zone, CloseOutNow.com, Commerce One, Concur Technologies,
DoveBid, FreeMarkets, Iron Planet, labx.com, Oracle,
Overstock.com, PurchasePro.com, RicardoBiz.com, Sabre,
SurplusBin.com, Ventro, VerticalNet

Additionally, we face competition from various
online commerce sites including: Amazon.com, BargainAndHaggle,
Surplus Auction, uBid, Yahoo! Auctions and a large number of
other regional and national companies engaged in
consumer-to-consumer or business-to-consumer sales. Different
aspects of our fixed-priced business compete with the major
Internet portals (AOL, MSN, Yahoo! and comparable companies
outside the U.S.) as well as Amazon.com and others.

Our international websites compete with similar
online and offline channels in each of their vertical categories
in most countries. In addition, they compete with general online
e-commerce sites, such as Quello and Otto in Germany, Yahoo-Kimo
in Taiwan, eSellpia in South Korea, El Corte Inglés in
Spain, Kelkoo in Italy and Amazon in the U.K. and other
countries. In some of these countries, there are online sites
that have much larger customer bases and greater brand
recognition than we do, and in each of these



countries there are competitors that have a
better understanding of local culture and commerce than we do.

The principal competitive factors for eBay
include the following:

With respect to our online competition,
additional competitive factors include:

Some current and potential competitors have
longer company operating histories, larger customer bases and
greater brand recognition in other business and Internet spaces
than we do. Some of these competitors also have significantly
greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources.
Other online trading services may be acquired by, receive
investments from, or enter into other commercial relationships
with larger, well-established and well-financed companies. As a
result, some of our competitors with other revenue sources may
be able to devote more resources to marketing and promotional
campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote
substantially more resources to website and systems development
than we can. In addition, certain offline competitors may
encourage manufacturers to limit or cease distribution of their
products to dealers who sell through online channels such as
eBay. The adoption by manufacturers of anti-Internet policies
could force eBay users to stop selling certain products on our
site. Increased competition or anti-Internet distribution
policies may result in reduced operating margins, loss of market
share and diminished value of our brand. Some of our competitors
have offered services for free, and others may do this as well.
We may be unable to compete successfully against current and
future competitors.

In order to respond to changes in the competitive
environment, we may, from time to time, make pricing, service or
marketing decisions or acquisitions that could harm our
business. For example, we have implemented a buyer protection
program that generally insures items up to a value of $200, with
a $25 deductible, for users with a non-negative feedback rating
at no cost to the user. In addition, certain competitors may
offer or continue to offer free shipping or other transaction
related services, which could be impractical or inefficient for
eBay users to match. New technologies may increase the
competitive pressures by enabling our competitors to offer a
lower cost service.

Although we have established Internet traffic
arrangements with several large online services and search
engine companies, these arrangements may not be renewed on
commercially reasonable terms. Even if these arrangements are
renewed, they may not result in increased usage of our service.
In addition, companies that control access to transactions
through network access, Internet browsers, or search engines, or
Internet-based applications could promote our competitors,
channel users to electronic commerce sites that compete with us,
or charge us substantial fees for inclusion.



The market for PayPal’s product is emerging,
intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological
change. PayPal competes with existing on-line and off-line
payment methods, including, among others:

Some of these competitors have longer operating
histories, significantly greater financial, technical,
marketing, customer service and other resources, greater name
recognition or a larger base of customers in affiliated
businesses than PayPal. For example, Citigroup’s c2it has
existing arrangements with AOL Time Warner and Microsoft.
PayPal’s competitors may respond to new or emerging
technologies and changes in customer requirements faster and
more effectively than PayPal. They may devote greater resources
to the development, promotion and sale of products and services
than PayPal, and they may offer lower prices. Some of these
competitors have offered, and may continue to offer, their
services for free in order to gain market share, and PayPal may
be forced to lower its prices in response. Competing services
tied to established banks and other financial institutions may
offer greater liquidity and engender greater consumer confidence
in the safety and efficacy of their services than PayPal. If
these competitors acquired significant market share, this could
result in PayPal losing market share.

PayPal also competes with providers of
traditional payment methods, particularly credit cards, checks,
money orders and ACH transactions. Associations of traditional
financial institutions such as Visa, MasterCard and NACHA
generally set the features of these payment methods. The
associations have initiated programs to enhance the usability of
these payment methods for online transactions and could lower
fees charged to online merchants. Either of these changes could
make it more difficult for PayPal to retain and attract
customers.

Overseas, PayPal faces competition from similar
channels and payment methods in most countries and from regional
and national online and offline competitors in each country
including First Gate and World Pay in the European Community, No
Chex in the U.K., CertaPay and HyperWallet in Canada, and
Paymate in Australia. In addition, in certain countries, such as
Germany, electronic funds transfer (EFT) is a leading
method of payment for both online and offline transactions. As
in the U.S., established banks and other financial institutions
that do not currently offer online payments could quickly and
easily develop such a service.

Half.com competes directly with online and
offline retailers in its product categories such as Amazon.com,
as well as with traditional offline and online sellers of new
and used books, videos and CDs, consumer electronics and other
products.

Our business is dependent on the
    development and maintenance of the Internet
    infrastructure.

The success of our service will depend largely on
the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure.
This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with
the necessary speed, data capacity and security, as well as
timely development of complementary products, for providing
reliable Internet access and services. The Internet has
experienced, and is likely to continue to experience,
significant growth in the numbers of users and amount of
traffic. If the Internet continues to experience increased
numbers of users, increased frequency of use or increased
bandwidth requirements, the Internet infrastructure may be
unable to support the demands placed on it. In addition, the
performance of the



Internet may be harmed by increased number of
users or bandwidth requirements or by “viruses,”
“worms” and similar programs. The backbone computers
of the Internet have been the targets of such programs. The
Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays
as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and it
could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and
delays could reduce the level of Internet usage as well as the
level of traffic and the processing transactions on our service.

Our business is subject to online commerce
    security risks.

To succeed, online commerce and communications
must provide a secure transmission of confidential information
over public networks. Our security measures may not prevent
security breaches. Our failure to prevent security breaches
could harm our business. Currently, a significant number of our
users authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly
for all transaction fees charged by us. PayPal’s and
Billpoint’s users routinely provide credit card and other
financial information. We rely on encryption and authentication
technology licensed from third parties to provide the security
and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of
confidential information, including customer credit card
numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in
the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a
compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect
customer transaction data. A number of websites have reported
breaches of their security. Any compromise of our security could
harm our reputation and, therefore, our business. In addition, a
party who is able to circumvent our security measures could
misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in
our operations. We may need to expend significant resources to
protect against security breaches or to address problems caused
by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult as
we expand the number of places where we operate. Our users may
also be targeted by parties attempting to misappropriate
passwords, credit card numbers or other personal information by
using fraudulent emails and websites appearing to be sent or
operated by us. We actively pursue the parties responsible for
these attempts at misappropriation and encourage our users to
divulge sensitive information only after they have verified that
they are on our legitimate websites, but we cannot entirely
eliminate these types of activities.

Security breaches could damage our reputation and
expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible
liability. Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits,
which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by
security breaches.

We must keep pace with rapid technological
    change to remain competitive.

Our competitive space is characterized by rapidly
changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new
service and product introductions and enhancements and changing
customer demands. These characteristics are caused in part by
the emerging and changing nature of the Internet. Our future
success therefore will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly
changing technologies, to adapt our services to evolving
industry standards and to improve the performance, features and
reliability of our service. Our failure to adapt to such changes
would harm our business. New technologies, such as the
development of a peer-to-peer personal trading technology, could
adversely affect us. In addition, the widespread adoption of new
Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other
technological changes could require substantial expenditures to
modify or adapt our services or infrastructure.

We need to develop new services, features
    and functions in order to expand.

We plan to expand our operations by developing
new or complementary services, products or transaction formats
or expanding the breadth and depth of services. We may be unable
to expand our operations in a cost-effective or timely manner.
Even if we do expand, we may not maintain or increase our
overall acceptance. If we launch a new business or service that
is not favorably received by consumers, it could damage our
reputation and diminish the value of our brand. We anticipate
that future services will include pre-trade and post-trade
services.



We are pursuing strategic relationships with
third parties to provide many of these services. Because we use
third parties to deliver these services, we may be unable to
control the quality of these services, and our ability to
address problems if any of these third parties fails to perform
adequately will be reduced. Expanding our operations in this
manner also will require significant additional expenses and
development, operations and other resources and will strain our
management, financial and operational resources. The lack of
acceptance of any new services could harm our business.

Our growth will depend on our ability to
    develop our brand.

We believe that eBay’s historical growth has
been largely attributable to word of mouth. Both eBay and PayPal
have benefited from frequent and high visibility media exposure
both nationally and locally. We believe that continuing to
strengthen our brand will be critical to achieving widespread
acceptance of our services. Promoting and positioning our brand
will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts and
our ability to provide high quality services. In order to
promote our brand, we will need to increase our marketing budget
and otherwise increase our financial commitment to creating and
maintaining brand loyalty among users. Brand promotion
activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they
do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses we
incurred in building our brand. If we do attract new users to
our services, they may not conduct transactions over our
services on a regular basis. If we fail to promote and maintain
our brand or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful
attempt to promote and maintain our brand, our business would be
harmed.

We may be unable to protect or enforce our
    own intellectual property rights adequately.

We regard the protection of our trademarks,
copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets
as critical to our success. We aggressively protect our
intellectual property rights by relying on a combination of
trademark, copyright, patent, trade dress and trade secret laws
and through the domain name dispute resolution system. We also
rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary
rights in products and services. We have entered into
confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our
employees and contractors, and nondisclosure agreements with
parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access
to and disclosure of our proprietary information. These
contractual arrangements and the other steps taken by us to
protect our intellectual property may not prevent
misappropriation of our technology or deter independent
third-party development of similar technologies. We pursue the
registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks
in the U.S. and internationally. Effective trademark, copyright,
patent, trade dress, trade secret and domain name protection is
very expensive to maintain and may require litigation.
Protection may not be available in every country in which our
services are made available online. Furthermore, we must also
protect our trademarks, patents and domain names in an
increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive
and may not be successful in every location. We have licensed in
the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our
proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material,
to third parties. These licensees may take actions that might
diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our
reputation.

We are subject to the risks of owning real
    property.

We own real property including land, buildings
and interests in a partnership holding land and buildings,
primarily related to our operations. We have little experience
in managing real property. Ownership of this property subjects
us to risks, including:

•

the possibility of environmental contamination
    and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems;

•

adverse changes in the value of these properties,
    due to interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhoods in
    which the properties are located, or other factors;

•

the possible need for structural improvements in
    order to comply with zoning, seismic, disability act or other
    requirements; and



•

possible disputes with tenants, partners or
    others.

Some anti-takeover provisions may affect
    the price of our common stock.

The Board of Directors has the authority to issue
up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the
preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any
further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the
holders of common stock may be harmed by the rights of the
holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future.
Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws
could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third
party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock.
These include provisions that provide for a classified board of
directors, prohibit stockholders from taking action by written
consent and restrict the ability of stockholders to call special
meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that
prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any
interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date
the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain
conditions are met. This restriction could have the effect of
delaying or preventing a change of control.

Principal Accountant Fees and
Services

During the fiscal years ended December 31,
2001 and December 31, 2002, fees for services provided by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, or PwC, were as follows (rounded to
the nearest $1,000):

Audit fees consisted of fees billed for services
rendered for the audit of eBay’s annual financial
statements, review of financial statements included in
eBay’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other
services normally provided in connection with statutory and
regulatory filings. Audit-related fees consisted primarily of
fees billed for due diligence review in connection with
acquisitions and divestitures and consultation regarding
financial accounting and reporting matters. Tax fees consisted
of fees billed for consulting regarding tax compliance, tax
advice and tax planning. All other fees consisted of fees billed
for services in connection with legal matters and technical
accounting research.

The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has
determined that the rendering of non-audit services by PwC was
compatible with maintaining their independence.

Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policy

Our Audit Committee has adopted a policy
requiring the pre-approval of any non-audit engagement of PwC.
In the event that we wish to engage PwC to perform accounting,
technical, diligence or other permitted services not related to
the services performed by PwC as our independent auditor, our
internal finance personnel will prepare a summary of the
proposed engagement, detailing the nature of the engagement, the
reasons why PwC is the preferred provider of such services and
the estimated duration and cost of the engagement. The report
will be provided to our Audit Committee or a designated
committee member, who will evaluate whether the proposed
engagement will interfere with the independence of PwC in the
performance of its auditing services. In the future, we intend
to disclose all approved non-audit engagements in the
appropriate quarterly report on Form 10-Q or annual report
on Form 10-K.



Our Audit Committee adopted the policy on
pre-approval of non-audit engagements in October 2002 and
approved the following non-audit engagements through
December 31, 2002:



ITEM 7A:

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
    MARKET RISK

Interest Rate Risk

The primary objective of our investment
activities is to preserve principal while at the same time
maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To
achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash
equivalents, short-term and long-term investments in a variety
of securities, including government and corporate obligations
and money market funds. These securities are generally
classified as available for sale and consequently are recorded
on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or
losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss), net of estimated tax.

Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate
interest earning instruments carry varying degrees of interest
rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market
value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. In
general, securities with longer maturities are subject to
greater interest rate risk than those with shorter maturities.
While floating rate securities generally are subject to less
interest rate risk than fixed rate securities, floating rate
securities may produce less income than expected if interest
rates decrease. Due in part to these factors, our investment
income may fall short of expectations or we may suffer losses in
principal if securities are sold that have declined in market
value due to changes in interest rates. As of December 31,
2002, our fixed income investments had an unrealized gain of
$3.6 million with a pretax yield of approximately 2.2% and
a weighted average maturity of 2 months. If interest rates
were to instantaneously increase (decrease) by 100 basis
points, the fair market value of the total investment portfolio
could decrease (increase) by approximately $3.3 million.
Assuming an average investment balance of $1.8 billion, if
rates were to increase (decrease) by 100 basis points, this
would translate to an increase (decrease) in interest income of
approximately $18 million annually.

We entered into two interest rate swaps on
June 19 and July 20, 2000, totaling $95 million
to reduce the impact of changes in interest rates on a portion
of the floating rate operating lease for our primary office
facilities. The interest rate swaps allow us to receive floating
rate receipts based on LIBOR in exchange for making fixed rate
payments which effectively changes our interest rate exposure on
our operating lease from a floating rate to a fixed rate on
$95 million of the total $126.4 million notional
amount of our operating lease commitment. Of the
$126.4 million operating lease commitment for our San Jose
facility, the interest rate is fixed on $95 million with
the balance of $31.4 million remaining at a floating rate
of interest based on the spread over 3-month LIBOR. See
“Item 2: Properties” and “Item 7:
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations.” If the 3-month LIBOR rates were
to increase (decrease) by 100 basis points, then our lease
payments would increase (decrease) by approximately $78,000 per
quarter.

Equity Price Risk

We are exposed to equity price risk on the
marketable portion of equity investments we hold, typically as
the result of strategic investments in third parties that are
subject to considerable market risk due to their volatility. We
typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market
exposure in these equity investments. As of December 31,
2002, we did not have any unrealized gains or losses associated
with our equity investments. In accordance with our policy to
assess whether an impairment loss on our investments has
occurred due to declines in fair value and other market
conditions, we determined that declines in fair value of certain
of our marketable and non-marketable equity investments were
other than temporary. Accordingly, we recorded impairment
charges totaling $3.8 million during the year ended
December 31, 2002, relating to the other-than-temporary
impairment in the fair value of certain equity investments. At
December 31, 2002, the total value of our equity
investments was $44.2 million, including $3.4 million
in marketable investments.

Foreign Currency Risk

International net revenues result from
transactions by our foreign operations and are typically
denominated in the local currency of each country. These
operations also incur most of their expenses in



the local currency. Accordingly, our foreign
operations use the local currency as their functional currency.
Our international operations are subject to risks typical of
international operations, including, but not limited to
differing economic conditions, changes in political climate,
differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions and
foreign exchange rate volatility. Accordingly, our future
results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in
these or other factors.

Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely
impact our financial position as well as our results of
operations. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely
impact our financial position as the assets and liabilities of
our foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars in
preparing our consolidated balance sheet. The effect of foreign
exchange rate fluctuations on eBay’s financial position for
the year ended December 31, 2002, was a translation loss of
approximately $48.0 million. This loss is recognized as an
adjustment to stockholders’ equity through other
comprehensive income. Additionally, foreign exchange rate
fluctuations may adversely impact our results of operations as
exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in
currencies other our functional currency create gains and losses
which are reflected in our consolidated statement of income. The
effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on eBay’s
results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2002,
was a transaction loss of approximately $1.1 million.

As of December 31, 2002, we had outstanding
forward foreign exchange contracts with notional values
equivalent to approximately $69 million with maturity dates
within 92 days. The forward contracts are used to offset
changes in the value of assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies as a result of currency fluctuations.
Transaction gains and losses on the contracts and the assets and
liabilities are recognized each period in our statement of
income and generally are offsetting. As we purchased the forward
contracts on December 31, 2002, the fair values of the
forward contracts were immaterial as of this date.

ITEM 8:

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY
    DATA

Annual Financial Statements: See Part IV,
Item 15(a)(1) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 9:

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
    ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.



PART III

ITEM 10:

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
    REGISTRANT

Executive officers are elected annually by the
Board and serve at the discretion of the Board. The following
table sets forth certain information regarding our directors and
executive officers as of March 31, 2003.

Pierre M. Omidyar

founded eBay as a sole proprietorship
in September 1995. He has been a director and Chairman of the
Board since eBay’s incorporation in May 1996 and also
served as its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer
and President from inception to February 1998, November 1997 and
August 1996, respectively. Prior to founding eBay,
Mr. Omidyar was a developer services engineer at General
Magic, a mobile communication platform company from December
1994 to July 1996. Mr. Omidyar co-founded Ink Development
Corp. (later renamed eShop) in May 1991 and served as a software
engineer there from May 1991 to September 1994. Prior to
co-founding Ink, Mr. Omidyar was a developer for Claris, a
subsidiary of Apple Computer, and for other Macintosh-oriented
software development companies. Mr. Omidyar also serves on
the Board of Trustees of Tufts University, The Santa Fe
Institute and The Omidyar Foundation. Mr. Omidyar holds a
B.S. degree in Computer Science from Tufts University.

Margaret C. Whitman

serves eBay as President and Chief
Executive Officer. She has served in that capacity since
February 1998 and as a director since March 1998. From January
1997 to February 1998, she was General Manager of the Preschool
Division of Hasbro Inc., a toy company. From February 1995



to December 1996, Ms. Whitman was employed
by FTD, Inc., a floral products company, most recently as
President, Chief Executive Officer and a director. From October
1992 to February 1995, Ms. Whitman was employed by The
Stride Rite Corporation in various capacities, including
President, Stride Rite Children’s Group and Executive Vice
President, Product Development, Marketing &
Merchandising, Keds Division. From May 1989 to October 1992,
Ms. Whitman was employed by The Walt Disney Company, an
entertainment company, most recently as Senior Vice President,
Marketing, Disney Consumer Products. Before joining Disney,
Ms. Whitman was at Bain & Co., a consulting firm,
most recently as a Vice President. Ms. Whitman also serves
on the board of directors of The Procter & Gamble Company
and is a Member of the Board of Trustees of Princeton
University. Ms. Whitman holds an A.B. degree in Economics
from Princeton University and an M.B.A. degree from the Harvard
Business School.

Matthew J. Bannick

serves eBay as Senior Vice President
and General Manager, Global Online Payments and Chief Executive
Officer of PayPal. He has served in those capacities since
October 2002. From December 2000 to October 2002,
Mr. Bannick served as eBay’s Senior Vice President and
General Manager, eBay International. From February 1999 to
December 2000, Mr. Bannick served in a variety of other
executive positions at eBay. From April 1995 to January 1999,
Mr. Bannick was an executive for Navigation Technologies
(NavTech), the leading provider of digital map databases for the
vehicle navigation and internet mapping industries.
Mr. Bannick was President of NavTech North America for
three years and also served as Senior Vice President of
Marketing and Vice President of Operations. From June 1992 to
August 1992, Mr. Bannick served as a consultant for
McKinsey & Company, in Europe and from June 1993 to
April 1995 in the U.S. Mr. Bannick also served as a
U.S. diplomat in Germany during the period of German
unification. Mr. Bannick holds a B.A. in Economics and
International Studies from University of Washington and an M.B.A
degree from the Harvard Business School.

William C. Cobb

serves eBay as Senior Vice President
and General Manager, eBay International. He has served in that
capacity since September 2002. From November 2000 to September
2002, Mr. Cobb served as eBay’s Senior Vice President,
Global Marketing. From February 2000 to June 2000, Mr. Cobb
served as the General Manager of Consumer Sales for Netpliance,
Inc., an Internet-based content Company. From July 1997 to
February 2000, Mr. Cobb served as the Senior Vice President
of International Marketing for Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc.
From August 1995 to July 1997, Mr. Cobb served as the
Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer for Pizza Hut,
Inc., a division of Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc. From May
1994 to August 1995, Mr. Cobb served as Vice President of Colas
for the Pepsi-Cola Company, a division of PepsiCo., Inc.
Mr. Cobb holds a B.S. degree in Economics from the
University of Pennsylvania and an M.B.A. degree from
Northwestern University.

Rajiv Dutta

serves
eBay as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. He
has served in that capacity since January 2001. From August 1999
to January 2001, Mr. Dutta served as eBay’s Vice
President of Finance and Investor Relations. From July 1998 to
August 1999, Mr. Dutta served as eBay’s Finance
director. From February 1998 to July 1998, Mr. Dutta served
as the World Wide Sales Controller of KLA-Tencor. Prior to
KLA-Tencor, Mr. Dutta spent ten years, from January 1988 to
February 1998, at Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc., a manufacturer and
distributor of life science and diagnostic products with
operations in over 24 countries. Mr. Dutta held a variety
of positions with the Company, including the group controller of
the Life Science Group. Mr. Dutta holds a B.A. degree in
Economics from St. Stephen’s College, Delhi University in
India and an M.B.A. degree from Drucker School of Management.

Michael R. Jacobson

serves eBay as Senior Vice President,
Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Secretary. He has served in
that capacity or as Vice President, Legal Affairs, General
Counsel since August 1998. From 1986 to August 1998,
Mr. Jacobson was a partner with the law firm of Cooley
Godward LLP, specializing in securities law, mergers and
acquisitions and other transactions. Mr. Jacobson holds an
A.B. degree in Economics from Harvard College and a J.D. degree
from Stanford Law School.

Jeffrey D. Jordan

serves eBay as Senior Vice President
and General Manager, U.S. Business. He has served in that
capacity since April 2000. From September 1999 to April 2000,
Mr. Jordan served as eBay’s Vice President, Regionals
and Services. From September 1998 to September 1999,
Mr. Jordan served as



Chief Financial Officer for Hollywood
Entertainment and President of their subsidiary, Reel.com. From
September 1990 to September 1998, Mr. Jordan served in
various capacities including most recently Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of The Disney Store Worldwide, a
subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company. Mr. Jordan holds a
B.A. degree in Political Science and Psychology from Amherst
College and an M.B.A. degree from the Stanford Graduate School
of Business.

Maynard G. Webb, Jr.

serves eBay as Chief Operating
Officer. He has served in that capacity since June 2002. From
August 1999 to June 2002, Mr. Webb served as President, eBay
Technologies. From July 1998 to August 1999, Mr. Webb was
Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer at Gateway,
Inc. From February 1995 to July 1998, Mr. Webb was Vice
President and Chief Information Officer at Bay Networks, Inc.
From June 1991 to January 1995, Mr. Webb was Director, IT at
Quantum Corporation. Mr. Webb also serves on the board of
directors of Gartner, Inc., a high technology research and
consulting firm. Mr. Webb holds a B.A.A. degree from
Florida Atlantic University.

Philippe Bourguignon

has served as a director of eBay since
December 1999. From April 1997 to January 2003,
Mr. Bourguignon served as Chairman of the Board of Club
Mediterranee S.A. Prior to his appointment at Club Mediterranee
S.A., Mr. Bourguignon was Chief Executive Officer of Euro
Disney S.A., the parent company of Disneyland Paris, since 1993,
and Executive Vice President of The Walt Disney Company (Europe)
S.A., since October 1996. Mr. Bourguignon was named
President of Euro Disney in 1992, a post he held through April
1993. He joined The Walt Disney Company in 1988 as head of Real
Estate development. Mr. Bourguignon holds a Masters Degree in
Economics at the University of Aix-en-Provence and holds a
post-graduate diploma from the Institut d’Administration
des Enterprises (IAE) in Paris.

Scott D. Cook

has
served as a director of eBay since June 1998. Mr. Cook is
the founder of Intuit Inc., a financial software developer.
Mr. Cook has been a director of Intuit since March 1984 and
is currently Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of
Intuit. From March 1993 to July 1998, Mr. Cook served as
Chairman of the Board of Intuit. From March 1984 to April 1994,
Mr. Cook served as President and Chief Executive Officer of
Intuit. Mr. Cook also serves on the board of directors of
The Procter & Gamble Company. Mr. Cook holds a B.A.
degree in Economics and Mathematics from the University of
Southern California and an M.B.A. degree from the Harvard
Business School.

Robert C. Kagle

has
served as a director of eBay since June 1997. Mr. Kagle has been
a Member of Benchmark Capital Management Co., L.L.C., the
General Partner of Benchmark Capital Partners, L.P. and
Benchmark Founders’ Fund, L.P., since its founding in May
1995. Mr. Kagle also has been a General Partner of
Technology Venture Investors since January 1984. Mr. Kagle
also serves on the board of directors of Ariba, Inc. and E-LOAN,
Inc. Mr. Kagle holds a B.S. degree in Electrical and
Mechanical Engineering from the General Motors Institute
(renamed Kettering University in January 1998) and an M.B.A.
degree from the Stanford Graduate School of Business.

Dawn G. Lepore

has
served as a director of eBay since December 1999.
Ms. Lepore is Vice Chairman of Technology, Operations, and
Administration and a member of the Executive Management
Committee of the Charles Schwab Corporation where she has served
for over 19 years in various capacities. From October 1993
to December 2001, Ms. Lepore served as Chief Information
Officer at Schwab. Prior to that she served as Senior Vice
President of Information Technology at Schwab from May 1993 to
October 1993 where she was responsible for the development of a
wide range of systems to support Schwab’s growing product
offerings and client base. She also led a strategic initiative
for redesigning Schwab’s entire technology platform.
Ms. Lepore also serves on the board of directors of
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and on the Board of Trustees of Smith
College. Ms. Lepore holds a B.A. degree from Smith College
in Music.

Howard D. Schultz

has served as a director of eBay since
June 1998. Mr. Schultz is the founder of Starbucks
Corporation, a provider of gourmet coffee, and has been its
Chairman of the Board and Chief Global Strategist since June
2000. From Starbucks’ inception in 1985 to June 2000, he
served as its Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
From 1985 to June 1994, Mr. Schultz also served as
President of Starbucks. Mr. Schultz is also one of two
founding members of Maveron LLC, a company providing advisory
services to consumer-based businesses, and is a member of two
LLCs that serve as



General Partners of Maveron LLC’s affiliated
venture capital funds, Maveron Equity Partners LP and Maveron
Equity Partners 2000 LP. Mr. Schultz has announced that he
will step down from the board when his current term expires at
our Annual Meeting in June 2003.

Thomas J. Tierney

has served as a director of eBay since
March 2003. Mr. Tierney is the founder of The Bridgespan
Group, a non-profit business consulting firm serving the
non-profit sector, and has been its Chairman of the Board since
late 1999. Prior to founding Bridgespan, Mr. Tierney served
as Chief Executive Officer of Bain & Company, a
consulting firm, from June 1992 to January 2000.
Mr. Tierney holds a B.A. degree in Economics from the
University of California at Davis and an M.B.A. degree with
distinction from the Harvard Business School. Mr. Tierney
is the co-author of a book about organization and strategy
called

Aligning the Stars

.

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance

Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 requires our directors and executive officers, and
persons who own more than 10% of a registered class of our
equity securities, to file with the SEC initial reports of
ownership and reports of changes in ownership of our Common
Stock and other equity securities of the company. Officers,
directors and greater than 10% stockholders are required by SEC
regulation to furnish us with copies of all Section 16(a)
forms they file.

To our knowledge, based solely on a review of the
copies of such reports furnished to us and written
representations that no other reports were required, during the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2002, all Section 16(a)
filing requirements applicable to our officers, directors and
greater than 10% beneficial owners were complied with, except
Mr. Bannick reported one late report on Form 4 that
involved one transaction covering 411 shares.

Code of Ethics

We have adopted a written code of ethics that
applies to our senior financial officers, including our
principal executive officer, principal financial officer and
principal accounting officer. We intend to satisfy the
disclosure requirement of Item 10 of Form 8-K
regarding an amendment to, or a waiver from, a provision of our
code of ethics that applies to our principal executive officer,
principal financial officer, or principal accounting officer by
posting such information on our website at

www.shareholder.com/ebay/code-of-ethics.cfm

.



ITEM 11: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Summary of Compensation

The following table shows certain compensation
earned during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2000,
2001 and 2002, by our Chief Executive Officer and four most
highly-compensated other executive officers (based on their
total annual salary and bonus compensation), also referred to as
the Named Executive Officers, at December 31, 2002.

SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE



(10)

Represents for 2002, $202,212 paid under
    eBay’s Management Incentive Plan, $522,550 under
    Mr. Jordan’s special retention plans and $15,000
    pursuant to our discretionary reward program, and represents for
    2001, $153,041 paid under eBay’s Management Incentive Plan
    and $314,000 under Mr. Jordan’s special retention
    plan. See “Item 13: Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions.”

(11)

Represents for 2002, $207,540 paid under
    eBay’s Management Incentive Plan, $250,000 under
    Mr. Bannick’s special retention plan and $15,000
    pursuant to our discretionary reward program. See
    “Item 13: Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions.”

(12)

Represents for 2002, $170,390 paid under
    eBay’s Management Incentive Plan and $70,000 under
    Mr. Cobb’s special retention plan and represents for
    2001, $132,026 paid under eBay’s Management Incentive Plan
    and $70,000 under Mr. Cobb’s special retention plan.
    See “Item 13: Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions.”

The following executive officers received grants
of options in 2002 under eBay’s 2001’s Equity
Incentive Plan, which we also refer to as the 2001 Plan.

Option Grants During 2002

(1)

Options granted in 2002 were granted under the
    2001 Plan. All options granted in 2002 to the Named Executive
    Officers were granted by our Board, are nonqualified stock
    options and are subject to a four-year vesting schedule, vesting
    12.5% after six months and  1/48 per month thereafter.

(2)

Based on options to purchase 14,205,236 shares of
    our common stock granted in 2002, exclusive of 150,000 shares
    granted to our directors and options to purchase an aggregate of
    2,511,149 shares that were assumed by us in connection with the
    PayPal acquisition in October 2002.



(3)

Options were granted at an exercise price equal
    to the fair market value of our common stock, as determined by
    the Board of Directors on the date of grant. The exercise prices
    per shares listed in the table above are rounded to the nearest
    cent.

(4)

Reflects the value of the stock option on the
    date of grant assuming (i) for the 5% column, a 5% annual rate
    of appreciation in our common stock over the ten-year term of
    the option and (ii) for the 10% column, a 10% annual rate
    of appreciation in our Common Stock over the ten-year term of
    the option, in each case without discounting to net present
    value and before income taxes associated with the exercise. The
    5% and 10% assumed rates of appreciation are based on the rules
    of the SEC and do not represent our estimate or projection of
    the future common stock price. The amounts in this table may not
    necessarily be achieved.

The following table sets forth the number of
shares acquired and the value realized upon exercise of stock
options during 2002 and the number of shares of our common stock
subject to exercisable and unexercisable stock options held as
of December 31, 2002, by each of the Named Executive
Officers. The value at fiscal year end is measured as the
difference between the exercise price and the fair market value
at close of market on December 31, 2002, which was $67.82.

Aggregate Option Exercises in 2002 and Values
at December 31, 2002

(1)

Value realized is based on the fair market value
    of our common stock on date of exercise minus the exercise price
    and does not necessarily reflect proceeds actually received by
    the officer.

(2)

Calculated using the fair market value of our
    common stock on December 31, 2002 ($67.82) less the
    exercise price of the option.

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation

No member of the Compensation Committee is or was
formerly an officer or an employee of eBay. No interlocking
relationship exists between the Board of Directors or
Compensation Committee and the board of directors or
compensation committee of any other company, nor has such
interlocking relationship existed in the past.

Mr. Kagle, a member of our Compensation
Committee, is a member of the general partner of certain venture
capital funds that beneficially hold greater than 10% of the
equity interests in Keen.com and Vcommerce, Inc. We engaged in
the following transactions with these companies in 2002:

In April 2000, we entered into an advertising and
promotions agreement with Keen.com under which we recognized
revenues of approximately $200,000 in 2002 in exchange for our
promotion of Keen. Our agreement with Keen.com expired during
2002. In February 2001, our wholly owned subsidiary, Half.com,
entered into a certain content licensing and inventory sales
agreement with Vcommerce pursuant to which Vcommerce agreed to
list its inventory on Half.com’s website and to allow Half
to use Vcommerce’s catalog data to supplement Half’s
existing catalog data. Half paid Vcommerce approximately $25,000
in 2002 under this agreement. Half has recognized approximately
$17,000 of expense in 2003 under its agreement with Vcommerce.



We believe that all of the transactions set forth
above were made on terms no less favorable to us than we could
have obtained from unaffiliated third parties.

ITEM 12:

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
    OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The following table sets forth certain
information known to us with respect to beneficial ownership of
the Common Stock as of March 1, 2003, by (i) each
stockholder known to us to be the beneficial owner of more than
5% of our common stock, (ii) each director and nominee for
director, (iii) each of the executive officers named in the
Summary Compensation Table set forth under “Item 11:
Executive Compensation — Summary of Compensation”
and (iv) all executive officers and directors as a group.

*

Less than one percent.





Equity Compensation Plan Information

The following table gives information about our
shares of common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of
options, warrants and rights under all of our existing equity
compensation plans as of December 31, 2002, including our
1996 Stock Option Plan, 1997 Stock Option Plan, 1998 Equity
Incentive Plan, 1998 Directors Stock Option Plan, the 1999 Plan,
the 2001 Plan as well as shares of our common stock that may be
issued under individual compensation arrangements that were not
approved by our stockholders, also referred to as our Non-Plan
Grants. No warrants or rights are outstanding under any of the
foregoing plans.



(5)

Does not include 323,313 shares of our
    common stock, with a weighted average exercise price of $3.00
    per share, to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options
    assumed by us under the X.com Corporation 1999 Stock Plan, or
    the X.com Plan, in connection with our acquisition of PayPal in
    October 2002, as we cannot make subsequent grants or awards of
    our equity securities under the X.com Plan. Prior to our
    acquisition of PayPal, the stockholders of PayPal approved the
    X.com Plan. Our stockholders, however, did not approve the X.com
    Plan in connection with our acquisition of PayPal.

(6)

Does not include 1,182,373 shares of our
    common stock, with a weighted average exercise price of $33.73
    per share, to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options
    assumed by us under the PayPal, Inc. 2001 Equity Incentive Plan,
    or the PayPal Plan, in connection with our acquisition of PayPal
    in October 2002, as we cannot make subsequent grants or awards
    of our equity securities under the PayPal Plan. Prior to our
    acquisition of PayPal, the stockholders of PayPal approved the
    PayPal Plan. Our stockholders, however, did not approve the
    PayPal Plan in connection with our acquisition of PayPal.

The only outstanding Non-Plan Grant as of
December 31, 2002 relates to an individual compensation
arrangement that was made prior to the initial public offering
of our Common Stock in 1998. At the time of this Non-Plan Grant,
members of our Board and their affiliates beneficially owned in
excess of 90% of our then outstanding equity and voting
interests. This Non-Plan Grant has been previously disclosed in
our initial public offering Prospectus filed with the SEC on
September 25, 1998 under the headings
“Management — Director Compensation” and
“— Compensation Arrangements.” Except as set
forth below, the terms and conditions of this Non-Plan Grant are
identical to the terms of our 1997 Stock Option Plan, a copy of
which was filed as an exhibit to our S-1 Registration Statement
(No. 33-59097) filed in connection with our initial public
offering.

The outstanding Non-Plan Grant involved the
Board’s grant of an option to purchase 900,000 shares
of our Common Stock at an exercise price of $1.56 to
Mr. Cook upon his joining our Board in June 1998 as an
independent director. These options granted to Mr. Cook
were non-qualified options and were immediately exercisable,
with a term of 10 years. These options vested as to 25% of
the underlying shares in June 1999 and as to 2.08% of the shares
each month thereafter until they fully vested in June 2002.
Mr. Cook exercised 120,000 of these options in May 2002 and
exercised an additional 100,000 of these options in February
2003.

A second Non-Plan Grant involved the Board’s
grant of an option to purchase 3,600,000 shares of our
Common Stock at an exercise price of $2.50 to Brian Swette upon
his joining eBay in August 1998 as Senior Vice President of
Marketing and International. These options granted to
Mr. Swette were non-qualified options with a term of ten
years. During 2002, Mr. Swette exercised all options
available to him in connection with his departure from eBay. No
options were outstanding under this grant as of
December 31, 2002.

ITEM 13:

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
    TRANSACTIONS

We have entered into indemnification agreements
with each of our directors and executive officers. These
agreements require us to indemnify such individuals, to the
fullest extent permitted by Delaware law, for certain
liabilities to which they may become subject as a result of
their affiliation with eBay.

In August 2000, Mr. Webb, our Chief
Operating Officer, entered into a four-year term loan with us at
an interest rate of 6.37% per annum, with 10%, 15%, 25% and 50%
of principal on the loan being due on each of the first, second,
third and fourth anniversary of the loan’s issue date,
respectively. The principal amount on the loan was approximately
$2,169,800, which amount represented the principal and accrued
interest due at the end of a one-year term loan entered into in
August 1999 between Mr. Webb and us shortly after his
relocation to San Jose as a result of his joining eBay in 1999,
and was secured by Mr. Webb’s principal place of
residence. In January 2001, we entered into a special retention
bonus plan with Mr. Webb, under which Mr. Webb
received bonus payments in August of 2001 and 2002 and remains
eligible to receive bonus payments in August 2003 and 2004 if he
is then employed by us.



Payment amounts under Mr. Webb’s bonus
plan are $355,200 for 2001, $449,900 for 2002, $646,100 for 2003
and $1,154,000 for 2004, and may be used to pay principal and
interest payments owing to us under the terms of his loan. In
August 2001 and August 2002, in accordance with the terms of his
loan, Mr. Webb paid down $355,200 and $449,900,
respectively, of principal and accrued interest on the loan. The
maximum indebtedness of Mr. Webb to us during 2002 was
$2,077,211. In January 2003, Mr. Webb prepaid in full the
principal and accrued interest on his loan in the amount of
approximately $1,670,800.

In May 2000, Mr. Jordan, our Senior Vice
President and General Manager, U.S. Business, entered into
two four-year term loans with us at an interest rate of 6.40%
per annum, with principal and accrued interest payable on each
loan in equal installments on each anniversary. The principal
amounts on the loans were $1,000,000 and $900,000, respectively,
with the loan amounts secured by Mr. Jordan’s
principal place of residence. In May 2000, we entered into a
special retention bonus plan with Mr. Jordan under which
Mr. Jordan received bonus payments in May of 2001 and 2002
and remains eligible to receive bonus payments in May 2003 and
2004 if he is then employed by us. Payment amounts under this
bonus plan with Mr. Jordan are $314,000 for 2001, $298,000
for 2002, $282,000 for 2003, and $266,000 for 2004, and may be
used to pay principal and interest payments Mr. Jordan will
then owe to us under the loans described in this paragraph. In
July 2000, Mr. Jordan repaid in full the principal and
accrued interest on the $900,000 term loan. In addition, in
April 2001, Mr. Jordan entered into a four-year term loan
with us at an interest rate of 4.94% per annum, with principal
and accrued interest payable in equal installments on each
anniversary of this loan. The principal amount on this loan was
$750,000, with the loan amount secured by Mr. Jordan’s
principal place of residence. In April 2001, we entered into a
second special retention bonus plan with Mr. Jordan under
which Mr. Jordan received bonus payments in April of 2002
and remains eligible to receive bonus payments in April 2003,
2004 and 2005 if he is then employed by us. Payment amounts
under this bonus plan with Mr. Jordan are $224,550 for
2002, $215,288 for 2003, $206,025 for 2004, and $196,763 for
2005, and may be used to pay principal and interest payments
Mr. Jordan will then owe to us under the loans described in
this paragraph. In May 2001 and May 2002, Mr. Jordan paid
down $314,000 and $298,000, respectively, of principal and
accrued interest on his May 2000 loan. In April 2002,
Mr. Jordan paid down $224,550 of principal and accrued
interest on his April 2001 loan. The maximum indebtedness of
Mr. Jordan to us during 2002 was $1,579,050.

In March 2001, in connection with his relocation
to San Jose as a result of his joining eBay in late 2000,
Mr. Cobb, our Senior Vice President and General Manager,
eBay International, entered into a four-year, non-interest
bearing term loan with us in the amount of $840,000. The loan to
Mr. Cobb is secured by his principal place of residence.
Principal payments of $70,000 are due on the first, second and
third anniversaries of the date Mr. Cobb joined eBay
(November 27, 2000), with a balloon payment of the
remaining principal due on November 27, 2004. In November
2000, we entered into a special retention bonus plan with
Mr. Cobb under which Mr. Cobb received a $70,000 bonus
payment in November of 2001 and 2002 and remains eligible to
receive bonus payments in November 2003 and 2004 if he is then
employed by us

.

In April 2002, we entered into a second
special retention bonus plan with Mr. Cobb under which
Mr. Cobb will receive a $280,000 bonus payment on
November 27, 2004 if he is then employed by us.
Mr. Cobb may use these bonus payments to pay principal
payments due under his loan. In November 2001 and 2002,
Mr. Cobb paid down $70,000 and $70,000, respectively, of
principal on his loan. The maximum indebtedness of Mr. Cobb
to us during 2002 was $770,000.

In September 2002, we entered into a special
retention bonus plan with Mr. Bannick. Under the terms of this
bonus plan, Mr. Bannick received a $250,000 bonus payment
after the closing of our acquisition of PayPal in October 2002
and upon his acceptance of the new position as our Senior Vice
President and General Manager, Global Online Payments.
Mr. Bannick remains eligible to receive performance-based
bonus payments related primarily to the integration and
performance of our PayPal subsidiary of up to $250,000 on each
of the nine-month, 18-month, and 24-month anniversaries of the
October 2002 closing of the PayPal acquisition.

Mr. Omidyar, our Founder and the Chairman of
our Board of Directors, and Mr. Skoll, a beneficial owner
of more than 5% of our common stock, from time to time make
their personal aircraft available to



our officers for business purposes at no cost to
us. The imputed cost of the aircraft use was not material to our
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Mr. Cook, a member of our Board of
Directors, is a director and Chairman of the Executive Committee
of the Board of Directors of Intuit. In September 2000, prior to
eBay’s acquisition of PayPal, PayPal entered into a
strategic marketing agreement with Intuit. PayPal paid Intuit
approximately $672,000 in 2002 under this agreement. The
agreement was terminated in December 2002, and PayPal paid
Intuit an early termination fee of $1,349,000 in January 2003 in
accordance with the terms of the agreement.

Certain other transactions are described under
the caption “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation” in Item 12, which is incorporated by
reference herein.

ITEM 14. CONTROLS AND
PROCEDURES

(a)

Evaluation of disclosure controls and
procedures.

Under the supervision and with the participation
of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our
Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of our
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 Rules 13a-14(c) and 15d-14(c)) as of a
date, also referred to as the Evaluation Date, within
90 days before the filing date of this annual report. Based
upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief
Financial Officer have concluded that as of the Evaluation Date,
the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective.

(b)

Changes in internal controls.

There were no significant changes in our internal controls
or in other factors that could significantly affect these
controls subsequent to the Evaluation Date.



PART IV

ITEM 15: EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) The following documents are filed as
part of this report:

1.

Consolidated Financial Statements:

2.

Financial Statement Schedules.

All other schedules have been omitted because the
information required to be set forth therein is not applicable
or is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.

3.

Exhibits





+ Indicates a management contract or
compensatory plan or arrangement

(b) Reports on Form 8-K during the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2002:

1.     On
    October 3, 2002, eBay filed a report on Form 8-K to
    report under Item 5 that it had obtained all approvals
    required under applicable state money transmitter laws to
    complete its previously announced merger with PayPal, Inc. No
    financial statements were filed with the report.

2.     On
    October 4, 2002, eBay filed a report on Form 8-K to
    report under Item 2 that it had obtained the approval of
    the holders of a majority of common stock of PayPal, Inc. of the
    merger of Vacquita Acquisition Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary
    of eBay, with and into PayPal, as well as the completion of the
    merger. No financial statements were filed with the report
    because the required financial statements were filed with
    Amendment No. 1 to the Company’s Registration
    Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-97727), which was
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    August 28, 2002.

3.     On
    November 14, 2002, eBay furnished a report on Form 8-K
    to report under Item 9 that it had filed its Quarterly
    Report on Form 10-Q, and that accompanying such report were
    the certifications of eBay’s Chief Executive Officer and
    Chief Financial Officer, as required by Section 906 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. No financial statements were filed
    with the report.

(c) See the Exhibits listed under
Item 15(a)(3) above.

(d) The financial statement schedules
required by this item are listed under Item 15(a)(2) above.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and

Stockholders of eBay Inc.:

In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial
Statements listed in the index appearing under
Item 15(a)(1) on page 88 present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of eBay Inc. and its
subsidiaries (the “Company”) at December 31, 2001
and December 31, 2002, and the results of their operations
and their cash flows for the three years then ended in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America, which require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, effective January 1, 2002, the
Company changed its method of accounting for goodwill in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.”

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

San Jose, California

January 17, 2003, except for Note 17,

which is as of March 28, 2003



eBay Inc.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

(in thousands, except per share
amounts)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these Consolidated Financial Statements.



eBay Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME

(in thousands, except per share
amounts)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these Consolidated Financial Statements.



eBay Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME

(in thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these Consolidated Financial Statements.



eBay Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

(in thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these Consolidated Financial Statements.



eBay Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

(in thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these Consolidated Financial Statements.



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Note 1 —

The Company and Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies:

The Company

eBay Inc. (“eBay”) was incorporated in
California in May 1996, and reincorporated in Delaware in
April 1998. As of December 31, 2002, through our
wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries and affiliates, we
had websites directed towards the United States, Australia,
Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. We pioneered online
trading by developing a Web-based community in which buyers and
sellers are brought together to buy and sell almost anything.
The eBay online service permits sellers to list items for sale,
buyers to bid on items of interest, and all eBay users to browse
through listed items in a fully-automated, topically-arranged
service that is available online seven days a week.

On October 3, 2002, we completed our
acquisition of PayPal, Inc. in a tax-free, stock-for-stock
transaction. PayPal provides an online global payments platform
and is headquartered in Mountain View, California. The PayPal
financial statements are included in our Consolidated Financial
Statements for the post-acquisition period from October 4,
2002 through December 31, 2002.

Stock splits

In April 2000, our Board of Directors
approved a two-for-one common stock split. Stockholders of
record on May 9, 2000 received one additional share for
each share owned on May 24, 2000. All share and per share
amounts in these Consolidated Financial Statements and related
notes reflect the stock splits in all periods presented.

Use of estimates

The preparation of Consolidated Financial
Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts
of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

Principles of consolidation and basis of
    presentation

The accompanying financial statements are
consolidated and include the financial statements of eBay and
our majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

The consolidated accounts include
100 percent of the assets and liabilities of these
majority-owned subsidiaries and the ownership interests of
minority investors are recorded as minority interests.
Investments in entities where we hold more than a
20 percent but less than a 50 percent ownership
interest and have the ability to significantly influence the
operations of the investee are accounted for using the equity
method of accounting and the investment balance is included in
long term investments, while our share of the investees’
operations is included in other income.

Certain prior period balances have been
reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.

Fair value of financial instruments

Cash and cash equivalents are short-term, highly
liquid investments with original maturities of three months or
less when purchased. Our financial instruments, including cash,
cash equivalents, accounts



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

receivable, and accounts payable are carried at
cost, which approximates their fair value because of the
short-term maturity of these instruments.

Short and long-term investments, which include
marketable equity securities, municipal, government and
corporate bonds, are classified as available-for-sale and
reported at fair value using the specific identification method.
Realized gains and losses are included in earnings and were
immaterial in all periods presented. Unrealized gains and losses
are excluded from earnings and reported as a component of other
comprehensive income (loss), net of related estimated tax
provisions or benefits. Additionally, we assess whether an
other-than-temporary impairment loss on our investments has
occurred due to declines in fair value or other market
conditions. Declines in fair value that are considered other
than temporary are recorded as an impairment of certain equity
investments in the statement of income.

Derivative instruments

We recognize all derivative instruments on the
balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value (i.e.,
gains or losses) of the derivatives are recorded each period in
the statement of income or other comprehensive income (loss).
For a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge, the gain or
loss on the derivative is initially reported as a component of
other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently reclassified
into the statement of income when the hedged transaction affects
earnings. For derivatives recognized as a fair value hedge, the
gain or loss on the derivative in the period of change and the
offsetting loss or gain of the hedged item attributed to the
hedged risk, are recognized in the statement of income. For
derivatives not recognized as hedges, the gain or loss on the
derivative in the period of changes is recognized as other
income.

Concentrations of credit risk

Our cash, cash equivalents, investments and
accounts receivable are potentially subject to concentration of
credit risk. Cash, cash equivalents and investments are
deposited with financial institutions that management believes
are of high credit quality. Our accounts receivable are derived
from revenue earned from customers located in the U.S. and
internationally. The revenues earned from the U.S. site are
denominated in U.S. dollars and revenue earned from our
international sites are denominated in the country’s
functional currency. Accounts receivable balances are typically
settled through customer credit cards and, as a result, the
majority of accounts receivable are collected upon processing of
credit card transactions. We maintain an allowance for doubtful
accounts receivable and authorized credits based upon our
historical experience. Historically, such losses have been
within our expectations. However, unexpected or significant
future changes in trends could result in a material impact to
future statements of income or cash flows. Generally, due to the
relatively small dollar amount of individual accounts
receivable, we do not require collateral on these balances. The
provision for doubtful accounts is recorded as a charge to
operating expense, while the provision for authorized credits is
recognized as a reduction of revenues.

We also entered into two interest rate swaps with
two separate financial institutions to reduce our interest rate
exposure on our lease payments. If either of these financial
institutions should fail to deliver under these contracts, we
may be subject to variable interest rate payments.

During the years ended and as of
December 31, 2000 and 2002, no customers accounted for more
than 10% of net revenues or net accounts receivable. During the
year and as of December 31, 2001, no customers accounted
for more than 10% of net revenues and one customer represented
approximately 20% of net accounts receivable.



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

Allowances for transaction losses

Our Payments segment is exposed to transaction
losses due to fraud, as well as non-performance of third parties
and customers. We establish allowances for estimated losses
arising from processing customer transactions, such as
charge-backs for unauthorized credit card use and merchant
related charge-backs due to non-delivery of goods or services,
Automated Clearing House, or ACH, returns, and debit card
overdrafts. These allowances represent an accumulation of the
estimated amounts, using an actuarial technique, necessary to
provide for transaction losses incurred as of the reporting
date, including those to which we have not yet been notified.
The allowances are monitored monthly and are updated based on
actual claims data reported by our claims processors. Customers
typically have up to 180 days to file transaction disputes.
Consequently, the time between estimating the loss provisions
and realization of the actual amount is short. The allowances
are based on known facts and circumstances, internal factors
including our experience with similar cases, historical trends
involving loss payment patterns and the mix of transaction and
loss types. Additions to the allowance, in the form of
provisions, are reflected as a general and administrative
expense in our results of operations, while write-offs to the
allowance are made when a loss is determined to have occurred.
Recoveries, when collected, are recorded as an increase to the
allowance for transaction losses. As of December 31, 2002,
the allowance for transaction losses totaled $10.1 million
and was included in other current liabilities in our
consolidated balance sheet.

Funds receivable and funds payable

Funds receivable and payable relate to our
Payments segment and arise due to the time taken to clear
transactions through external payment networks. When customers
fund their account using their bank account or credit card, or
withdraw money to their bank account or through a debit card
transaction, there is a clearing period before the cash is
received or sent by PayPal, usually two or three days. Hence,
these funds are treated as a receivable or payable until the
cash is settled.

Foreign currency

All of our foreign subsidiaries use the local
currency of their respective countries as their functional
currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange
rates prevailing at the balance sheet dates. Revenues, costs and
expenses are translated into United States dollars at average
exchange rates for the period. Gains and losses resulting from
translation are accumulated as a component of other
comprehensive income (loss).

Realized gains and losses from foreign currency
transactions are recognized as other income and are
insignificant for all periods presented.

Property and equipment

Property and equipment are stated at historical
cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation and
amortization are computed using the straight-line method over
the estimated useful lives of the assets, generally five years
or less for equipment and furniture, and up to thirty years for
buildings and building improvements.

Intangible assets

Intangible assets resulting from the acquisitions
of entities accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting are estimated by management based on the fair value
of assets received. Identifiable intangible assets are comprised
of purchased customer lists, developed technologies, trade
names, and other intangible assets. Identifiable intangible
assets are being amortized using the straight-line method over
estimated useful lives ranging from two to seven years.



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase
price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable
intangible assets acquired in a business combination. In
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 142 or SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,” goodwill is no longer subject to
amortization. Rather, goodwill is subject to at least an annual
assessment for impairment, applying a fair-value based test.

Impairment of long-lived assets

We evaluate long-lived assets for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable in accordance
with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” An asset is considered
impaired if its carrying amount exceeds the future net cash flow
the asset is expected to generate. If such asset is considered
to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by
the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its
fair market value. We assess the recoverability of our
long-lived and intangible assets by determining whether the
unamortized balances can be recovered through undiscounted
future net cash flows of the related assets. The amount of
impairment, if any, is measured based on projected discounted
future net cash flows using a discount rate reflecting our
average cost of capital.

We evaluate goodwill, at a minimum, on an annual
basis and whenever events and changes in circumstances suggest
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Impairment of
goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level by comparing the
reporting unit’s carrying amount, including goodwill, to
the fair value of the reporting unit. The fair values of the
reporting units are estimated using a combination of the income,
or discounted cash flows, approach and the market approach,
which utilizes comparable companies’ data. If the carrying
amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is
considered impaired and a second step is performed to measure
the amount of impairment loss, if any.

Due to customers

Customers utilize our payment services to
transfer money via the Internet. Any stored value remaining from
transactions in a customer’s account represents a liability
to the customer. Customers can elect to sweep their account
balances into the PayPal Money Market fund to earn a rate of
return; otherwise, no interest is paid on customer account
balances.

Custodial accounts

We deposit all U.S.-based customer funds not
transferred to PayPal’s Money Market Fund into Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation insured bank accounts. FDIC
insurance is available to PayPal customers if we (1) place
pooled customer funds in bank accounts denominated “PayPal
as Agent for the Benefit of its Customers” or similar
caption, (2) maintain records sufficient to identify the
claim of each customer in the FDIC-insured account,
(3) comply with applicable FDIC recordkeeping requirements,
and (4) truly operate as an agent of our customers. We
receive a custodial credit from our service provider in the form
of a reduction in transaction processing fees based upon
balances held with each institution. This credit is recognized
as a reduction in processing costs.

Environmental expenditures

As a result of our 1999 merger with Butterfields,
we own real estate properties that are either used in our
business or leased to unrelated parties for various commercial
uses. We have remediation responsibility for certain
environmental and structural deficiencies. Liabilities are
recorded when environmental assessments are made, remediation
obligations are probable, and the costs can be reasonably
estimated. Estimated liabilities of approximately
$5.8 million at December 31, 2001 and $404,000 at
December 31,



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

2002 are included within other liabilities. Due
to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, the amounts
accrued for these matters may be revised in future periods as
additional information is obtained.

Comprehensive income

Comprehensive income includes all changes in
equity (net assets) during a period from non-owner sources. The
change in comprehensive income for all periods presented
resulted from foreign currency translation gains and losses,
unrealized and realized gains and losses on investments, and
unrealized losses on cash flow hedges.

Revenue recognition

Our net revenues result from fees associated with
our transaction, third-party advertising, end-to-end services,
and offline services in our U.S., International and Payments
segments. Transaction revenue is derived primarily from listing,
feature and final value fees paid by sellers and fees from
payment processing services. Revenue from third-party
advertising is derived principally from the sale of online
banner and sponsorship advertisements for cash and through
barter arrangements. End-to-end services revenue is derived
principally from contractual arrangements with third parties
that provide transaction services to eBay users. Offline
services revenue is derived from a variety of sources including
seller commissions, buyer premiums, bidder registration fees and
auction-related services including appraisal and authentication,
primarily related to our Butterfields and Kruse subsidiaries.

Listing and feature fee revenues are recognized
ratably over the estimated period of the auction while revenues
related to final value fees are recognized at the time that the
transaction is successfully concluded. A transaction is
considered successfully concluded when at least one buyer has
bid above the seller’s specified minimum price or reserve
price, whichever is higher, at the end of the transaction term.
We earn transaction fees, allocated to our Payments segment,
from processing transactions for certain customers. Revenue
resulting from a payment processing transaction is recognized
once the transaction is complete. Provisions for doubtful
accounts, authorized credits and transaction losses are made at
the time of revenue recognition based upon our historical
experience. The provision for doubtful accounts is recorded as a
charge to operating expense, while the provisions for authorized
credits and transaction losses are recognized as reductions of
net revenues.

Our third-party advertising revenue is derived
principally from the sale of online banner and sponsorship
advertisements for cash and through barter arrangements. To
date, the duration of our banner and sponsorship advertising
contracts has ranged from one week to three years, but is
generally one week to three months. Advertising revenues on both
banner and sponsorship contracts are recognized as
“impressions” (i.e., the number of times that an
advertisement appears in pages viewed by users of our websites)
are delivered or ratably over the term of the agreement where
such agreements provide for minimum monthly or quarterly
advertising commitments or where such commitments are fixed
throughout the term. Barter transactions are valued based on
amounts realized in similar cash transactions occurring within
six months prior to the date of the barter transaction. To the
extent that significant delivery obligations remain at the end
of a period or collection of the resulting account receivable is
not considered probable, revenues are deferred until the
obligation is satisfied or the uncertainty is resolved. These
amounts are included in deferred revenue in our balance sheet.
Third-party advertising revenues, including barter transactions,
totaled 3%, 11% and 5% of our consolidated net revenues for the
years ended December 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002, respectively.
Revenue from barter arrangements totaled $2.5 million,
$10.4 million and $10.1 million for the years ended
December 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002, respectively.

Third-party advertising revenues may be affected
by the financial condition of our customers and by the success
of online promotions in general. Recently, the industry pricing
of online advertisements has deteriorated. Our third-party
advertising revenue historically has been dependent on the
performance of the



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

sales force of AOL Time Warner, or AOL. Reduction
in third-party advertising, whether due to softening of the
demand for online advertising in general or particular problems
facing parties with whom we have contractual arrangements, would
adversely affect our operating results. Unlike our auction
transaction revenues, third-party advertising revenues are
derived from a highly concentrated customer base. During the
years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001, third-party
advertising revenues were attributable to approximately 20
customers each year. During the year ended December 31,
2002, third-party advertising revenues were derived from
approximately 30 customers. Additionally, our advertising sales
representative agreement with AOL has not been extended or
renewed and is scheduled to terminate on March 31, 2003,
with AOL to continue its electronic delivery of our online
advertisements for a specified wind-down period. After
March 31, 2003, we will be dependent on the efforts of our
existing internal sales staff.

Our end-to-end services revenues are derived
principally from contractual arrangements with third parties
that provide transaction services to eBay users. To date, the
duration of our end-to-end services contracts has ranged from
one to three years. End-to-end services revenues are recognized
as the contracted services are delivered to end users. To the
extent that significant obligations remain at the end of a
period or collection of the resulting receivable is not
considered probable, revenues are deferred until the obligation
is satisfied or the uncertainty is resolved. End-to-end services
revenues were 7%, 4% and 2% of our consolidated net revenues for
the years ended December 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002,
respectively.

Similar to our third-party advertising revenues,
our end-to-end services revenues may be affected by the
financial condition of the parties with whom we have these
relationships and by the success of online services and
promotions in general. Additionally, end-to-end services
revenues are also concentrated among a small customer base.
End-to-end services revenues were derived from approximately 10
customers in 2000 and from approximately 20 customers in each of
2001 and 2002.

Offline revenue represents seller commissions,
buyer premiums, bidder registration fees, and auction-related
services including appraisal and authentication derived from the
traditional auction services provided by Butterfields and Kruse
International. Butterfields auction revenues are derived
primarily from auction commissions and fees from the sale of
property through the auction process. Revenues from seller
commissions and buyer premiums are recognized at the date the
related auction is concluded. Service revenues are derived from
financial, appraisal and other related services and are
recognized as such services are rendered. During 2002, we sold
our Butterfields and Kruse subsidiaries.

Website development costs

We expense costs related to the planning and post
implementation phases of our website development efforts. Direct
costs incurred in the development phase are capitalized and
amortized over the product’s estimated useful life of one
to three years as charges to cost of net revenues. Costs
associated with minor enhancements and maintenance for the
website are included in cost of net revenues in the accompanying
consolidated statement of income.

Advertising expense

We expense the costs of producing advertisements
at the time production occurs, and expense the cost of
communicating advertising in the period during which the
advertising space or airtime is used. Internet advertising
expenses are recognized based on the terms of the individual
agreements, which is generally over the greater of the ratio of
the number of impressions delivered over the total number of
contracted impressions, or on a straight-line basis over the
term of the contract. Advertising expenses totaled
$85.4 million, $127.1 million, and $181.8 million
during the years ended December 31, 2000, 2001, and 2002,
respectively.



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

Stock-based compensation

Generally accepted accounting principles provide
companies with the option of either recognizing the fair value
of option grants as an operating expense or disclosing the
impact of fair value accounting in a note to the financial
statements. Consistent with predominant industry practice, we
account for stock-based employee compensation arrangements using
the intrinsic value method, which calculates compensation
expense based on the difference, if any, on the date of the
grant, between the fair value of our stock and the exercise
price and have elected to disclose the impact of fair value
accounting for option grants. Had we elected to recognize the
fair value of option grants as an operating expense, our
reported net income would have been substantially reduced, as
follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):

The 2000 and 2001 pro forma amounts have been
adjusted to reflect the correction of previously calculated pro
forma option pricing and amortization amounts. These adjustments
are limited to the footnote disclosure of non-cash SFAS
No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation” pro forma expense and do not result in any
changes or impact to our historically reported statements of
income or cash flows. The previously reported diluted pro forma
net loss per share was $(0.36) and $(0.05) for the years ended
December 31, 2000 and 2001, respectively.

We account for stock-based arrangements issued to
non-employees using the fair value based method, which
calculates compensation expense based on the fair value of the
stock granted using the Black-Scholes option pricing model at
the date of grant.

Income taxes

We account for income taxes using an asset and
liability approach, which requires the recognition of taxes
payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax
liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events
that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax
returns. The measurement of current and deferred tax assets and
liabilities is based on provisions of enacted tax laws; the
effects of future changes in tax laws or rates are not
anticipated. If necessary, the measurement of deferred tax
assets is reduced by the amount of any tax benefits that are not
expected to be realized based on available evidence.



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

Recent accounting pronouncements

Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or
    Disposal Activities

In June 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board or FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 146 or SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities,” which
nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF Issue
No. 94-3, “Liability Recognition for Certain Employee
Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity
(including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring).”
SFAS No. 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated
with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the
liability is incurred and states that an entity’s
commitment to an exit plan, by itself, does not create a present
obligation that meets the definition of a liability. SFAS
No. 146 also establishes that fair value is the objective
for initial measurement of the liability. The provisions of SFAS
No. 146 are effective for exit or disposal activities
initiated after December 31, 2002. We do not expect the
adoption of SFAS No. 146 to have a material impact upon our
financial position, cash flows or results of operations.

Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure
Requirements for Guarantees

In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB
Interpretation No. 45 or FIN 45,
“Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
Others.” FIN 45 requires a guarantor to recognize a
liability for obligations it has undertaken in relation to the
issuance of a guarantee. It requires that the liability be
recorded at fair value on the date that the guarantee is issued.
It also requires a guarantor to provide additional disclosures
regarding guarantees, including the nature of the guarantee, the
maximum potential amount of future payments under the guarantee,
the carrying amount of the liability, if any, for the
guarantor’s obligations under the guarantee, and the nature
and extent of any recourse provisions or available collateral
that would enable the guarantor to recover the amounts paid
under the guarantee. The disclosure requirements under FIN 45
are effective for the interim and annual periods ending after
December 15, 2002. The recognition and measurement
provisions under FIN 45 are effective for guarantees issued
or modified after December 31, 2002. We do not expect the
adoption of FIN 45 to have a material impact upon our
financial position, cash flows or results of operations. See
“Note 11 — Commitments and
Contingencies.”

Accounting for Stock Based
Compensation

In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 148, “Accounting for Stock Based
Compensation — Transition and Disclosure.”
SFAS 148 provides two additional transition methods for
entities that voluntarily adopt the fair value method of
recording expenses when accounting for stock based compensation.
Further, the statement requires disclosure of comparable
information for all companies regardless of whether, when, or
how an entity adopts the preferable, fair value based method of
accounting. These disclosures are now required for interim
periods in addition to the traditional annual disclosure. The
amendments to SFAS No. 123, which provides for additional
transition methods, are effective for periods beginning after
December 15, 2002. The disclosure provisions are effective
for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002 and have
been incorporated into the notes to the accompanying financial
statements. We have chosen not to voluntarily adopt the fair
value method of accounting for employee stock option grants at
this time.

Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities

In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46,
“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” This
interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51,
“Consolidated Financial Statements,” addresses
consolidation by business enterprises of certain variable
interest entities where there is a controlling financial
interest in a variable interest entity or where the variable
interest entity does not have sufficient



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

equity at risk to finance its activities without
additional subordinated financial support from other parties.
This interpretation applies immediately to variable interest
entities created after January 31, 2003 and applies in the
first year or interim period beginning after June 15, 2003
to variable interest entities in which an enterprise holds a
variable interest that it acquired before February 1, 2003.
We expect that the adoption of FIN 46 will require us to
include our San Jose facilities lease arrangement and
potentially certain investments in our Consolidated Financial
Statements effective July 1, 2003. In connection with our
San Jose facilities lease arrangement, our balance sheet
following the July 1, 2003 adoption of FIN 46 will
reflect changes to record assets of $126.4 million,
liabilities of $122.5 million and non-controlling interests
of $3.9 million. In addition, our post-adoption income
statement will reflect the reclassification of rent expense
payments from operating expenses to interest expense as well as
the recognition of depreciation expense, within operating
expenses, for our use of the buildings. We estimate that the
income statement impact of consolidating our San Jose facilities
lease will consist of a charge against earnings, net of taxes,
of $5.6 million upon the adoption of FIN 46 on
July 1, 2003. This charge will reflect the accumulated
depreciation charges that would have been recorded in previous
periods had consolidation of the San Jose facilities been
required. Additionally, we have not decided whether we will keep
the existing financing arrangement or purchase the San Jose
facilities. Whether or not we keep the existing financing
arrangement, we anticipate recording additional annual operating
expenses of $1.7 million, net of taxes, for the recognition
of depreciation expense on the buildings. In the event we
purchase the San Jose facilities, we will also pay
$126.4 million, eliminate financing payments and settle our
two interest rate swaps we used to establish a fixed rate of
interest for $95 million of our financing arrangement.
During the year ended December 31, 2002, our financing
payments related to the San Jose facilities totaled
$7.9 million. At December 31, 2002, settlement of our
two interest rate swaps would have resulted in a loss of
$10.9 million.

Note 2 — Net Income Per
Share:

Basic net income per share is computed by
dividing the net income for the period by the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted
net income per share is computed by dividing the net income for
the period by the weighted average number of common and common
equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Potentially
dilutive securities, composed of unvested, restricted common
stock and incremental common shares issuable upon the exercise
of stock options and warrants, are included in diluted net
income per share to the extent such shares are dilutive.



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

The following table sets forth the computation of
basic and diluted net income per share for the periods indicated
(in thousands, except per share amounts):

Note 3 — Business Combinations,
Goodwill and Intangible Assets

During 2001 and 2002, we completed a number of
purchase acquisitions that are summarized as follows (in
thousands):

Tangible net assets were valued at their
respective carrying amounts as we believe that these amounts
approximated their current fair values at the respective
acquisition dates. The valuation of identifiable intangible
assets acquired was based on management’s estimates using a
valuation report prepared by an independent third-party
valuation consultant. Such assets consist of developed
technologies, customer lists, trade names and other acquired
intangible assets including contractual agreements. Identifiable
intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method
over the estimated useful lives of three years to seven years.
We believe the straight-line method of amortization best
represents the distribution of the economic



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

value of the identifiable intangible assets.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the
fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible
assets acquired in each business combination. In accordance with
SFAS No. 142, goodwill is no longer subject to
amortization. Rather, goodwill is subject to at least an annual
assessment for impairment, applying a fair-value based test. See
“Note 1 — The Company and Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies.”

We account for our investment in EachNet using
the equity method of accounting and the total investment,
including identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax
liabilities and goodwill, is classified on our balance sheet as
a long-term investment.

The following table presents details of the
purchased intangible assets acquired during 2002 (in thousands,
except number of years):

Billpoint

On May 25, 1999, eBay acquired a 100%
interest in Billpoint, Inc. a leading provider of billing and
payment fulfillment services. On February 24, 2000,
Billpoint reincorporated in Delaware and sold 350 shares of
common stock and 1,399,965 shares of Series A preferred
stock to Wells Fargo Bank, which represented an approximately
35% ownership interest in Billpoint. Simultaneously, we
exchanged 25,999,350 of Billpoint’s common shares for
2,599,935 shares of Series A preferred stock. The merger
was accounted for as a pooling of interests.

In January 2002, we acquired the 35% minority
interest in Billpoint held by Wells Fargo Bank in a purchase
acquisition for approximately $43.5 million in cash.

In October 2002, we acquired PayPal, Inc. The
combined operations of PayPal and Billpoint form our Payments
segment. We will be phasing out Billpoint operations during the
first half of 2003 and we expect the goodwill and identifiable
intangible assets related to the acquisition of the 35% minority
interest to continue to benefit the ongoing operations.

eBay Japan

On February 17, 2000, eBay Japan Inc., a
wholly owned subsidiary of eBay, entered into a shareholder and
marketing services agreement with NEC Corporation. In accordance
with the shareholder agreement, NEC acquired 30% of eBay Japan
and provided marketing services to eBay Japan in an effort to
deliver a minimum level of confirmed registered users. As
compensation for the marketing and other services performed by
NEC, eBay Japan paid NEC an annual up-front fee of approximately
$1.5 million. On July 18, 2001, eBay purchased the
outstanding 30% interest in eBay Japan held by NEC for
approximately $1.7 million. In March 2002, eBay Japan
ceased business operations.

Half.com

On July 11, 2000, we acquired a 100%
interest in Half.com, Inc. Half.com was incorporated in
Pennsylvania in June 1999 and provides a fixed-price, online
e-commerce site that allows people to buy



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

and sell new and previously owned goods at
discounted prices. In connection with the merger, we issued, or
reserved for issuance, a total of approximately 5,484,000 shares
of eBay common stock to Half.com’s existing shareholders,
option holders and warrant holders as consideration for all
shares of capital stock, options and warrants of Half.com held
immediately prior to consummation of the merger. The merger was
accounted for as a pooling of interests.

Internet Auction Co., Ltd.

On February 15, 2001, we acquired an
approximately 51% majority interest in Internet Auction Co.,
Ltd., a South Korean company in a purchase acquisition for
$120.8 million in cash and incurred $1.1 million of
direct acquisition costs. Internet Auction introduced online
trading in South Korea when it launched in April 1998. Shares of
Internet Auction are listed on the KOSDAQ. The transaction was
accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and
accordingly, the results of operations of Internet Auction have
been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since
February 15, 2001.

iBazar S.A.

On May 18, 2001, we acquired a 100% interest
in iBazar S.A. iBazar is a French-based corporation that
introduced online trading in France and at the time of the
acquisition had websites in Belgium, Brazil, France, Italy, the
Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Sweden. As consideration for
the acquisition, we issued shares in a Belgian subsidiary
exchangeable for 2,045,054 shares of eBay common stock valued at
$120.4 million, paid $2.3 million in cash to certain
shareholders and incurred acquisition-related costs of
approximately $2.9 million. The shares issued in the
acquisition were valued on May 18, 2001, the first date on
which the number of eBay’s shares and the amount of other
consideration became fixed, using the average closing price of
eBay shares for the five days prior to and including the closing
date of May 18, 2001. The transaction was accounted for
using the purchase method of accounting and accordingly, the
results of operations of iBazar have been included in our
Consolidated Financial Statements since May 18, 2001.

We have established plans to exit certain
activities of iBazar and to involuntarily terminate certain
iBazar employees. In accordance with this exit plan included in
our purchase accounting, approximately $2.0 million has
been accrued for the estimated costs associated with severance,
contract terminations and financial advisory and legal fees and
has been included in net tangible assets. As of
December 31, 2002, we have utilized all of the $2.0 million
liability. In addition, we are in the process of resolving
various income tax related contingencies that could result in an
increase in goodwill to the extent that an unfavorable outcome
is reached.

In September 2001, we entered into a strategic
business relationship with MercadoLibre, a leading online
auction site serving Latin America. In exchange for our equity
interest in iBazar Com Ltda, a Brazilian subsidiary of iBazar,
we received a 19.5% ownership interest in MercadoLibre. We
accounted for this investment in MercadoLibre using the cost
method, and no gain or loss was recognized on the exchange.

NeoCom Technology Co., Ltd.
Acquisition

In April 2002, we acquired a 100% interest in
NeoCom Technology Co., Ltd. in a purchase acquisition for
$11.1 million cash and incurred direct acquisition costs of
$198,000. NeoCom provides an online Chinese language marketplace
for the trading of goods and services in Taiwan. The results of
operations of NeoCom have been included in our Consolidated
Financial Statements since April 2002.



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

EachNet, Inc. Equity Investment

On March 17, 2002, we acquired a 38%
interest in the outstanding common stock of EachNet, Inc., which
is a 33% interest on a fully diluted basis, in a purchase
acquisition for $30.0 million in cash. EachNet provides an
online marketplace for the trading of goods and services for
both individual and business customers in the People’s
Republic of China.

We account for our investment in EachNet using
the equity method of accounting and the total investment,
including identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax
liabilities and goodwill, is classified on our balance sheet as
a long-term investment. In periods subsequent to the
acquisition, our consolidated financial results include 38% of
the net income or loss of EachNet together with amortization
expense relating to acquired intangible assets.

PayPal, Inc. Merger

On October 3, 2002, we acquired a 100%
interest in PayPal, Inc. in a tax-free, stock-for-stock
transaction. PayPal provides a global payments platform and is
headquartered in Mountain View, California. We acquired PayPal
to provide a significantly improved customer experience to
eBay’s users by making their trading experience easier,
safer, and faster. The PayPal financial statements are included
in our Consolidated Financial Statements for the
post-acquisition period from October 4, 2002 through
December 31, 2002.

The purchase price reflects the issuance of
approximately 23,825,000 shares of our common stock to PayPal
stockholders using a fixed exchange ratio of 0.39 shares of our
common stock for each PayPal share of common stock outstanding
on October 3, 2002. In addition, we assumed PayPal’s
outstanding stock options. The fair value of the shares of our
common stock issued and PayPal options assumed is based on a per
share value of $57.92, which is equal to our weighted average
closing share price for the five trading days surrounding the
July 8, 2002 acquisition announcement date. Total purchase
price is comprised of the following (in thousands):

The acquisition related costs consist primarily
of investment banking fees, legal and accounting fees, printing
costs, and other direct costs of the acquisition.

The intrinsic value of PayPal’s unvested
common stock options and restricted stock subject to repurchase
assumed in the merger totaled $9.9 million as of October 3,
2002 and was recorded as unearned stock-based compensation. For
purposes of purchase price allocation, PayPal’s outstanding
options that vested solely as a result of the proposed merger
were deemed to be vested as of the October 3, 2002
acquisition date. The unearned stock-based compensation relating
to the unvested options and the restricted stock subject to
repurchase will be amortized on an accelerated basis over the
remaining vesting period of less than one year to three years,
consistent with the graded vesting approach described in FASB
Interpretation No. 28.

In connection with the acquisition of PayPal,
management is in the process of formalizing an integration plan
to exit certain activities of both eBay and PayPal. Preliminary
plans include the elimination of redundant contracts, phase-out
of eBay Payments by BillPoint, discontinuance of PayPal’s
online gambling payment processing and other efforts aimed at
achieving operational synergies. We expect to finalize the
adoption of a formal integration plan after our assessment is
complete, likely in the second



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

quarter of 2003. During the fourth quarter of
2002, we discontinued PayPal’s online gaming payment
processing. During the year ended December 31, 2002,
revenues generated from PayPal’s online gambling payment
processing, including revenues generated prior to our
acquisition of PayPal on October 3, 2002, represented 6% of
PayPal’s total revenues for 2002. Included in the PayPal
purchase price allocation as of December 31, 2002 is
$38.5 million of acquisition related accrued expenses
related primarily to the elimination of redundant contracts.
Additional costs related to the integration plan will be
accounted for as charges to our income statement or adjustment
to the purchase price allocation in accordance with
SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated
with Exit or Disposal Activities” and EITF Issue Number
95-3, “Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a
Business Combination.”

Acquisition of Remaining Equity Interest in
eBay Australia & New Zealand Pty Ltd.

In October 2002, we acquired the remaining 50%
interest in our eBay Australia & New Zealand joint venture
held by ecorp Limited in a purchase acquisition for
approximately $65.5 million in cash. This acquisition
increased our ownership of this entity to 100%. The results of
operations of eBay Australia and New Zealand have been included
in our Consolidated Financial Statements since October 2002.

Sale of Butterfields, Kruse and Certain Real
Estate Properties

During 2002 we sold our Butterfields and Kruse
subsidiaries as well as several real estate properties we
acquired as a result of our 1999 acquisition of Butterfields.
During the year ended December 31, 2002, we recognized an
aggregate gain of $17.1 million, which is reported in other
income.

Pro forma financial information

The following unaudited pro forma financial
information presents the combined results of eBay, Internet
Auction, iBazar, and PayPal as if the acquisitions had occurred
as of the beginning of 2001 and 2002, respectively, after
applying certain adjustments, including amortization of goodwill
and other acquisition related transactions (in thousands except
per share amounts):

The pro forma financial information does not
necessarily reflect the results of operations that would have
occurred had eBay, Internet Auction, iBazar, and PayPal
constituted a consolidated entity during such periods. See
“Note 1 — The Company and Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies, Recent Accounting
Pronouncements.”



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

Goodwill information for each reportable segment
is as follows (in thousands):

The increase in goodwill during the year ended
December 31, 2002, resulted from business acquisitions and
from foreign currency translation adjustments relating to
goodwill associated with prior period acquisitions, partially
offset by the disposal of goodwill in connection with the sale
of our Butterfields and Kruse subsidiaries. Goodwill of
$1.1 billion resulted from our acquisition of PayPal,
$62.3 million resulted from our acquisition of the
remaining 50% interest in eBay Australia and New Zealand,
$35.8 million resulted from our acquisition of the
remaining 35% minority interest in Billpoint, $19.3 million
resulted from our acquisition of a 38% interest in EachNet, and
$9.8 million resulted from our acquisition of NeoCom.
Foreign currency translation adjustments are included in the
adjustments column.

We account for our investment in EachNet using
the equity method of accounting and the total investment,
including identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax
liabilities and goodwill, is classified on our balance sheet as
a long-term investment. As of December 31, 2002, the
goodwill related to our acquisition of EachNet totaled
$19.3 million.

The following table summarizes the pro forma
impact of excluding goodwill amortization from our operating
results (in thousands, except per share amounts):



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

The components of acquired identifiable
intangible assets are as follows (in thousands):

All of our acquired identifiable intangible
assets are subject to amortization. Acquired identifiable
intangible assets are comprised of developed technologies,
customer lists, trademarks, and other acquired intangible assets
including contractual agreements. Developed technologies are
being amortized over a weighted average period of approximately
three years. Customer lists are being amortized over a weighted
average period of approximately seven years. Trademarks are
being amortized over a weighted average period of approximately
seven years. No significant residual value is estimated for the
intangible assets. Aggregate amortization expense for intangible
assets totaled $4.0 million and $16.3 million for the
years ended December 31, 2001 and 2002, respectively.

As of December 31, 2002, expected future
intangible asset amortization expense is as follows (in
thousands):

Note 4 — Segment
Information:

Segment selection is based upon our internal
organization structure, the manner in which our operations are
managed, the measurement of the performance of our operations
evaluated by management in the chief operating decision-maker
capacity, the availability of separate financial information,
and overall materiality considerations.

During the fourth quarter of 2002, the growth of
our international operations and our acquisition of PayPal
prompted us to change the basis for measuring our financial
performance and evaluating resource allocations, and therefore
our reportable segments. We changed our business segments from
Online and Offline services to U.S., International, and Payments
operations. This new segment structure reflects the new
composition of our business. Additionally, we changed the
internal measurement basis of segment performance from operating
income before certain items to a direct contribution measure of
profitability.



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

Direct contribution consists of revenues less
direct costs. Direct costs include specific costs of net
revenues, sales and marketing expenses, and general and
administrative expenses over which segment managers have direct
discretionary control, such as advertising and marketing
programs, customer support expenses, bank charges, provisions
for doubtful accounts, authorized credits and transaction
losses. Expenses over which segment managers do not have
discretionary control, such as site operations costs, product
development expenses, and general and administrative costs, are
monitored by management through shared cost centers and are not
evaluated in the measurement of segment performance.

The U.S. segment comprises U.S. online trading
platforms other than PayPal and Billpoint. The International
segment comprises our international online trading platforms.
The Payments segment comprises our global payments platform
consisting of our PayPal and Billpoint subsidiaries. The
Payments amounts reflect Billpoint’s historical operations
and PayPal’s operations for the post-acquisition period
from October 4, 2002 through December 31, 2002. We
have previously announced that we intend to discontinue
Billpoint’s operations in the first half of 2003.
Billpoint’s operations will continue to be reflected in the
Payments segment results until the wind-down of Billpoint’s
operations.

The following tables illustrate the financial
performance of our new reporting segments. Additionally, we have
presented our current period financial performance on a
reporting segment basis consistent with our old reporting
segments for purposes of comparison during this transition
period (in thousands):



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

The following tables illustrate the financial
performance of our old reporting segments for purposes of
comparison during this transition period (in thousands):



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

Note 5 — Investments:

At December 31, 2001 and 2002, short and
long-term investments were classified as available-for-sale
securities, except for restricted cash and investments, and are
reported at fair value as follows (in thousands):



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

The estimated fair value of short and long-term
investments classified by date of contractual maturity at
December 31, 2002 are as follows (in thousands):

During the year ended December 31, 2001, we
recorded impairment charges totaling $16.2 million relating
primarily to the impairment in the fair value of certain private
equity investments. We recorded impairment charges for these
investments based upon the deterioration of the financial
condition of certain investees and based upon financing obtained
by certain other investees at a valuation below which we made
our investment.

During the year ended December 31, 2002, we
recorded impairment charges totaling $3.8 million relating
to the impairment in the fair value of certain equity
investments. We recorded an approximately $640,000 impairment
charge for an equity investment in a public company based upon a
significant decline in the market value of our investment during
2002, which we determined to be other than temporary. We
recorded $3.2 million in impairment charges for certain
private equity investments based upon the deterioration of the
financial condition of certain investees and as a result of
financing obtained by certain other investees at a valuation
below which we made our investment.



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

Note 6 — Derivative
Instruments:

We entered into two interest rate swaps on
June 19, 2000 and July 20, 2000, with notional amounts
of $45 million and $50 million respectively, that
allow eBay to receive floating rate receipts based on London
Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, in exchange for making fixed
rate payments of approximately 7% of the notional amount. These
interest rate swaps effectively change the interest rate
exposure on a portion of the operating lease payments relating
to eBay’s corporate office facilities from a floating rate
to a fixed rate. The fair value of the interest rate swaps as of
December 31, 2002 was an unrealized loss of
$10.9 million and is recorded in accumulated other
comprehensive loss on the balance sheet.

On January 1, 2001, we adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, as amended, and the
cumulative effect of this change in accounting method relating
to the interest rate swaps was an immaterial gain on net income
and an unrealized loss, net of tax, of approximately
$2.6 million on other comprehensive income. During the year
ended December 31, 2002, the derivative losses reclassified
into rent expense were offset by decreases in rent expense
relating to the operating lease. At December 31, 2002, we
expect to reclassify $3.5 million of losses, net of tax, on
the interest rate swaps from accumulated other comprehensive
income to rent expense during the next twelve months.

As of December 31, 2002, we had outstanding
forward foreign exchange contracts with notional values
equivalent to approximately $69 million with maturity dates
within 92 days. The forward contracts are used as to offset
changes in the value of assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies as a result of currency fluctuations.
Transaction gains and losses on the contracts and the assets and
liabilities are recognized each period in our statement of
income and generally are offsetting. As of December 31,
2002, the fair values of the forward contracts were immaterial.

Note 7 — Balance Sheet
Components:

Write-offs against the allowance for doubtful
accounts and authorized credits were $12.5 million,
$10.3 million, and $23.8 million in the years ended
December 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002, respectively.



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

During the years ended December 31, 2000,
2001 and 2002, we capitalized $9.4 million,
$6.7 million and $15.5 million, respectively, for
site-related software and development costs. Total depreciation
expense was $36.7 million in 2000, $41.8 million in
2001, and $60.7 million in 2002.



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

Note 8 — Debt:

Notes and capital leases payable

Notes and capital leases payable are as follows:

Notes payable consists of a $9.3 million
mortgage note payable to a financial institution collateralized
by commercial real estate property. The mortgage note payable
carries a variable interest rate, which was 8.175% at
December 31, 2002 and is due in 2023. Capital leases
consist of various leases that totaled $8.6 million at
December 31, 2002. During 2002, we reduced our notes
payable obligations in connection with the sale of several
properties underlying the notes payable.

Minimum annual repayments on the note and capital
leases at December 31, 2002, are as follows (in thousands):

We also maintain a credit facility with
$14.4 million available for equipment purchases and
$23.2 million available for standby letters of credit with
a financial institution. The credit facility is due
August 6, 2005. No amounts were outstanding at
December 31, 2002.

Note 9 — Operating Lease
Arrangements:

On March 1, 2000, we entered into a
five-year lease for general office facilities located in San
Jose, California. This five-year lease is commonly referred to
as a synthetic lease because it represents a form of off-balance
sheet financing under which an unrelated third-party funds 100%
of the costs of the acquisition of the property and leases the
asset to us as lessee. Under our lease structure, upon
termination or



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

expiration, at our option, we must either
purchase the property from the lessor for a predetermined amount
or sell the real property to a third-party. Our San Jose lease
consists of approximately 460,000 square feet of office space.
As of December 31, 2002, we occupied approximately 314,000
square feet of this total office space for our online businesses
and subleased additional space in the facility to third parties.

Payments under our lease are based on the
$126.4 million cost of the property funded by the
third-party and are adjusted as the London Interbank Offered
Rate, or LIBOR, fluctuates. Under the terms of the lease
agreement, the lease terminates on March 1, 2005, unless
extended to September 1, 2006. At any time prior to the
final 12 months of the lease term, we may, at our option,
purchase the property for approximately $126.4 million. If
we elect not to purchase the property, we will undertake to sell
the facility to one or more third parties and have guaranteed to
the lessor a residual value equal to approximately 88% of the
$126.4 million cost of this property. Our maximum exposure
to loss is the entire amount of $126.4 million if we
default on any of certain lease obligations and financial
covenants. If this payment is made, we would then receive title
to the property. At December 31, 2002, we had not made a
decision with respect to the option we will pursue at the end of
the lease term. Management believes that the contingent
liability relating to the residual value guarantee will not have
a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results
of operations.

In addition, we are required to place
$126.4 million of cash and investment securities as
collateral for the term of the lease and to maintain certain
financial covenants. The cash and investment securities are
restricted as to their withdrawal from a third-party trustee and
are classified as long-term restricted cash and investments on
our balance sheet. In the event of a default under the lease,
the collateral could be used to pay the purchase price of the
property and the lease would be terminated. At December 31,
2002, we were in compliance with our financial covenants under
the lease.

If our lease were terminated, and we became
obligated to pay the purchase price of the land and buildings,
we would show the cost as an asset on our balance sheet and our
restricted cash and investments position would be reduced by the
amount of the purchase price. Currently, we reflect rent
payments as operating expenses on our statement of income. In
the event we were required to purchase the land and buildings,
our rent expense would cease and we would subsequently record
depreciation expense for the buildings over their estimated
useful lives as operating expenses.

We entered into two interest rate swaps on
June 19, 2000 and July 20, 2000 to reduce the impact
of changes in interest rates on a portion of the floating rate
operating lease for our facilities. See “Note 6 —
Derivative Instruments.”

In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46,
“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” This
interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51,
“Consolidated Financial Statements,” addresses
consolidation by business enterprises of certain variable
interest entities where there is a controlling financial
interest in a variable interest entity or where the variable
interest entity does not have sufficient equity at risk to
finance its activities without additional subordinated financial
support from other parties. This interpretation applies
immediately to variable interest entities created after
January 31, 2003 and applies in the first year or interim
period beginning after June 15, 2003 to variable interest
entities in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that
it acquired before February 1, 2003. We expect that the
adoption of FIN 46 will require us to include our San Jose
facilities lease arrangement and potentially certain investments
in our Consolidated Financial Statements effective July 1,
2003. In connection with our San Jose facilities lease
arrangement, our balance sheet following the July 1, 2003
adoption of FIN 46 will reflect changes to record assets of
$126.4 million, liabilities of $122.5 million and
non-controlling interests of $3.9 million. In addition, our
post-adoption income statement will reflect the reclassification
of rent expense payments from operating expenses to interest
expense as well as the recognition of depreciation expense,
within operating expenses, for our use of the buildings. We
estimate that the income statement impact of consolidating our
San Jose facilities lease will consist of a charge against
earnings, net



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

of taxes, of $5.6 million upon the adoption
of FIN 46 on July 1, 2003. This charge will reflect the
accumulated depreciation charges that would have been recorded
in previous periods had consolidation of the San Jose facilities
been required. We also expect the accounting change to result in
a one-cent decrease in net income per basic share in 2001 and
2002 and have no impact on diluted earnings per share.

Our U.S. segment occupies approximately 434,000
square feet of commercial office space in the United States. We
occupy 314,000 square feet of commercial office space in San
Jose, California under the terms of our synthetic lease for our
corporate headquarters. We own and occupy approximately 72,000
square feet of commercial office space in Salt Lake City, Utah
for our domestic customer support center. We lease and occupy an
additional 48,000 square feet of commercial office space in
various domestic locations for the operations of certain
U.S. subsidiaries.

Our International segment leases approximately
210,000 square feet of commercial office space in 12 countries
for our international operations, including the operations of
our South Korean majority-owned subsidiary.

Our Payments segment leases approximately 126,000
square feet of commercial office space in the United States and
the United Kingdom. In addition, our Payments segment owns
approximately 22 acres of land near Omaha, Nebraska, on which a
115,000 square foot facility is under construction. Upon
completion, this facility will house the primary customer
service operations center for our Payments segment.

We also have lease obligations under certain
other non-cancelable operating leases. Future minimum rental
payments under all non-cancelable operating leases, exclusive of
the residual value guarantee on our general office facilities
located in San Jose, California, at December 31, 2002, are
as follows (in thousands):

Lease obligations related to our general office
facilities in San Jose, California are estimated based on market
interest rates (LIBOR) at December 31, 2002, adjusted
to reflect the two interest rate swaps and certain collateral
assumptions. Rent expense in the years ended December 31,
2000, 2001 and 2002, totaled $4.8 million,
$5.7 million, and $3.6 million, respectively.

Note 10 — Purchase and Sale of
Properties or Property Interests:

From time to time and in the ordinary course of
business, we elect to sell properties previously held for lease,
or purchase properties or property interests for future rental.
In March 2001, our Butterfields subsidiary sold its Chicago
property for approximately $4.5 million in cash and
recognized a gain of $189,000. During 2002, we sold nine
properties related to our Butterfields subsidiary for
approximately $21.8 million in cash and recognized gains of
$10.6 million.



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

Note 11 — Commitments and
Contingencies:

Litigation

On April 25, 2001, our European
subsidiaries, eBay GmbH and eBay International AG, were sued by
Montres Rolex S.A. and certain Rolex affiliates, or Rolex, in
the regional court of Cologne, Germany. The suit subsequently
was transferred to the regional court in Dusseldorf, Germany.
Rolex alleged that our subsidiaries were infringing Rolex’s
trademarks as a result of users selling counterfeit Rolex
watches through our German website. The suit also alleges unfair
competition. Rolex sought an order forbidding the sale of Rolex
watches on the website as well as damages. In December 2002, a
trial was held in the matter and the court ruled in favor of
eBay on all causes of action. Rolex has appealed the ruling, but
the appeal has not yet been briefed or heard.

On September 26, 2001, a complaint was filed
by MercExchange LLC against us, our Half.com subsidiary and
ReturnBuy, Inc. in the Eastern District of Virginia
(No. 2:01-CV-736) alleging infringement of three patents
(relating to online auction technology, multiple database
searching and electronic consignment systems) and seeking a
permanent injunction and damages (including treble damages for
willful infringement). We answered the complaint, denying the
allegations. In April 2002, we filed four motions for summary
judgment relating to the three patents in suit. The court denied
three of those motions and deferred ruling on the fourth motion.
A “Markman” hearing was held in July 2002 to define
certain disputed terms in the patents, and in October 2002 the
court issued its claim construction findings. In October 2002,
the court gave us leave to amend our answer to include a claim
that MercExchange committed fraud on the patent office during
the prosecution of one of the patents. On the same date, the
court granted in part our pending summary judgment motion,
effectively invalidating the patent related to online auction
technology and rendering it unenforceable. In November 2002, we
filed two additional summary judgment motions regarding the
patents. One motion was denied as moot; the other was denied
because the court found there were triable issues of fact. In
February 2003, we filed an additional summary judgment motion,
which is still pending. Only two patents remain in the case at
this time. Trial is scheduled for April 22, 2003. We
believe we have meritorious defenses and will defend ourselves
vigorously. However, even if successful, our defense against
this action will be costly and could divert our
management’s time. If the plaintiff were to prevail on any
of its claims, we might be forced to pay significant damages and
licensing fees, modify our business practices or even be
enjoined from conducting a significant part of our
U.S. business. Any such results could materially harm our
business. We are unable to determine what potential losses we
may incur if this lawsuit were to have an unfavorable outcome.

On September 6, 2002, a complaint was filed
by First USA Bank, N.A. against PayPal in the District of
Delaware (No. 02-CV-1462) alleging infringement of two
patents relating to assigning an alias to a credit card so as to
eliminate the need for the physical presence of the card in a
transaction and seeking a permanent injunction and damages.
PayPal believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to
defend itself vigorously. However, even if successful, our
defense against this action will be costly and could divert
management’s time. If the plaintiff were to prevail on its
claims, PayPal might be forced to pay significant damages and
licensing fees or modify its business practices. Any such result
could materially harm our business. We are unable to determine
what potential losses we may incur if this suit were to have an
unfavorable outcome.

On August 16, 2002, Charles E. Hill &
Associates, Inc., or Hill, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Texas (No. 2:02-CV-186)
alleging that we and 17 other companies, primarily large
retailers, infringed three patents owned by Hill generally
relating to electronic catalog systems and methods for
transmitting and updating data at a remote computer. The suit
seeks an injunction against continuing infringement, unspecified
damages, including treble damages for willful infringement, and
interest, costs, expenses and fees. In January 2003, the court
granted the collective



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

defendants’ motion to transfer the case from
the court where it was filed in Marshall, Texas to the Federal
District Court for the Southern District of Indiana. We believe
that we have meritorious defenses and intend to defend ourselves
vigorously.

On February 20, 2002, PayPal was sued in
California state court in a purported class action alleging that
its restriction of customer accounts and failure to promptly
unrestrict legitimate accounts violates state consumer
protection law and is an unfair business practice and a breach
of PayPal’s User Agreement. This action was refiled with a
different named plaintiff on June 6, 2002, and a related
action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California on the same day. On
March 12, 2002, PayPal was sued in the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of California in a purported
class action alleging that its restrictions of customer accounts
and failure to promptly unrestrict legitimate accounts violates
federal and state consumer protection and unfair business
practice law. The court has denied PayPal’s motion to
compel individual arbitration as required by the PayPal User
Agreement and has invalidated that provision of the User
Agreement. The two federal court actions have been consolidated
into a single case. PayPal is defending itself vigorously, but
if it is unable to prevail in these lawsuits, it may have to
change its anti-fraud operations in a manner that will harm its
business and pay substantial damages. Even if its defense is
successful, the litigation could damage PayPal’s
reputation, could require significant management time, will be
costly and could require changes to its customer service and
operations that could increase its costs and decrease the
effectiveness of its anti-fraud program.

Three purported class action complaints were
filed following announcement of the PayPal merger in July 2002
in the court of Chancery in the State of Delaware in and for New
Castle County by alleged stockholders of PayPal. Two additional
purported class action complaints were filed in the Superior
Court of the State of California, County of Santa Clara, by
alleged PayPal stockholders. These complaints name as defendants
PayPal and each member of its board of directors as well as
eBay. The complaints are purported class actions that allege,
among other things, that eBay controlled PayPal prior to the
execution of their merger agreement, the defendants breached
fiduciary duties they assertedly owed to PayPal’s
stockholders in connection with PayPal entering into the merger
agreement and the exchange ratio in the merger is unfair and
inadequate. The plaintiffs seek, among other things, an award of
unspecified compensatory damages. We believe that each of the
lawsuits was without merit and intend to defend ourselves
vigorously.

Other third parties have from time to time
claimed, and others may claim in the future that we have
infringed their past, current or future intellectual property
rights. We have in the past been forced to litigate such claims.
We may become more vulnerable to such claims as laws such as the
Digital Millennium Copyright Act and Communications Decency Act
are interpreted by the courts and as we expand into
jurisdictions where the underlying laws with respect to the
potential liability of online intermediaries like ourselves is
less favorable. We expect that we will increasingly be subject
to copyright and trademark infringement claims as the
geographical reach of our services expands. We also expect that
we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims as
our services expand. In particular, we expect that patent
infringement claims involving various aspects of our Payments
business will continue to be made. We have been notified of
several potential disputes and are subject to a suit by
Tumbleweed Communications Corporation that is currently ongoing.
These claims, whether meritorious or not, could be
time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause service
upgrade delays, require expensive changes in our methods of
doing business or could require us to enter into costly royalty
or licensing agreements, if available. As a result, these claims
could harm our business.

Capital Expenditures

In June 2002, we entered into an agreement to
purchase computer equipment, software and related services to
expand our data warehousing capabilities. Under the agreement we
are obligated to pay a



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

minimum of $16.0 million to a third-party
vendor during a 30-month period ending in December 2004. Minimum
purchases under the commitment total $7.2 million during
2002, $4.5 million in 2003, and $4.3 million in 2004.
During the year ended December 31, 2002, we purchased
$8.6 million under this contract.

In December 2002, we entered into an agreement to
purchase computer equipment, software and related services to
further expand our data warehousing capabilities. Under the
agreement, we are obligated to pay a minimum of $20.0 million to
a third-party vendor during 2003. The commitment may be
comprised of a maximum of $5.4 million in services
purchases and the remainder must consist of equipment and
software purchases. The agreement automatically renews for
additional one-year periods through 2005, if we do not cancel
the agreement at the conclusion of each year. In addition, this
vendor amended an existing promotions agreement and has agreed
to pay us $5.0 million in quarterly payments for promotion
of their auctions on eBay.com in 2003 and to spend an additional
$666,000 in joint promotions during the year. The promotions
agreement, as amended, can be renewed with the mutual agreement
of both parties for additional one-year terms through 2005.
Equipment, software and services purchases will be expensed or
capitalized in accordance with our capitalization policy.
Promotions will be recognized as transaction revenue over the
period of delivery.

Advertising

AOL interactive marketing agreement

In April 2002, we amended our Interactive
Marketing Agreement with AOL Time Warner, Inc., or AOL. AOL
attained certain performance goals in the contract year ending
March 23, 2003, and extended the amended agreement for an
additional year, through March 23, 2004. Under the terms of
the amended agreement, we will pay AOL for its advertising
services on a new user performance basis, up to a maximum of
$15 million. We are recognizing these fees as sales and
marketing expense as such services are provided. From time to
time, we have also entered into incremental, discretionary
purchases of advertising from AOL. Discretionary purchases
totaled $1.4 million during 2000, $8.5 million during
2001, and $7.6 million during 2002.

In the event that AOL’s advertising services
during the year achieve certain specified performance goals, AOL
has the right to extend the term of the amended agreement
through March 23, 2005. Our financial obligation for this
renewal year, if any, will also be determined on a new user
performance basis and will amount to a maximum of $10.0 million.

Disney marketing agreement

In February 2000, we entered a four-year
marketing agreement with The Walt Disney Company, or Disney, to
provide us with online and offline advertising and promotions
and develop a co-branded version of our online service. Subject
to certain Disney performance obligations, we were obligated to
pay a minimum of $30 million to Disney over the four-year
term of the agreement. In August 2001, we amended the terms of
the initial agreement and agreed to purchase a minimum of
$23.0 million in online and offline promotions through
September 2004. We also committed to provide Disney with online
advertising on the eBay.com website valued at $3.5 million.
Through December 31, 2002, we have recognized
$16.9 million in sales and marketing expense associated
with the amended agreement.

Microsoft marketing and services
    agreements

During 2001, we entered into a series of
marketing and services agreements with Microsoft that obligate
us to purchase online advertising promotions, software and
related services through September 2003, totaling $8 million. In
addition, Microsoft has agreed to purchase online advertising
and other



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

services from us totaling $7 million over a
three-year period ending June 2004. Through December 31,
2002, we have recognized $4.3 million in sales and
marketing expenses for advertising services received, incurred
$3.0 million for Microsoft software products used to support our
operations and recognized $5.4 million in revenues for
advertising services delivered to Microsoft.

Note 12 — Related Party
Transactions:

We have entered into indemnification agreements
with each of our directors, executive officers and certain other
officers. These agreements require us to indemnify such
individuals, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law,
for certain liabilities to which they may become subject as a
result of their affiliation with us.

Commercial agreements

A member of our Board of Directors and the Audit
and Compensation Committees of our Board of Directors, is a
general partner of certain venture capital funds that
beneficially hold in the aggregate a greater than 10% equity
interest in several public and private companies. We engaged in
the following transactions with such companies:

In December 1999, we entered into an Internet
marketing agreement with a privately held company that
facilitates buying decisions for consumers. Under this
agreement, we paid fees approximating $4,000 in 2000, $503,000
in 2001, and none in 2002 for the promotion of eBay.

In April 2000, we entered into an advertising and
promotions agreement with a privately held company that provides
a marketplace for live advice. Under this agreement, we
recognized revenues of approximately $4.1 million in 2000,
$1.0 million in 2001, and $200,000 in 2002. In 1999, we
invested $2.0 million in capital stock of such company and
received a warrant to purchase additional shares, which if
exercised would bring our total ownership to less than 5% of its
capital stock.

In July 2000, we entered into an advertising and
promotions agreement, which we subsequently amended in December
1999 and April 2000, with a privately held company that provides
a real estate solution to home buyers and sellers. Under the
terms of this agreement, we recognized revenues of approximately
$1.3 million in 2000, $441,000 in 2001, and none in 2002.
The member of our Board of Directors mentioned above is also a
member of such company’s Board of Directors. In 2000, we
invested $3.0 million in capital stock of such company and
received a warrant to purchase additional shares, which if
exercised would bring our total ownership to less than 5% of its
capital stock.

In February 2001, our wholly owned subsidiary
Half.com, entered into a content licensing and inventory sales
agreement with a company that provides order management and
fulfillment solutions. Under this agreement, such company agreed
to list its inventory on Half.com’s website and to allow
Half.com to use such company’s catalog data to supplement
Half.com’s existing catalog data. Half.com paid such
company approximately $100,000 in 2001 and $25,000 in 2002 under
this agreement.

Separately, a member of our Board of Directors is
a director and Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board
of Directors of a company with whom PayPal, in September 2000,
prior to eBay’s acquisition of PayPal, entered into a
strategic marketing agreement. PayPal paid the company
approximately $670,000 in 2002 under this agreement. The
agreement was terminated in December 2002, and PayPal paid the
company an early termination fee of $1,348,000 in January 2003
in accordance with the terms of the agreement.

All contracts with related parties are at rates
and terms that we believe are comparable with those entered into
with independent third parties.



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

Notes receivable from eBay executive
    officers

At December 31, 2001 and 2002, we held notes
receivable from certain executive officers totaling
$4.3 million and $3.5 million, respectively. One note
is a non-interest bearing note issued in connection with the
relocation of one executive officer to San Jose, California,
while the remaining notes bear interest at rates of 4.94%,
6.37%, and 6.40% per year. Each note is collateralized by Deeds
of Trust, which we hold. The outstanding principal and interest
are due and payable by 2005.

Note 13 — Preferred
Stock:

We are authorized, subject to limitations
prescribed by Delaware law, to issue Preferred Stock in one or
more series; to establish the number of shares included within
each series; to fix the rights, preferences and privileges of
the shares of each wholly unissued series and any related
qualifications, limitations or restrictions; and to increase or
decrease the number of shares of any series (but not below the
number of shares of a series then outstanding) without any
further vote or action by the stockholders. At December 31,
2001 and 2002, there were 10 million shares of Preferred
Stock authorized for issuance, and no shares issued or
outstanding.

Note 14 — Common
Stock:

Our Certificate of Incorporation, as amended,
authorizes us to issue 900 million shares of common stock. A
portion of the shares outstanding are subject to repurchase over
a four-year period from the earlier of the issuance date or
employee hire date, as applicable. At December 31, 2001,
there were 772,000 shares subject to repurchase rights at an
average price of $0.36. At December 31, 2002, there were
184,000 shares subject to repurchase at an average price of
$0.89.

At December 31, 2002, we had reserved
22.2 million shares of common stock available for future
issuance under our stock option plans and approximately
1.6 million shares of common stock available for future
issuance under the employee stock purchase plan.

In connection with certain stock option grants,
we recorded unearned stock-based compensation totaling $187,000
during the year ended December 31, 2000, $4.1 million
in 2001, and $9.9 million in 2002. The unearned
compensation for 2000 is related to the acquisition of Half.com
and was amortized fully over the vesting period in 2000. The
unearned compensation for 2001 is related to the acquisition of
Internet Auction and is being amortized over the 3-year vesting
period of the options, which ends in 2002. The unearned
compensation for 2002 is related to the acquisition of PayPal
and is being amortized over the 3-year vesting period of the
options, which ends in 2005. Amortization expense totaled
approximately $7.1 million during the year ended
December 31, 2000, $3.1 million in 2001,
$6.0 million in and 2002. The unearned stock compensation
balance at December 31, 2002 was $5.3 million and will
be amortized over the remaining vesting period through 2005.

Note 15 — Employee Benefit
Plans:

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

We have an employee stock purchase plan for all
eligible employees. Under the plan, shares of our common stock
may be purchased over an offering period with a maximum duration
of two years at 85% of the lower of the fair market value on the
first day of the applicable offering period or on the last day
of the six-month purchase period. Employees may purchase shares
having a value not exceeding 10% of their gross compensation
during an offering period. During the years ended
December 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002, employees purchased
438,000, 124,000 and 176,000 shares at average prices of
$8.43, $43.72 and $45.25 per share, respectively. At
December 31, 2002, approximately 1.6 million shares
were reserved for future issuance. On each January 1, the
aggregate number of shares reserved for issuance under the
employee



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

stock purchase plan will be increased
automatically by the number of shares purchased under this plan
in the preceding calendar year.

401(k) Savings Plan

We have a savings plan, which qualifies under
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Participating
employees may contribute up to 25% of their annual salary, but
not more than statutory limits. We contribute one dollar for
each dollar a participant contributes, with a maximum
contribution of $1,500 per employee. Our matching contributions
were $1.8 million in 2000, $1.7 million in 2001, and
$2.3 million in 2002.

Stock option plans

We have stock option plans for directors,
officers and employees, under which we have made to date only
nonqualified and incentive stock option grants. These stock
options generally vest 25% one year from the date of grant and
the remainder vests at a rate of 2.08% per month and expire
10 years from the date of grant. Stock options issued prior
to June 1998, were exercisable immediately, subject to
repurchase rights held by us, which lapse over the vesting
period. At December 31, 2002, stock options for
22.2 million shares were available for future grant.

The following table summarizes activity under our
stock option plans for the years ended December 31, 2000,
2001 and 2002 (shares in thousands):



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

The following table summarizes information about
fixed stock options outstanding at December 31, 2002
(shares in thousands):

In-the-money options are options with an exercise
price lower than the $67.92 closing price of our common stock on
December 31, 2002. Out-of-the-money options are options
with an exercise price greater than the $67.92 closing price of
our common stock on December 31, 2002.

*

Named officers are the chief executive officer
    and the other four most highly-compensated executive officers
    during the applicable year.



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

Fair value disclosures

We calculated the fair value of each option grant
on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing
model. The following are the assumptions used for each
respective period:

For options granted prior to our initial public
offering, the fair value of option grants was determined using
the Black-Scholes option pricing model with a zero volatility
assumption. For options granted subsequent to our initial public
offering, the fair value of option grants was determined using
the Black-Scholes option pricing model with volatility
assumptions based on actual or expected fluctuations in the
price of our common stock.

Non-stockholder approved stock option
    grants

Prior to our initial public offering in 1998, our
Board of Directors approved three stock option grants outside of
formally approved stockholder plans to two independent directors
upon their joining our Board of Directors and to an executive
officer upon his hiring. All of such option grants vested over
25% one year from the date of grant, with the remainder vesting
at a rate of 2.08% per month thereafter and expire 10 years
from the date of grant. The options granted to the independent
directors were immediately exercisable, subject to repurchase
rights held by us, which lapse over the vesting period. The
terms and conditions of such grants are otherwise identical to
nonqualified option grants made under the stock option plan in
effect at that time. At the time of such grants, members of our
Board of Directors (and their affiliates) beneficially owned in
excess of 90% of our then outstanding voting interests. We have
previously disclosed such option grants in our Prospectus filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
September 25, 1998 in connection with our initial public
offering under the headings “Management —
Director Compensation” and “Management —
Compensation Arrangements.” Prior to 2002, one director had
exercised all options under such grant. During 2002, the
executive officer exercised all options available to him in
connection with his departure from the Company. At
December 31, 2002, one grant remained outstanding to one
independent director, with 780,000 shares to be issued upon
exercise of the outstanding options at an average exercise price
of $1.56. There were no shares remaining available under these
non-stockholder approved plans for future issuance as of
December 31, 2002.

Note 16 — Income
Taxes:

The components of income including minority
interest in consolidated companies and equity interest in
partnership income before income taxes, for the years ended
December 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002 are as follows (in
thousands):



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

The provision for income taxes is composed of the
following (in thousands):

The following is a reconciliation of the
difference between the actual provision for income taxes and the
provision computed by applying the federal statutory rate of 35%
for 2000, 2001, and 2002 to income before income taxes (in
thousands):

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
recognized for the future tax consequences of differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases using enacted tax rates



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

in effect for the year in which the differences
are expected to reverse. Significant deferred tax assets and
liabilities consist of the following (in thousands):

As of December 31, 2002, our federal and
state net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes
were approximately $559.4 million and $133.1 million,
respectively. If not utilized, the federal net operating loss
carryforwards will begin to expire in 2019, and the state net
operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2006. The
Company’s federal and state research tax credit
carryforwards for income tax purposes are approximately
$2.1 million and $2.3 million, respectively. If not
utilized, the federal tax credit carryforwards will begin to
expire in 2021. Deferred tax assets of approximately
$202.9 million at December 31, 2002 pertain primarily
to certain net operating loss carryforwards resulting from the
exercise of employee stock options of $145.2 million and
the remainder relates to losses at certain subsidiaries. We have
a full valuation allowance against the amounts relating to the
exercise of employee stock options due to the impact that
uncertainties associated with our future stock price and timing
of employee stock option exercises have on the likelihood that
we will realize future benefits from these amounts. To the
extent that we generate taxable income in future years, we will
have the ability, subject to carryforward limitations, to
benefit from these amounts. When recognized, the tax benefit
related to stock options will be accounted for as a credit to
additional paid-in-capital rather than a reduction of the income
tax provision.

Note 17 — Subsequent
Events:

Vancouver Lease

In February 2003, we entered into an operating
sublease for approximately 110,000 square feet of commercial
office space in Vancouver, British Columbia for a customer
support center. The sublease commences on July 1, 2003 and
ends on October 30, 2011. Rental commitments under the
sublease total $11.8 million, including operating costs and
taxes. In addition, we are subleasing approximately 37,000
square feet of the leased space back to the prime lessee for
substantially the same lease term. The prime lessee’s
rental commitments to eBay under the sublease total
$5.2 million, including operating costs and taxes. The
prime lessee has provided an irrevocable letter of credit for
$7.8 million as security for their obligations under this
sublease arrangement. The commitment under our sublease, as well
as the prime lessee’s sublease and letter of credit, are
denominated in Canadian dollars. The dollar figures above are in
U.S. dollars converted from Canadian dollars at the
exchange rate as of December 31, 2002.



eBay Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (CONTINUED)

Integration of Half.com Platform

In March 2003, we announced our intention to
fully integrate the platform of Half.com, a wholly owned
subsidiary acquired in July 2000, with the eBay.com
platform by the end of 2004. Half.com’s office in
Pennsylvania, where 65 of its employees work, will be shut down
once this process is complete. Management is in the process of
formalizing an exit and integration plan and expects to finalize
the plan by the end of 2003. Based on our preliminary estimates,
we anticipate costs related to employee retention and severance
will total approximately $3 million. If we decide to exit
Half’s leased office facility, the amount of lease
termination costs, excluding any possible sublease income, and
fixed asset write-offs will total approximately $2 million.
Costs related to our exit plan will be recorded as charges on
our income statement over the exit and integration period in
accordance with SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.”

PayPal’s Prior Services to Online
    Gambling Merchants

PayPal completed its exit from the business of
processing payments for online gambling merchants in November
2002. Approximately 6% of PayPal’s revenues in 2002 were
derived from this business. Beginning in July 2002, PayPal
provided documents and information related to its services to
online gambling merchants in response to a federal grand jury
subpoena issued at the request of the U.S. Attorney for the
Eastern District of Missouri. On March 28, 2003, PayPal
received a letter from the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern
District of Missouri indicating its contention that
PayPal’s provision of services to online gambling merchants
violated 18 U.S.C. § 1960 of the USA PATRIOT Act,
which prohibits the transmission of funds that are known to have
been derived from a criminal offense or are intended to be used
to promote or support unlawful activity, thereby subjecting
PayPal to potential civil forfeiture of the amounts it received
in connection with such activities as well as potential criminal
liability. The letter offered a complete settlement of all
possible claims and charges from the U.S. Attorney for the
Eastern District of Missouri if Paypal paid the purported amount
of its earnings derived from online gambling merchants during
the nine-month period from October 26, 2001 to
July 31, 2002, plus interest. PayPal acted in the good
faith belief that its conduct did not violate 18
U.S.C. § 1960 and PayPal calculates that the
amount of its earnings from online gaming activities was less
than asserted in the letter. Although the outcome of this matter
is not yet determinable, the monetary amounts associated with
this matter are not expected to have a material impact on our
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.



Supplementary Data — Quarterly
Financial Data-Unaudited:

The following tables present certain unaudited
consolidated quarterly financial information for each of the
12 quarters ended December 31, 2002. This quarterly
information has been prepared on the same basis as the
Consolidated Financial Statements and includes all adjustments
necessary to present fairly the information for the periods
presented. The results of operations for any quarter are not
necessarily indicative of results for the full year or for any
future period. The quarterly financial data for the quarters
presented below have been restated to reflect our acquisition
Half.com in July 2000, which was accounted for as a pooling of
interests.

Quarterly Financial Data

(unaudited, in thousands, except per share
amounts)



The 2001 and 2002 quarterly pro forma amounts
have been adjusted to reflect the correction of previously
calculated pro forma option pricing and amortization amounts.
These adjustments are limited to the footnote disclosure of
non-cash SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation” pro forma expense and do not result in any
changes or impact to our historically reported statements of
income or cash flows. The previously reported diluted pro forma
net income (loss) per share was $0.00 in the three-months
ended March 31, 2001, $0.01 in the three-months
June 30, 2001, $(0.03) in the three-months
September 30, 2001, and $(0.03) in the three-months
December 31, 2001. The previously reported diluted pro
forma net income per share was $0.04 in the three-months ended
March 31, 2002, $0.05 in the three-months June 30,
2002 and $0.06 in the three-months September 30, 2002.



eBay Inc.

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

The financial statement
Schedule II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
is filed as part of this Form 10-K.

*

Assumed liability in connection with PayPal
    acquisition on October 3, 2002.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the
Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the
City of San Jose, State of California, on the 31st day of March,
2003.

eBay Inc.

/s/ MARGARET C. WHITMAN

Margaret C. Whitman

President, Chief Executive Officer

and Director

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each
person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints
Margaret C. Whitman, Rajiv Dutta and Michael R. Jacobson, and
each or any one of them, each with the power of substitution,
his or her attorney-in-fact, to sign any amendments to this
report, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that each of said
attorneys-in-fact, or his substitute or substitutes, may do or
cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Date: March 31, 2003



CERTIFICATIONS

I, Margaret C. Whitman, certify that:

a) designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.     The
    registrant’s other certifying officers and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the
    registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of
    registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the
    equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the
    design or operation of internal controls which could adversely
    affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
    summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6.     The
    registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated
    in this annual report whether there were significant changes in
    internal controls or in other factors that could significantly
    affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most
    recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard
    to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

/s/ MARGARET C. WHITMAN

Margaret C. Whitman

President and Chief Executive
    Officer

(Principal Executive Officer)

Date: March 31, 2003



CERTIFICATIONS

I, Rajiv Dutta, certify that:

a) designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.     The
    registrant’s other certifying officers and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the
    registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of
    registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the
    equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the
    design or operation of internal controls which could adversely
    affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
    summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6.     The
    registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated
    in this annual report whether there were significant changes in
    internal controls or in other factors that could significantly
    affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most
    recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard
    to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

/s/ RAJIV DUTTA

Rajiv Dutta

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer

(Principal Financial Officer)

Date: March 31, 2003



EXHIBIT INDEX


+ Indicates a management contract or
compensatory plan or arrangement