Item 1.  Business

Overview

As used in this Form 10-K, “MetLife,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and
“us” refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates.

With a more than 140-year history, we have grown to become a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs, serving 90 million customers. Through our subsidiaries and
affiliates, we hold leading market positions in the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Over the past several years, we have grown our core businesses, as well as successfully executed on our growth strategy. This
has included completing a number of transactions that have resulted in the acquisition and, in some cases, divestiture of certain businesses while also further strengthening our balance sheet to position MetLife for continued growth.

MetLife is organized into six segments, reflecting three broad geographic regions: Retail; Group,
Voluntary & Worksite Benefits; Corporate Benefit Funding; and Latin America (collectively, the “Americas”); Asia; and Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”). In addition, the Company reports certain of its results
of operations in Corporate & Other, which includes MetLife Bank, National Association (“MetLife Bank”) (see Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding MetLife Bank’s exit from
certain of its businesses (the “MetLife Bank Divestiture”)) and other business activities. Management continues to evaluate the Company’s segment performance and allocated resources and may adjust related measurements in the future to
better reflect segment profitability.

On November 1, 2010 (the “ALICO Acquisition Date”),
MetLife, Inc. completed the acquisition of American Life Insurance Company (“American Life”) from AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) (“AM Holdings”), a subsidiary of American International Group, Inc.
(“AIG”), and Delaware American Life Insurance Company (“DelAm”) from AIG (American Life, together with DelAm, collectively, “ALICO”) (the “ALICO Acquisition”). The assets, liabilities and operating results
relating to the ALICO Acquisition are included in the Latin America, Asia and EMEA segments. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Certain international subsidiaries have a fiscal year-end of November 30. Accordingly, the Company’s consolidated financial statements reflect the assets and liabilities of such subsidiaries as
of November 30, 2012 and 2011 and the operating results of such subsidiaries for the years ended November 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010.

In the U.S., we provide a variety of insurance and financial services products, including life,
dental, disability, property & casualty, guaranteed interest, stable value and annuities, through both proprietary and independent retail distribution channels, as well as at the workplace. This business serves approximately 60,000
group customers, including over 90 of the top 100 FORTUNE 500®companies, and provides protection and retirement
solutions to millions of individuals.

Outside the U.S., we operate in Latin America, Asia, Europe and the
Middle East. MetLife is the largest life insurer in both Mexico and Chile and also holds leading market positions in Japan, Poland and Korea. Our businesses outside the U.S. provide life insurance, accident & health insurance, credit
insurance, annuities, endowment and retirement & savings products to both individuals and groups. We believe these businesses will continue to grow more quickly than our U.S. businesses.

Revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10% of consolidated premiums, universal life and investment-type
product policy fees and other revenues for the last three years. Financial information, including revenues, expenses, operating earnings, and total assets by segment, as well as premiums, universal life and investment-type product policy fees and
other revenues by major product groups, is provided in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating revenues and operating earnings are performance measures that are not based on accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures” for definitions of such measures.







For financial information related to revenues, total assets, and goodwill
balances by geographic region, see Notes 2 and 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We
are one of the largest institutional investors in the U.S. with a $533 billion general account portfolio invested primarily in investment grade corporate bonds, structured finance securities, commercial and agricultural mortgage loans,
U.S. Treasury and agency securities, as well as real estate and corporate equity. Over the past several years, we have taken a number of actions to further diversify and strengthen our general account portfolio.

Our well-recognized brand, leading market positions, competitive and innovative product offerings and financial strength
and expertise should help drive future growth and enhance shareholder value, building on a long history of fairness, honesty and integrity. Over the course of the next several years, we will pursue the following objectives to position the Company
for continued growth and achieve our vision of being recognized as the leading global life insurance and employee benefits provider:



ŸRefocus the U.S. businesses



–Shift product mix away from capital intensive products



–Invest in growth initiatives for the voluntary/worksite, accident & health, and direct channels



–Drive margin improvement



ŸBuild the Global Employee Benefits business



–Accelerate our local employee benefits businesses in key markets outside the United States



–Grow our global benefits businesses through multinational and expatriate solutions



ŸGrow emerging markets presence



–Accelerate earnings in emerging markets in which we already have a strong presence



–Seek opportunistic mergers and acquisitions to complement our organic growth



ŸDrive toward customer centricity and a global brand



–Institutionalize customer centric actions and culture at MetLife



–Grow consideration and preference for MetLife’s brand in key markets

Segments and Corporate & Other

Americas

Overview

Our businesses in the Americas
offer a broad range of protection products and services aimed at serving the financial needs of our customers throughout their lives. These products are sold to individuals and corporations, as well as other institutions, and their respective
employees.

Retail

Our Retail segment is organized into two businesses: Life & Other and Annuities.







The major products within Life & Other are as follows:

Variable Life.Variable life products provide insurance coverage through a
contract that gives the policyholder flexibility in investment choices and, depending on the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with certain guarantees. Most importantly, with variable life products, premiums and account balances can
be directed by the policyholder into a variety of separate account investment options or directed to the Company’s general account. In the separate account investment options, the policyholder bears the entire risk of the investment results. We
collect specified fees for the management of the investment options. The policyholder’s cash value reflects the investment return of the selected investment options, net of management fees and insurance-related and other charges. In some
instances, third-party money management firms manage these investment options. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse
investment experience.

Universal Life.Universal life products
provide insurance coverage on the same basis as variable life, except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated balances, are allocated only to the Company’s general account. Universal life products may allow the insured to increase or
decrease the amount of death benefit coverage over the term of the contract and the owner to adjust the frequency and amount of premium payments. We credit premiums to an account maintained for the policyholder. Premiums are credited net of
specified expenses. Interest is credited to the policyholder’s account at interest rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. Specific charges are made against the policyholder’s account for the cost of insurance protection and for
expenses. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience.

Term Life.Term life products provide a guaranteed benefit upon the death
of the insured for a specified time period in return for the periodic payment of premiums. Specified coverage periods range from one year to 30 years, but in no event are they longer than the period over which premiums are paid. Death benefits
may be level over the period or decreasing. Premiums may be guaranteed at a level amount for the coverage period or may be non-level and non-guaranteed. Term insurance products are sometimes referred to as pure protection products, in that there are
typically no savings or investment elements. Term contracts expire without value at the end of the coverage period when the insured party is still living.

Whole Life.Whole life products provide a guaranteed benefit upon the death
of the insured in return for the periodic payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined period. Premium payments may be required for the entire life of the contract period, to a specified age or period, and may be level or change in accordance
with a predetermined schedule. Whole life insurance includes policies that provide a participation feature in the form of dividends. Policyholders may receive dividends in cash or apply them to increase death benefits, increase cash values available
upon surrender or reduce the premiums required to maintain the contract in-force. Because the use of dividends is specified by the policyholder, this group of products provides significant flexibility to individuals to tailor the product to suit
their specific needs and circumstances, while at the same time providing guaranteed benefits.

Disability.Disability products provide a benefit in the event of the
disability of the insured. In most instances, this benefit is in the form of monthly income paid until the insured reaches age 65. In addition to income replacement, the product may be used to provide for the payment of business overhead expenses
for disabled business owners or mortgage payment protection.

Property &
Casualty.These products include personal lines property & casualty insurance offered to individuals through a variety of retail distribution channels, including independent agents, property & casualty
specialists, and the individual distribution sales group.

Auto insurance policies provide
coverage for private passenger automobiles, utility automobiles and vans, motorcycles, motor homes, antique or classic automobiles and trailers. We also offer traditional







coverage such as liability, uninsured motorist, no fault or personal injury protection, as well as collision and comprehensive insurance.

Homeowners’ insurance policies provide protection for homeowners, renters, condominium owners and
residential landlords against losses arising out of damage to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well as coverage for liability arising from ownership or occupancy. Other insurance includes personal excess liability (protection
against losses in excess of amounts covered by other liability insurance policies), and coverage for recreational vehicles and boat owners. Most of our homeowners’ policies are traditional insurance policies for dwellings, providing protection
for loss on a “replacement cost” basis. These policies also provide additional coverage for reasonable, normal living expenses incurred by policyholders that have been displaced from their homes.

Auto insurance represented 58%, while homeowners and other insurance represented the remaining 42%, of
the total net earned premiums on these products in 2012. In 2012, our property & casualty business was concentrated in New York and Illinois, as measured by the percentage of total direct earned premiums, of 14% and 10%, respectively,
followed by Texas and Connecticut, each with 5%.

Other.Additionally,
through our broker-dealer affiliates, we offer a full range of mutual funds and other securities products. The elimination of transactions from activity between the segments within the Americas occurs within Life & Other.

Our Annuities business offers a variety of variable and fixed annuities that are primarily sold to
individuals and tax-qualified groups in the education, healthcare and not-for-profit sectors.

The major
products within Annuities are as follows:

Variable Annuities.Variable annuities
provide for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Variable annuities allow the contractholder to make deposits into various investment options in a separate account, as determined by the contractholder. The risks associated with such
investment options are borne entirely by the contractholder, except where guaranteed minimum benefits are involved. In certain variable annuity products, contractholders may also choose to allocate all or a portion of their account to the
Company’s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. In addition, contractholders may also elect certain minimum death benefit and minimum living benefit guarantees for which additional
fees are charged and where asset allocation restrictions may apply.

Fixed Annuities.Fixed annuities provide for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Fixed annuities do not allow the same investment flexibility provided by variable annuities, but provide guarantees related to the preservation of principal and
interest credited. Deposits made into deferred annuity contracts are allocated to the Company’s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. Credited interest rates are guaranteed not to
change for certain limited periods of time, ranging from one to 10 years. Fixed income annuities provide a guaranteed monthly income for a specified period of years and/or for the life of the annuitant.

Group, Voluntary & Worksite Benefits

We have built a leading position in the U.S. group insurance market through long-standing relationships with many of
the largest corporate employers in the U.S. Our Group, Voluntary & Worksite Benefits segment is organized into two businesses: Group and Voluntary & Worksite.

Our Group insurance products and services include life, dental, group short- and long-term disability and accidental
death & dismemberment coverages. We also sell administrative services-only (“ASO”) arrangements to some employers.







The major products within Group are as follows:

Life.Life insurance products and services include variable life, universal
life, and term life products. These are similar to the products offered by the Retail Life & Other business except we offer group insurance products as employer-paid benefits or as voluntary benefits where all or a portion of the premiums
are paid by the employee. These life insurance products and services also include employee paid supplemental life and are offered as standard products or may be tailored to meet specific customer needs.

Dental.Dental products provide insurance and ASO plans that assist employees, retirees
and their families in maintaining oral health while reducing out-of-pocket expenses and providing superior customer service. Dental plans include the Preferred Dentist Program and the Dental Health Maintenance Organization.

Disability.Disability products provide a benefit in the event of the disability of the
insured. In most instances, this benefit is in the form of monthly income paid until the insured reaches age 65.

Our Voluntary & Worksite products and services include long-term care (“LTC”), prepaid legal plans, critical illness and property & casualty products.

The major products within Voluntary & Worksite are as follows:

Long-term Care.LTC products provide protection against the potentially high costs of
LTC services. They generally pay benefits to insureds who need assistance with activities of daily living or have a cognitive impairment. Although we discontinued the sale of these products in 2010, we continue to support our existing policyholders.

Property & Casualty. These products include personal lines
property & casualty insurance offered directly to employees at their employer’s worksite, through a variety of distribution channels, including independent agents, property & casualty specialists and direct marketing. The
property & casualty products offered by the Voluntary & Worksite business are the same products offered by the Retail property & casualty business. Auto insurance represented 75%, while homeowners and other insurance
represented the remaining 25%, of the total net earned premiums on these products in 2012. In 2012, our property & casualty business was concentrated in Massachusetts, New York and Florida, as measured by the percentage of total direct
earned premiums, of 14%, 9% and 7%, respectively, followed by Texas, New Jersey and California, each with 6%.

Corporate Benefit Funding

The Corporate Benefit Funding segment provides funding and financing solutions that help institutional customers mitigate and manage liabilities primarily associated with their qualified, nonqualified and
welfare employee benefit programs using a spectrum of life and annuity-based insurance and investment products.

The major products within Corporate Benefit Funding are as follows:

Stable Value Products.We offer general account guaranteed interest
contracts, separate account guaranteed interest contracts, and similar products used to support the stable value option of defined contribution plans. We also offer private floating rate funding agreements that are used for money market funds,
securities lending cash collateral portfolios and short-term investment funds.

Pension
Closeouts.We offer general account and separate account annuity products, generally in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans, both in the U.S. and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”). These risk transfer
products include single premium buyouts that allow for full or partial transfers of pension liabilities.

Torts and Settlements.We offer innovative strategies for complex litigation settlements, primarily structured settlement annuities.







Capital Markets Investment
Products.Products offered include funding agreements, Federal Home Loan Bank advances and funding agreement-backed commercial paper.

Other Corporate Benefit Funding Products and Services.We offer specialized
life insurance products and funding agreements designed specifically to provide solutions for funding postretirement benefits and company, bank or trust owned life insurance used to finance non-qualified benefit programs for executives.

Latin America

We operate in six countries in Latin America: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Uruguay. Our largest operations are in Mexico, Chile and Argentina. In addition to the various products
discussed in other segments within the Americas, Latin America engages in the following businesses:

Accident & health insurance.We offer group and individual major medical, accidental, and supplemental
health products, including accidental death and disability, medical reimbursement, hospital indemnity and medical coverage for serious medical conditions.

Administradora de Fondos de Ahorro para el Retiro(“AFORE”). Through our AFORE company in Mexico, we offer a savings oriented pension product under the mandatory privatized social
security system for all non-government employees.

Credit insurance. We offer credit insurance policies
designed to fulfill certain loan obligations in the event of the policyholder’s death.

See Note 3 of the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the disposition of insurance operations in the Caribbean region, Panama and Costa Rica. See also Note 23 for information on the acquisition of Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones
Provida S.A. (“Provida”) in Chile.

Asia

We operate in nine countries in Asia, with our largest operations in Japan and Korea. Other operations in Asia include
Australia, Bangladesh, Hong Kong, Nepal and Pakistan, as well as an unconsolidated operating joint venture in China, the results of which are reflected in net investment income and a consolidated operating joint venture in India. Our Asia segment
engages in the following businesses:

Life insurance.We offer both traditional and non-traditional
life insurance products, such as whole life, term life, endowments, universal life and variable life products. We offer group life programs in most markets.

Accident & health insurance.We offer individual and group personal accident and supplemental health products, including accidental death and dismemberment, hospital indemnity, scheduled
medical reimbursement plans, and coverage for serious medical conditions. In addition, we offer individual and group major medical coverage in select markets.

Retirement and savings products.We offer both fixed and variable annuity products in select markets, with our
largest markets in Japan, Korea and China.

Credit insurance.We offer credit insurance policies
designed to fulfill certain obligations in the event of the policyholder’s death in select markets, including Japan, Australia and Bangladesh.

See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the sale of the Company’s 50% interest in its former operating joint venture in Japan in the second quarter
of 2011.







EMEA

We operate in 31 countries across EMEA, with our largest operations in Poland, the U.K., France and the United Arab
Emirates. EMEA engages in the following businesses:

Life insurance.We offer both traditional and
non-traditional life insurance products, such as whole life, term life, endowments, universal life and variable life products. We offer group term life programs in most markets.

Accident & health insurance.We offer individual and group personal accident and supplemental health
products, including accidental death and dismemberment, hospital indemnity, scheduled medical reimbursement plans, and coverage for serious medical conditions. In addition, we offer individual and group major medical coverage in select markets.

Retirement and savings products.We offer both fixed and variable annuity products and pension
products, including group pension programs in select markets. In Poland and Romania we offer through specialized pension companies a savings oriented pension product under the mandatory privatized social security systems.

Credit insurance.We offer credit insurance policies designed to fulfill certain obligations in the event
of the policyholder’s death.

Corporate & Other

The Company reports certain of its results of operations in Corporate & Other, which includes MetLife Bank (see
Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the MetLife Bank Divestiture) and other business activities. Corporate & Other contains the excess capital not allocated to the segments, external
integration costs, internal resource costs for associates committed to acquisitions, enterprise-wide strategic initiative restructuring charges and various start-up and certain run-off entities. Corporate & Other also includes assumed
reinsurance of certain variable annuity products from our former operating joint venture in Japan. Under this in-force reinsurance agreement, we reinsure the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with variable annuity products.
Additionally, Corporate & Other includes interest expense related to the majority of the Company’s outstanding debt, expenses associated with certain legal proceedings and income tax audit issues. Corporate & Other also
includes the elimination of intersegment amounts, which generally relate to intersegment loans, which bear interest rates commensurate with related borrowings.

Sales Distribution

Overview

In the Americas, excluding Latin America, we market our products and services through various
distribution channels. Our retail life, disability and annuities products targeted to individuals are sold via sales forces, comprised of MetLife employees, in addition to third-party organizations. Our group and corporate benefit funding products
are sold via sales forces primarily comprised of MetLife employees. Personal lines property & casualty insurance products are directly marketed to employees at their employer’s worksite. Personal lines property & casualty
insurance products are also marketed and sold to individuals by independent agents and property & casualty specialists through a direct marketing channel and the individual distribution sales group. MetLife sales employees work with all
distribution groups to better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries.

In
Asia, Latin America, and EMEA, we market our products and services through a multi-distribution strategy which varies by geographic region and stage of market development. The various distribution channels include: career agency, bancassurance,
direct marketing, brokerage, other third-party distribution, and e-commerce. In developing countries, the career agency channel covers the needs of the emerging middle class with primarily traditional products (e.g., whole life, term, endowment and
accident & health). In more developed and mature markets, career agents, while continuing to serve their existing customers to keep pace with their developing







financial needs, also target upper middle class and mass affluent customer bases with a more sophisticated product set including more investment-sensitive products, such as universal life
insurance, unit-linked life insurance, mutual funds and single premium deposit insurance. In the bancassurance channel, we leverage partnerships that span all regions and have developed extensive and far reaching capabilities in all regions. Our
direct marketing operations, the largest of which is in Japan, deploy both broadcast marketing approaches (e.g. direct response TV, web-based lead generation) and traditional direct marketing techniques such as inbound and outbound telemarketing.

Americas

Retail Distribution

Retail products are
sold through a diverse set of distribution networks in order to maximize penetration in the market place. These include individual and third-party distribution, property & casualty specialists and direct marketing.

Our individual distribution sales group targets the large middle-income market, as well as affluent individuals, owners
of small businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized companies. We have also been successful in selling our products in various multi-cultural markets.

The individual distribution sales group is comprised of three channels: the MetLife distribution channel, a career agency system, the New England Financial distribution channel, a general agency system,
and MetLife Resources, a career agency system.

The MetLife distribution channel had approximately 4,000
MetLife agents under contract in 48 agencies at December 31, 2012. This career agency sales force focuses on the large middle-income and affluent markets, including multi-cultural markets. We support our efforts in multi-cultural markets
through targeted advertising, specially trained agents and sales literature written in various languages.

The
New England Financial distribution channel included approximately 30 general agencies providing support to approximately 1,700 general agents and a network of independent brokers throughout the U.S. at December 31, 2012. The New England
Financial distribution channel targets high net worth individuals, owners of small businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized companies.

MetLife Resources, a focused distribution channel of MetLife, markets retirement, annuity and other financial products on a national basis through approximately 530 MetLife agents and independent brokers
at December 31, 2012. MetLife Resources targets the nonprofit, educational and healthcare markets.

Retail Life & Other and Annuity products are sold through our individual distribution sales group and also
through various third-party organizations. We distribute products in a regional model through wholesalers working directly with high net worth individuals and small- to medium-sized businesses through independent general agencies, financial
advisors, consultants, brokerage general agencies and other independent marketing organizations under contractual arrangements. Additionally, wholesalers sell through financial intermediaries, including regional broker-dealers, brokerage firms,
financial planners and banks.

We market and sell property & casualty products through independent
agents, property & casualty specialists, a direct marketing channel and the individual distribution sales group. In recent years, we have increased the number of independent agents appointed to sell these products.

Group Distribution

Group, Voluntary & Worksite Benefits distributes its Group products and services through a sales force that is segmented by the size of the target customer. Marketing representatives sell either
directly to corporate and other group customers or through an intermediary, such as a broker or consultant. Voluntary & Worksite products are sold through the same sales channels, as well as by specialists for these products. Employers have
been







emphasizing voluntary products and, as a result, we have increased our focus on communicating and marketing to employees in order to further foster sales of those products. At December 31,
2012, the Group sales channels had approximately 300 marketing representatives.

We are a leading provider of
personal lines property & casualty insurance products offered to employees at their employer’s worksite. Marketing representatives market personal lines property & casualty insurance products to employers through a variety of
means, including broker referrals and cross-selling to group customers. Once permitted by the employer, MetLife commences marketing efforts to employees, enabling them to purchase coverage and to request payroll deduction over the telephone.

We have entered into several operating joint ventures and other arrangements with third parties to expand the
marketing and distribution opportunities of Group, Voluntary & Worksite Benefits products and services. We also seek to sell our group products and services through sponsoring organizations and affinity groups. In addition, we also provide
life and dental coverage to certain employees of the U.S. Government.

Corporate Benefit Funding Distribution

Corporate Benefit Funding products and services are distributed through dedicated sales teams and
relationship managers located in eight offices in the U.S. and one in the U.K. Products may be sold directly to benefit plan sponsors and advisors or through brokers, consultants or other intermediaries. In addition, these sales professionals work
with individual, group and global distribution areas to better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries.

Latin America Distribution

Latin
America’s distribution channels include captive agents, direct marketing, bancassurance, large multinational brokers and small-and medium-sized brokers, direct and group sales forces (mostly for group policies without broker intermediation),
and worksite marketing. The region has an exclusive and captive agency distribution network with more than 2,800 agents also selling a variety of individual life, accident & health, and pension products. In the direct marketing channel, we
work with more than 60 sponsors and have a network of more than 1,300 telesales representatives selling mainly accident & health and individual life products directly to consumers. We currently work with approximately 2,900 active brokers
with registered sales of group and individual life, accident & health, group medical, dental and pension products. Worksite marketing in Mexico has over 3,200 captive agents.

Asia

Japan’s multi-channel distribution strategy consists of captive agents, independent agents, brokers, bancassurance, and direct marketing. While face-to-face channels continue to be core to
Japan’s business, other channels, including bancassurance and direct marketing, have become a critical part of Japan’s distribution strategy. Our Japan operation has maintained its position in bancassurance due to its strong distribution
relationship with Japan’s mega banks, trust banks and various regional banks, as well as with the Japan Post. The direct marketing channel is supported by an industry-leading marketing platform, state-of-the-art call center infrastructure and
its own campaign management system.

Our Japan operation has approximately 5,400 captive agents, 10,100
independent agents, 75 bancassurance relationships, including Japan Post, and 170 direct marketing sponsors.

Elsewhere in Asia, distribution strategies differ by country but generally utilize a combination of captive agents, bancassurance relationships and direct marketing. Agency sales are achieved through a
force of approximately 25,900 agents and managers (which includes approximately 1,500 agents and managers related to our operating joint venture in China) and a growing force of independent general agents. Bancassurance is a growing channel with
approximately 60 relationships, and approximately 25 programs providing access to thousands of bank customers.







Throughout the region, our Asia operation leverages its expertise in direct marketing operations management to conduct its own campaigns and provide those direct marketing capabilities to
third-party sponsors.

While not a significant part of the region’s overall business, sales of group life
and pension business are primarily achieved through independent brokers and an employee sales force.

EMEA

Our EMEA operations cover a wide geographical region from the developed markets of western Europe to
the emerging markets of central and eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Our operations in central and eastern Europe employ a multi-channel distribution strategy, which includes significant face to face channels, built on a strong captive
agency force of more than 3,800 agents, and relationships with more than 200 independent brokers and third-party multi-level agency networks. We have distribution relationships with more than 90 banks and other financial and non-financial
institutions, as well as a fast growing direct marketing channel. This EMEA region also has a group/corporate business direct sales force of more than 130 spanning all geographies.

Similarly, in our Middle East and Africa operations, products are distributed via a variety of channels including
approximately 1,500 agents, bancassurance, group brokers and direct marketing. Agency distribution is our primary distribution channel. Bancassurance is a growing channel with approximately 55 relationships providing access to thousands of bank
customers.

Our businesses in western Europe also have a multi-channel distribution strategy, including
independent financial advisors, brokers, captive agents, direct marketing, banks and financial institutions. Our U.K. operation has built a strong position in the U.K. independent advisor sector with a focus on variable annuities. Our U.K. operation
also has a growing group risk business serving small and medium sized employers and an agency sales force of approximately 850 agents which distributes accident & health and term life products.

Policyholder Liabilities

We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined amounts that are calculated to meet our policy obligations
when a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to provide for future annuity payments. Our liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are established based on
estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to be received over the
assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the investments we make with the premiums we receive. We establish liabilities for claims
and benefits based on assumptions and estimates of losses and liabilities incurred. Amounts for actuarial liabilities are computed and reported in the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For more details on policyholder
liabilities see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Liability for Future Policy Benefits” and “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Policyholder Liabilities.”

Pursuant
to state insurance laws and country regulators, MetLife, Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries establish statutory reserves, reported as liabilities, to meet their obligations on their respective policies. These statutory reserves are established in
amounts sufficient to meet policy and contract obligations, when taken together with expected future premiums and interest at assumed rates. Statutory reserves and actuarial liabilities for future policy benefits generally differ based on accounting
guidance.

The New York Insurance Law and regulations require certain MetLife entities to submit to the New
York Superintendent of Insurance or other state insurance departments, with each annual report, an opinion and memorandum of a “qualified actuary” that the statutory reserves and related actuarial amounts recorded in support of specified
policies and contracts, and the assets supporting such statutory reserves and related actuarial







amounts, make adequate provision for their statutory liabilities with respect to these obligations. See “— U.S. Regulation — Insurance Regulation — Policy and Contract Reserve
Adequacy Analysis.”

Insurance regulators in many of the non-U.S. countries in which MetLife operates
require certain MetLife entities to prepare a sufficiency analysis of the reserves presented in the locally required regulatory financial statements, and to submit that analysis to the regulatory authorities. See “— International
Regulation.”

Underwriting and Pricing

Underwriting

Underwriting generally involves an evaluation of applications by a professional staff of underwriters and actuaries, who determine the type and the amount of risk that we are willing to accept. We employ
detailed underwriting policies, guidelines and procedures designed to assist the underwriter to properly assess and quantify risks before issuing policies to qualified applicants or groups.

Insurance underwriting considers not only an applicant’s medical history, but also other factors such as financial
profile, foreign travel, vocations and alcohol, drug and tobacco use. Group underwriting generally evaluates the risk characteristics of each prospective insured group, although with certain voluntary products and for certain coverages, members of a
group may be underwritten on an individual basis. We generally perform our own underwriting; however, certain policies are reviewed by intermediaries under guidelines established by us. Generally, we are not obligated to accept any risk or group of
risks from, or to issue a policy or group of policies to, any employer or intermediary. Requests for coverage are reviewed on their merits and a policy is not issued unless the particular risk or group has been examined and approved by our
underwriters.

The underwriting conducted by our remote underwriting offices and intermediaries, as well as
our corporate underwriting office, are subject to periodic quality assurance reviews to maintain high-standards of underwriting and consistency. Such offices are also subject to periodic external audits by reinsurers with whom we do business.

We have established senior level oversight of the underwriting process that facilitates quality sales and
serves the needs of our customers, while supporting our financial strength and business objectives. Our goal is to achieve the underwriting, mortality and morbidity levels reflected in the assumptions in our product pricing. This is accomplished by
determining and establishing underwriting policies, guidelines, philosophies and strategies that are competitive and suitable for the customer, the agent and us.

For our property & casualty business, our underwriting function has six principal aspects: evaluating potential
voluntary and worksite employer accounts and independent agencies; establishing guidelines for the binding of risks; reviewing coverage bound by agents; underwriting potential insureds, on a case by case basis, presented by agents outside the scope
of their binding authority; pursuing information necessary in certain cases to enable issuance of a policy within our guidelines; and ensuring that renewal policies continue to be written at rates commensurate with risk.

Subject to very few exceptions, agents in each of the distribution channels for the Americas business, excluding Latin
America, have binding authority for risks which fall within our published underwriting guidelines. Risks falling outside the underwriting guidelines may be submitted for approval to the underwriting department; alternatively, agents in such a
situation may call the underwriting department to obtain authorization to bind the risk themselves. In most states, we generally have the right within a specified period (usually the first 60 days) to cancel any policy.

Pricing

Pricing reflects our corporate underwriting standards, which are consistent for our global businesses. Product pricing is based on the expected payout of benefits calculated through the use of assumptions
for mortality,







morbidity, expenses, persistency and investment returns, as well as certain macroeconomic factors, such as inflation. Investment-oriented products are priced based on various factors, which may
include investment return, expenses, persistency and optionality. For certain investment oriented products in the U.S. and certain business sold outside the U.S., pricing may include prospective and retrospective experience rating features.
Prospective experience rating involves the evaluation of past experience for the purpose of determining future premium rates and all prior year gains and losses are borne by us. Retrospective experience rating also involves the evaluation of past
experience for the purpose of determining the actual cost of providing insurance for the customer; however, the contract includes certain features that allow us to recoup certain losses or distribute certain gains back to the policyholder based on
actual prior years’ experience.

Rates for group insurance and voluntary & worksite products
(with the exception of property & casualty products) are based on anticipated results for the book of business being underwritten. Renewals are generally reevaluated annually or biannually and are repriced to reflect actual experience on
such products. Products offered by Corporate Benefit Funding are priced on demand. Pricing reflects expected investment returns, as well as mortality, longevity and expense assumptions appropriate for each product. This business is generally
nonparticipating and illiquid, as policyholders have few or no options or contractual rights to cash values.

Rates for individual life insurance products are highly regulated and must be approved by the regulators of the
jurisdictions in which the product is sold. Generally such products are renewed annually and may include pricing terms that are guaranteed for a certain period of time. Individual disability income products are based on anticipated results for the
occupation being underwritten. Fixed and variable annuity products are also highly regulated and approved by the respective regulators. Such products generally include penalties for early withdrawals and policyholder benefit elections to tailor the
form of the product’s benefits to the needs of the opting policyholder. We periodically reevaluate the costs associated with such options and will periodically adjust pricing levels on our guarantees. Further, from time to time, we may also
reevaluate the type and level of guarantee features currently being offered.

Rates for our major lines of
property & casualty insurance are based on our proprietary database, rather than relying on rating bureaus. We determine prices in part from a number of variables specific to each risk. The pricing of personal lines insurance products takes
into account, among other things, the expected frequency and severity of losses, the costs of providing coverage (including the costs of acquiring policyholders and administering policy benefits and other administrative and overhead costs such as
reinsurance), competitive factors and profit considerations. The major pricing variables for personal lines insurance include characteristics of the insured property, such as age, make and model or construction type, as well as characteristics of
the insureds, such as driving record and loss experience, and the insured’s personal financial management. Our ability to set and change rates is subject to regulatory oversight.

As a condition of our license to do business in each state, we, like all other personal lines insurers, are required to
write or share the cost of private passenger automobile and homeowners insurance for higher risk individuals who would otherwise be unable to obtain such insurance. This “involuntary” market, also called the “shared market,” is
governed by the applicable laws and regulations of each state, and policies written in this market are generally written at rates higher than standard rates and typically afford less coverage.

Reinsurance Activity

We enter into reinsurance agreements primarily as a purchaser of reinsurance for our various insurance products and also
as a provider of reinsurance for some insurance products issued by third parties. We participate in reinsurance activities in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to significant risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. We enter
into various agreements with reinsurers that cover individual risks, group risks or defined blocks of business, primarily on a coinsurance, yearly renewable term, excess or catastrophe excess basis. These reinsurance agreements spread risk and
minimize the effect of losses. The extent of each risk retained by us depends on our evaluation of the specific risk, subject, in certain circumstances, to maximum







retention limits based on the characteristics of coverages. We also cede first dollar mortality risk under certain contracts. In addition to reinsuring mortality risk, we reinsure other risks, as
well as specific coverages. We obtain reinsurance for capital requirement purposes and also when the economic impact of the reinsurance agreement makes it appropriate to do so.

Under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer agrees to reimburse us for the ceded amount in the event a
claim is paid. Cessions under reinsurance agreements do not discharge our obligations as the primary insurer. In the event that reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, reinsurance recoverable balances
could become uncollectible.

We reinsure our business through a diversified group of well-capitalized, highly
rated reinsurers. We analyze recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes, if any, with our reinsurers. We monitor ratings and evaluate the financial strength of our reinsurers by analyzing their financial statements. In
addition, the reinsurance recoverable balance due from each reinsurer is evaluated as part of the overall monitoring process. Recoverability of reinsurance recoverable balances is evaluated based on these analyses. We generally secure large
reinsurance recoverable balances with various forms of collateral, including secured trusts, funds withheld accounts and irrevocable letters of credit. Additionally, we enter into reinsurance agreements for risk and capital management purposes with
several affiliated captive reinsurers. The majority of such reinsurance activities within the affiliated captive reinsurers are eliminated in consolidation.

Americas (excluding Latin America)

For our Retail
Life & Other insurance products, we have historically reinsured the mortality risk primarily on an excess of retention basis or on a quota share basis. We currently reinsure 90% of the mortality risk in excess of $2 million for most
products and reinsure up to 90% of the mortality risk for certain other products. In addition to reinsuring mortality risk as described above, we reinsure other risks, as well as specific coverages. Placement of reinsurance is done primarily on an
automatic basis and also on a facultative basis for risks with specified characteristics. On a case by case basis, we may retain up to $20 million per life and reinsure 100% of amounts in excess of the amount we retain. We evaluate our
reinsurance programs routinely and may increase or decrease our retention at any time.

For our Retail
Annuities business, we reinsure a portion of the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with our variable annuities. Under these reinsurance agreements, we pay a reinsurance premium generally based on fees associated with the
guarantees collected from policyholders, and receive reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations.

For our Corporate Benefit Funding segment, we have periodically engaged in reinsurance activities, as considered appropriate.

For our property & casualty business within both the Retail and Group, Voluntary & Worksite Benefits
segments, we purchase reinsurance to manage our exposure to large losses (primarily catastrophe losses) and to protect statutory surplus. We cede losses and premiums based upon the exposure of the policies subject to reinsurance. To manage exposure
to large property & casualty losses, we purchase property catastrophe, casualty and property per risk excess of loss reinsurance protection.

For other policies, we generally retain most of the risk and cede particular risks on certain client arrangements.

Latin America, Asia and EMEA

For certain life
insurance products, we currently reinsure risks in excess of $5 million to external reinsurers on a yearly renewable term basis. We may also reinsure certain risks with external reinsurers depending upon the nature of the risk and local
regulatory requirements.







For selected large corporate clients, we reinsure group employee benefits or
credit insurance business with various client-affiliated reinsurance companies, covering policies issued to the employees or customers of the clients. Additionally, we cede and assume risk with other insurance companies when either company requires
a business partner with the appropriate local licensing to issue certain types of policies in certain countries. In these cases, the assuming company typically underwrites the risks, develops the products and assumes most or all of the risk.

We also have reinsurance agreements in-force that reinsure a portion of the living and death benefit
guarantees issued in connection with variable annuity products. Under these agreements, we pay reinsurance fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and receive reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account
values, subject to certain limitations.

Corporate & Other

We reinsure through 100% quota share reinsurance agreements certain run-off LTC and workers’ compensation business
written by MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut (“MICC”), a subsidiary of MetLife, Inc.

Corporate & Other also has a reinsurance agreement in-force to reinsure the living and death benefit guarantees
issued in connection with certain variable annuity products. Under this agreement, we receive reinsurance fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and provide reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account
values, subject to certain limitations.

Catastrophe Coverage

We have exposure to catastrophes which could contribute to significant fluctuations in our results of operations. For the
Americas, excluding Latin America, we also use excess of retention and quota share reinsurance agreements to provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure to larger risks. Currently, for Latin America, Asia and EMEA, we purchase
catastrophe coverage to insure risks within certain countries deemed by management to be exposed to the greatest catastrophic risks.

Reinsurance Recoverables

For information regarding
ceded reinsurance recoverable balances, included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables in the consolidated balance sheets, see Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

U.S. Regulation

Insurance Regulation

In the United States,
insurance is principally regulated by the states, with the federal government playing a limited role. Insurance regulation generally aims at supervising and regulating insurers individually rather than on a group-wide basis, with the goal of
protecting policyholders and ensuring that each insurance company remains solvent.

Each of MetLife’s
insurance subsidiaries operating in the United States is licensed and regulated in each U.S. jurisdiction where it conducts insurance business. The extent of such regulation varies, but most jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing the
financial aspects and business conduct of insurers. State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things:



•licensing companies and agents to transact business;



•calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements;







•mandating certain insurance benefits;



•regulating certain premium rates;



•reviewing and approving policy forms;



•regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution
arrangements and payment of inducements, and identifying and paying to the states benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners;



•regulating advertising;



•protecting privacy;



•establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards;



•fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity
contracts;



•adopting and enforcing suitability standards with respect to the sale of annuities and other insurance products;



•approving changes in control of insurance companies;



•restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and



•regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.

Each insurance subsidiary is required to file reports, generally including detailed annual financial statements, with
insurance regulatory authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which it does business, and its operations and accounts are subject to periodic examination by such authorities. These subsidiaries must also file, and in many jurisdictions and in
some lines of insurance obtain regulatory approval for, rules, rates and forms relating to the insurance written in the jurisdictions in which they operate.

State and federal insurance and securities regulatory authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general from time to time make inquiries regarding compliance by MetLife, Inc. and
its insurance subsidiaries with insurance, securities and other laws and regulations regarding the conduct of our insurance and securities businesses. We cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective action when warranted. See Note 21 of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Holding Company Regulation

MetLife, Inc. and its U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws
of various U.S. jurisdictions. The insurance holding company laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally require a controlled insurance company (insurers that are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies) to
register with state regulatory authorities and to file with those authorities certain reports, including information concerning its capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations.

State insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and limitations on the amount of dividends or
other distributions payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent companies, as well as on transactions between an insurer and its affiliates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — MetLife, Inc. — Liquidity and Capital Sources — Dividends from Subsidiaries.”

Guaranty Associations and Similar Arrangements

Most of the U.S. jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life and property & casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to
participate in guaranty associations,







which are organized to pay certain contractual insurance benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to
prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. Some states
permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets.

In the past
five years, the aggregate assessments levied against MetLife have not been material. We have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate. See Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information on the insolvency assessments.

Insurance Regulatory Examinations

As part of their regulatory oversight process, state insurance departments conduct periodic detailed examinations of the
books, records, accounts, and business practices of insurers domiciled in their states. State insurance departments also have the authority to conduct examinations of non-domiciliary insurers that are licensed in their states. Except as otherwise
disclosed in Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, during the three-year period ended December 31, 2012, MetLife has not received any material adverse findings resulting from state insurance department examinations of
its insurance subsidiaries conducted in respect of this three-year period.

Regulatory authorities in a small
number of states, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) and, occasionally, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), have had investigations or inquiries relating to sales of individual life insurance
policies or annuities or other products by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (“MLIC”), MetLife Securities, Inc., New England Life Insurance Company, New England Securities Corporation, General American Life Insurance Company, Walnut
Street Securities, Inc., MICC and Tower Square Securities, Inc. These investigations often focus on the conduct of particular financial services representatives and the sale of unregistered or unsuitable products or the misuse of client assets. Over
the past several years, these and a number of investigations by other regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments and certain other relief, including restitution payments. We may continue to resolve investigations in a similar manner.

In addition, increased scrutiny has been given to claims payment practices by insurance companies. See Note
21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding retained asset accounts and unclaimed property inquiries and related litigation.

State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) are also
investigating the use of affiliated captive reinsurers or off-shore entities to reinsure insurance risks. Like many life insurance companies, we utilize captive reinsurers to satisfy certain reserve requirements related to universal life and term
life insurance policies. We also use captive reinsurers to aggregate variable annuity risks under a single legal entity, which allows us to consolidate hedging and other risk management programs. If the New York State Department of Financial
Services (the “Department of Financial Services”) or other state insurance regulators determine to restrict our use of captive reinsurers, it could limit our ability to write those products or hedge the associated risks efficiently, or
lead us to increase prices on those products. For more information on our use of captive reinsurers see Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The NAIC is reviewing life insurers’ use of non-variable separate accounts that are insulated (where assets of the
separate account equal to the reserves and other contract liabilities with respect to the account may not be charged with liabilities arising out of the general account in the event of an insurance company insolvency). The NAIC’s review might
lead to a recommendation against the allowance of insulation for certain of our separate account products, particularly in the institutional markets. We cannot predict what, if any, changes may result from this review and possible recommendations.
If the Department of Financial Services or other state insurance regulators change applicable laws or regulations in accordance with such recommendation, our use of insulation for certain products could be impaired and our ability to compete
effectively or do business in certain markets







may be adversely affected. In addition, our financial results may also be adversely affected.

Finally, in January 2013, MetLife was the subject of a Supervisory College meeting. The meeting, which was chaired by the Department of Financial Services, was attended by MetLife’s key U.S. and
international insurance regulators. A Supervisory College is a group of key insurance regulators that is formed to facilitate information sharing and to enhance the member regulators’ understanding of an insurance group’s risk profile.

Policy and Contract Reserve Adequacy Analysis

Annually, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are required to conduct an analysis of the adequacy of all statutory
reserves. In each case, a qualified actuary must submit an opinion which states that the statutory reserves make adequate provision, according to accepted actuarial standards of practice, for the anticipated cash flows required by the contractual
obligations and related expenses of the U.S. insurance subsidiary. The adequacy of the statutory reserves is considered in light of the assets held by the insurer with respect to such reserves and related actuarial items including, but not limited
to, the investment earnings on such assets, and the consideration anticipated to be received and retained under the related policies and contracts. The Company may increase reserves in order to submit an opinion without qualification. Since
inception of this requirement, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries which are required by their states of domicile to provide these opinions have provided such opinions without qualifications.

NAIC

The NAIC is an organization, the mandate of which is to benefit state insurance regulatory authorities and consumers by promulgating model insurance laws and regulations for adoption by the states. The
NAIC provides standardized insurance industry accounting and reporting guidance through its Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual (the “Manual”). However, statutory accounting principles continue to be established by individual state
laws, regulations and permitted practices. Changes to the Manual or modifications by the various state insurance departments may impact the statutory capital and surplus of MetLife, Inc.’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries.

The NAIC currently has in place its “Solvency Modernization Initiative,” which is designed to review the U.S.
financial regulatory system and all aspects of financial regulation affecting insurance companies. Though broad in scope, the NAIC has stated that the Solvency Modernization Initiative will focus on: (1) capital requirements; (2) corporate
governance and risk management; (3) group supervision; (4) statutory accounting and financial reporting; and (5) reinsurance. This initiative has resulted in the recent adoption by the NAIC of the NAIC Risk Management and Own Risk and
Solvency Assessment model act which, following enactment at the state level, will require larger insurers, at least annually beginning in 2015, to assess the adequacy of their and their group’s risk management and current and future solvency
position. We cannot predict the additional capital requirements or compliance costs these requirements may impose.

In addition, in December 2012, the NAIC approved a new valuation manual containing a principles-based approach to life insurance company reserves. Principles-based reserving is designed to tailor the
reserving process to specific products to result in more precise reserving. The valuation manual containing the principles-based approach will not become effective unless it is enacted into law by a minimum number of state legislatures. A number of
insurance commissioners, including New York, have opposed the current form of the principles-based approach. The NAIC has formed a working group to study and address these concerns.

Surplus and Capital; Risk-Based Capital

Insurers are required to maintain their capital and surplus at or above minimum levels. Regulators have discretionary
authority, in connection with the continued licensing of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, to limit or prohibit an insurer’s sales to policyholders if, in their judgment, the regulators determine that such insurer has not maintained the minimum
surplus or capital or that the further transaction of business will be hazardous to policyholders. Most of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital (“RBC”) requirements and report their RBC based on a formula
calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and statutory







reserve items, as well as taking into account the risk characteristics of the insurer. The major categories of risk involved are asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk, market risk and
business risk. The formula is used as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. State insurance laws provide
insurance regulators the authority to require various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose RBC ratio does not meet or exceed certain RBC levels. As of the date of the most recent annual statutory financial statements filed
with insurance regulators, the RBC of each of our subsidiaries subject to these requirements was in excess of each of those RBC levels. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Capital.”

The NAIC will examine RBC
requirements in 2013. We are not aware of any potential NAIC actions that would have a material impact on the RBC of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries.

Regulation of Investments

Each of our
U.S. insurance subsidiaries is subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of our investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in certain asset categories, such as below investment grade fixed income
securities, equity real estate, other equity investments, and derivatives. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations would cause investments exceeding regulatory limitations to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring
surplus and, in some instances, would require divestiture of such non-qualifying investments. We believe that the investments made by each of MetLife, Inc.’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries complied, in all material respects, with such regulations
at December 31, 2012. See “— Federal Initiatives” for information regarding the impact on our investments of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”).

Regulation of Over-the-Counter Derivatives

Federal Initiatives

Although the insurance business in the United States is primarily regulated by the states, federal initiatives often have an impact on our business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal
measures are proposed which may significantly affect the insurance business. These areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform
legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies.







Dodd-Frank effected the most far-reaching overhaul of financial regulation
in the U.S. in decades. The full impact of Dodd-Frank on us will depend on the numerous rulemaking initiatives required or permitted by Dodd-Frank and the various studies mandated by Dodd-Frank, many of which remain to be completed.

Dodd-Frank established the Federal Insurance Office within the Department of the Treasury, which has the authority to
participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the U.S., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. While not having a general supervisory or
regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office performs various functions with respect to insurance, including serving as a non-voting member of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) and
making recommendations to the FSOC regarding insurers to be designated for more stringent regulation. The director is also required to submit a report to Congress regarding how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the
United States, including by increasing national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states.

Dodd-Frank also includes provisions that may impact the investments and investment activities of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including the federal regulation of such activities. Until the various
final regulations are promulgated pursuant to Dodd-Frank, and perhaps for some time thereafter, the full impact of Dodd-Frank on such activities will remain unclear. Such provisions and regulations include, but are not limited to, the regulation of
the OTC derivatives markets and prohibition or regulation of proprietary trading and sponsoring or investing in hedge funds or private equity funds by certain kinds of financial institutions (commonly known as the Volcker Rule). See “—
Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI — Volcker Rule.”

Potential Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI

MetLife, Inc. has de-registered as a bank holding company. As a result, MetLife, Inc. is no longer
regulated as a bank holding company or subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards as a bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more. However, if, in the future, MetLife, Inc. is designated by the FSOC as a non-bank
systemically important financial institution (“non-bank SIFI”), it could once again be subject to regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”) and the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York (collectively, with the Federal Reserve Board, the “Federal Reserve”) and to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. See “– Enhanced Prudential Standards.”

The FSOC issued final rules in April 2012, outlining the process it will follow and the criteria it will use to assess
whether a non-bank financial company should be subject to enhanced supervision by the Federal Reserve as a non-bank SIFI. The FSOC will follow a three-stage process. In Stage 1, a set of uniform quantitative metrics will be applied to a broad group
of non-bank financial companies in order to identify non-bank financial companies for further evaluation. If a non-bank financial company, such as MetLife, Inc., meets the total consolidated assets threshold and at least one of the other five
quantitative thresholds used in the first stage, the FSOC will continue with two stages of further analysis using additional sources of data and qualitative and quantitative factors. As of December 31, 2012, MetLife, Inc. met the total
consolidated assets threshold and at least one of the other Stage 1 quantitative thresholds. The International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”) has been tasked by the Financial Stability Board (“FSB”), an
international entity established to coordinate, develop and promote effective regulatory, supervisory and other financial sector policies in the interest of financial stability, with devising a process for designating global systemically important
insurers (“G-SIIs”) and has proposed an assessment methodology. See “— International Regulation.”

If MetLife, Inc. is designated as a non-bank SIFI, it will be subject to a number of Dodd-Frank requirements that are also applicable to bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more.

Enhanced Prudential Standards

Currently, the Federal Reserve Board is considering how to apply the enhanced prudential standards required by Dodd-Frank
to non-bank SIFIs. The Federal Reserve Board has proposed a set of prudential standards that would apply to non-bank SIFIs, as well as bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more, but has not







adopted final rules for most of these standards. As proposed, these enhanced prudential standards would impose (i) enhanced risk-based capital requirements, (ii) leverage limits,
(iii) liquidity requirements, (iv) single counterparty exposure limits, (v) governance requirements for risk management, (vi) stress test requirements, and (vii) special debt-to-equity limits for certain companies, and would
establish a procedure for early remediation based on the failure to comply with these requirements. The Federal Reserve Board has stated its intention to take a tailored approach to applying the prudential standards to non-bank SIFIs, but has not
provided any details on how it intends to do so.

The stress testing requirements have been implemented and
require non-bank SIFIs (as well as bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of assets) to undergo three stress tests each year: an annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve Board and two company-run stress tests (an
annual test which coincides with the timing of the supervisory stress test, and a mid-cycle test). Companies will be required to take the results of the stress tests into consideration in their annual capital planning and resolution and recovery
planning. If MetLife, Inc. is designated by the FSOC as a non-bank SIFI, its competitive position and its ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect its capital or need for
capital could be adversely affected by any additional capital requirements that might be imposed as a result of the enactment of Dodd-Frank, enhanced prudential standards, stress testing and other regulatory initiatives.

Non-bank SIFIs would also be required to submit a resolution plan setting forth how the company could be resolved under
the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress. Resolution plans would have to be resubmitted annually and promptly following any event, occurrence, change in conditions or circumstances, or other change that results in, or could
reasonably be foreseen to have, a material effect on the resolution plan. A failure to submit a “credible” resolution plan could result in the imposition of a variety of measures, including additional capital, leverage, or liquidity
requirements, and forced divestiture of assets or operations.

In addition, if it were determined that
MetLife, Inc. posed a substantial threat to U.S. financial stability, the applicable federal regulators would have the right to require it to take one or more other mitigating actions to reduce that risk, including limiting its ability to merge with
or acquire another company, terminating activities, restricting its ability to offer financial products or requiring it to sell assets or off-balance sheet items to unaffiliated entities. Enhanced standards would also permit, but not require,
regulators to establish requirements with respect to contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures and short-term debt limits. These standards are described as being more stringent than those otherwise imposed on bank holding companies; however,
the Federal Reserve Board is permitted to apply them on an institution-by-institution basis, depending on its determination of the institution’s level of risk.

Orderly Liquidation Authority







Volcker Rule

Consumer Protection Laws

Numerous other federal and state laws also affect MetLife, Inc.’s earnings and activities, including federal and state consumer protection laws. As part of Dodd-Frank, Congress established the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) to supervise and regulate institutions that provide certain financial products and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services subject to the CFPB’s jurisdiction
generally exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the CFPB does have authority to regulate non-insurance consumer services we provide.

Banking Regulation

Change of Control and Restrictions on Mergers and Acquisitions

As a result of MetLife, Inc.’s ownership of MetLife Bank, approval from the OCC would be required in connection with a change of control (generally presumed upon the acquisition of 10% or more of any
class of voting securities) of MetLife, Inc. If MetLife, Inc. were designated as a non-bank SIFI, it would need to obtain Federal Reserve approval before acquiring, merging or consolidating with a financial company having more than $10 billion
of assets or acquiring 5% or more of any voting class of securities of a bank or bank holding company.







Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation

Some of our subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance products are subject to
extensive regulation under the federal securities laws administered by the SEC. These subsidiaries issue variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment
companies under the Investment Company Act. Each registered separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered investment company under the Investment Company Act.
In addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies issued by these registered separate accounts are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Other subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as
broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and are members of, and subject to regulation by, FINRA. Further, some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and are also registered as investment advisers in various states, as applicable. Certain variable contract separate accounts sponsored by our subsidiaries are exempt from registration, but may be
subject to other provisions of the federal securities laws.

Federal and state securities regulatory
authorities and FINRA from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations regarding compliance by MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries with securities and other laws and regulations. We cooperate with such inquiries and examinations and take
corrective action when warranted.

Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to
protect investors in the securities markets and generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations.
Dodd-Frank also authorizes the SEC to establish a standard of conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized investment advice to retail and other customers. This standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the
customer without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker or dealer providing the advice. See “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Legal Risks — Changes in U.S Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and State
Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability.” We may also be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we provide investment advisory
services, offer products similar to those described above, or conduct other activities.

Environmental Considerations

As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to extensive federal, state and local
environmental laws and regulations. Inherent in such ownership and operation is also the risk that there may be potential environmental liabilities and costs in connection with any required remediation of such properties. In addition, we hold equity
interests in companies that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities. We routinely have environmental assessments performed with respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real property to be acquired through
foreclosure. We cannot provide assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not arise. However, based on information currently available to us, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations
or any remediation of such properties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) Considerations

We provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA, or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). As such, our activities are subject
to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries and the requirement under ERISA and the Code
that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to such plans. The applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code are subject to enforcement by the Department
of Labor (“DOL”), the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.







The prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code
generally restrict the provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and Individual Retirement Accounts (“IRAs”) if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm or their
affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen. In October 2011, the DOL issued final regulations that provide limited relief from these investment advice restrictions. If no additional relief is provided regarding these
investment advice restrictions, the ability of our affiliated broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide investment advice to ERISA plans and participants, and with respect to IRAs, would likely be significantly restricted. Also,
the fee and revenue arrangements of certain advisory programs may be required to be revenue neutral, resulting in potential lost revenues for these broker-dealers and their affiliates.

Other proposed investment advice regulatory initiatives under ERISA also may negatively impact the current business model
of our broker-dealers. In particular, the DOL issued a proposed regulation in October 2010 that would, if adopted as proposed, significantly broaden the circumstances under which a person or entity providing investment advice with respect to ERISA
plans or IRAs would be deemed a fiduciary under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code. If adopted, the proposed regulations may make it easier for the DOL in enforcement actions, and for plaintiffs’ attorneys in ERISA litigation, to attempt to
extend fiduciary status to advisors who would not be deemed fiduciaries under current regulations. In September 2011, the DOL announced it will re-propose these fiduciary definition regulations, and a new proposal is expected in 2013.

In addition, the DOL has issued a number of regulations recently that increase the level of disclosure that must be
provided to plan sponsors and participants. The participant disclosure regulations and the regulations which require service providers to disclose fee and other information to plan sponsors took effect in 2012. These ERISA disclosure requirements
will likely increase the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased costs.

InJohn
Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company v. Harris Trust and Savings Bank (1993),the U.S. Supreme Court held that certain assets in excess of amounts necessary to satisfy guaranteed obligations under a participating group annuity general
account contract are “plan assets.” Therefore, these assets are subject to certain fiduciary obligations under ERISA, which requires fiduciaries to perform their duties solely in the interest of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries.
On January 5, 2000, the Secretary of Labor issued final regulations indicating, in cases where an insurer has issued a policy backed by the insurer’s general account to or for an employee benefit plan, the extent to which assets of the
insurer constitute plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. The regulations apply only with respect to a policy issued by an insurer on or before December 31, 1998 (“Transition Policy”). No person will generally be liable under
ERISA or the Code for conduct occurring prior to July 5, 2001, where the basis of a claim is that insurance company general account assets constitute plan assets. An insurer issuing a new policy that is backed by its general account and is
issued to or for an employee benefit plan after December 31, 1998 will generally be subject to fiduciary obligations under ERISA, unless the policy is a guaranteed benefit policy.

The regulations indicate the requirements that must be met so that assets supporting a Transition Policy will not be
considered plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. These requirements include detailed disclosures to be made to the employee benefits plan and the requirement that the insurer must permit the policyholder to terminate the policy on
90 day notice and receive without penalty, at the policyholder’s option, either (i) the unallocated accumulated fund balance (which may be subject to market value adjustment) or (ii) a book value payment of such amount in annual
installments with interest. We have taken and continue to take steps designed to ensure compliance with these regulations.

We cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what legislation may be introduced or enacted or the impact of any such legislation on our business, results of operations and financial condition.







International Regulation

Our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions
in which they are located or operate. This regulation includes minimum capital, solvency and operational requirements. The authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and
these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. Periodic examinations of insurance company books and records, financial reporting requirements, market conduct examinations and policy filing requirements are among the techniques used
by regulators to supervise our non-U.S. insurance businesses. We also have investment and pension companies in certain foreign jurisdictions that provide mutual fund, pension and other financial products and services. Those entities are subject
to securities, investment, pension and other laws and regulations, and oversight by the relevant securities, pension and other authorities of the countries in which the companies operate. In some jurisdictions, some of our insurance products are
considered “securities” under local law and may be subject to local securities regulations and oversight by local securities regulators.

Certain of our international insurance operations may be subject to assessments,
generally based on their proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations to policyholders and claimants resulting from the insolvency of insurance companies. We cannot predict the timing and scope of any
assessments that may be made in the future, which may materially affect the results of operations of our international insurance operations in particular quarterly or annual periods.

Annually, many of our international insurance operations are required to conduct an analysis of the sufficiency of all
statutory reserves. In most of those cases, a locally qualified actuary must submit an analysis of the likelihood that the reserves make good and sufficient provision for the associated contractual obligations and related expenses of the insurer.
Local regulatory and actuarial standards for this vary widely; the required implied certainty of the signing actuary’s opinion varies equally widely.

Our insurance business throughout the European Economic Area is also subject to the evolving Solvency II insurance regulatory directive established by the European Parliament in 2009 to codify and
harmonize European Union insurance regulation. While this directive provides for new risk management practices, solvency capital standards and disclosure requirements, disagreement surrounding Omnibus II (legislation amending certain provisions of
Solvency II, including the implementation date) has created uncertainty regarding the ultimate content and effective date of this directive. The European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (“EIOPA”) is developing final proposals
for standards and guidelines to be published once Omnibus II is finalized. Although the effective date of the directive is currently January 1, 2014, ongoing debate on Omnibus II has caused regulators to reassess their own implementation
strategies as Solvency II implementation is generally







expected to be delayed until at least 2016. Since EIOPA and European Union member states have started to consider what aspects could be adopted during the next three years to continue the
development of a more risk-based prudential framework, while avoiding more controversial aspects of Solvency II (the debate on long-term guarantees), we may need to accelerate or adjust our implementation accordingly.

Our Solvency II program is governed by a steering committee comprised of senior management. Solvency II encompasses
solvency capital requirements, allows for both standard model and internal model calculations, requires a robust governance and risk management framework fully embedded in day-to-day decision making and greater quarterly and annual reporting
disclosures. As requirements are finalized by the regulators, capital requirements might be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. Compliance with these new capital standards may impact the level of capital required to be held at individual legal
entities. In addition, our legal entity structure throughout Europe may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting by country. The efforts required to comply with these regulations may increase operating costs at
these entities.

We expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the U.S., as well as regulatory oversight, generally to continue
to increase. The regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — Our International
Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability.”

Japan

Our operations in Japan are subject to regulation and examination by Japan’s Financial Services Agency (“FSA”). Our operations in Japan are required to file with the FSA annual reports for
each fiscal year (ending March 31) which include financial statements. These annual reports are not prepared on a U.S. GAAP basis. Similar to the U.S., Japanese law provides that insurers in Japan must maintain specified solvency standards for
the protection of policyholders and to support the financial strength of licensed insurers. As of December 31, 2012, the date of our most recent regulatory filing in Japan, the solvency margin ratio of our Japan operations was in excess of four
times the 200% solvency margin ratio that would require corrective action. Most Japanese life insurers maintain a solvency margin ratio well in excess of the legally mandated minimum.







A portion of the annual earnings of our Japan operations may be repatriated
each year, and may further be distributed to MetLife, Inc. as a dividend. We may determine not to repatriate profits from the Japan operations or to repatriate a reduced amount in order to maintain or improve the solvency margin of the Japan
operations or for other reasons. In addition, the FSA may limit or not permit profit repatriations or other transfers of funds to the U.S. if such transfers would be detrimental to the solvency or financial strength of our Japan operations or for
other reasons.

Our operations in Japan are subject to assessments to cover obligations to policyholders in
the event of insolvency of other insurance companies. Under the Japanese Insurance Business Law, all licensed life insurers in Japan are assessed on an annual basis by the Life Insurance Policyholders Protection Corporation of Japan. These
assessments are aggregated across all licensed life insurers in Japan and used to satisfy certain obligations to policyholders and claimants of insolvent life insurance companies. We cannot predict the amount of future assessments, which may
materially affect our results of operations in Japan in particular quarterly or annual periods.

Competition

We believe that competition faced by our segments is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business
capabilities and name recognition. We compete globally with other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employer and other group
customers as well as agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims
paying ability ratings. In the U.S. and Japan, we compete with a large number of domestic and foreign-owned life insurance companies, many of which offer products in categories on which we focus. Elsewhere, we compete with the foreign insurance
operations of large U.S. insurers and with global insurance groups and local companies in particular areas in which they are active. Many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually and, accordingly, there is a risk that group
purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us.

We believe that the continued volatility of the financial markets, its impact on the capital position of many
competitors, and subsequent actions by regulators and rating agencies have altered the competitive environment. In particular, we believe that these factors have highlighted financial strength as the most significant differentiator from the
perspective of some customers and certain distributors. We believe the Company is well positioned to compete in this environment. In particular, the Company distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as
banks and broker-dealers. These distribution partners are currently placing greater emphasis on the financial strength of the company whose products they sell. In addition, the financial market turbulence has highlighted the extent of the risk
associated with certain variable annuity products and has led us, along with many companies in our industry, to re-examine the pricing and features of the products offered. The effects of current market conditions may also lead to consolidation in
the life insurance industry. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these conditions, we believe that the strongest companies will enjoy a competitive advantage as a result of the current circumstances.

We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products.
Insurance companies compete for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurance companies for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product
features. See “— Sales Distribution.” In selected global markets, we continue to undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency forces, while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our sales representatives.
These initiatives may not succeed in attracting and retaining productive agents. Sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected if we are
unsuccessful in attracting and retaining productive agents.







Numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation. Legislative and
other changes affecting the regulatory environment can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry.

Employees

At December 31,
2012, we had approximately 64,000 
employees. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.

Executive Officers

Set forth below is information regarding the executive officers of MetLife, Inc.:





NameAgePosition with MetLife and Business Experience



Steven A. Kandarian60•Chairman of the Board (January 2012-present) and President and Chief Executive Officer (May 2011-present) of MetLife, Inc.

•Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. (April 2005-April 2011)

•Additional Experience: Executive director, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (2001-2004); founder and
managing partner, Orion Capital Partners, where he managed a private equity fund specializing in venture capital and corporate acquisitions

Ricardo A. Anzaldua59•Executive Vice President and General Counsel of MetLife, Inc. (December 2012-present)

•Associate general counsel and senior vice president, director of commercial and consumer markets law, The Hartford Financial Services Group (October
2010-December 2012)

•Associate general counsel and senior vice president, director of corporate law, The Hartford Financial Services Group (February 2007-October 2010); corporate
secretary, The Hartford Financial Services Group (February 2008-October 2010)

•Additional Experience: Partner, Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP (January 1999-January
2007)

Steven J. Goulart54•Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. (May 2011-present)

•Treasurer, MetLife, Inc. (July 2009-April 2011)

•Head of the Portfolio Management Unit as Senior Managing Director of MLIC (January 2011-April 2011)

•Head of the Mergers & Acquisitions Unit as Senior Vice President of MLIC (November 2006-July 2009)

•Additional Experience: Director of MetLife Group, Inc. (June-November 2006); senior managing director,
financial institutions group, Bear Stearns; managing director, global insurance group, Morgan Stanley; managing director, financial institutions group, Merrill Lynch



John C.R. Hele54•Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. (September 2012-present)

•Executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer, Arch Capital Group Ltd. (April 2009-August 2012)

•Chief financial officer, ING Group, N.V. (April 2007-March 2009)

•Additional Experience: Deputy chief financial officer, ING Group, N.V. (April 2006-April 2007); chief risk
officer, insurance, ING Group, N.V. (October 2003 to March 2006); Founder, president and chief executive officer, Worldinsure Limited (February 1999-August 2003); 11 years with Merrill Lynch in investment banking, marketing and finance positions in
the U.S.; various actuarial, finance and business roles with Crown Life in Canada









NameAgePosition with MetLife and Business Experience



Frans Hijkoop52•Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of MetLife, Inc. (August 2011-present)

•Chief personnel officer and senior vice president of human resources, American Foods division of PepsiCo Inc. (January 2008-August 2011)

•Chief personnel officer and senior vice president of human resources, PepsiCo International (February 2007-January 2008)

•Additional Experience: Executive committee member and group human resources director, Lloyds TSB (January
2004-February 2007)



Beth M. Hirschhorn48•Executive Vice President, Global Brand, Marketing and Communications of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present)

•Chief Marketing Officer and Senior Vice President of MetLife, Inc. (November 2006-October 2011)

•Additional Experience: Managed marketing for MetLife’s U.S. Individual and Institutional businesses as
Vice President of MLIC (January 2003-November 2006); led the consumer financial services marketing unit of JPMorgan Chase before joining MetLife in 2002

Michel Khalaf49•President, EMEA, of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present)

•Executive Vice President, MLIC (January 2011-November 2011)

•Regional President, Middle East, Africa and South Asia, Alico (November 2008-November 2011) (Mr. Khalaf joined MetLife as a result of the ALICO
Acquisition)

•Deputy president and chief operating officer, Philamlife, the operating company of AIG in the Philippines (August 2006-October 2008)

•Additional Experience: Leadership roles with Alico in various markets around the world, including Poland,
Egypt, Italy, France, and the Caribbean

Martin Lippert53•Executive Vice President and Head of Global Technology and Operations of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present)

•Executive Vice President and Head of Global Technology of MetLife, Inc. (September 2011-November 2011)

•Chief operations and technology officer for Citigroup (July 2008-March 2009)

•Vice chairman and group head of global technology and operations, Royal Bank of Canada (RBC) (August 1997-July
2008)



Maria R. Morris50•Executive Vice President and Head of Global Employee Benefits of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present)

•Executive Vice President, Global Operations, Integration of MetLife, Inc. (September 2011-November 2011)

•Executive Vice President, Technology and Operations of MetLife, Inc. (January 2008-September 2011)

•Executive Vice President, Employee Benefits Sales of MLIC (December 2005-January 2008)

•Additional Experience: Senior Vice President of Group Insurance and Voluntary Benefits Sales and Service
Operations of MLIC (July 2003-December 2005); Vice President of MLIC (March 1997-July 2003)



Christopher G. Townsend44•President,Asia, of MetLife, Inc. (August 2012-present)

•Chief executive officer of the Asia Pacific region, Chartis (January 2010-April 2012)

•Chief executive officer, Chartis Australasia (February 2007-January 2010)

•Additional Experience: Chief executive officer, Chartis Hong Kong (January 2006-January 2007); various senior
leadership roles for Chartis, including regional vice president, commercial line, Chartis Asia Pacific, senior vice president of mergers and acquisitions, and other leadership roles in London and Sydney
(1991-2006)







NameAgePosition with MetLife and Business ExperienceWilliam J. Wheeler51•President, Americas, MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present)•Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. (December 2003-November 2011)•Additional Experience: Senior Vice President of MLIC (1997-December 2003); oversaw business development, product management and marketing activities
for Individual Business (2002-2003); Chief Financial Officer for Individual Business (2000-2002); senior vice president, Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette

Trademarks

We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products
and services, including, among others, the trademark “MetLife.” We also have the exclusive global license to use the Peanuts®characters in the area of financial services and healthcare benefit services under an advertising and premium agreement with Peanuts Worldwide, LLC until
December 31, 2014. We also have a non-exclusive license to use certain Citigroup-owned trademarks in connection with the marketing, distribution or sale of life insurance and annuity products under a licensing agreement with Citigroup until
June 30, 2015. Furthermore, as a result of the ALICO Acquisition, we acquired American Life and its trademarks, including the “ALICO” trademark. We believe that our rights in our trademarks and under our Peanuts®characters license and our Citigroup license are well protected.

Available Information

MetLife files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and
other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at its Headquarters Office, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 or 1-800-SEC-0330 (Office of Investor
Education and Advocacy). In addition, the SEC maintains an internet website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including MetLife, Inc.

MetLife makes available, free of charge, on its website (www.metlife.com) through the Investor Relations page, its annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to all those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing (furnishing) such reports to the SEC. Other information found on
the website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.







