Item 1. Business

Overview

As used in this Form 10-K, “MetLife,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates.

We have grown to become a global provider of life insurance, annuities, employee benefits and asset management. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we hold leading market positions in the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Over the past several years, we have grown our core businesses, as well as successfully executed on our growth strategy. This has included completing a number of transactions that have resulted in the acquisition and, in some cases, divestiture of certain businesses while also further strengthening our balance sheet to position MetLife for continued growth.

MetLife is organized into six segments, reflecting three broad geographic regions: Retail; Group, Voluntary & Worksite Benefits; Corporate Benefit Funding; and Latin America (collectively, the “Americas”); Asia; and Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”). In addition, the Company reports certain of its results of operations in Corporate & Other, which includes MetLife Home Loans LLC (“MLHL”), the surviving, non-bank entity of the merger of MetLife Bank, National Association (“MetLife Bank”) with and into MLHL, and other business activities. Management continues to evaluate the Company’s segment performance and allocated resources and may adjust related measurements in the future to better reflect segment profitability. See “— Segments and Corporate & Other,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Executive Summary — Consolidated Company Outlook” and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Company’s segments and Corporate & Other.

In November 2014, MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut (“MICC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc., re-domesticated from Connecticut to Delaware, changed its name to MetLife Insurance Company USA and merged with its subsidiary, MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company (“MLI-USA”), and its affiliate, MetLife Investors Insurance Company (“MLIIC”), each a U.S. insurance company that issued variable annuity products in addition to other products, and Exeter Reassurance Company, Ltd. (“Exeter”), a former offshore, reinsurance subsidiary of MetLife, Inc. and affiliate of MICC that mainly reinsured guarantees associated with variable annuity products (the “Mergers”). The surviving entity of the Mergers was MetLife Insurance Company USA (“MetLife USA”). See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Executive Summary — Other Key Information — Significant Events” for further information on the Mergers.

In the first quarter of 2014, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its wholly-owned subsidiary, MetLife Assurance Limited (“MAL”). The sale of MAL was completed in May 2014. As a result, the operations of MAL have been classified as divested business for all periods presented. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In the fourth quarter of 2013, MetLife, Inc. completed its acquisition of Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones Provida S.A. (“ProVida”), the largest private pension fund administrator in Chile based on assets under management and number of pension fund contributors. The acquisition of ProVida supports the Company's growth strategy in emerging markets and further strengthens the Company's overall position in Chile. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Certain international subsidiaries have a fiscal year cutoff of November 30th. Accordingly, the Company’s consolidated financial statements reflect the assets and liabilities of such subsidiaries as of November 30, 2014 and 2013 and the operating results of such subsidiaries for the years ended November 30, 2014, 2013 and 2012. The Company is in the process of converting to calendar year reporting for these subsidiaries. We expect to substantially complete these conversions by 2016. The impact of the conversions on our financial statements to date has been de minimis and, therefore, has been reported in net income in the quarter of conversion.

In the U.S., we provide a variety of insurance and financial services products, including life, dental, disability, property & casualty, guaranteed interest, stable value and annuities, through both proprietary and independent retail distribution channels, as well as at the workplace.

Outside the U.S., we provide life, medical, dental, credit and other accident & health insurance, as well as annuities, endowment and retirement & savings products to both individuals and groups. We believe these businesses will continue to grow more quickly than our U.S. businesses.

Revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10% of consolidated premiums, universal life and investment-type product policy fees and other revenues for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. Financial information, including revenues, expenses, operating earnings, and total assets by segment, as well as premiums, universal life and investment-type product policy fees and other revenues by major product groups, is provided in Note2of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating revenues and operating earnings are performance measures that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures” for definitions of such measures.











For financial information related to revenues, total assets, and goodwill balances by geographic region, see Notes2and11of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We are one of the largest institutional investors in the U.S. with a $516.8 billion general account portfolio invested primarily in investment grade corporate bonds, structured finance securities, commercial and agricultural mortgage loans, U.S. Treasury and agency securities, as well as real estate and corporate equity at December 31, 2014. Over the past several years, we have taken a number of actions to further diversify and strengthen our general account portfolio.

Our well-recognized brand, leading market positions, competitive and innovative product offerings and financial strength and expertise should help drive future growth and enhance shareholder value, building on a long history of fairness, honesty and integrity. Over the course of the next several years, we will pursue the following objectives to position the Company for continued growth and achieve our vision of being recognized as the leading global life insurance and employee benefits provider:

●Refocus the U.S. businesses

–Shift product mix away from capital intensive products

–Invest in growth initiatives for the voluntary/worksite, accident & health, and direct channels

–Drive margin improvement

●Build the Global Employee Benefits business

–Accelerate our local employee benefits businesses in key markets outside the U.S.

–Grow our global benefits businesses through multinational and expatriate solutions

●Grow emerging markets presence

–Accelerate earnings in emerging markets in which we already have a strong presence

–Seek opportunistic mergers and acquisitions to complement our organic growth

●Drive toward customer centricity and a global brand

–Further institutionalize customer centric actions and culture at MetLife

–Grow consideration and preference for MetLife’s brand in key markets











Segments and Corporate & Other

Americas

Overview

Our businesses in the Americas offer a broad range of protection products and services aimed at serving the financial needs of our customers throughout their lives. These products are sold to individuals and corporations, as well as other institutions, and their respective employees.

Retail

Our Retail segment is organized into two businesses: Life & Other and Annuities.

The major products within Life & Other are as follows:

Variable Life.Variable life products provide insurance coverage through a contract that gives the policyholder flexibility in investment choices and, depending on the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with certain guarantees. Most importantly, with variable life products, premiums and account balances can be directed by the policyholder into a variety of separate account investment options or directed to the Company’s general account. In the separate account investment options, the policyholder bears the entire risk of the investment results. We collect specified fees for the management of the investment options. The policyholder’s cash value reflects the investment return of the selected investment options, net of management fees and insurance-related and other charges. In some instances, third-party money management firms manage these investment options. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience.

Universal Life.Universal life products provide insurance coverage on the same basis as variable life, except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated balances, are allocated only to the Company’s general account. We credit premiums to an account maintained for the policyholder. Premiums are credited net of specified expenses. Interest is credited to the policyholder’s account at interest rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. Specific charges are made against the policyholder’s account for the cost of insurance protection and for expenses. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience.

Term Life.Term life products provide a guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured for a specified time period in return for the periodic payment of premiums. Specified coverage periods range from one year to 30 years, but in no event are they longer than the period over which premiums are paid. Death benefits may be level over the period or decreasing. Premiums may be guaranteed at a level amount for the coverage period or may be non-level and non-guaranteed. Term insurance products are sometimes referred to as pure protection products, in that there are typically no savings or investment elements. Term contracts expire without value at the end of the coverage period when the insured party is still living.

Whole Life.Whole life products provide a guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured in return for the periodic payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined period. Premium payments may be required for the entire life of the contract period, to a specified age or period, and may be level or change in accordance with a predetermined schedule. Whole life insurance includes policies that provide a participation feature in the form of dividends. Policyholders may receive dividends in cash or apply them to increase death benefits, increase cash values available upon surrender or reduce the premiums required to maintain the contract in-force. Because the use of dividends is specified by the policyholder, this group of products provides significant flexibility to individuals to tailor the product to suit their specific needs and circumstances, while at the same time providing guaranteed benefits.

Disability.Disability products provide a benefit in the event of the disability of the insured. In most instances, this benefit is in the form of monthly income paid until the insured reaches age 65. In addition to income replacement, the product may be used to provide for the payment of business overhead expenses for disabled business owners or mortgage payment protection.

Property & Casualty.These products include personal lines property & casualty insurance offered to individuals through a variety of retail distribution channels, including independent agents, property & casualty specialists, and the MetLife Premier Client Group.

Auto insurance policies provide coverage for private passenger automobiles, utility automobiles and vans, motorcycles, motor homes, antique or classic automobiles and trailers. We also offer traditional coverage such as liability, uninsured motorist, no fault or personal injury protection, as well as collision and comprehensive insurance.











Homeowners’ insurance policies provide protection for homeowners, renters, condominium owners and residential landlords against losses arising out of damage to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well as coverage for liability arising from ownership or occupancy. Other insurance includes personal excess liability (protection against losses in excess of amounts covered by other liability insurance policies), and coverage for recreational vehicles and boat owners. Most of our homeowners’ policies are traditional insurance policies for dwellings, providing protection for loss on a “replacement cost” basis. These policies also provide additional coverage for reasonable, normal living expenses incurred by policyholders that have been displaced from their homes.

Other.Additionally, through our broker-dealer affiliates, we offer a full range of mutual funds and other securities products. The elimination of transactions from activity between the segments within the Americas occurs within Life & Other.

Our Annuities business offers a variety of variable and fixed annuities that are primarily sold to individuals and tax-qualified groups in the education, healthcare and not-for-profit sectors.

The major products within Annuities are as follows:

Variable Annuities.Variable annuities provide for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Variable annuities allow the contractholder to make deposits into various investment options in a separate account, as determined by the contractholder. The risks associated with such investment options are borne entirely by the contractholder, except where guaranteed minimum benefits are involved. In certain variable annuity products, contractholders may also choose to allocate all or a portion of their account to the Company’s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. In addition, contractholders may also elect certain minimum death benefit and minimum living benefit guarantees for which additional fees are charged and where asset allocation restrictions may apply.

Fixed Annuities.Fixed annuities provide for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Fixed annuities do not allow the same investment flexibility provided by variable annuities, but provide guarantees related to the preservation of principal and interest credited. Deposits made into deferred annuity contracts are allocated to the Company’s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. Credited interest rates are guaranteed not to change for certain limited periods of time, ranging from one to 10 years. Fixed income annuities provide a guaranteed monthly income for a specified period of years and/or for the life of the annuitant.

Group, Voluntary & Worksite Benefits

We have built a leading position in the U.S. group insurance market through long-standing relationships with many of the largest corporate employers in the U.S.

Our Group, Voluntary & Worksite Benefits insurance products and services include life, dental, group short- and long-term disability, property & casualty, long-term care (“LTC”), accidental death and dismemberment (“AD&D”), critical illness and accident & health coverages, as well as prepaid legal plans. We also sell administrative services-only (“ASO”) arrangements to some employers. Under such ASO arrangements, the employer is at risk, as we have not issued an insurance policy. We pay claims funded by the employer and perform other administrative services on behalf of the employer.

The major products within Group, Voluntary & Worksite Benefits are as follows:

Life.Life insurance products and services include variable life, universal life, and term life products. These are similar to the products offered by the Retail Life & Other business except we offer group insurance products as employer-paid benefits or as voluntary benefits where all or a portion of the premiums are paid by the employee. These life insurance products and services also include employee paid supplemental life and are offered as standard products or may be tailored to meet specific customer needs.

Dental.Dental products provide insurance and ASO arrangements that assist employees, retirees and their families in maintaining oral health while reducing out-of-pocket expenses and providing superior customer service. Dental plans include the Preferred Dentist Program and the Dental Health Maintenance Organization.

Disability.Disability products provide a benefit in the event of the disability of the insured. In most instances, this benefit is in the form of monthly income paid until the insured reaches age 65.

Property & Casualty. These products include personal lines property & casualty insurance offered directly to employees at their employer’s worksite through a variety of distribution channels, including independent agents, property & casualty specialists and direct marketing. The property & casualty products offered by the Group, Voluntary & Worksite business are the same products offered by the Retail property & casualty business.











Long-term Care.LTC products provide protection against the potentially high costs of LTC services. They generally pay benefits to insureds who need assistance with activities of daily living or have a cognitive impairment. Although we discontinued the sale of these products in 2010, we continue to support our existing policyholders.

Corporate Benefit Funding

The Corporate Benefit Funding segment provides funding and financing solutions that help institutional customers mitigate and manage liabilities primarily associated with their qualified, nonqualified and welfare employee benefit programs using a spectrum of life and annuity-based insurance and investment products.

The major products within Corporate Benefit Funding are as follows:

Stable Value Products.We offer general account guaranteed interest contracts, separate account guaranteed interest contracts, and similar products used to support the stable value option of defined contribution plans. We also offer private floating rate funding agreements that are used for money market funds, securities lending cash collateral portfolios and short-term investment funds.

General account guaranteed interest contracts are designed to provide stable value investment options within tax-qualified defined contribution plans. Traditional general account guaranteed interest contracts integrate a general account fixed or determinable fixed maturity investment with a general account guarantee of liquidity at contract value for participant transactions.

Separate account guaranteed interest contracts are available to defined contribution plan sponsors. These contracts integrate market value returns on separate account investments with a general account guarantee of liquidity at contract value to the extent the separate account assets are not sufficient. The contracts do not have a fixed maturity date and are terminable by each party on notice.

Private floating rate funding agreements are generally privately-placed, unregistered investment contracts issued as general account obligations. Interest is credited based on an external index, generally the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (also, LIBOR). Contracts may contain put provisions (of 90 days or longer) that allow for the contractholder to receive the account balance prior to the stated maturity date.

Pension Closeouts.We offer general account and separate account annuity products, generally in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans. These risk transfer products include single premium buyouts that allow for full or partial transfers of pension liabilities.

General account annuity products include nonparticipating closeout contracts and terminal funding annuity contracts. Under nonparticipating closeout contracts, group annuity benefits may be purchased for retired and terminated employees or employees covered under terminating or ongoing pension plans. Both immediate and deferred annuities may be purchased by a single premium at issue. There are generally no cash surrender rights, with some exceptions including certain contracts that include liabilities for cash balance pension plans. A terminal funding contract is a nonparticipating group annuity contract that is available for purchasing guaranteed payout annuities for employees upon retirement or termination of employment. These annuities can be either life contingent or non-life contingent. These annuities are nonparticipating, do not provide for any loan or cash surrender value and, with few exceptions, do not permit future considerations.

Separate account annuity products include participating closeout contracts. Under participating closeout contracts, group annuity benefits are purchased for retired, terminated, or active employees covered under active or terminated pension plans. Both immediate and deferred fixed annuities are purchased with a single premium. Under some contracts, additional annuities may be periodically purchased at then current purchase rates. The assets supporting the guaranteed benefits for each contract are held in a separate account. Some contracts require the contractholder to make periodic payments to cover investment and insurance expenses. The Company fully guarantees benefit payments and is ultimately responsible for all benefit payments.

Torts and Settlements.We offer innovative strategies for complex litigation settlements, primarily structured settlement annuities.

Structured settlement annuities are customized annuities designed to serve as an alternative to a lump sum payment in a lawsuit initiated because of personal injury, wrongful death, or a workers’ compensation claim or other claim for damages. Surrenders are generally not allowed, although commutations are permitted in certain circumstances. Guaranteed payments consist of life contingent annuities, term certain annuities and lump sums.

Capital Markets Investment Products.Products we offer include funding agreements, funding agreement-backed notes and funding agreement-backed commercial paper. We also issue funding agreements to receive Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances and through a program with the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation (“Farmer Mac”).











Funding agreement-backed notes are part of a medium term note program, under which funding agreements are issued to a special-purpose trust that issues marketable notes in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies. The proceeds of the issuance of a series of notes are used by the trust to acquire a funding agreement with matching interest and maturity payment terms from the Company. The notes are underwritten and marketed by major investment banks’ broker-dealer operations and are sold to institutional investors.

Funding agreement-backed commercial paper is issued by a special purpose limited liability company which deposits the proceeds under a master funding agreement issued to it by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (“MLIC”) or MetLife USA. The commercial paper receives the same short-term credit rating as MLIC or MetLife USA and is marketed by major investment banks’ broker-dealer operations. The program allows for funding agreement-backed commercial paper to be issued in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies.

Through the Farmer Mac program, funding agreements have been issued by MLIC to Farmer Mac, as well as to certain special purpose entities (“SPEs”) that have issued debt securities for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements, and such debt securities are also guaranteed as to payment of interest and principal by Farmer Mac.

Other Corporate Benefit Funding Products and Services.We offer specialized life insurance products and funding agreements designed specifically to provide solutions for funding postretirement benefits and company-, bank- or trust-owned life insurance used to finance nonqualified benefit programs for executives.

Latin America

We operate in seven countries in Latin America: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, and Uruguay. Our largest operations are in Mexico, Chile and Argentina. The Latin America segment includes U.S. sponsored direct business, comprised of group and individual products sold through sponsoring organizations and affinity groups. In addition to the various products discussed in other segments within the Americas, Latin America engages in the following businesses:

Accident & health insurance.We offer group and individual major medical, accidental, and supplemental health products, including accidental death and disability, medical reimbursement, hospital indemnity and medical coverage for serious medical conditions.

Administradora de Fondos de Ahorro para el Retiro(“AFORE”). We offer a savings oriented pension product under the mandatory privatized social security system for all non-government employees.

Credit insurance. We offer credit insurance policies designed to fulfill certain loan obligations in the event of the policyholder’s death.

ProVida.We offer a savings oriented pension product under a mandatory privatized social security system. See Note3of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Asia

We operate in 10 countries in Asia, with our largest operations in Japan and Korea. Other operations in Asia include Australia, Bangladesh, Hong Kong and Nepal, as well as unconsolidated operating joint ventures in China, Malaysia and Vietnam, the results of which are reflected in net investment income, and a consolidated operating joint venture in India. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Acquisitions and Dispositions” for information regarding our operations in Malaysia and Vietnam.

Our Asia segment engages in the following businesses:

Life insurance.We offer both traditional and non-traditional life insurance products, such as whole life, term life, endowments, universal life and variable life products. We offer group life programs in most markets.

Accident & health insurance.We offer individual and group personal accident and supplemental health products, including AD&D, hospital indemnity, scheduled medical reimbursement plans, and coverage for serious medical conditions. In addition, we offer individual and group major medical coverage in select markets.

Retirement and savings products.We offer both fixed and variable annuity products in select markets, with our largest markets in Japan, Korea and China.

Credit insurance.We offer credit insurance policies designed to fulfill certain obligations in the event of the policyholder’s death in select markets, including Japan, Australia and Bangladesh.











EMEA

We operate in 29 countries across EMEA, with our largest operations in Poland, the Persian Gulf and Russia.

Our EMEA segment engages in the following businesses:

Life insurance.We offer both traditional and non-traditional life insurance products, such as whole life, term life, endowments, universal life and variable life products. We offer group term life programs in most markets.

Accident & health insurance.We offer individual and group personal accident and supplemental health products, including AD&D, hospital indemnity, scheduled medical reimbursement plans, and coverage for serious medical conditions. In addition, we offer individual and group major medical coverage in select markets.

Retirement and savings products.We offer both fixed and variable annuity products and pension products, including group pension programs in select markets. In Poland and Romania we offer through specialized pension companies a savings oriented pension product under the mandatory privatized social security systems.

Credit insurance.We offer credit insurance policies designed to fulfill certain obligations in the event of the policyholder’s death.

Corporate & Other

The Company reports certain of its results of operations in Corporate & Other, which includes MLHL and other business activities. See Note3of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s exit from the MetLife Bank businesses. Corporate & Other contains the excess capital, as well as certain charges and activities, not allocated to the segments, including external integration costs, internal resource costs for associates committed to acquisitions, enterprise-wide strategic initiative restructuring charges, various start-up businesses (including expatriate benefits insurance, our investment management business through which we offer fee-based investment management services to institutional clients, as well as direct and digital marketing products) and certain run-off businesses. Corporate & Other also includes assumed reinsurance of certain variable annuity products from our former operating joint venture in Japan. Under this in-force reinsurance agreement, we reinsure living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with variable annuity products. Additionally, Corporate & Other includes interest expense related to the majority of the Company’s outstanding debt and expenses associated with certain legal proceedings and income tax audit issues. Corporate & Other also includes the elimination of intersegment amounts, which generally relate to intersegment loans, which bear interest rates commensurate with related borrowings.



Sales Distribution

Overview

In the Americas, excluding Latin America, we market our products and services through various distribution channels. Our retail life, disability and annuities products targeted to individuals are sold via sales forces, comprised of MetLife employees, as well as third-party organizations. Our group and corporate benefit funding products are sold via sales forces primarily comprised of MetLife employees. Personal lines property & casualty insurance products are directly marketed to employees at their employer’s worksite. Personal lines property & casualty insurance products are also marketed and sold to individuals by independent agents, property & casualty specialists through a direct marketing channel, and via sales forces comprised of MetLife employees. MetLife sales employees work with all distribution channels to better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries.

In Asia, Latin America, and EMEA, we market our products and services through a multi-distribution strategy which varies by geographic region and stage of market development. The various distribution channels include: career agency, bancassurance, direct marketing, brokerage, other third-party distribution, and e-commerce. In developing countries, the career agency channel covers the needs of the emerging middle class with primarily traditional products (e.g., whole life, term, endowment and accident & health). In more developed and mature markets, career agents, while continuing to serve their existing customers to keep pace with their developing financial needs, also target upper middle class and mass affluent customer bases with a more sophisticated product set including more investment-sensitive products, such as universal life insurance, unit-linked life insurance, mutual funds and single premium deposit insurance. In the bancassurance channel, we have leveraged partnerships and developed extensive and far reaching capabilities in all regions. Our direct marketing operations, the largest of which is in Japan, deploy both broadcast marketing approaches (e.g. direct response TV, web-based lead generation) and traditional direct marketing techniques such as inbound and outbound telemarketing.









Americas

Retail Distribution

Retail products are sold through a diverse set of distribution networks in order to maximize penetration in the market place. These include our MetLife Premier Client Group, third-party organizations and property & casualty specialists.

Our MetLife Premier Client Group targets the middle to upper income consumer market, including the executives of small- to medium-sized companies and small business owners. As of January 1, 2015, three formerly separate distribution channels, MetLife, New England Financial, and MetLife Resources, were unified under the MetLife Premier Client Group, which, consolidated, consisted of approximately 75 agencies and 4,000 career financial service representatives as of December 31, 2014.

We also sell Retail products through various third-party organizations. We distribute products through wholesalers working directly with high net worth individuals and small- to medium-sized businesses through independent general agencies, financial advisors, consultants, brokerage general agencies and other independent marketing organizations under contractual arrangements. Additionally, wholesalers sell through financial intermediaries, including regional broker-dealers, brokerage firms, financial planners and banks.

We market and sell property & casualty products through independent agents, property & casualty specialists, and the MetLife Premier Client Group. In recent years, we have increased the number of independent agents appointed to sell these products.

Group, Voluntary & Worksite Benefits Distribution

Group, Voluntary & Worksite Benefits distributes its products and services through a sales force that is segmented by the size of the target customer. Marketing representatives sell either directly to corporate and other group customers or through an intermediary, such as a broker or consultant. In addition, voluntary products are sold by specialists. Employers have been emphasizing voluntary products and, as a result, we have increased our focus on communicating and marketing to employees in order to further foster sales of those products. At December 31,2014, the Group, Voluntary & Worksite Benefits sales channels had more than 300 marketing representatives.

We are a leading provider of personal lines property & casualty insurance products offered to employees at their employer’s worksite. Marketing representatives market personal lines property & casualty insurance products to employers through a variety of means, including broker referrals and cross-selling to group customers. Once permitted by the employer, MetLife commences marketing efforts to employees, enabling them to purchase coverage and to request payroll deduction over the telephone.

We have entered into several operating joint ventures and other arrangements with third parties to expand the marketing and distribution opportunities of Group, Voluntary & Worksite Benefits products and services. We also seek to sell our group products and services through sponsoring organizations and affinity groups. In addition, we also provide life and dental coverage to certain employees of the U.S. Government.

Corporate Benefit Funding Distribution

Corporate Benefit Funding products and services are distributed through dedicated sales teams and relationship managers located in 10 offices in the U.S. Products may be sold directly to benefit plan sponsors and advisors or through brokers, consultants or other intermediaries. In addition, these sales professionals work with individual, group and global distribution areas to better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries.

Latin America Distribution

Latin America’s distribution channels include captive agents, direct marketing, bancassurance, large multinational brokers and small and medium-sized brokers, direct and group sales forces (mostly for group policies without broker intermediation), and worksite marketing. The region has an exclusive and captive agency distribution network with more than 4,200 agents also selling a variety of individual life, accident & health, and pension products. In the direct marketing channel, we work with 100 sponsors and have a network of more than 1,200 telesales representatives selling mainly accident & health and individual life products directly to consumers. We currently work with approximately 2,800 active brokers with registered sales of group and individual life, accident & health, group medical, dental and pension products. Worksite marketing in Mexico has over 3,300 agents.









Asia

Japan’s multi-channel distribution strategy consists of captive agents, independent agents, brokers, bancassurance, and direct marketing. While face-to-face channels continue to be core to Japan’s business, other channels, including bancassurance and direct marketing, have become a critical part of Japan’s distribution strategy. Our Japan operation has maintained its position in bancassurance due to its strong distribution relationship with Japan’s mega banks, trust banks and various regional banks, as well as with the Japan Post. The direct marketing channel is supported by an industry-leading marketing platform, state-of-the-art call center infrastructure and its own campaign management system.

Our Japan operation has approximately 4,500 captive agents, 7,800 independent agents, 110 bancassurance relationships, including Japan Post, and 170 direct marketing sponsors.

Elsewhere in Asia, distribution strategies differ by country but generally utilize a combination of captive agents, bancassurance relationships and direct marketing. Agency sales are achieved through a force of approximately 47,700 agents and managers (which includes approximately 2,900 agents and managers related to our operating joint venture in China) and a growing force of independent general agents. Bancassurance is a growing channel with access to thousands of bank customers.

Throughout the region, our Asia operation leverages its expertise in direct marketing operations management to conduct its own campaigns and provide those direct marketing capabilities to third-party sponsors.

While not a significant part of the region’s overall business, sales of group life and pension business are primarily achieved through independent brokers and an employee sales force.

EMEA

Our EMEA operations cover a wide geographical region from the developed markets of western Europe to the emerging markets of central, eastern and southern Europe, the Middle East and Africa.

Our businesses in western Europe have a multi-channel distribution strategy, including independent financial advisors, brokers, captive agents, direct marketing, banks and financial institutions. Our United Kingdom (“U.K.”) operation has built a strong position in the U.K. independent advisor sector with a focus on variable annuities. Our U.K. operation also has a growing group risk business serving small and medium sized employers.

Our operations in central, eastern and southern Europe employ a multi-channel distribution strategy, which includes significant face-to-face channels, built on a strong captive agency force of nearly 7,000 agents, and relationships with approximately 4,200 active brokers and third-party multi-level agency networks. We have distribution relationships with over 80 banks and other financial and non-financial institutions, as well as a fast growing direct marketing channel. This business also has a group/corporate direct sales force of more than 145 agents spanning all geographies.

Similarly, in the Middle East and Africa, we distribute products via a variety of channels, including approximately 1,825 agents, bancassurance, group brokers and direct marketing. Agency is our primary distribution channel, but bancassurance is growing, with over 50 relationships providing access to thousands of bank customers.



Policyholder Liabilities

We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined amounts that are calculated to meet policy obligations when a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to provide for future annuity payments. Our liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the investments we make with the premiums we receive. We establish liabilities for claims and benefits based on assumptions and estimates of losses and liabilities incurred. Amounts for actuarial liabilities are computed and reported in the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For more details on policyholder liabilities see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Liability for Future Policy Benefits” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Policyholder Liabilities.”

Pursuant to applicable insurance laws and regulations, MetLife, Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries establish statutory reserves, reported as liabilities, to meet their obligations on their respective policies. These statutory reserves are established in amounts sufficient to meet policy and contract obligations, when taken together with expected future premiums and interest at assumed rates. Statutory reserves and actuarial liabilities for future policy benefits generally differ based on accounting guidance.

U.S. state insurance laws and regulations require certain MetLife entities to submit to superintendents of insurance, with each annual report, an opinion and memorandum of a “qualified actuary” that the statutory reserves and related actuarial amounts recorded in support of specified policies and contracts, and the assets supporting such statutory reserves and related actuarial amounts, make adequate provision for their statutory liabilities with respect to these obligations. See “— Regulation — U.S. Regulation — Insurance Regulation — Policy and Contract Reserve Adequacy Analysis.”

Insurance regulators in many of the non-U.S. countries in which we operate require certain MetLife entities to prepare a sufficiency analysis of the reserves presented in the locally required regulatory financial statements, and to submit that analysis to the regulatory authorities. See “— Regulation — International Regulation.”











Underwriting and Pricing

Underwriting

Our Global Risk Management Department (“GRM”) contains a dedicated unit, the primary responsibility of which is the development of product pricing standards and independent pricing and underwriting oversight for MetLife’s insurance businesses. Further important controls around management of underwriting and pricing processes include regular experience studies to monitor assumptions against expectations, formal new product approval processes, periodic updates to product profitability studies and the use of reinsurance to manage our exposures, as appropriate. See “─ Reinsurance Activity.”

Underwriting generally involves an evaluation of applications by a professional staff of underwriters and actuaries, who determine the type and the amount of insurance risk that we are willing to accept. We employ detailed underwriting policies, guidelines and procedures designed to assist the underwriter to properly assess and quantify such risks before issuing policies to qualified applicants or groups.

Insurance underwriting considers not only an applicant’s medical history, but also other factors such as financial profile, foreign travel, vocations and alcohol, drug and tobacco use. Group underwriting generally evaluates the risk characteristics of each prospective insured group, although with certain voluntary products and for certain coverages, members of a group may be underwritten on an individual basis. We generally perform our own underwriting; however, certain policies are reviewed by intermediaries under guidelines established by us. Generally, we are not obligated to accept any risk or group of risks from, or to issue a policy or group of policies to, any employer or intermediary. Requests for coverage are reviewed on their merits and a policy is not issued unless the particular risk or group has been examined and approved in accordance with our underwriting guidelines.

The underwriting conducted by our remote underwriting offices and intermediaries, as well as our corporate underwriting office, are subject to periodic quality assurance reviews to maintain high standards of underwriting and consistency. Such offices are also subject to periodic external audits by reinsurers with whom we do business.

We have established oversight of the underwriting process that facilitates quality sales and serves the needs of our customers, while supporting our financial strength and business objectives. Our goal is to achieve the underwriting, mortality and morbidity levels reflected in the assumptions in our product pricing. This is accomplished by determining and establishing underwriting policies, guidelines, philosophies and strategies that are competitive and suitable for the customer, the agent and us.

For our property & casualty business, our underwriting function has six principal aspects: evaluating potential voluntary and worksite employer accounts and independent agencies; establishing guidelines for the binding of risks; reviewing coverage bound by agents; underwriting potential insureds, on a case by case basis, presented by agents outside the scope of their binding authority; pursuing information necessary in certain cases to enable issuance of a policy within our guidelines; and ensuring that renewal policies continue to be written at rates commensurate with risk.

Subject to very few exceptions, agents in each of the distribution channels for the Americas business, excluding Latin America, have binding authority for risks which fall within our published underwriting guidelines. Risks falling outside the underwriting guidelines may be submitted for approval to the underwriting department; alternatively, agents in such a situation may call the underwriting department to obtain authorization to bind the risk themselves. In most states, we generally have the right within a specified period (usually the first 60 days) to cancel any policy.

Pricing

Product pricing reflects our corporate underwriting standards, which are consistent for our global businesses. GRM and regional product teams are responsible for product pricing oversight for all of our insurance businesses. Product pricing is based on the expected payout of benefits calculated through the use of assumptions for mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency and investment returns, as well as certain macroeconomic factors, such as inflation. Investment-oriented products are priced based on various factors, which may include investment return, expenses, persistency and optionality. For certain products, pricing may include prospective and retrospective experience rating features. Prospective experience rating involves the evaluation of past experience for the purpose of determining future premium rates and we bear all prior year gains and losses. Retrospective experience rating also involves the evaluation of past experience for the purpose of determining the actual cost of providing insurance for the customer; however, the contract includes certain features that allow us to recoup certain losses or distribute certain gains back to the policyholder based on actual prior years’ experience.











Rates for group insurance and voluntary & worksite products (with the exception of property & casualty products) are based on anticipated results for the book of business being underwritten. Renewals are generally reevaluated annually or biannually and are repriced to reflect actual experience on such products. Products offered by Corporate Benefit Funding are priced on demand. Pricing reflects expected investment returns, as well as mortality, longevity and expense assumptions appropriate for each product. This business is generally nonparticipating and illiquid, as policyholders have few or no options or contractual rights to cash values.

Rates for individual life insurance products are highly regulated and generally must be approved by the regulators of the jurisdictions in which the product is sold. Generally, such products are renewed annually and may include pricing terms that are guaranteed for a certain period of time. Individual disability income products are based on anticipated results for the occupation being underwritten. Fixed and variable annuity products are also highly regulated and approved by the respective regulators. Such products generally include penalties for early withdrawals and policyholder benefit elections to tailor the form of the product’s benefits to the needs of the opting policyholder. We periodically reevaluate the costs associated with such options and will periodically adjust pricing levels on our guarantees. Further, from time to time, we may also reevaluate the type and level of guarantee features currently being offered.

Rates for our major lines of property & casualty insurance are based on our proprietary database, rather than relying on rating bureaus. We determine prices in part from a number of variables specific to each risk. The pricing of personal lines insurance products takes into account, among other things, the expected frequency and severity of losses, the costs of providing coverage (including the costs of acquiring policyholders and administering policy benefits and other administrative and overhead costs such as reinsurance), competitive factors and profit considerations. The major pricing variables for personal lines insurance include characteristics of the insured property, such as age, make and model or construction type, as well as characteristics of the insureds, such as driving record and loss experience, and the insured’s personal financial management.

As a condition of our license to do business in each state, we, like all other personal lines insurers, are required to write or share the cost of private passenger automobile and homeowners insurance for higher risk individuals who would otherwise be unable to obtain such insurance. This “involuntary” market, also called the “shared market,” is governed by the applicable laws and regulations of each state, and policies written in this market are generally written at rates higher than standard rates and typically afford less coverage.

We continually review our underwriting and pricing guidelines so that our policies remain competitive and supportive of our marketing strategies and profitability goals. For our property & casualty business, our ability to set and change rates is subject to regulatory oversight.



Reinsurance Activity

We enter into reinsurance agreements primarily as a purchaser of reinsurance for our various insurance products and also as a provider of reinsurance for some insurance products issued by third parties. We participate in reinsurance activities in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to significant risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. We enter into various agreements with reinsurers that cover individual risks, group risks or defined blocks of business, primarily on a coinsurance, yearly renewable term, excess or catastrophe excess basis. These reinsurance agreements spread risk and minimize the effect of losses. The extent of each risk retained by us depends on our evaluation of the specific risk, subject, in certain circumstances, to maximum retention limits based on the characteristics of coverages. We also cede first dollar mortality risk under certain contracts. In addition to reinsuring mortality risk, we reinsure other risks, as well as specific coverages. We obtain reinsurance for capital requirement purposes and also when the economic impact of the reinsurance agreement makes it appropriate to do so.









Under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer agrees to reimburse us for the ceded amount in the event a claim is paid. Cessions under reinsurance agreements do not discharge our obligations as the primary insurer. In the event that reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, reinsurance recoverable balances could become uncollectible.

We reinsure our business through a diversified group of well-capitalized, highly rated reinsurers. We analyze recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes, if any, with our reinsurers. We monitor ratings and evaluate the financial strength of our reinsurers by analyzing their financial statements. In addition, the reinsurance recoverable balance due from each reinsurer is evaluated as part of the overall monitoring process. Recoverability of reinsurance recoverable balances is evaluated based on these analyses. We generally secure large reinsurance recoverable balances with various forms of collateral, including secured trusts, funds withheld accounts and irrevocable letters of credit. Additionally, we enter into reinsurance agreements for risk and capital management purposes with several affiliated captive reinsurers. Captive reinsurers are affiliated insurance companies licensed under specific provisions of insurance law of their respective jurisdictions, such as the Special Purpose Financial Captive law adopted by several states including Vermont and Delaware, and have a very narrow business plan that specifically restricts the majority or all of their activity to reinsuring business from their affiliates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Capital — Affiliated Captive Reinsurance Transactions.”

Americas - Excluding Latin America

For our Retail Life & Other insurance products, we have historically reinsured the mortality risk primarily on an excess of retention basis or on a quota share basis. We currently reinsure 90% of the mortality risk in excess of $2 million for most products. In addition to reinsuring mortality risk as described above, we reinsure other risks, as well as specific coverages. Placement of reinsurance is done primarily on an automatic basis and also on a facultative basis for risks with specified characteristics. On a case by case basis, we may retain up to $20 million per life and reinsure 100% of amounts in excess of the amount we retain. We evaluate our reinsurance programs routinely and may increase or decrease our retention at any time.

For our Retail Annuities business, we reinsure a portion of the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with our variable annuities. Under these reinsurance agreements, we pay a reinsurance premium generally based on fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and receive reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations.

For our Group, Voluntary & Worksite Benefits segment, we generally retain most of the risk and only cede particular risk on certain client arrangements. The majority of our reinsurance activity within this segment relates to the following client agreements:

•Employer sponsored captive programs: through these programs, employers buy a group life insurance policy with the condition that a portion of the risk is reinsured back to a captive insurer sponsored by the client.

•Risk-sharing agreements: through these programs, clients require that we reinsure a portion of the risk back to third parties, such as minority-owned reinsurers.

•Multinational pooling: through these agreements, employers buy many group insurance policies which are aggregated in a single insurer via reinsurance.

The risks ceded under these agreements are generally quota shares of group life and disability policies. The cessions vary from 50% to 90% of all the risks of the policies.

For our property & casualty business within both the Retail and Group, Voluntary & Worksite Benefits segments, we purchase reinsurance to manage our exposure to large losses (primarily catastrophe losses) and to protect statutory surplus. We cede losses and premiums based upon the exposure of the policies subject to reinsurance. To manage exposure to large property & casualty losses, we purchase property catastrophe, casualty and property per risk excess of loss reinsurance protection.

For our Corporate Benefit Funding segment, we have periodically engaged in reinsurance activities on an opportunistic basis. There were no such transactions during the periods presented.

Latin America, Asia and EMEA

For certain life insurance products, we currently reinsure risks in excess of $5 million to external reinsurers on a yearly renewable term basis. We may also reinsure certain risks with external reinsurers depending upon the nature of the risk and local regulatory requirements.









For selected large corporate clients, we reinsure group employee benefits or credit insurance business with various client-affiliated reinsurance companies, covering policies issued to the employees or customers of the clients. Additionally, we cede and assume risk with other insurance companies when either company requires a business partner with the appropriate local licensing to issue certain types of policies in certain countries. In these cases, the assuming company typically underwrites the risks, develops the products and assumes most or all of the risk.

We also have reinsurance agreements in-force that reinsure a portion of the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with variable annuity products. Under these agreements, we pay reinsurance fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and receive reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations.

Corporate & Other

We reinsure through 100% quota share reinsurance agreements certain run-off LTC and workers’ compensation business written by MetLife USA.

Corporate & Other also has a reinsurance agreement in-force to reinsure the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with certain variable annuity products. Under this agreement, we receive reinsurance fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and provide reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations.

Catastrophe Coverage

We have exposure to catastrophes which could contribute to significant fluctuations in our results of operations. We use excess reinsurance agreements, under which the direct writing company reinsures risk in excess of a specific dollar value for each policy within a class of policies, to provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure to larger risks. Such excess reinsurance agreements include retention reinsurance agreements and quota share reinsurance agreements. Retention reinsurance agreements provide for a portion of a risk to remain with the direct writing company, and quota share reinsurance agreements provide for the direct writing company to transfer a fixed percentage of all risks of a class of policies. Our life insurance products, particularly group life, subject us to catastrophe risk which we do not reinsure other than through our ongoing mortality reinsurance program which transfers risk at the individual policy level. For the Americas, excluding Latin America, we use excess of retention and quota share reinsurance agreements to provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure to larger risks. Currently, for Latin America, Asia and EMEA, we purchase catastrophe coverage to insure risks within certain countries deemed by management to be exposed to the greatest catastrophic risks.

Reinsurance Recoverables

For information regarding ceded reinsurance recoverable balances, included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables in the consolidated balance sheets, see Note6of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.











Regulation

Index to Regulation

PageOverview18U.S. Regulation18Insurance Regulation18Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI23Consumer Protection Laws25Regulation of Over-the-Counter Derivatives26Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation26Environmental Considerations26Unclaimed Property27ERISA Considerations27International Regulation28Solvency Regimes29Global Systemically Important Insurers29Japan30











Overview

In the U.S., our life insurance companies are regulated primarily at the state level, with some products and services also subject to federal regulation. In addition, MetLife, Inc. and its U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws of various U.S. jurisdictions. As a non-bank systemically important financial institution (“non-bank SIFI”), MetLife, Inc. is also subject to regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”) and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (collectively, with the Federal Reserve Board, the “Federal Reserve”). Furthermore, some of MetLife’s operations, products and services are subject to consumer protection laws, securities, broker-dealer and investment adviser regulations, environmental and unclaimed property laws and regulations, and to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). See “─ U.S. Regulation.”

Our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. In addition, our investment and pension companies outside of the U.S. are subject to oversight by the relevant securities, pension and other authorities of the countries in which the companies operate. Our non-U.S. insurance businesses are also subject to current and developing solvency regimes which impose various capital and other requirements. As a global systemically important insurer (“G-SII”), MetLife, Inc. may also become subject to additional capital requirements. See “─ International Regulation.”



U.S. Regulation



Insurance Regulation

State insurance regulation generally aims at supervising and regulating insurers individually rather than on a group-wide basis, with the goal of protecting policyholders and ensuring that each insurance company remains solvent. However, see “— Holding Company Regulation — NAIC” for information regarding group-wide supervision.

Each of MetLife’s insurance subsidiaries operating in the United States is licensed and regulated in each U.S. jurisdiction where it conducts insurance business. The extent of such regulation varies, but most jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing the financial aspects and business conduct of insurers. State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things:

•licensing companies and agents to transact business;

•calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements;

•mandating certain insurance benefits;

•regulating certain premium rates;

•reviewing and approving certain policy forms;

•regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements, and identifying and paying to the states benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners;

•regulating advertising;

•protecting privacy;

•establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards;

•specifying the conditions under which a ceding company can take credit for reinsurance in its statutory financial statements (i.e., reduce its reserves by the amount of reserves ceded to a reinsurer);

•fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts;

•adopting and enforcing suitability standards with respect to the sale of annuities and other insurance products;

•approving changes in control of insurance companies;

•restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and

•regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.









Each insurance subsidiary is required to file reports, generally including detailed annual financial statements, with insurance regulatory authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which it does business, and its operations and accounts are subject to periodic examination by such authorities. These subsidiaries must also file, and in many jurisdictions and in some lines of insurance obtain regulatory approval for, rules, rates and forms relating to the insurance written in the jurisdictions in which they operate.

State and federal insurance and securities regulatory authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general from time to time make inquiries regarding compliance by MetLife, Inc. and its insurance subsidiaries with insurance, securities and other laws and regulations regarding the conduct of our insurance and securities businesses. We cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective action when warranted. See Note21of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Holding Company Regulation

Insurance holding company laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally require a controlled insurance company (insurers that are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies) to register with state regulatory authorities and to file with those authorities certain reports, including information concerning its capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations.

State insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent companies, as well as on transactions between an insurer and its affiliates. Dividends in excess of prescribed limits and transactions above a specified size between an insurer and its affiliates require the approval of the insurance regulator in the insurer’s state of domicile. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — MetLife, Inc. — Liquidity and Capital Sources — Dividends from Subsidiaries.”

NAIC

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) adopted revisions to the NAIC Insurance Holding Company System Model Act (“Model Holding Company Act”) and the Insurance Holding Company System Model Regulation in December 2010. The revised models include a new requirement that the ultimate controlling person of a U.S. insurer file an annual enterprise risk report with the lead state of the insurer identifying risks likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole. To date, several states where MetLife has domestic insurers have enacted a version of the revised Model Holding Company Act, including the enterprise risk reporting requirement. In December 2014, the NAIC adopted amendments to the Model Holding Company Act authorizing NAIC commissioners to act as global group-wide supervisors for internationally active insurance groups, as well as other insurers who choose to opt in for the group-wide supervision. The amendments create a selection process for the group-wide supervisor, extend confidentiality protection to communications with the group-wide supervisor, and outline the duties of the group-wide supervisor.

Federal Initiatives

Although the insurance business in the United States is primarily regulated by the states, federal initiatives often have an impact on our business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal measures are proposed which may significantly affect the insurance business. These areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. See “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Legal Risks — Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.”

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) effected the most far-reaching overhaul of financial regulation in the U.S. in decades. The full impact of Dodd-Frank on us will depend on the numerous rulemaking initiatives required or permitted by Dodd-Frank and the various studies mandated by Dodd-Frank, many of which remain to be completed.









Dodd-Frank established the Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) within the Department of the Treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the U.S., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office performs various functions with respect to insurance, including serving as a non-voting member of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) and making recommendations to the FSOC regarding insurers to be designated for more stringent regulation. On December 12, 2013, the FIO issued a report, mandated by Dodd-Frank, setting forth recommendations with respect to modernization of insurance regulation in the United States. Many of these recommendations urged the states to take action to achieve greater uniformity in insurance regulation. However, the report also discussed potential federal solutions if states failed to modernize and improve regulation and some of the report’s recommendations favored a greater federal role in certain aspects of insurance regulation to promote uniformity, such as FIO participation in supervisory colleges to monitor financial stability and identify issues or gaps in the regulation of large national and internationally active insurers.

Dodd-Frank also includes provisions that impact the investments and investment activities of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including the federal regulation of such activities. Until the various final regulations are promulgated pursuant to Dodd-Frank, and perhaps for some time thereafter, the full impact of Dodd-Frank on such activities will remain unclear. Such provisions and regulations include, but are not limited to, the potential application of enhanced prudential standards and other restrictions, including the regulation of proprietary trading and sponsoring or investing in hedge funds or private equity funds, to non-bank SIFIs, all of which affect MetLife, Inc. as the FSOC has designated it as a non-bank SIFI. See “— Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI.”

Guaranty Associations and Similar Arrangements

Most of the U.S. jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life and property & casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay certain contractual insurance benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets.

In the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against MetLife have not been material. We have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate. See Note21of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the insolvency assessments.

Insurance Regulatory Examinations and Other Activities

As part of their regulatory oversight process, state insurance departments conduct periodic detailed examinations of the books, records, accounts, and business practices of insurers domiciled in their states. State insurance departments also have the authority to conduct examinations of non-domiciliary insurers that are licensed in their states. Except as otherwise disclosed in Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, MetLife did not receive any material adverse findings resulting from state insurance department examinations of its insurance subsidiaries.

Regulatory authorities in a small number of states, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) and, occasionally, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), have had investigations or inquiries relating to sales of individual life insurance policies or annuities or other products by MLIC, MetLife USA, New England Life Insurance Company, General American Life Insurance Company, and broker-dealer, MetLife Securities, Inc. These investigations often focus on the conduct of particular financial services representatives and the sale of unregistered or unsuitable products or the misuse of client assets. Over the past several years, these and a number of investigations by other regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments and certain other relief, including restitution payments. We may continue to resolve investigations in a similar manner.

In addition, claims payment practices by insurance companies have received increased scrutiny from regulators. See Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding retained asset accounts and unclaimed property inquiries and related litigation.









The Company entered into a consent order with the New York State Department of Financial Services (the “Department of Financial Services “) to resolve its inquiry into whether American Life Insurance Company (“American Life”) and Delaware American Life Insurance Company (“DelAm”) conducted business in New York without a license and whether representatives acting on behalf of these companies solicited, sold or negotiated insurance products in New York without a license. The Company entered into a deferred prosecution agreement with the District Attorney, New York County, regarding the same conduct. The Department of Financial Services consent order allows certain activities in New York related to American Life and other entities to continue through June 30, 2015. The Company is seeking legislation to allow for such activities to continue beyond that date. See Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the consent order and the deferred prosecution agreement.

State insurance regulators and the NAIC are also investigating the use of affiliated captive reinsurers and offshore entities to reinsure insurance risks. The NAIC contracted with Rector & Associates to study captives and recommend additional regulation. Rector & Associates issued recommendations in June 2014, modifying its report which was released for comment in late February 2014 (as modified, the “Rector Report”). The Rector Report was adopted by an NAIC task force on June 30, 2014 and by an NAIC executive committee on August 17, 2014. As a result, a number of NAIC working groups have adopted and may continue to adopt additional regulations on captives. It is premature to project the impact, if any, of any such regulations on MetLife.

The International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”) has encouraged U.S. insurance supervisors, such as the Department of Financial Services, to establish Supervisory Colleges for U.S.-based insurance groups with international operations, including MetLife, to facilitate cooperation and coordination among the insurance groups’ supervisors and to enhance the member regulators’ understanding of an insurance group’s risk profile. MetLife, Inc. was the subject of Supervisory College meetings chaired by the Department of Financial Services and attended by MetLife’s key U.S. and international insurance regulators in January 2013 and March 2014. The next meeting is scheduled for April 2015. Because MetLife, Inc. is now regulated as a non-bank SIFI, we expect that representatives from the Federal Reserve will attend this meeting. We have not received any report or recommendations from the Supervisory College meetings, and we do not expect any outcome of the meetings to have a material adverse effect on our business.

Policy and Contract Reserve Adequacy Analysis

Annually, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are required to conduct an analysis of the adequacy of all statutory reserves. In each case, a qualified actuary must submit an opinion which states that the statutory reserves make adequate provision, according to accepted actuarial standards of practice, for the anticipated cash flows required by the contractual obligations and related expenses of the U.S. insurance subsidiary. The adequacy of the statutory reserves is considered in light of the assets held by the insurer with respect to such reserves and related actuarial items including, but not limited to, the investment earnings on such assets, and the consideration anticipated to be received and retained under the related policies and contracts. The Company may increase reserves in order to submit an opinion without qualification. Since inception of this requirement, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries which are required by their states of domicile to provide these opinions have provided such opinions without qualifications.









NAIC

The NAIC is an organization, the mission of which is to assist state insurance regulatory authorities in serving the public interest and achieving the insurance regulatory goals of its members, the state insurance regulatory officials. Through the NAIC, state insurance regulators establish standards and best practices, conduct peer reviews, and coordinate their regulatory oversight. The NAIC provides standardized insurance industry accounting and reporting guidance through its Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual (the “Manual”). However, statutory accounting principles continue to be established by individual state laws, regulations and permitted practices. Changes to the Manual or modifications by the various state insurance departments may impact the statutory capital and surplus of MetLife, Inc.’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries.

The NAIC currently has in place its “Solvency Modernization Initiative,” which is designed to review the U.S. financial regulatory system and all aspects of financial regulation affecting insurance companies. Though broad in scope, the NAIC has stated that the Solvency Modernization Initiative will focus on: (1) capital requirements; (2) corporate governance and risk management; (3) group supervision; (4) statutory accounting and financial reporting; and (5) reinsurance. In furtherance of this initiative, the NAIC adopted the Corporate Governance Annual Filing Model Act and Regulation at its August 2014 meeting. The new model, which requires insurers to make an annual confidential filing regarding their corporate governance policies, is expected to become effective in 2016. In addition, in September 2012, the NAIC adopted the Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act (“ORSA”), which has been or is expected to be enacted by our insurance subsidiaries’ domiciliary states in the near future. ORSA requires that insurers maintain a risk management framework and conduct an internal own risk and solvency assessment of the insurer’s material risks in normal and stressed environments. The assessment must be documented in a confidential annual summary report, a copy of which must be made available to regulators as required or upon request. MetLife’s first ORSA summary report, which will be submitted on behalf of the enterprise, must be prepared beginning in 2015.

In December 2012, the NAIC approved a new valuation manual containing a principles-based approach to life insurance company reserves. Principles-based reserving is designed to better address reserving for products, including the current generation of products for which the current formulaic basis for reserve determination does not work effectively. The principles-based approach will not become effective unless it is enacted into law by a minimum number of state legislatures. Insurance commissioners of certain states (e.g., New York) oppose or do not actively support the principles-based reserve approach.

We cannot predict the additional capital requirements or compliance costs, if any, that may result from the above initiatives.

See “— Holding Company Regulation — NAIC” for information regarding the Model Holding Company Act and associated regulation.

Surplus and Capital; Risk-Based Capital









Effective December 31, 2013, the Department of Financial Services discontinued its most recent amendment to Regulation 147 which governed the valuation of life insurance policies. The amendment reflected changes made in 2013 by the NAIC to Actuarial Guideline 38 (which impacts the valuation of universal and variable life policies with secondary guarantees (“ULSG”)). As a result of this action, New York licensed insurers are required to comply with a prior version of the regulation. MLIC is grading into the new level of required reserves over a three-year period (2013-2015). Under this level grade-in, statutory reserves on in-force ULSG policies increased by the following amounts, net of reinsurance, as of December 31, 2013: $55 million for MLIC, $28 million for Exeter (which was merged into MetLife USA as part of the Mergers) and $25 million for MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont (“MRV”); and, as of December 31, 2014, $83 million for MLIC (which includes reserves for risks recaptured from Exeter), and $22 million for MRV. The change in the regulation is expected to have a minimal reserve impact on new sales of our one remaining ULSG product.

The Department of Financial Services issues an annual “Special Considerations” circular letter to New York licensed insurers requiring tests to be performed as part of insurers’ year-end asset adequacy testing. The Department of Financial Services issued its 2014 Special Considerations letter on October 10, 2014, which was substantially similar to the 2013 letter. The letter mandates the use of certain assumptions in asset adequacy testing. In 2013, MLIC established a three-year grade-in schedule for the amount of LTC reserves required as a result of the new assumptions. In 2014, MLIC established an additional schedule, reflecting current economic conditions, liabilities and assets. The following table summarizes the two schedules of strengthening:

2013 Schedule2014 ScheduleCombined Schedule(In millions)2013 Strengthening$300N/A$3002014 Strengthening$200$100$3002015 Strengthening$100$100$200*2016 StrengtheningN/A$100$100*

_______________

* The actual 2015 and 2016 amounts may differ from those originally estimated in 2013 and 2014 due to changes in economic conditions, regulation, or policyholder behavior.

We are not aware of any other potential NAIC actions that would have a material impact on the RBC of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries.

Regulation of Investments

Each of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries is subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of our investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in certain asset categories, such as below investment grade fixed income securities, real estate equity, other equity investments, and derivatives. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations would cause investments exceeding regulatory limitations to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring surplus and, in some instances, would require divestiture of such nonqualifying investments. We believe that the investments made by each of MetLife, Inc.’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries complied, in all material respects, with such regulations at December 31,2014. See “— Holding Company Regulation — Federal Initiatives” for information regarding the impact on our investments of Dodd-Frank.



Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI

On December 18, 2014, the FSOC designated MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. See “— Enhanced Prudential Standards for Non-Bank SIFIs.”

On January 13, 2015, MetLife, Inc. filed an action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia asking the court to review and rescind the FSOC’s designation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI. Regulation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI could materially and adversely affect our business. For example, although the Federal Reserve Board has not yet determined the enhanced capital requirements that will apply to MetLife, those capital requirements may adversely affect our ability to compete with other insurers that are not subject to those requirements, and our ability to issue guarantees could be constrained. In addition, as a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. needs to obtain Federal Reserve approval before directly or indirectly acquiring, merging or consolidating with a financial company having more than $10 billion of assets or acquiring 5% or more of any voting class of securities of a bank or bank holding company and, depending on the extent of the combined company’s liabilities, is subject to additional restrictions regarding its ability to merge. The Federal Reserve also has the right to require any of our insurance companies, or insurance company affiliates, to take prompt action to correct any financial weaknesses.









As a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. is subject to a number of Dodd-Frank requirements including responsibility to pay, beginning in 2015, certain assessments and other charges (i) equal to the total expenses the Federal Reserve Board thinks is necessary for its supervision of bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more and non-bank SIFIs, and (ii) in connection with the Financial Research Fund within the U.S. Department of Treasury that funds the Office of Financial Research, an agency established by Dodd-Frank to improve the quality of financial data available to policymakers and facilitate more robust and sophisticated analysis of the financial system. MetLife, Inc. was subject to and paid such assessments in 2012 and 2013 when it was a bank holding company.

Enhanced Prudential Standards for Non-Bank SIFIs

The stress testing requirements have been implemented and require non-bank SIFIs that are subject to capital requirements imposed by the Federal Reserve Board (as well as bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of assets) to undergo three stress tests each year: an annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve and two company-run stress tests (an annual test which coincides with the timing of the supervisory stress test, and a mid-cycle test). Companies will be required to take the results of the stress tests into consideration in their annual capital planning and resolution and recovery planning. As a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc.’s competitive position and its ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect its capital or need for capital could be adversely affected by any additional capital requirements that might be imposed as a result of the stress testing requirements, as well as enhanced prudential standards, other measures imposed as a result of the enactment of Dodd-Frank and other regulatory initiatives.

Non-bank SIFIs are required to submit a resolution plan setting forth how the company could be resolved under the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress. Resolution plans would have to be resubmitted annually and promptly following any event, occurrence, change in conditions or circumstances, or other change that results in, or could reasonably be foreseen to have, a material effect on the resolution plan. A failure to submit a “credible” resolution plan could result in the imposition of a variety of measures, including additional capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements, and forced divestiture of assets or operations. As a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. will be required to submit a resolution plan by July 1, 2016, unless the Federal Reserve Board and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) require a different due date.









In addition, if it were determined that MetLife, Inc. posed a substantial threat to U.S. financial stability, the applicable federal regulators would have the right to require it to take one or more other mitigating actions to reduce that risk, including limiting its ability to merge with or acquire another company, terminating activities, restricting its ability to offer financial products or requiring it to sell assets or off-balance sheet items to unaffiliated entities. Enhanced standards would also permit, but not require, regulators to establish requirements with respect to contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures and short-term debt limits. These standards are described as being more stringent than those otherwise imposed on bank holding companies; however, the Federal Reserve is permitted to apply them on an institution-by-institution basis, depending on its determination of the institution’s level of risk.

Orderly Liquidation Authority

Volcker Rule



Consumer Protection Laws

Numerous federal and state laws affect MetLife, Inc.’s earnings and activities, including federal and state consumer protection laws. As part of Dodd-Frank, Congress established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) to supervise and regulate institutions that provide certain financial products and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services subject to the CFPB’s jurisdiction generally exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the CFPB does have authority to regulate non-insurance consumer services we provide.

In August 2013, MetLife Bank merged with and into MLHL, its former subsidiary, with MLHL as the surviving, non-bank entity. The sole purpose of MLHL is to wind-down the limited remaining activities and fulfill remaining obligations and duties of MetLife Bank, some of which subject MLHL to certain federal consumer financial protection laws and certain state laws.











Regulation of Over-the-Counter Derivatives

Dodd-Frank includes a framework of regulation of the over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives markets which requires clearing of certain types of transactions currently traded OTC and imposes additional costs, including new reporting and margin requirements, and will likely impose additional regulation on the Company, including new capital requirements. Our costs of risk mitigation are increasing under Dodd-Frank. For example, Dodd-Frank imposes requirements, including the requirement to pledge initial margin (i) for “OTC-cleared” transactions (OTC derivatives that are cleared and settled through central clearing counterparties) entered into after June 10, 2013, and (ii) for “OTC-bilateral” transactions (OTC derivatives that are bilateral contracts between two counterparties)





Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation

Some of our subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance products are subject to extensive regulation under the federal securities laws administered by the SEC. These subsidiaries issue variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment companies under the Investment Company Act. Each registered separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered investment company under the Investment Company Act. In addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies issued by these registered separate accounts are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933. Other subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and are members of, and subject to regulation by, FINRA. Further, some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and are also registered as investment advisers in various states, as applicable. Certain variable contract separate accounts sponsored by our subsidiaries are exempt from registration, but may be subject to other provisions of the federal securities laws.

Federal and state securities regulatory authorities and FINRA from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations regarding compliance by MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries with securities and other laws and regulations. We cooperate with such inquiries and examinations and take corrective action when warranted.

Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets and generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. We may also be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we provide investment advisory services, offer products similar to those described above, or conduct other activities.



Environmental Considerations

As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Inherent in such ownership and operation is also the risk that there may be potential environmental liabilities and costs in connection with any required remediation of such properties. In addition, we hold equity interests in companies that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities. We routinely have environmental assessments performed with respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real property to be acquired through foreclosure. We cannot provide assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not arise. However, based on information currently available to us, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of such properties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.











Unclaimed Property

We are subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions concerning identification, reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned funds, and are subject to audit and examination for compliance with these requirements. See Note 21 of the Notes of the Consolidated Financial Statements.



ERISA Considerations

We provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). As such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and the requirement under ERISA and the Code that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to such plans. The applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code are subject to enforcement by the Department of Labor (“DOL”), the Internal Revenue Service and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.

The prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Code generally restrict the provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and Individual Retirement Accounts (“IRAs”) if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen. In October 2011, the DOL issued final regulations that provide limited relief from these investment advice restrictions. If additional relief is not provided, the ability of our affiliated broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and IRAs would likely be significantly restricted. Also, the fee and revenue arrangements of certain advisory programs may be required to be revenue neutral, resulting in potential lost revenues for these broker-dealers and their affiliates.

Other proposed investment advice regulatory initiatives under ERISA also may negatively impact the current business model of our broker-dealers. In particular, the DOL issued a proposed regulation in October 2010 that would, if adopted as proposed, significantly broaden the circumstances under which a person or entity providing investment advice with respect to ERISA plans or IRAs would be deemed a fiduciary under ERISA or the Code. If adopted, the proposed regulations may make it easier for the DOL in enforcement actions, and for plaintiffs’ attorneys in ERISA litigation, to attempt to extend fiduciary status to advisors who would not be deemed fiduciaries under current regulations. In September 2011, the DOL announced it will re-propose these fiduciary definition regulations, and a new proposal is expected in 2015.

In addition, the DOL has issued a number of regulations that increase the level of disclosure that must be provided to plan sponsors and participants. The participant disclosure regulations and the regulations which require service providers to disclose fee and other information to plan sponsors took effect in 2012. These ERISA disclosure requirements will likely increase the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased costs.

InJohn Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company v. Harris Trust and Savings Bank(1993), the U.S. Supreme Court held that certain assets in excess of amounts necessary to satisfy guaranteed obligations under a participating group annuity general account contract are “plan assets.” Therefore, these assets are subject to certain fiduciary obligations under ERISA, which requires fiduciaries to perform their duties solely in the interest of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries. On January 5, 2000, the Secretary of Labor issued final regulations indicating, in cases where an insurer has issued a policy backed by the insurer’s general account to or for an employee benefit plan, the extent to which assets of the insurer constitute plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. The regulations apply only with respect to a policy issued by an insurer on or before December 31, 1998 (“Transition Policy”). No person will generally be liable under ERISA or the Code for conduct occurring prior to July 5, 2001, where the basis of a claim is that insurance company general account assets constitute plan assets. An insurer issuing a new policy that is backed by its general account and is issued to or for an employee benefit plan after December 31, 1998 will generally be subject to fiduciary obligations under ERISA, unless the policy is a guaranteed benefit policy.

The regulations indicate the requirements that must be met so that assets supporting a Transition Policy will not be considered plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. These requirements include detailed disclosures to be made to the employee benefits plan and the requirement that the insurer must permit the policyholder to terminate the policy on 90 days’ notice and receive without penalty, at the policyholder’s option, either (i) the unallocated accumulated fund balance (which may be subject to market value adjustment) or (ii) a book value payment of such amount in annual installments with interest. We have taken and continue to take steps designed to ensure compliance with these regulations.

We cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what legislation may be introduced or enacted or the impact of any such legislation on our business, results of operations and financial condition.











International Regulation

Regulation of our insurance operations outside of the U.S. includes minimum capital, solvency and operational requirements. The authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. Periodic examinations of insurance company books and records, financial reporting requirements, market conduct examinations and policy filing requirements are among the techniques used by regulators to supervise our non-U.S. insurance businesses. We also have investment and pension companies in certain foreign jurisdictions that provide mutual fund, pension and other financial products and services. Those entities are subject to securities, investment, pension and other laws and regulations. In some jurisdictions, some of our insurance products are considered “securities” under local law and may be subject to local securities regulations and oversight by local securities regulators.

Part of our international insurance operations may be subject to assessments, generally based on their proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations to policyholders and claimants resulting from the insolvency of insurance companies. We cannot predict the timing and scope of any assessments that may be made in the future, which may materially affect the results of operations of our international insurance operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. Annually, many of our international insurance operations are required to conduct an analysis of the sufficiency of all statutory reserves. In most of those cases, a locally qualified actuary must submit an analysis of the likelihood that the reserves make good and sufficient provision for the associated contractual obligations and related expenses of the insurer. Local regulatory and actuarial standards for this vary widely; the required implied certainty of the signing actuary’s opinion varies equally widely.

We expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the U.S., as well as regulatory oversight, generally, to continue to increase. The regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability.”











Solvency Regimes

Solvency II

Our insurance business throughout the European Economic Area will be subject to the Solvency II package, consisting of two inter-linked directives: Solvency II and Omnibus II, which have been adopted separately. Solvency II was adopted by European authorities in 2009. It codifies and harmonizes regulation for insurance undertakings established in the European Union (“EU”). It provides a framework for new risk management practices, solvency capital standards and disclosure requirements. Omnibus II was adopted in April 2014. It contains provisions that adapt Solvency II to the new supervisory architecture establishing the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (“EIOPA”) and includes a package of measures to facilitate the provision of insurance products with long-term guarantees. Both directives will become effective on January 1, 2016.

Leading up to Solvency II’s effective date, EIOPA has published Interim Guidelines aimed at increasing preparedness of both supervisors and insurers. The Interim Guidelines have been applicable since January 1, 2014 and include certain reporting and organizational requirements with which we are complying in accordance with the requirements of our local regulators. Between 2014 and the effective date of both directives in 2016, the European authorities will establish supporting rules and guidance that implement the legislation.

Other Solvency Regimes

In addition, our insurance business in Mexico will be impacted by Mexico’s insurance law reform, adopted in February 2013. The reform envisions a Solvency II-type regulatory framework, instituting changes to reserve and capital requirements and corporate governance and fostering greater transparency. While originally scheduled to be effective in April 2015, in October 2014, the grace period for implementation of certain legal requirements related to RBC and assets and liabilities valuation was extended to January 2016. During this extended consultation period, two new quantitative impact studies will be performed. Other requirements, such as governance, risk and control requirements, will retain the original April 2015 deadline.

In Chile, the law implementing Solvency II-like regulation is currently in the studies stage. However, the Chilean insurance regulator has already issued two resolutions, one for governance, and the other for risk management and control framework requirements. MetLife Chile has already implemented governance changes and risk policies to comply with these resolutions. The impact study considering the second draft of the regulation for RBC requirements was completed in May 2014. The law is expected to be published and approved in 2015, with the RBC regulation in force in 2016.

In China, the business of our joint venture (as well as the industry) will be impacted by a new risk-based solvency regime which will be published by the China Insurance Regulatory Commission in 2015 and is expected to be implemented at the end of 2015 or in early 2016, although it is likely there will be transitional arrangements applying from 2015. Like Solvency II, the new regime focuses on risk management and has three pillars (strengthened quantitative capital requirements, enhanced qualitative supervision and establishing a governance and market discipline process).



Global Systemically Important Insurers

The IAIS, an association of insurance supervisors and regulators and a member of the Financial Stability Board (“FSB”), an international entity established to coordinate, develop and promote regulatory, supervisory and other financial sector policies in the interest of financial stability, is participating in the FSB’s initiative to identify global systemically important financial institutions and has devised and published a methodology to assess the systemic relevance of global insurers and a framework of policy measures to be applied to G-SIIs. In July 2013 and November 2014,the FSB published its lists of G-SIIs, based on the IAIS’ assessment methodology, each of which included MetLife, Inc. The FSB will continue to update the list annually.











Japan

Our operations in Japan are subject to regulation and examination by Japan’s Financial Services Agency (“FSA”). Our operations in Japan are required to file with the FSA annual reports for each fiscal year (ending March 31) which include financial statements. These annual reports are not prepared on a U.S. GAAP basis. Similar to the U.S., Japanese law provides that insurers in Japan must maintain specified solvency standards for the protection of policyholders and to support the financial strength of licensed insurers. As of December 31,2014, the date of our most recent regulatory filing in Japan, the solvency margin ratio of our Japan operations was in excess of four times the 200% solvency margin ratio that would require corrective action. Most Japanese life insurers maintain a solvency margin ratio well in excess of the legally mandated minimum.

A portion of the annual earnings of our Japan operations may be repatriated each year, and may further be distributed to MetLife, Inc. as a dividend. We may determine not to repatriate profits from the Japan operations or to repatriate a reduced amount in order to maintain or improve the solvency margin of the Japan operations or for other reasons. In addition, the FSA may limit or not permit profit repatriations or other transfers of funds to the U.S. if such transfers would be detrimental to the solvency or financial strength of our Japan operations or for other reasons.

Our operations in Japan are subject to assessments to cover obligations to policyholders in the event of insolvency of other insurance companies. Under the Japanese Insurance Business Law, all licensed life insurers in Japan are assessed on an annual basis by the Life Insurance Policyholders Protection Corporation of Japan. These assessments are aggregated across all licensed life insurers in Japan and, in the event of a life insurance company insolvency, are used to satisfy certain obligations to policyholders and claimants of such insolvent company. We cannot predict the amount of future assessments, which may materially affect our results of operations in Japan in particular quarterly or annual periods.



Company Ratings

Insurer financial strength ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies, including A.M. Best Company (“A.M. Best”), Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”), Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”), regarding the ability of an insurance company to meet its financial obligations to policyholders and contractholders.

Rating Stability Indicators

Rating agencies use an “outlook statement” of “positive,” “stable,” ‘‘negative’’ or “developing” to indicate a medium- or long-term trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a rating change. A rating may have a “stable” outlook to indicate that the rating is not expected to change; however, a “stable” rating does not preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time, without notice. Certain rating agencies assign rating modifiers such as “CreditWatch” or “Under Review” to indicate their opinion regarding the potential direction of a rating. These ratings modifiers are generally assigned in connection with certain events such as potential mergers and acquisitions, or material changes in a company’s results, in order for the rating agency to perform its analysis to fully determine the rating implications of the event.









Insurer Financial Strength Ratings

The following insurer financial strength ratings represent each rating agency’s opinion of MetLife, Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay obligations under insurance policies and contracts in accordance with their terms and are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in MetLife, Inc.’s securities. Insurer financial strength ratings are not statements of fact nor are they recommendations to purchase, hold or sell any security, contract or policy. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Additional information about financial strength ratings can be found on the respective websites of the rating agencies.

Our insurer financial strength ratings at the date of this filing are as follows:

A.M. BestFitchMoody'sS&PRatings Structure“A++ (superior)” to “S (suspended)”“AAA (exceptionally strong)” to “C (distressed)”“Aaa (highest quality)” to “C (lowest rated)”“AAA (extremely strong)” to “SD (Selective Default)” or “D (Default)”American Life Insurance CompanyNRNRA1AA-5th of 214th of 22First MetLife Investors Insurance CompanyA+NRNRAA-2nd of 164th of 22General American Life Insurance CompanyA+AA-Aa3AA-2nd of 164th of 194th of 214th of 22MetLife Insurance Company USA*A+AA-Aa3AA-2nd of 164th of 194th of 214th of 22Metropolitan Life Insurance CompanyA+AA-Aa3AA-2nd of 164th of 194th of 214th of 22MetLife Insurance K.K. (MetLife Japan)**NRNRNRAA-4th of 22New England Life Insurance CompanyA+AA-Aa3AA-2nd of 164th of 194th of 214th of 22

______________

NR = Not rated

*Formerly known as MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut. Effective November 14, 2014, MetLife Investors Insurance Company and MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company merged into MetLife Insurance Company USA.

**Negative outlook by S&P effective May 2, 2012, reflects S&P’s sovereign ratings on Japan.

See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — A Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or Credit Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Capital — Rating Agencies” for an in depth description of the impact of a ratings downgrade.











Competition

We believe that competition faced by our segments is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. We compete globally with other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employer and other group customers, as well as agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability ratings. In the U.S. and Japan, we compete with a large number of domestic and foreign-owned life insurance companies, many of which offer products in categories on which we focus. Elsewhere, we compete with the foreign insurance operations of large U.S. insurers and with global insurance groups and local companies in particular areas in which they are active. Many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually and, accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us.

We believe that the continued volatility of the financial markets, its impact on the capital position of many competitors, and subsequent actions by regulators and rating agencies have altered the competitive environment. In particular, we believe that these factors have highlighted financial strength as the most significant differentiator from the perspective of some customers and certain distributors. We believe the Company is well positioned to compete in this environment. In particular, the Company distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as banks and broker-dealers. These distribution partners are currently placing greater emphasis on the financial strength of the company whose products they sell. In addition, the financial market turbulence has highlighted the extent of the risk associated with certain variable annuity products and has led us, along with many companies in our industry, to re-examine the pricing and features of the products offered. The effects of current market conditions may also lead to consolidation in the life insurance industry. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these conditions, we believe that the strongest companies will enjoy a competitive advantage as a result of the current circumstances.

Competition for employees in our industry is intense, and we need to be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people with knowledge of our business and industry experience to support our business. We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Insurance companies compete for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurance companies for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product features. See “— Sales Distribution.” In selected global markets, we continue to undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency forces, while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our sales representatives. These initiatives may not succeed in attracting and retaining productive agents. Sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining productive agents.

Numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation. Legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry. See “— Regulation.”



Employees

At December 31,2014, we had approximately 68,000 employees. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.











Executive Officers

Set forth below is information regarding the executive officers of MetLife, Inc.:





NameAgePosition with MetLife and Business Experience

Steven A. Kandarian62•Chairman of the Board of MetLife, Inc. (January 2012-present) (Director of MetLife, Inc. since 2011)

•President and Chief Executive Officer (May 2011-present) of MetLife, Inc.

•Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. (April 2005-April 2011)

Ricardo A. Anzaldua61•Executive Vice President and General Counsel of MetLife, Inc. (December 2012-present)

•The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., an insurance and financial services company (February 2007-December 2012)

• Associate general counsel and senior vice president, director of commercial and consumer markets law (October 2010-December 2012)

• Associate general counsel and senior vice president, director of corporate law (February 2007-October 2010); corporate secretary (February 2008-October 2010)

Steven J. Goulart56•Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. (May 2011-present)

•Head of the Portfolio Management Unit as Senior Managing Director of MLIC (January 2011-April 2011)

•Senior Vice President and Treasurer, MetLife, Inc. (July 2009-April 2011)

John C.R. Hele56•Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. (September 2012-present)

•Executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer, Arch Capital Group Ltd., an insurance and reinsurance company (April 2009-August 2012)

Frans Hijkoop54•Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of MetLife, Inc. (August 2011-present)

•Chief personnel officer and senior vice president of human resources, American Foods division of PepsiCo Inc., a food and beverage company (January 2008-August 2011)

Michel Khalaf51•President, EMEA of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present)

•Executive Vice President of MLIC (January 2011-November 2011)

•Regional President, Middle East, Africa and South Asia, Alico (November 2008-November 2011) (Mr. Khalaf joined MetLife as a result of the acquisition of ALICO)

Esther Lee51•Executive Vice President and Global Chief Marketing Officer of MetLife, Inc. (January 2015-present)

•Senior Vice President, Brand Marketing, Advertising and Sponsorships of AT&T, Inc., a communications company (August 2011-December 2014)

•Senior Vice President, Brand Marketing and Advertising of AT&T, Inc., a communications company (June 2009-July 2011)

Martin J. Lippert55•Executive Vice President and Head of Global Technology and Operations of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present)

•Executive Vice President and Head of Global Technology of MetLife, Inc. (September 2011-November 2011)

Maria R. Morris52•Executive Vice President and Head of Global Employee Benefits of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present)

•Executive Vice President, Global Operations, Integration of MetLife, Inc. (September 2011-November 2011)

•Executive Vice President, Technology and Operations of MetLife, Inc. (January 2008-September 2011)

Christopher G. Townsend46•President, Asia of MetLife, Inc. (August 2012-present)

•Chief executive officer of the Asia Pacific region, Chartis, a unit of AIG, an insurance and financial services company (January 2010-April 2012)

•Chief executive officer, Chartis Australasia (February 2007-January 2010)

William J. Wheeler53•President, Americas of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present)

•Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. (December 2003-November 2011)











Trademarks

We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, including, among others, the trademark “MetLife.” We also have the exclusive global license to use the Peanuts®characters in the area of financial services and healthcare benefit services under an advertising and premium agreement with Peanuts Worldwide, LLC up to December 31, 2019. We also have a non-exclusive license to use certain Citigroup-owned trademarks in connection with the marketing, distribution or sale of life insurance and annuity products under a licensing agreement with Citigroup until June 30, 2015. As a result of the acquisition of American Life and DelAm (collectively, “ALICO”), we acquired trademarks of American Life, including the “ALICO” trademark. In addition, as a result of our acquisition of ProVida, we acquired “PROVIDA” and other trademarks. We believe that our rights in our trademarks and under our Peanuts®characters license and our Citigroup license are well protected.



Available Information

MetLife files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at its Headquarters Office, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 or 1-800-SEC-0330 (Office of Investor Education and Advocacy). In addition, the SEC maintains an internet website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including MetLife, Inc.

MetLife makes available, free of charge, on its website (www.metlife.com) through the Investor Relations web page, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to all those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing (furnishing) such reports to the SEC. MetLife encourages investors to visit the Investor Relations web page from time to time, where it announces additional financial and other information about it to its investors, including in press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. The information found on MetLife’s website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document MetLife files with the SEC, and any references to MetLife’s website are intended to be inactive textual references only.



