Item 1. Business



Business Overview

As used in this Form 10-K, “MetLife,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates.

MetLife is one of the world’s leading financial services companies, providing insurance, annuities, employee benefits and asset management. We hold leading market positions in the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia, Europe and the Middle East.

We are also one of the largest institutional investors in the United States with a $457 billiongeneral account portfolio invested primarily in investment grade corporate bonds, structured finance securities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury and agency securities, as well as real estate and corporate equity, atDecember 31, 2017.

Our well-recognized brand, leading market positions, competitive and innovative product offerings and financial strength and expertise should help drive future growth and enhance shareholder value, building on a long history of fairness, honesty and integrity. Over the course of the next several years, we will pursue our refreshed enterprise strategy, focusing on transforming the Company to become more digital, driving efficiencies and innovation to achieve competitive advantage, and simplified, decreasing the costs and risks associated with our highly complex industry to customers and shareholders. One MetLife remains at the center of everything we do: collaborating, sharing best practices, and putting the enterprise first. Digital and simplified are the key enablers of our strategic cornerstones, all of which satisfy the criteria of our Accelerating Value strategic initiative by offering customers truly differentiated value propositions that allow us to establish clear competitive advantages and ultimately drive higher levels of free cash flow:



●Optimize value and risk

–Focus on in-force and new business opportunities using Accelerating Value analysis

–Optimize cash and value

–Balance risk across MetLife









●Drive operational excellence

–Become a more efficient, high performance organization

–Focus on the customer with a disciplined approach to unit cost improvement

●Strengthen distribution advantage

–Transform our distribution channels to drive productivity and efficiency through digital enablement, improved customer persistency and deeper customer relationships●Deliver the right solutions for the right customers

–Use customer insights to deliver differentiated value propositions - products, services and experiences to win the right customers and earn their loyalty

MetLife is organized into five segments: U.S.; Asia; Latin America; Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”); and MetLife Holdings. In addition, the Company reports certain of its results of operations in Corporate & Other. See “— Segments and Corporate & Other” andNote 2of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Company’s segments and Corporate & Other. Management continues to evaluate the Company’s segment performance and allocated resources and may adjust related measurements in the future to better reflect segment profitability.



On August 4, 2017, MetLife, Inc. completed the separation of Brighthouse Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brighthouse”) through a distribution of 96,776,670 shares of Brighthouse Financial, Inc. common stock to MetLife, Inc. common shareholders (the “Separation”). MetLife, Inc. retained the remaining ownership interest of 22,996,436 shares, or 19.2%, of Brighthouse Financial, Inc. common stock outstanding. The Separation resulted in the elimination of the Brighthouse Financial segment. The results of Brighthouse are reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations and, therefore, are presented as assets and liabilities of disposed subsidiary on the consolidated balance sheets and income (loss) from discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of operations. The reporting of discontinued operations had no impact on total consolidated assets or liabilities or on total consolidated net income (loss) for any of the years presented. SeeNote 3of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

In the United States, we provide a variety of insurance and financial services products, including life, dental, disability, property & casualty, guaranteed interest, stable value and annuities to both individuals and groups.

Outside the United States, we provide life, medical, dental, credit and other accident & health insurance, as well as annuities, endowment and retirement & savings products to both individuals and groups. We believe these businesses will continue to grow more quickly than our United States businesses.









Revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10% of consolidated premiums, universal life and investment-type product policy fees and other revenues for the years endedDecember 31, 2017,2016and2015. Financial information, including revenues, expenses, adjusted earnings, and total assets by segment, as well as premiums, universal life and investment-type product policy fees and other revenues by major product groups, is provided inNote 2of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Adjusted revenues and adjusted earnings are performance measures that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures” for definitions of such measures.

For financial information related to revenues, total assets, and goodwill balances by geographic region, see Notes2and11of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.











Segments and Corporate & Other



U.S.



Product Overview

Our businesses in the U.S. segment offer a broad range of protection products and services aimed at serving the financial needs of our customers throughout their lives. These products are sold to corporations and their respective employees, other institutions and their respective members, as well as individuals. Our U.S. segment is organized into three businesses: Group Benefits, Retirement and Income Solutions and Property & Casualty.

Group Benefits

We have built a leading position in the United States group insurance market through long-standing relationships with many of the largest corporate employers in the United States.

Our Group Benefits business offers life, dental, group short- and long-term disability, individual disability, accidental death and dismemberment (“AD&D”), vision and accident & health coverages, as well as prepaid legal plans. We also sell administrative services-only (“ASO”) arrangements to some employers.





Major Products

Term Life InsuranceProvides a guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured for a specified time period in return for the periodic payment of premiums. Premiums may be guaranteed at a level amount for the coverage period or may be non-level and non-guaranteed. Term contracts expire without value at the end of the coverage period when the insured party is still living.

Variable Life InsuranceProvides insurance coverage through a contract that gives the policyholder flexibility in investment choices and, depending on the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with certain guarantees. Premiums and account balances can be directed by the policyholder into a variety of separate account investment options or directed to the Company’s general account. In the separate account investment options, the policyholder bears the entire risk of the investment results. With some products, by maintaining certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience.

Universal Life InsuranceProvides insurance coverage on the same basis as variable life, except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated balances, are allocated only to the Company’s general account. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience.

Dental InsuranceProvides insurance and ASO arrangements that assist employees, retirees and their families in maintaining oral health while reducing out-of-pocket expenses.

DisabilityFor groups and individuals, benefits such as income replacement, payment of business overhead expenses or mortgage protection, in the event of the disability of the insured.

Accident and Health InsuranceProvides accident, critical illness or hospital indemnity coverage to the insured.

Retirement and Income Solutions

Our Retirement and Income Solutions business provides funding and financing solutions that help institutional customers mitigate and manage liabilities primarily associated with their qualified, nonqualified and welfare employee benefit programs using a spectrum of life and annuity-based insurance and investment products.





















Major Products

Stable Value Products•  General account guaranteed interest contracts(“GICs”) are designed to provide stable value investment options within tax-qualified defined contribution plans by offering a fixed maturity investment with a guarantee of liquidity at contract value for participant transactions.•  Separate account GICs are available to defined contribution plan sponsors by offering market value returns on separate account investments with a general account guarantee of liquidity at contract value.• Private floating rate funding agreementsare generally privately-placed, unregistered investment contracts issued as general account obligations with interest credited based on the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). These agreements are used for money market funds, securities lending cash collateral portfolios and short-term investment funds.

Pension Risk TransfersGeneral accountandseparate account annuitiesare offered in connection with defined benefit pension plans which include single premium buyouts allowing for full or partial transfers of pension liabilities.•  General account annuitiesinclude nonparticipating group contract benefits purchased for retired employees or active employees covered under terminating or ongoing pension plans.•  Separate account annuitiesinclude both participating and non-participating group contract benefits. Participating contract benefits are purchased for retired, terminated, or active employees covered under active or terminated pension plans. The assets supporting the guaranteed benefits for each contract are held in a separate account, however, the Company fully guarantees all benefit payments. Non-participating contracts have economic features similar to our general account product, but offer the added protection of an insulated separate account. Under U.S. GAAP, these annuity contracts are treated as general account products.

Institutional Income AnnuitiesGeneral account contracts that are guaranteed payout annuities purchased for employees upon retirement or termination of employment. They can be life or non-life contingent non-participating contracts which do not provide for any loan or cash surrender value and, with few exceptions, do not permit future considerations.

Tort Settlements•  Structured settlement annuitiesare customized annuities designed to serve as an alternative to a lump sum payment in a lawsuit initiated because of personal injury, wrongful death, or a workers’ compensation claim or other claim for damages. Surrenders are generally not allowed, although commutations are permitted in certain circumstances. Guaranteed payments consist of life contingent annuities, term certain annuities and lump sums.

Capital Markets Investment Products•  Funding agreement-backed notesare part of a medium term note program, under which funding agreements are issued to a special-purpose trust that issues marketable notes in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies. The proceeds of these note issuances are used to acquire a funding agreement with matching interest and maturity payment terms from Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (“MLIC”). The notes are underwritten and marketed by major investment banks’ broker-dealer operations and are sold to institutional investors.•  Funding agreement-backed commercial paperis issued by a special purpose limited liability company which deposits the proceeds under a master funding agreement issued to it by MLIC. The commercial paper is issued in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies, receives the same short-term credit rating as MLIC and is marketed by major investment banks’ broker-dealer operations.•Through the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advance program, certain of our insurance subsidiaries are members of regional FHLBs and issuefunding agreementsto their respective FHLBs. Through the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation (“Farmer Mac”) program, MLIC has issued funding agreements to a subsidiary of Farmer Mac.

Other Products and ServicesSpecialized life insurance products and funding agreements designed specifically to provide solutions for funding postretirement benefits and company-, bank- or trust-owned life insurance used to finance nonqualified benefit programs for executives.









Property & Casualty

Our Property & Casualty business offers personal and commercial lines of property and casualty insurance, including private passenger automobile, homeowners’ and personal excess liability insurance. In addition, we offer to small business owners property, liability and business interruption insurance.

Major ProductsAuto InsuranceProvides coverage for private passenger automobiles, utility automobiles and vans, motorcycles, motor homes, antique or classic automobiles, trailers, liability, uninsured motorist, no fault or personal injury protection, as well as collision and comprehensive insurance.Homeowners’ InsuranceProvides protection for homeowners, renters, condominium owners and residential landlords against losses arising out of damage to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well as coverage for liability arising from ownership or occupancy.Small Business Owners’ InsuranceProvides property, liability and business interruption insurance for small business owners arising out of damages to property and/or business interruption from a variety of perils.



Operations













Sales Distribution

In the U.S., we market our products and services through various distribution channels. Our Group Benefits and Retirement and Income Solutions products are sold via sales forces primarily comprising MetLife employees. Personal lines property & casualty insurance products are directly marketed to employees at their employer’s worksite. Personal and commercial lines property & casualty insurance products are also marketed and sold to individuals and small business owners by independent agents and property & casualty specialists through a direct marketing channel.

Group Benefits Distribution

We distribute Group Benefits products and services through a sales force that is segmented by the size of the target customer. Marketing representatives sell either directly to corporate and other group customers or through an intermediary, such as a broker or consultant. In addition, voluntary products are sold by specialists. Employers have been emphasizing voluntary products and, as a result, we have increased our focus on communicating and marketing to employees in order to further foster sales of those products.

We have entered into several operating joint ventures and other arrangements with third parties to expand opportunities to market and distribute Group Benefits products and services. We also sell our Group Benefits products and services through sponsoring organizations and affinity groups and provide life and dental coverage to certain employees of the U.S. Government.

Retirement and Income Solutions Distribution

We distribute Retirement and Income Solutions products and services through dedicated sales teams and relationship managers. We may sell products directly to benefit plan sponsors and advisors or through brokers, consultants or other intermediaries. In addition, these sales professionals work with individual, group and global distribution areas to better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries.

Property & Casualty Distribution

We market and sell Property & Casualty products through independent agents, property & casualty specialists and association/affinity organizations.

We are a leading provider of personal lines property & casualty insurance products offered to employees at their employer’s worksite. Marketing representatives market personal lines property & casualty insurance products to employers through a variety of means, including broker referrals and cross-selling to group customers. Once permitted by the employer, MetLife commences marketing efforts to employees, enabling them to purchase coverage and to request payroll deduction over the telephone.

We also offer commercial property & casualty products through a variety of sponsored relationships, including association/affinity organizations. Marketing representatives market commercial property & casualty insurance products to small business owners through a variety of means including broker referrals and members of third party professional organizations. Once permitted by the sponsoring organization, MetLife commences marketing to small business owners, enabling them to purchase coverage directly over the internet and/or telephone.



Asia



Product Overview

Our Asia segment offers a broad range of products to both individuals and corporations, as well as other institutions and their respective employees.

Major ProductsLife InsuranceProvides whole and term life, endowments, universal and variable life, as well as group products.Accident & Health InsuranceProvides a full range of health products, including hospital indemnity, medical reimbursement, critical illness policies, as well as personal accident coverage.Retirement and SavingsProvides both fixed and variable annuities as well as regular savings products.











Operations

We operate in 10 jurisdictions throughout Asia, with our largest operation in Japan. We also maintain an innovation center in Singapore and a data analytics center of excellence in Malaysia.





Sales Distribution

Our Asia operations are geographically diverse encompassing both developed and emerging markets. We market our products and services through a multi-channel, digitally-enabled distribution strategy, including career agency, bancassurance, direct marketing, brokerage, other third-party distribution and e-commerce.

Japan’s multi-channel distribution strategy consists of career agents, independent agents, bancassurance, direct marketing and brokers. While digitally-enabled face-to-face channels continue to be core to our business in Japan, other channels, including bancassurance and direct marketing, are a critical part of Japan’s distribution strategy. Our Japan operation has maintained its position in bancassurance due to its strong distribution relationship with Japan’s mega banks, trust banks and various regional banks, as well as with the Japan Post. The direct marketing channel focuses on accident and health sales using traditional television and print media, as well as a growing e-commerce operation.

Outside of Japan, our distribution strategies differ by market but generally utilize a combination of career agents, independent agents, bancassurance relationships and direct marketing (including inbound and outbound telemarketing, online lead generation and sales). Our expertise in direct marketing is supported by our proprietarydata analytics center of excellence in Malaysiathat generates improved customer insights and enhanced sales leads. Furthermore, in select markets, we use independent brokers and an employee sales force to sell group products.















Latin America

Product Overview

Our Latin America segment offers a broad range of products to both individuals and corporations, as well as other institutions, and their respective employees.

Major ProductsLife InsuranceProvides universal, variable and term life products. For a description of these products, see “—U.S.—Product Overview—Group Benefits.”Retirement and SavingsProvides fixed annuities and pension products. Fixed annuities provide for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Deposits made into deferred annuity contracts are allocated to the Company’s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. Fixed income annuities provide a guaranteed monthly income for a specified period of years and/or for the life of the annuitant. Our savings oriented pension products are offered under a mandatory privatized social security system. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the disposition of MetLife Afore, S.A. de C.V. (“MetLife Afore”), the Company’s pension fund management business in Mexico.Accident & Health InsuranceProvides group and individual major medical, accidental, and supplemental health products, including accidental death and disability, medical reimbursement, hospital indemnity and medical coverage for serious medical conditions, as well as dental products.Credit InsuranceProvides policies designed to fulfill certain loan obligations in the event of the policyholder’s death.











Operations

In Latin America, our largest operations are in Mexico and Chile.





Sales Distribution

In Latin America, we market our products and services through a multi-channel distribution strategy which varies by geographic region and stage of market development.

The region has an exclusive and captive agency distribution network which also sells a variety of individual life, accident & health, and pension products. In the direct marketing channel, we work with sponsors and telesales representatives selling mainly accident & health and individual life products directly to consumers. We currently work with active brokers with sales of group and individual life, accident & health, group medical, dental and pension products, and worksite marketing.















EMEA

Product Overview

Our EMEA segment offers a broad range of products to both individuals and corporations, as well as to other institutions, and their respective employees.

Major ProductsLife InsuranceProvides both traditional and non-traditional life insurance products, such as whole and term life, endowments and variable life products, as well as group term life programs in most markets.Accident & Health InsuranceProvides individual and group personal accident and supplemental health products, including AD&D, hospital indemnity, scheduled medical reimbursement plans, and coverage for serious medical conditions. In addition, we provide individual and group major medical coverage in select markets.Retirement and SavingsProvides fixed annuities and pension products, including group pension programs in select markets. In Romania, we provide through a specialized pension company a savings oriented pension product under the mandatory privatized social security system.Credit InsuranceProvides policies designed to fulfill certain loan obligations in the event of the policyholder’s death.











Operations

We operate in several countries across EMEA, with our largest operations in the Gulf region, Poland, United Kingdom (“U.K.”) and Turkey.





Sales Distribution

Our EMEA operations are geographically diverse encompassing both developed and emerging markets. We hold leading positions in several markets in the Middle East and Central & Eastern Europe,and focus on attractive niche segments in more developed markets. Emerging markets represent a significant part of the region’s overall earnings.Our businesses in EMEA employ a multi-channel distribution strategy, including captive and independent agency, bancassurance and direct-to-consumer.











MetLife Holdings



Product Overview

Our MetLife Holdings segment consists of operations relating to products and businesses that we no longer actively market in the United States, such as variable, universal, term and whole life insurance, variable, fixed and index-linked annuities, long-term care insurance, as well as the assumed variable annuity guarantees from our former operating joint venture in Japan.





Major Products

Variable, Universal and Term Life InsuranceThese life products are similar to those offered by our Group Benefits business, except that these products were historically marketed to individuals through various retail distribution channels. For a description of these products, see “—U.S.—Product Overview—Group Benefits.”

Whole Life InsuranceProvides a benefit upon the death of the insured in return for the periodic payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined period. Whole life insurance includes policies that provide a participation feature in the form of dividends. Policyholders may receive dividends in cash, or apply them to increase death benefits, increase cash values available upon surrender or reduce the premiums required to maintain the contract in-force.

Variable AnnuitiesProvides for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Variable annuities allow the contractholder to allocate deposits into various investment options in a separate account, as determined by the contractholder. In certain variable annuity products, contractholders may also choose to allocate all or a portion of their account to the Company’s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. Contractholders may also elect certain minimum death benefit and minimum living benefit guarantees for which additional fees are charged and where asset allocation restrictions may apply.

Fixed and Indexed-Linked AnnuitiesFixed annuities provide for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Deposits made into deferred annuity contracts are allocated to the Company’s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. Fixed income annuities provide a guaranteed monthly income for a specified period of years and/or for the life of the annuitant. Additionally, the Company has issued indexed-linked annuities which allow the contractholder to participate in returns from equity indices.

Long-term CareProvides protection against the potentially high costs of long-term health care services. Generally pay benefits to insureds who need assistance with activities of daily living or have a cognitive impairment.



Corporate & Other



Overview

Corporate & Other contains the excess capital, as well as certain charges and activities, not allocated to the segments, including external integration and disposition costs, internal resource costs for associates committed to acquisitions and dispositions, enterprise-wide strategic initiative restructuring charges and various start-up businesses (including expatriate benefits insurance and the investment management business through which the Company offers fee-based investment management services to institutional clients, as well as the direct to consumer portion of the U.S. Direct business). Corporate & Other also includes interest expense related to the majority of the Company’s outstanding debt, as well as expenses associated with certain legal proceedings and income tax audit issues. In addition, Corporate & Other includes the elimination of intersegment amounts, which generally relate to affiliated reinsurance and intersegment loans, which bear interest rates commensurate with related borrowings.As a result of the Separation, for the years ended 2016 and 2015, Corporate & Other includes corporate overhead costs previously allocated to the former Brighthouse Financial segment.











Policyholder Liabilities

We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined amounts that are calculated to meet policy obligations when a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to provide for future annuity payments. Our liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the investments we make with the premiums we receive. We establish liabilities for claims and benefits based on assumptions and estimates of losses and liabilities incurred. Amounts for actuarial liabilities are computed and reported on the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For more details on policyholder liabilities see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Liability for Future Policy Benefits” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Policyholder Liabilities.”

Pursuant to applicable insurance laws and regulations, MetLife, Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries, including affiliated captive reinsurers, establish statutory reserves, reported as liabilities, to meet their obligations on their respective policies. These statutory reserves are established in amounts sufficient to meet policy and contract obligations, when taken together with expected future premiums and interest at assumed rates. Statutory reserves and actuarial liabilities for future policy benefits generally differ based on accounting guidance.

U.S. state insurance laws and regulations require certain MetLife entities to submit to superintendents of insurance, with each annual report, an opinion and memorandum of a qualified actuary that the statutory reserves and related actuarial amounts recorded in support of specified policies and contracts, and the assets supporting such statutory reserves and related actuarial amounts, make adequate provision for their statutory liabilities with respect to these obligations. See “— Regulation — U.S. Regulation — Insurance Regulation — Policy and Contract Reserve Adequacy Analysis.”

Insurance regulators in many of the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate require certain MetLife entities to prepare a sufficiency analysis of the reserves presented in the locally required regulatory financial statements, and to submit that analysis to the regulatory authorities. See “— Regulation — International Regulation.”



Underwriting and Pricing

Our Global Risk Management Department (“GRM”) contains a dedicated unit, the primary responsibility of which is the development of product pricing standards and independent pricing and underwriting oversight for MetLife’s insurance businesses. Further important controls around management of underwriting and pricing processes include regular experience studies to monitor assumptions against expectations, formal new product approval processes, periodic updates to product profitability studies and the use of reinsurance to manage our exposures, as appropriate. See “— Reinsurance Activity.”



Underwriting

Underwriting generally involves an evaluation of applications by a professional staff of underwriters and actuaries, who determine the type and the amount of insurance risk that we are willing to accept. We employ detailed underwriting policies, guidelines and procedures designed to assist the underwriter to properly assess and quantify such risks before issuing policies to qualified applicants or groups.

Insurance underwriting considers not only an applicant’s medical history, but also other factors such as financial profile, foreign travel, vocations and alcohol, drug and tobacco use. Group underwriting generally evaluates the risk characteristics of each prospective insured group, although with certain voluntary products and for certain coverages, members of a group may be underwritten on an individual basis. We generally perform our own underwriting; however, certain policies are reviewed by intermediaries under guidelines established by us. Generally, we are not obligated to accept any risk or group of risks from, or to issue a policy or group of policies to, any employer or intermediary. Requests for coverage are reviewed on their merits and a policy is not issued unless the particular risk or group has been examined and approved in accordance with our underwriting guidelines.

The underwriting conducted by our remote underwriting offices and intermediaries, as well as our corporate underwriting office, is subject to periodic quality assurance reviews to maintain high standards of underwriting and consistency. Such offices are also subject to periodic external audits by reinsurers with whom we do business.









We have established oversight of the underwriting process that facilitates quality sales and serves the needs of our customers, while supporting our financial strength and business objectives. Our goal is to achieve the underwriting, mortality and morbidity levels reflected in the assumptions in our product pricing. This is accomplished by determining and establishing underwriting policies, guidelines, philosophies and strategies that are competitive and suitable for the customer, the agent and us.

For our Property & Casualty business, our underwriting function has six principal aspects: evaluating potential voluntary and worksite employer accounts and independent agencies; establishing guidelines for the binding of risks; reviewing coverage bound by agents; underwriting potential insureds, on a case by case basis, presented by agents outside the scope of their binding authority; pursuing information necessary in certain cases to enable issuance of a policy within our guidelines; and ensuring that renewal policies continue to be written at rates commensurate with risk. Subject to very few exceptions, agents in each of the distribution channels have binding authority for risks which fall within our published underwriting guidelines. Risks falling outside the underwriting guidelines may be submitted for approval to the underwriting department; alternatively, agents in such a situation may call the underwriting department to obtain authorization to bind the risk themselves. In most states, we generally have the right within a specified period (usually the first 60 days) to cancel any policy.

We continually review our underwriting guidelines in light of applicable regulations and to ensure that our policies remain competitive and supportive of our marketing strategies and profitability goals.



Pricing

Product pricing reflects our pricing standards, which are consistent for our global businesses. GRM, as well as regional finance and product teams, are responsible for pricing and oversight for all of our insurance businesses. Product pricing is based on the expected payout of benefits calculated through the use of assumptions for mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency and investment returns, as well as certain macroeconomic factors, such as inflation. Investment-oriented products are priced based on various factors, which may include investment return, expenses, persistency and optionality and possible variability of results. For certain products, pricing may include prospective and retrospective experience rating features. Prospective experience rating involves the evaluation of past experience for the purpose of determining future premium rates and we bear all prior year gains and losses. Retrospective experience rating also involves the evaluation of past experience for the purpose of determining the actual cost of providing insurance for the customer; however, the contract includes certain features that allow us to recoup certain losses or distribute certain gains back to the policyholder based on actual prior years’ experience.

Rates for group benefit products are based on anticipated earnings and expenses for the book of business being underwritten. Renewals are generally reevaluated annually or biannually and are re-priced to reflect actual experience on such products. Products offered by Retirement and Income Solutions are priced on demand. Pricing reflects expected investment returns, as well as mortality, longevity and expense assumptions appropriate for each product. This business is generally nonparticipating and illiquid, as policyholders have few or no options or contractual rights to cash values.

Rates for individual life insurance products are highly regulated and generally must be approved by the regulators of the jurisdictions in which the product is sold. Generally, such products are renewed annually and may include pricing terms that are guaranteed for a certain period of time. Individual disability income products are based on anticipated results for the occupation being underwritten. Fixed and variable annuity products are also highly regulated and approved by the respective regulators. Such products generally include penalties for early withdrawals and policyholder benefit elections to tailor the form of the product’s benefits to the needs of the opting policyholder. We periodically reevaluate the costs associated with such options and will periodically adjust pricing levels on our guarantees. Further, from time to time, we may also reevaluate the type and level of guarantee features currently being offered.

We continually review our pricing guidelines in light of applicable regulations and to ensure that our policies remain competitive and supportive of our marketing strategies and profitability goals.











Reinsurance Activity

We enter into reinsurance agreements primarily as a purchaser of reinsurance for our various insurance products and also as a provider of reinsurance for some insurance products issued by third parties. We participate in reinsurance activities in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to significant risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. We enter into various agreements with reinsurers that cover individual risks, group risks or defined blocks of business, primarily on a coinsurance, yearly renewable term, excess or catastrophe excess basis. These reinsurance agreements spread risk and minimize the effect of losses. The extent of each risk retained by us depends on our evaluation of the specific risk, subject, in certain circumstances, to maximum retention limits based on the characteristics of coverages. We also cede first dollar mortality risk under certain contracts. In addition to reinsuring mortality risk, we reinsure other risks, as well as specific coverages. We obtain reinsurance for capital requirement purposes and also when the economic impact of the reinsurance agreement makes it appropriate to do so.

Under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer agrees to reimburse us for the ceded amount in the event a claim is paid. Cessions under reinsurance agreements do not discharge our obligations as the primary insurer. In the event that reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, reinsurance recoverable balances could become uncollectible.

We reinsure our business through a diversified group of well-capitalized, highly rated reinsurers. We analyze recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes, if any, with our reinsurers. We monitor ratings and evaluate the financial strength of our reinsurers by analyzing their financial statements. In addition, the reinsurance recoverable balance due from each reinsurer is evaluated as part of the overall monitoring process. Recoverability of reinsurance recoverable balances is evaluated based on these analyses. We generally secure large reinsurance recoverable balances with various forms of collateral, including secured trusts, funds withheld accounts and irrevocable letters of credit. Additionally, we enter into reinsurance agreements for risk and capital management purposes with several affiliated captive reinsurers. Captive reinsurers are affiliated insurance companies licensed under specific provisions of insurance law of their respective jurisdictions, such as the Special Purpose Financial Captive law adopted by several states including Vermont and South Carolina, and have a very narrow business plan that specifically restricts the majority or all of their activity to reinsuring business from their affiliates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Capital — Affiliated Captive Reinsurance Transactions.”



U.S.

For our Group Benefits business, we generally retain most of the risk and only cede particular risk on certain client arrangements. The majority of our reinsurance activity within this business relates to the following client agreements:

•Employer sponsored captive programs: through these programs, employers buy a group life insurance policy with the condition that a portion of the risk is reinsured back to a captive insurer sponsored by the client.

•Risk-sharing agreements: through these programs, clients require that we reinsure a portion of the risk back to third parties, such as minority-owned reinsurers.

•Multinational pooling: through these agreements, employers buy many group insurance policies which are aggregated in a single insurer via reinsurance.

The risks ceded under these agreements are generally quota shares of group life and disability policies. The cessions vary from 50% to 90% of all the risks of the policies.

For our Property & Casualty business, we purchase reinsurance to manage our exposure to large losses (primarily catastrophe losses) and to protect statutory surplus. We cede losses and premiums based upon the exposure of the policies subject to reinsurance. To manage exposure to large property & casualty losses, we purchase property catastrophe, casualty and property per risk excess of loss reinsurance protection.

For our Retirement and Income Solutions business, we have periodically engaged in reinsurance activities on an opportunistic basis. There were no such transactions during the periods presented.



Asia, Latin America and EMEA

For certain of our life insurance products, we currently reinsure risks in excess of $5 million to external reinsurers on a yearly renewable term basis. We may also reinsure certain risks with external reinsurers depending upon the nature of the risk and local regulatory requirements.









For selected large corporate clients, we reinsure group employee benefits or credit insurance business with various client-affiliated reinsurance companies, covering policies issued to the employees or customers of the clients. Additionally, we cede and assume risk with other insurance companies when either company requires a business partner with the appropriate local licensing to issue certain types of policies in certain jurisdictions. In these cases, the assuming company typically underwrites the risks, develops the products and assumes most or all of the risk.

We also have reinsurance agreements in-force that reinsure a portion of the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with variable annuity products. Under these agreements, we pay reinsurance fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and receive reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations.



MetLife Holdings

For our life products, we have historically reinsured the mortality risk primarily on an excess of retention basis or on a quota share basis. For the periods presented, we reinsured 90% of the mortality risk in excess of $2 million for most products. In addition to reinsuring mortality risk as described above, we reinsure other risks, as well as specific coverages. Placement of reinsurance is done primarily on an automatic basis and also on a facultative basis for risks with specified characteristics. On a case by case basis, we may retain up to $20 million per life and reinsure 100% of amounts in excess of the amount we retain. We also assume portions of the risk associated with certain whole life policies issued by a former affiliate and reinsure certain term life policies and universal life policies with secondary death benefit guarantees to such former affiliate. We evaluate our reinsurance programs routinely and may increase or decrease our retention at any time.

For our other products, we have a reinsurance agreement in-force to reinsure the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with certain variable annuity guarantees from our former operating joint venture in Japan. Under this agreement, we receive reinsurance fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and provide reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations.



Catastrophe Coverage

We have exposure to catastrophes which could contribute to significant fluctuations in our results of operations. We use excess reinsurance agreements, under which the direct writing company reinsures risk in excess of a specific dollar value for each policy within a class of policies, to provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure to larger risks. Such excess reinsurance agreements include retention reinsurance agreements and quota share reinsurance agreements. Retention reinsurance agreements provide for a portion of a risk to remain with the direct writing company, and quota share reinsurance agreements provide for the direct writing company to transfer a fixed percentage of all risks of a class of policies. Our life insurance products, particularly group life, subject us to catastrophe risk which we do not reinsure other than through our ongoing mortality reinsurance program which transfers risk at the individual policy level. For the U.S. and EMEA, we purchase catastrophe coverage to insure risks issued within territories that we believe are subject to the greatest catastrophic risks. For all of our other segments, we use excess of retention and quota share reinsurance agreements to provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure to larger risks.



Reinsurance Recoverables

For information regarding ceded reinsurance recoverable balances, included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables on the consolidated balance sheets, seeNote 6of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.











Regulation



Overview

In the U.S., our life insurance companies are regulated primarily at the state level, with some products and services also subject to federal regulation. In addition, MetLife, Inc. and its U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws of various U.S. jurisdictions. Furthermore, some of MetLife’s operations, products and services are subject to consumer protection laws, securities, broker-dealer and investment adviser regulations, environmental and unclaimed property laws and regulations, and to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). See “— U.S. Regulation.”

Our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. In addition, our investment and pension companies outside of the U.S. are subject to oversight by the relevant securities, pension and other authorities of the jurisdictions in which the companies operate. Our non-U.S. insurance businesses are also subject to current and developing solvency regimes which impose various capital and other requirements. Additionally, we may be subject in the future to enhanced capital standards, supervision and additional requirements of other international and global regulatory initiatives. See “— International Regulation.”



U.S. Regulation

Insurance Regulation

State insurance regulation generally aims at supervising and regulating insurers, with the goal of protecting policyholders and ensuring that insurance companies remain solvent. Insurance regulators have increasingly sought information about the potential impact of activities in holding company systems as a whole, and some jurisdictions have adopted laws and regulations enhancing “group-wide” supervision, as supported by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners’ (“NAIC”) Solvency Modernization Initiative. See “— NAIC” for information regarding group-wide supervision.

Each of MetLife’s insurance subsidiaries operating in the United States is licensed and regulated in each U.S. jurisdiction where it conducts insurance business. The extent of such regulation varies, but most jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing the financial aspects and business conduct of insurers. State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things:

•licensing companies and agents to transact business;

•calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements;

•mandating certain insurance benefits;

•regulating certain premium rates;

•reviewing and approving certain policy forms, including required policyholder disclosures;

•regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements, and identifying and paying to the states benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners;

•regulating advertising;

•protecting privacy;

•establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards;

•specifying the conditions under which a ceding company can take credit for reinsurance in its statutory financial statements (i.e., reduce its reserves by the amount of reserves ceded to a reinsurer);

•fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts;

•adopting and enforcing suitability standards with respect to the sale of annuities and other insurance products;

•approving changes in control of insurance companies;

•restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and

•regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.









Each insurance subsidiary is required to file reports, generally including detailed annual financial statements, with insurance regulatory authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which it does business, and its operations and accounts are subject to periodic examination by such authorities. These subsidiaries must also file, and in many jurisdictions and in some lines of insurance obtain regulatory approval for, rules, rates and forms relating to the insurance written in the jurisdictions in which they operate.

State and federal insurance and securities regulatory authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general from time to time make inquiries regarding compliance by MetLife, Inc. and its insurance subsidiaries with insurance, securities and other laws and regulations regarding the conduct of our insurance and securities businesses. We cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective action when warranted. See

Note 20

of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, we have informed the New York State Department of Financial Services (the “NYDFS”) about our practices in connection with the payment of pension benefits to annuitants and related matters, and the NYDFS is examining the issue. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) staff is also investigating this matter, and several additional regulators have made inquiries into these practices, including as to related disclosures. Similarly, the SEC staff is investigating the matter relating to our calculation of certain reserves associated with variable annuity guarantees assumed from a former operating joint venture in Japan. We have also informed other regulators of this matter. We are fully cooperating with each. See “Controls and Procedures” and “Risk Factors

—

Risks Related to the Material Weaknesses

—

We Have Identified Material Weaknesses in Our Internal Control over Financial Reporting, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Reputation, Results of Operations and Stock Price.”

Holding Company Regulation

Insurance holding company laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally require a controlled insurance company (i.e., insurers that are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies) to register with state regulatory authorities and to file with those authorities certain reports, including information concerning its capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations. These insurance holding company laws and regulations are generally based on the NAIC Insurance Holding Company System Model Act (“Model Holding Company Act”) and the Insurance Holding Company System Model Regulation (“Regulation”), which serve as a basis for action by the states. See “—NAIC” for further information on the Model Holding Company Act and Regulation.

State insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent companies, as well as on transactions between an insurer and its affiliates. Dividends in excess of prescribed limits and transactions above a specified size between an insurer and its affiliates require the approval of the insurance regulator in the insurer’s state of domicile. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—MetLife, Inc.—Liquidity and Capital Sources—Dividends from Subsidiaries.” See also “Dividend Restrictions” inNote 15of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding such limitations, as well as the New York Insurance Law, which permits MLIC to pay stockholder dividends to MetLife, Inc. in any calendar year without prior insurance regulatory clearance under one of two alternative formulations.

Federal Initiatives

Although the insurance business in the United States is primarily regulated by the states, federal initiatives often have an impact on our business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal measures are proposed that may significantly affect the insurance business. Impacted areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. See “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Legal Risks — Our Insurance, Pensions and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.”









The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“

Dodd-Frank”) effected the most far-reaching overhaul of financial regulation in the United States in decades, including the creation of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), which was given the authority to designate certain financial companies as

non-bank systemically important financial institutions (“

non-bank SIFI”) subject to supervision by the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (collectively with the Federal Reserve Board, the “Federal Reserve”). The Trump Administration has released a memorandum that generally delayed all pending regulations from publication in the Federal Register pending their review and approval by a department or agency head appointed or designated by President Trump. Additionally, President Trump and the majority party have expressed goals to amend Dodd-Frank. On October 26, 2017, the Secretary of the Treasury issued a report on asset management and insurance that recommended activities-based evaluations of systemic risk in the insurance industry rather than an entity-based approach. The report also supported primary regulation of the U.S. insurance industry by the states rather than the federal government. On November 17, 2017, the Secretary also issued a report recommending changes to the FSOC

non-bank SIFI designations, including prioritizing an activities-based approa

ch instead of individual designations, and enhancing the analytical process, engagement, and transparency of the designation process. We are not able to predict with certainty whether such actions would have a material effect on our business operations and cannot currently identify all of the risks or opportunities, if any, that may be posed to our businesses as a result of changes to, or legislative replacements for, Dodd-Frank. See “Risk Factors

—

Regulatory and Legal Risks

—

Our Insurance, Pensions and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.” On January 23, 2018, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit dismissed the FSOC appeal of the district court’s decision rescinding MetLife, Inc.’s designation as a non-bank SIFI. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

—

Executive Summary

—

Other Key Information

—

Non-Bank SIFI.”

Dodd-Frank established the Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) within the Department of the Treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the U.S., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office performs various functions with respect to insurance, including serving as a non-voting member of the FSOC and making recommendations to theFSOC regarding insurers to be designated for more stringent regulation. On December 12, 2013, the FIO issued a report, mandated by Dodd-Frank, which, among other things, urged the states to modernize and promote greater uniformity in insurance regulation. The report also discussed potential federal solutions if states failed to modernize and improve regulation, and some of the report’s recommendations, for instance, favored a greater federal role in monitoring financial stability and identifying issues or gaps in the regulation of large national and internationally active insurers. We cannot predict with certainty whether such recommendations will be adopted or what impact they may have on us.

Under the provisions of Dodd-Frank relating to the resolution or liquidation of certain types of financial institutions, if MetLife, Inc. or another financial institution were to become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations, it could be compelled to undergo liquidation with

the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FD

IC”) as receiver. For this new regime to be applicable, a number of determinations would have to be made, including that a default by the affected company would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the U.S. While under this new regime an insurance company would be resolved in accordance with state insurance law, if the FDIC were to be appointed as the receiver for another type of company (including an insurance holding company such as MetLife, Inc.), the liquidation of that company would occur under the provisions of the new liquidation authority, and not under the Bankruptcy Code, which ordinarily governs liquidations. The FDIC’s purpose under the liquidation regime is to mitigate the systemic risks the institution’s failure poses, which is different from that of a bankruptcy trustee under the Bankruptcy Code. In such a liquidation, the holders of such company’s debt could in certain respects be treated differently than under the Bankruptcy Code. As required by Dodd-Frank, the FDIC has established rules relating to the priority of creditors’ claims and the potentially dissimilar treatment of similarly situated creditors. These provisions could apply to some financial institutions whose outstanding debt securities we hold in our investment portfolios.

Dodd-Frank also includes provisions that may impact the investments and investment activities of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including the federal regulation of such activities. Until the various final regulations are promulgated pursuant to Dodd-Frank, and perhaps for some time thereafter, the full impact of Dodd-Frank on such activities will remain unclear.









Health Care Regulation

On July 14, 2014, the District of Columbia (“DC”) adopted a law that imposes an assessment on health insurers doing business in DC, including those that issue non-medical health-related products that are not subject to regulation under the Affordable Care Act. MetLife and other similarly impacted insurers are currently funding litigation sponsored by the American Council of Life Insurers (ACLI) to challenge the legality of DC’s assessment. While the financial impact to the Company of DC’s action will be minimal, if other states decide to adopt this model, there could be an impact on product pricing and sales. Additionally, Connecticut has levied, and Maryland has proposed legislation to levy, assessments in connection with their healthcare exchanges, and other states may also consider levying assessments on both medical and non-medical health insurers to fund their healthcare exchanges. On June 25, 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court, in the King v. Burwell decision, upheld the payment of tax credits to individuals who purchase coverage in states that have a federally facilitated healthcare exchange rather than a state healthcare exchange. Had the Supreme Court not upheld this payment, it is likely more states would have been compelled to create their own exchanges and possibly assess insurers for the fees of running these exchanges.

The Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries and Pension Relief Act of 2010 also includes certain provisions for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. As part of our Retirement and Income Solutions business, we offer general account and separate account group annuity products that enable a plan sponsor to transfer these risks, often in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans. See “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Legal Risks — Legislative and Regulatory Activity in Health Care and Other Employee Benefits Could Affect our Profitability as a Provider of Life Insurance, Annuities, and Non-Medical Health Insurance Benefit Products” for further information regarding the potential effect of such regulation.

Guaranty Associations and Similar Arrangements

Most of the U.S. jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life, health and property & casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay certain contractual insurance benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers, or those that may become impaired, insolvent or fail, for example, following the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events or for other reasons. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. In addition, certain states have government owned or controlled organizations providing life, health, and property & casualty insurance to their citizens, whose activities could place additional stress on the adequacy of guaranty fund assessments. Many of these organizations have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the guaranty associations described above. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets.

We have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate. SeeNote 20of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the guaranty association assessments.









Insurance Regulatory Examinations and Other Activities

As part of their regulatory oversight process, state insurance departments conduct periodic detailed examinations of the books, records, accounts, and business practices of insurers domiciled in their states. State insurance departments also have the authority to conduct examinations of non-domiciliary insurers that are licensed in their states. Except as otherwise disclosed inNote 20of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, MetLife did not receive any material adverse findings resulting from state insurance department examinations of its insurance subsidiaries.

Regulatory authorities in a small number of states, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) and, occasionally, theSEC, have had investigations or inquiries relating to sales of individual life insurance policies or annuitiesor other products issued by MLIC, General American Life Insurance Company (“GALIC”) and MetLife Securities, Inc. (“MSI”), a broker-dealer which was part of the U.S. Retail Advisor Force Divestiture. These investigations have focused on the conduct of particular financial services representatives, the sale of unregistered or unsuitable products, the misuse of client assets, and sales and replacements of annuities and certain riders on such annuities. Over the past several years, these and a number of investigations by other regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments and certain other relief, including restitution payments. We may continue to receive, and may resolve, further investigations and actions on these matters in a similar manner. SeeNote 20of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In addition, claims payment practices by insurance companies have received increased scrutiny from regulators. SeeNote 20of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding retained asset accounts and unclaimed property inquiries, including pension benefits, and related litigation and sales practices claims.

The International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”) has encouraged U.S. insurance supervisors, such as the NYDFS, to establish Supervisory Colleges for U.S.-based insurance groups with international operations, including MetLife, to facilitate cooperation and coordination among the insurance groups’ supervisors and to enhance the member regulators’ understanding of an insurance group’s risk profile. In October 2017, a Supervisory College meeting was chaired by the NYDFS and attended by MetLife’s key U.S. and international regulators. We have not received any reports or recommendations from the Supervisory College meeting, and we do not expect any outcome of the meeting to have a material adverse effect on our business.

Policy and Contract Reserve Adequacy Analysis

Annually, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, including affiliated captive reinsurers, are required to conduct an analysis of the adequacy of all statutory reserves. In each case, a qualified actuary must submit an opinion that states that the statutory reserves make adequate provision, according to accepted actuarial standards of practice, for the anticipated cash flows required by the contractual obligations and related expenses of the U.S. insurance subsidiary. The adequacy of the statutory reserves is considered in light of the assets held by the insurer with respect to such reserves and related actuarial items including, but not limited to, the investment earnings on such assets, and the consideration anticipated to be received and retained under the related policies and contracts. The Company may increase reserves in order to submit an opinion without qualification. Since the inception of this requirement, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries that are required by their states of domicile to provide these opinions have provided such opinions without qualifications.

NAIC

The NAIC’s mission is to assist state insurance regulatory authorities in serving the public interest and achieving the insurance regulatory goals of its members, the state insurance regulatory officials. State insurance regulators may act independently or adopt regulations proposed by the NAIC. State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Through the NAIC, state insurance regulators establish standards and best practices, conduct peer reviews, and coordinate their regulatory oversight. The NAIC provides standardized insurance industry accounting and reporting guidance through its Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual (the “Manual”), which states have largely adopted by regulation. However, statutory accounting principles continue to be established by individual state laws, regulations and permitted practices, which may differ from the Manual. Changes to the Manual or modifications by the various state insurance departments may impact the statutory capital and surplus of MetLife, Inc.’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries.









The Model Holding Company Act and Regulation include a requirement that the ultimate controlling person of a U.S. insurer file an annual enterprise risk report with the lead state of the insurance holding company system identifying risks likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole. To date, all of the states where MetLife has domestic insurers have enacted a version of the revised Model Holding Company Act, including the enterprise risk reporting requirement. The Model Holding Company Act also authorizes state insurance commissioners to act as global group-wide supervisors for internationally active insurance groups, as well as other insurers that choose to opt in for the group-wide supervision. The Model Holding Company Act creates a selection process for the group-wide supervisor, extends confidentiality protection to communications with the group-wide supervisor, and outlines the duties of the group-wide supervisor. To date, a number of jurisdictions have adopted laws and regulations enhancing group-wide supervision.

The NAIC has approved a new valuation manual containing a principle-based approach to the calculation of life insurance reserves. Principle-based reserving is designed to better address reserving for products, including the current generation of products for which the current formulaic basis for reserve determination does not work effectively. The principle-based approach became effective on January 1, 2017 in the states where it had been adopted, to be followed by a three-year phase-in period (at the option of insurance companies on a product-by-product basis) for new business since it was enacted into law by the required number of state legislatures. To date, principle-based reserving has been adopted by all of the states where our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, except in New York where the NYDFS has publicly stated its intention to implement this approach, subject to a working group of the NYDFS establishing the necessary reserves safeguards and the adoption of enabling legislation by the New York legislature, which is currently pending.

In 2015, the NAIC commenced an initiative to study variable annuity solvency regulations, with the goal of curtailing the use of variable annuity captives. In connection with this initiative, the NAIC engaged a third-party consultant to develop recommendations regarding reserve and capital requirements, which the NAIC exposed for comment on December 1, 2017. The NAIC is expected to consider the recommendations, which, if adopted, likely would apply to insurers’ existing and new business and likely would materially change the sensitivity of the balance sheet (including reserve and capital requirements) to capital markets. It is not possible to predict whether the amount of reserves or capital required to support our variable annuity contracts would increase or decrease if the NAIC adopts any new model laws, regulations and/or other standards applicable to variable annuity business after considering such recommendations, nor is it possible to predict the extent to which any such recommendations would affect the effectiveness and design of our risk mitigation and hedging programs. Furthermore, no assurances can be given to whether any such model laws, regulations and/or other standards will be adopted or to the timing of any such adoption.

In August of 2017, the NAIC released a paper on macro-prudential initiatives, in which they proposed potential enhancements in supervisory practices related to liquidity, recovery and resolution, capital stress testing and exposure concentrations. We expect the NAIC to further develop these proposed enhancements during 2018.









We cannot predict the capital and reserve impacts or compliance costs, if any, that may result from the above initiatives, or what impact these initiatives will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations, although since the Separation, principle-based reserving and the potential limitations on the use of variable annuity captives have less of an impact, given our discontinuance of retail life sales.

Surplus and Capital; Risk-Based Capital


of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Capital — Statutory Capital and Dividends.” The NAIC is also studying RBC adjustments for bonds, real estate, equity and collateral pledged to support FHLB advances, as well as longevity risk. It is premature to project the impact of any potential regulatory changes resulting from such studies. The NAIC is also studying RBC revisions for operational risk.

The NAIC has been considering development of a methodology for the calculation of capital for all the entities in an insurance holding company group, including non-U.S. entities. The goal is to provide U.S. regulators with a method to aggregate the available capital and the minimum capital of each entity in a group in a way that applies to all groups regardless of their structure. The NAIC has stated that the calculation will be a regulatory tool and will not constitute a requirement or standard. Nonetheless, any new group capital calculation methodology may incorporate existing risk-based capital concepts. It is not possible to predict what impact any such regulatory tool may have on our business.

While not required by or filed with insurance regulators, we calculate internally defined combined RBC ratios (“Combined RBC Ratios”), which are determined by dividing the sum of total adjusted capital for MetLife, Inc.’s principal U.S. insurance subsidiaries, excluding American Life Insurance Company (“American Life”), by the sum of company action level RBC for such subsidiaries. We calculate Combined RBC Ratios based on NAIC capital and reserving requirements (“NAIC-Based Combined RBC Ratios”). We also calculate Combined RBC Ratios derived from the statutory-basis financial statements as filed with insurance regulators (“Statement-Based Combined RBC Ratios”), which include additional reserve and capital requirements as required by the NYDFS for MLIC, the Company’s New York domiciled insurance subsidiary.









NAIC-Based Combined RBC Ratios and Statement-Based Combined RBC Ratios were both negatively impacted by the Separation and the group annuity reserve increase. The NAIC-Based Combined RBC Ratio was in excess of 400% at both December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the Statement-Based Combined RBC Ratio was in excess of 390% and 400% at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We are not aware of any NAIC adoptions or state insurance department regulation changes that would have a material impact on the Combined RBC Ratios of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries.

Regulation of Investments

Each of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries is subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments that an insurer may have in certain asset categories, such as below investment grade fixed income securities, real estate equity, other equity investments, and derivatives. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations would cause investments exceeding regulatory limitations to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring surplus and, in some instances, would require divestiture of such non-qualifying investments. We believe that the investments made by each of MetLife, Inc.’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries complied, in all material respects, with such regulations at December 31, 2017.

Cybersecurity Regulation

In addition, on October 24, 2017, the NAIC adopted the Insurance Data Security Model Law (the “Cybersecurity Model Law”), which establishes standards for data security and for the investigation of and notification of insurance commissioners of cybersecurity events involving unauthorized access to, or the misuse of, certain nonpublic information. The Cybersecurity Model Law now goes on to the states for adoption into state law. If adopted as state legislation, the Cybersecurity Model Law would impose significant new regulatory burdens intended to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information systems.

New York Insurance Regulation 210

Insurance Regulation 210 will go into effect in New York on March 19, 2018. Insurance Regulation 210 establishes standards for the determination and any readjustment of non-guaranteed elements (“NGEs”) that may vary at the insurer's discretion for life insurance policies and annuity contracts delivered or issued for delivery in New York State. Examples of NGEs include cost of insurance for life insurance policies or crediting rates for annuities. The regulation requires insurers to notify policyholders at least 60 days in advance of any adverse change in NGEs and, with respect to life insurance, to notify the NYDFS at least 120 days prior to any such changes. Additionally, the regulation requires insurers to file annually with NYDFS to inform the NYDFS of any adverse changes made in the prior year. The regulation does not permit insurers to increase profit margins for in-force policies or to adjust NGEs in order to recoup past losses.

ERISA and Fiduciary Considerations

We provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). As such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in certain prohibited transactions. The applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code are subject to enforcement by the Department of Labor (“DOL”), the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.









The prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Code generally restrict the provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and Individual Retirement Accounts (“IRAs”) if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to an individual advisor, the firm that employs the advisor or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen, unless an exemption or exception is available. Similarly, without an exemption or exception, fiduciary advisors are prohibited from receiving compensation from third parties in connection with their advice. ERISA also affects certain of our in-force insurance policies and annuity contracts, as well as insurance policies and annuity contracts we may sell in the future.

Concurrent with the rule delay, on November 24, 2017 the NAIC issued an exposure draft of an expanded Suitability in Annuity Transactions Model Regulation, intended to result in the adoption of a “best interest” standard on a nationwide basis. We are working with industry trade associations to provide comments on the draft. In addition, on December 27, 2017 the NYDFS proposed revisions to Insurance Regulation 187, which not only incorporate the “best interest” standard, but also would expand the scope of the regulations to include sales of life insurance policies, as well as annuities to consumers. The NYDFS proposed revisions to Insurance Regulation 187 are open for public comment until February 25, 2018. These developments leave open the possibility of further modifications to the federal rule. In addition, Insurance Regulation 187 may result in additional requirements on insurers and agents concerning both new and in-force annuity and life insurance products. We cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what legislation or regulations may be introduced or enacted, or what impact any such legislation or regulations may have on our business, product sales, results of operations and financial condition. See “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Legal Risks — Our Insurance, Pensions and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.”

On December 14, 2017, the DOL released its semiannual regulatory agenda, which proposes revisions to Form 5500, the form used for ERISA annual reporting, proposed jointly with the IRS and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation in 2016. The revisions affect employee pension and welfare benefit plans, including our ERISA plans, and require audits of information, self-directed brokerage account disclosure and additional extensive disclosure. We cannot predict the effect these proposals will have on our business, if enacted, or what other proposals may be made, what legislation may be introduced or enacted, or what impact any such legislation may have on our results of operations and financial condition.









The regulations indicate the requirements that must be met so that assets supporting a Transition Policy will not be considered plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. These requirements include detailed disclosures to be made to the employee benefits plan and the requirement that the insurer must permit the policyholder to terminate the policy on 90 days’ notice and receive without penalty, at the policyholder’s option, either (i) the unallocated accumulated fund balance (which may be subject to market value adjustment) or (ii) a book value payment of such amount in annual installments with interest. We have taken and continue to take steps designed to ensure compliance with these regulations.

Consumer Protection Laws

Numerous federal and state laws affect MetLife, Inc.’s earnings and activities, including federal and state consumer protection laws. As part of Dodd-Frank, Congress established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) to supervise and regulate institutions that provide certain financial products and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services subject to the CFPB’s jurisdiction generally exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the CFPB does have authority to regulate non-insurance consumer services we provide.

In August 2013, MetLife Bank, National Association (“MetLife Bank”) merged with and into MetLife Home Loans LLC (“MLHL”), its former subsidiary, with MLHL as the surviving, non-bank entity. The sole purpose of MLHL is to wind-down the limited remaining activities and fulfill remaining obligations and duties of MetLife Bank, some of which subject MLHL to certain federal consumer financial protection laws and certain state laws.

Regulation of Over-the-Counter Derivatives









Dodd-Frank also expanded the definition of “swap” and mandated the SEC and

U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“

Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation

Federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also “securities,” including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies, as well as certain fixed interest rate or index-linked contracts with features that require them to be registered as securities (“registered fixed contracts”). As a result, some of MetLife, Inc.’s subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws.

Federal and state securities laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to adopt new rules impacting new or existing products, regulate the issuance, sale and distribution of our products and limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. We may also be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we provide investment advisory services, offer products similar to those described above, or conduct other activities.

Some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and are also registered as investment advisers in various states, as applicable.

Federal and state securities regulatory authorities and FINRA from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations regarding compliance by MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries with securities and other laws and regulations. We cooperate with such inquiries and examinations and take corrective action when warranted.









Environmental Considerations

As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Inherent in such ownership and operation is also the risk that there may be potential environmental liabilities and costs in connection with any required remediation of such properties. In addition, we hold equity interests in companies that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities. We routinely have environmental assessments performed with respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real property to be acquired through foreclosure. We cannot provide assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not arise. However, based on information currently available to us, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of such properties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

Unclaimed Property

We are subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions concerning identification, reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned funds, and are subject to audit and examination for compliance with these requirements. See “Controls and Procedures” and “Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Material Weaknesses—We Have Identified Material Weaknesses in Our Internal Control over Financial Reporting, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Reputation, Results of Operations and Stock Price.” See alsoNote 20of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



International Regulation

Our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. Regulation of our insurance operations outside of the U.S. includes minimum capital, solvency and operational requirements. The authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. Periodic examinations of insurance company books and records, financial reporting requirements, market conduct examinations and policy filing requirements are among the techniques used by regulators to supervise our non-U.S. insurance businesses. We also have investment and pension companies in certain foreign jurisdictions that provide mutual fund, pension and other financial products and services. Those entities are subject to securities, investment, pension and other laws and regulations. In some jurisdictions, some of our insurance products are considered “securities” under local law and may be subject to local securities regulations and oversight by local securities regulators.

Our international operations are exposed to increased political, legal, financial, operational and other risks. See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability” and “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Legal Risks — Our Insurance, Pensions and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.”

On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum regarding its membership in the European Union (“EU”), resulting in a vote in favor of leaving the EU. The U.K. government triggered the withdrawal process by notifying the EU on March 29, 2017 of the U.K.’s intention to withdraw from the EU. The member withdrawal provisions in the applicable EU treaty provide that the U.K. and the EU will negotiate a withdrawal agreement during a maximum two-year period (unless such period is extended by unanimous vote of the other EU member states). In the meantime, the U.K. remains a member of the EU with unchanged rights to access the single EU market in goods and services. Our U.K. business model utilizes certain rights to operate cross-border insurance and investment operations which may be modified or eliminated as a result of the U.K. exiting the EU. Operating expenses within our businesses could increase as a result of uncertainties during the negotiation period and upon the U.K.’s withdrawal.

Other changes in the laws and regulations of jurisdictions that affect our customers and independent sales intermediaries or their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. Such actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions.

In Chile, in September 2015, a Presidential Advisory Committee issued several recommendations to reform the pension system and on August 10, 2017, Chilean President Bachelet submitted a pension reform proposal comprised of three legislative components: (i) a 5% additional contribution from employers; (ii) a public independent entity to manage the additional funds; and (iii) legislative text that modifies pension fund administrator regulations. When President-elect Piñera assumes office in March 2018, it is unclear whether he will introduce amendments to the existing bill in Congress or submit a new proposal. Certain of these proposals, if enacted, may have a significant adverse effect on our business in Chile.









The European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (“EIOPA”), along with European legislation, requires European regulators, such as the Central Bank of Ireland (“CBI”), to establish Supervisory Colleges for European Economic Area (“EEA”)-based insurance groups with significant European operations, including MetLife, to facilitate cooperation and coordination among the insurance groups’ European supervisors and to enhance the member regulators’ understanding of an insurance group’s risk profile. A November 2017 Supervisory College was chaired by the CBI and was attended by MetLife’s key European regulators. We do not expect the outcome of the meeting to have a material adverse effect on our business. The next European Supervisory College is scheduled to take place in the second half of 2018.

Part of our international insurance operations may be subject to assessments, generally based on their proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations to policyholders and claimants resulting from the insolvency of insurance companies. See “— Japan.” Annually, many of our international insurance operations are required to conduct an analysis of the sufficiency of all statutory reserves. In most of those cases, a locally qualified actuary must submit an analysis of the likelihood that the reserves make good and sufficient provision for the associated contractual obligations and related expenses of the insurer. Local regulatory and actuarial standards for this vary widely; the required implied certainty of the signing actuary’s opinion varies equally widely.

We expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the U.S., as well as regulatory oversight, generally, to continue to increase. The regulatory environment in the jurisdictions in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

Solvency Regimes

Our insurance business throughout the EEA is subject to Solvency II and its implementing rules, which cover the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for issuers and reinsurers. Solvency II codifies and harmonizes the EU insurance regulation. Capital requirements are forward-looking and based on the risk profile of each individual insurance company in order to promote comparability, transparency and competitiveness. In line with the requirements, MetLife entities calculate and report their solvency capital requirement using a standard formula prescribed by the EU Directive and further regulation by the EIOPA.

Mexico adopted a reform of its Insurance Law in February 2013. In accordance with this reform, a Solvency II-type regulatory framework became effective on January 1, 2016, which instituted changes to reserve and capital requirements and corporate governance and fostered greater transparency. In line with the requirements of the local Solvency II, insurance companies calculate and report their capital requirement using a standard formula designed by the local regulators (“CNSF”). In addition, as required, certain MetLife entities must submit annual ORSA reports to the CNSF on an ongoing basis.

In Chile, the law implementing Solvency II-like regulation continues in the studies stage. However, the Chilean insurance regulator has already issued two resolutions, one for governance and the other for risk management and control framework requirements. MetLife Chile has already implemented governance changes and risk policies to comply with these resolutions. A fifth impact study was completed and submitted in July 2017. On March 31, 2016, the local regulator issued a final regulation that requires insurance companies to implement a risk appetite framework and produce an ORSA. The first such report was submitted to the local regulator in September 2017. Even though a formal implementation date has not yet been set, it is estimated that the new solvency and supervisory regime could be in force by 2020.

In July 2015, the Superintendence of Private Insurance, the Brazilian insurance regulator (“SUSEP”), issued a regulation establishing (i) a framework for minimum capital requirements based on risk and (ii) criteria for investment activities in insurance companies. In November 2015, SUSEP issued an additional regulation requiring insurance companies operating in Brazil to adopt a formal risk management function by the end of 2016 and to implement a formal enterprise risk management framework in 2017. In December 2016, MetLife Brazil formalized the designation of a local Risk Manager in Brazil in compliance with local regulation and in 2017 completed the implementation of governance structures and risk management framework components in accordance with local regulatory requirements.

In China, the business of our joint venture (as well as the industry) has been implementing China Risk Oriented Solvency System (“C-ROSS”), a new risk-based solvency regime, which became effective on January 1, 2016. Like Solvency II, C-ROSS focuses on risk management and has three pillars (strengthen quantitative capital requirements, enhance qualitative supervision and establish a governance and market discipline process). In September 2017, the regulator announced a three-year plan aimed at improving C-ROSS rules in line with the changing market environment.









Other International and Global Regulatory Initiatives

The IAIS, an association of insurance supervisors and regulators and a member of the Financial Stability Board (“FSB”), an international entity established to coordinate, develop and promote regulatory, supervisory and other financial sector policies in the interest of financial stability, is participating in the FSB’s initiative to identify and manage systemic risk globally. Beginning in 2013, the FSB annually designated certain insurers as globally systemically important insurers (“G-SIIs”) using an assessment methodology developed and implemented by the IAIS. In November 2016, MetLife, Inc. and eight other firms were designated as G-SIIs; in November 2017, the FSB announced it would not publish a new list of G-SIIs pending further consideration in late 2018. The FSB also recommended that the IAIS continue development of an activities-based approach to assessing and managing potential systemic risk in the insurance sector.

Current standards call for additional requirements for G-SIIs, which include higher loss absorbency (“HLA”) requirements, and more intensive supervision, among other requirements. In February 2017 the IAIS confirmed that the risk-based global insurance capital standard (“ICS”) will replace basic capital requirements as the basis for a revised HLA and that work on revisions is deferred until adoption of the ICS by the IAIS in 2019. HLA implementation is to be delayed until 2022 for the 2020 group of G-SIIs. In November 2017, the IAIS announced an agreement regarding further development and implementation of the ICS, and the impact on timing of further development and implementation of HLA requirements is unclear.

All IAIS proposals would need to be implemented at the consolidated group level by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction. As MetLife, Inc. is no longer a U.S. non-bank SIFI and none of its regulators have proposed implementing the G-SII or other capital requirements, the impact on MetLife, Inc. of such global proposals is uncertain.

Japan

Our operations in Japan are subject to regulation and examination by Japan’s Financial Services Agency (“FSA”). Our operations in Japan are required to file with the FSA annual reports for each fiscal year (ending March 31) which include financial statements. These annual reports are not prepared on a U.S. GAAP basis. Similar to the U.S., Japanese law provides that insurers in Japan must maintain specified solvency standards for the protection of policyholders and to support the financial strength of licensed insurers. As of September 30, 2017, the solvency margin ratio of our Japan operations was in excess of four times the 200% solvency margin ratio that would require corrective action, as disclosed in our most recent regulatory filing in Japan. Most Japanese life insurers maintain a solvency margin ratio well in excess of the legally mandated minimum.

A portion of the annual earnings of our Japan operations may be repatriated each year, and may further be distributed to MetLife, Inc. as a dividend. We may determine not to repatriate profits from the Japan operations or to repatriate a reduced amount in order to maintain or improve the solvency margin of the Japan operations or for other reasons. In addition, the FSA may limit or not permit profit repatriations or other transfers of funds to the U.S. if such transfers would be detrimental to the solvency or financial strength of our Japan operations or for other reasons.

Our operations in Japan are subject to assessments to cover obligations to policyholders in the event of insolvency of other insurance companies. Under the Japanese Insurance Business Law, all licensed life insurers in Japan are assessed on an annual basis by the Life Insurance Policyholders Protection Corporation of Japan. These assessments are aggregated across all licensed life insurers in Japan and, in the event of a life insurance company insolvency, are used to satisfy certain obligations to policyholders and claimants of such insolvent company.



Company Ratings

Insurer financial strength ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies, including A.M. Best Company (“A.M. Best”), Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”), Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) and Standard & Poor’sGlobalRatings (“S&P”), regarding the ability of an insurance company to meet its financial obligations to policyholders and contractholders.



Rating Stability Indicators

Rating agencies use an “outlook statement” of “positive,” “stable,” ‘‘negative’’ or “developing” to indicate a medium- or long-term trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a rating change. A rating may have a “stable” outlook to indicate that the rating is not expected to change; however, a “stable” rating does not preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time, without notice. Certain rating agencies assign rating modifiers such as “CreditWatch” or “under review” to indicate their opinion regarding the potential direction of a rating. These ratings modifiers are generally assigned in connection with certain events such as potential mergers, acquisitions, dispositions or material changes in a company’s results, in order for the rating agency to perform its analysis to fully determine the rating implications of the event.











Insurer Financial Strength Ratings

The following insurer financial strength ratings represent each rating agency’s opinion of MetLife, Inc.’s principal insurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay obligations under insurance policies and contracts in accordance with their terms and are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in MetLife, Inc.’s securities. Insurer financial strength ratings are not statements of fact nor are they recommendations to purchase, hold or sell any security, contract or policy. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

Our insurer financial strength ratings at the date of this filing are indicated in the following table. Outlook is stable unless otherwise indicated.Additional information about financial strength ratings can be found on the websites of the respective rating agencies.

A.M. BestFitchMoody'sS&PRatings Structure“A++ (superior)” to “S (suspended)”“AAA (exceptionally strong)” to “C (distressed)”“Aaa (highest quality)” to “C (lowest rated)”“AAA (extremely strong)” to “SD (Selective Default)” or “D (Default)”American Life Insurance CompanyNRNRA1AA-5th of 214th of 22General American Life Insurance CompanyA+AA-Aa3AA-2nd of 164th of 194th of 214th of 22Metropolitan Life Insurance CompanyA+AA-Aa3AA-2nd of 164th of 194th of 214th of 22MetLife Insurance K.K. (MetLife Japan)NRNRNRAA-4th of 22Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance CompanyA+NRAa3NR2nd of 164th of 21

__________________

NR = Not rated

See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — A Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or Credit Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Capital — Rating Agencies” for an in depth description of the impact of a ratings downgrade.



Competition

The life insurance industry remains highly competitive. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Industry Trends—Competitive Pressures.” We believe that the competition we face is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. We compete globally with a large number of other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employer and other group customers, as well as agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability ratings. In the United States and Japan, we compete with a large number of domestic and foreign-owned life insurance companies, many of which offer products in categories on which we focus. Elsewhere, we compete with the foreign insurance operations of large U.S. insurers and with global insurance groups and local companies. Many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually and, accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us.









We believe that the continued volatility of the financial markets and its impact on the capital position of many competitors will continue to strain the competitive environment. Although the U.S. regulatory environment has improved at the federal level, the life insurance industry continues to face challenges globally and, within the U.S., at the state level. In the current environment, we believe that financial strength, technological efficiency and organizational agility are the most significant differentiators and that we are building a company that is well positioned to succeed in any environment. For example, the Company primarily distributes its products through a variety of third-party distribution channels, including banks and broker-dealers. These distribution partners are currently placing greater emphasis on the financial strength of the company whose products they sell. An increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors. The effects of financial market volatility may also lead to consolidation in the life insurance industry.

Competition for employees in our industry is intense, and we need to be able to attract and retain highly skilled people with knowledge of our business and industry experience to support our business. In selected global markets, we continue to undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency forces, while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our sales representatives. These initiatives may not succeed in attracting and retaining productive agents. See “— Segments and Corporate & Other” for information on sales distribution.

Numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation. Legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry. See “— Regulation.”



Employees

At October 1,2017, we had approximately 49,000 employees, calculated consistent with Regulation S-K Item 402(u) without exempting any employees under Regulation S-K Item 402(u)(4). We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.











Executive Officers

Set forth below is information regarding the executive officers of MetLife, Inc.:





NameAgePosition with MetLife and Business Experience

Steven A. Kandarian65•Chairman of the Board of MetLife, Inc. (January 2012-present) (Director of MetLife, Inc. since 2011)

•President and Chief Executive Officer (May 2011-present) of MetLife, Inc.

•Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. (April 2005-April 2011)

Stephen W. Gauster47•Senior Vice President and Interim General Counsel of MetLife, Inc. (July 2017-present)

•Senior Vice President and Chief Counsel, General Corporate Section of the Law Department (January 2016-June 2017)

•Senior Vice President, Chief Corporate Counsel and Assistant Secretary, Assurant, Inc., an insurance company (September 2008-December 2015)

Steven J. Goulart59•Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. (May 2011-present)

•Head of the Portfolio Management Unit as Senior Managing Director of MLIC (January 2011-April 2011)

•Senior Vice President and Treasurer, MetLife, Inc. (July 2009-April 2011)

John C.R. Hele59•Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. (September 2012-present)

•Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, Arch Capital Group Ltd., an insurance and reinsurance company (April 2009-August 2012)

Michel Khalaf54•President, U.S. Business of MetLife, Inc. (July 2017-present)

•President, EMEA of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present)

•Executive Vice President of MLIC (January 2011-November 2011)

•Regional President, Middle East, Africa and South Asia, ALICO (November 2008-November 2011) (Mr. Khalaf joined MetLife as a result of the acquisition of ALICO)

Esther S. Lee59•Executive Vice President and Global Chief Marketing Officer of MetLife, Inc. (January 2015-present)

•Senior Vice President, Brand Marketing, Advertising and Sponsorships of AT&T, Inc., a communications company (August 2011-December 2014)

•Senior Vice President, Brand Marketing and Advertising of AT&T, Inc. (June 2009-July 2011)

Martin J. Lippert58•Executive Vice President and Head of Global Technology and Operations of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present)

•Executive Vice President and Head of Global Technology of MetLife, Inc. (September 2011-November 2011)

Ramy Tadros42•Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of MetLife, Inc. (September 2017-present)

•Management Consultant, Oliver Wyman, Inc., a consulting company (September 1997-July 2017)

Susan Podlogar54•Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of MetLife, Inc. (July 2017-present)

•Vice President Human Resources Global Medical Devices, Human Resources Executive Committee, Johnson & Johnson, a medical devices, pharmaceutical and consumer products company(May 2016-June 2017)

•Vice President Human Resources EMEA, Global Total Rewards, Human Resources Executive Committee, Johnson & Johnson (January 2015-May 2016)

•Vice President Human Resources Global Total Rewards, Human Resources Executive Committee, Johnson & Johnson (January 2012-May 2015)











Trademarks

We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, including, among others, the trademark “MetLife.” We also have the exclusive global license to use the Peanuts®characters in the area of financial services under an advertising and premium agreement with Peanuts Worldwide, LLC up to December 31, 2019. As a result of the acquisition of American Life and Delaware American Life Insurance Company (“DelAm”) (collectively, “ALICO”), we acquired trademarks of American Life, including the “ALICO” trademark. In addition, as a result of our acquisition of ProVida, we acquired “PROVIDA” and other trademarks. We believe that our rights in our trademarks and under our Peanuts®characters license are well protected.



Available Information

MetLife files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at its Headquarters Office, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 or 1-800-SEC-0330 (Office of Investor Education and Advocacy). In addition, the SEC maintains an internet website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including MetLife, Inc.

MetLife makes available, free of charge, on its website (www.metlife.com) through the Investor Relations web page, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to all those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing (furnishing) such reports to the SEC. MetLife encourages investors to visit the Investor Relations web page from time to time, where it announces additional financial and other information about it to its investors, including in press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. The information found on MetLife’s website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document MetLife files with the SEC, and any references to MetLife’s website are intended to be inactive textual references only.



