Item 1.Business



As used in thisForm 10-K,“MetLife,” the “Company,” “we,”
    “our” and “us” refer to MetLife, Inc., a
    Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the “Holding
    Company”), and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan
    Life Insurance Company (“MLIC”).



With a more than140-yearhistory, we have grown to become a leading, global provider of
    insurance, employee benefits and financial services with more
    than 70 million customers and operations throughout the
    United States and the regions of Latin America, Asia
    Pacific and Europe, Middle East and India (“EMEI”).
    Over the past several years, we have grown our core businesses,
    as well as successfully executed on our growth strategy. This
    has included completing a number of transactions that have
    resulted in the acquisition and in some cases divestiture of
    certain businesses while also further strengthening our balance
    sheet to position MetLife for continued growth.



In December 2009, we began reporting results under our new
    U.S. Business organization. U.S. Business consists of
    Insurance Products, Retirement Products, Corporate Benefit
    Funding (“CBF”) and Auto & Home. The former
    Institutional Business & Individual Business segments
    have been reclassified into the following three segments:



•Insurance Products (group life, individual life and non-medical
    health insurance products);•Retirement Products (individual and institutional annuity
    products); and•Corporate Benefit Funding (pension closeouts, structured
    settlements and other benefit funding solutions).



The financial reporting format for the Auto & Home
    segment, which is also part of U.S. Business and consists
    of our property & casualty insurance products, remains
    unchanged from prior periods.



Through our U.S. Business organization, we provide a
    variety of insurance and financial services products —
    including life, dental, disability and long-term care insurance,
    guaranteed interest and stable value products, various annuity
    products, and auto & home insurance —
    through both proprietary and independent retail distribution
    channels, as well as at the workplace. This business serves over
    60,000 group customers, including over 90 of the top one hundred
    FORTUNE
    500®companies, and provides protection and retirement solutions to
    millions of individuals.



Our International segment operates in 16 countries within the
    Latin America, Asia Pacific and EMEI regions. MetLife is the
    largest life insurer in Mexico and also holds leading market
    positions in Chile and Japan. We are also investing in organic
    growth efforts in a number of countries, including India, China
    and South Korea. International is the fastest-growing of
    MetLife’s businesses, and we have clearly identified it to
    be one of the biggest future growth areas.



Within the U.S., we also provide a wide array of savings and
    mortgage banking products. Through its own organic growth
    efforts and the completion of two mortgage company acquisitions
    in 2008, MetLife Bank, National Association (“MetLife
    Bank”), ranked among the top four reverse mortgage
    originators and the top 11 mortgage originators for the year
    ended December 31, 2009, according to Reverse Mortgage
    Insight and Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry trade group
    publication. Results of our banking operation are reported in
    Banking, Corporate & Other.



Revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10% of
    consolidated revenues in any of the last three years. Financial
    information, including revenues, expenses, income and loss, and
    total assets by segment, is provided in Note 22 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



With a $328 billion general account portfolio invested
    primarily in investment grade corporate bonds, structured
    finance securities, commercial & agricultural mortgage
    loans, U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed
    securities, as well as real estate and corporate equity, we are
    one of the largest institutional investors in the United States.
    Over the past several years, we have taken a number of actions
    to further diversify and strengthen our general account
    portfolio.





Our well-recognized brand names, leading market positions,
    competitive and innovative product offerings and financial
    strength and expertise should help drive future growth and
    enhance shareholder value, building on a long history of
    fairness, honesty and integrity.



Over the course of the next several years, we will pursue the
    following specific objectives to achieve our goals:



•Build on our widely recognized brand name•Capitalize on our large customer base of institutions and
    individual consumers•Expand and leverage our broad, diverse distribution
    channels•Continue to introduce innovative and competitive products•Focus on growing our businesses around the globe•Capitalize on opportunities to provide retirement income
    solutions•Maintain balanced focus on income and protection products•Maintain and enhance capital efficiency•Continue to achieve organizational efficiencies through our
    Operational Excellence initiative•Focus on margin improvement and return on equity expansion•Further our commitment to a diverse workplace



U.S.
    Business



Overview



Insurance
    Products



Our Insurance Products segment offers a broad range of
    protection products and services aimed at serving the financial
    needs of our customers throughout their lives. These products
    are sold to individuals and corporations, as well as other
    institutions and their respective employees. We have built a
    leading position in the U.S. group insurance market through
    long-standing relationships with many of the largest corporate
    employers in the United States, and are one of the largest
    issuers of individual life insurance products in the United
    States. We are organized into three businesses: Group Life,
    Individual Life and Non-Medical Health.



Our Group Life insurance products and services include variable
    life, universal life, and term life products. We offer group
    insurance products as employer-paid benefits or as voluntary
    benefits where all or a portion of the premiums are paid by the
    employee. These group products and services also include
    employee paid supplemental life and are offered as standard
    products or may be tailored to meet specific customer needs.



Our Individual Life insurance products and services include
    variable life, universal life, term life and whole life
    products. Additionally, through our broker-dealer affiliates, we
    offer a full range of mutual funds and other securities
    products. The elimination of transactions from activity between
    the segments within U.S. Business occurs within Individual Life.
    The major products in this area are:



Variable Life.Variable life products provide
    insurance coverage through a contract that gives the
    policyholder flexibility in investment choices and, depending on
    the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with
    certain guarantees. Most importantly, with variable life
    products, premiums and account balances can be directed by the
    policyholder into a variety of separate accounts or directed to
    the Company’s general account. In the separate accounts,
    the policyholder bears the entire risk of the investment
    results. We collect specified fees for the management of these
    various investment accounts and any net return is credited
    directly to the policyholder’s account. In some instances,
    third-party money management firms manage investment accounts
    that support variable insurance products. With some products, by
    maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the
    advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death
    benefit from adverse investment experience.





Universal Life.Universal life products
    provide insurance coverage on the same basis as variable life,
    except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated balances,
    are allocated only to the Company’s general account.
    Universal life products may allow the insured to increase or
    decrease the amount of death benefit coverage over the term of
    the contract and the owner to adjust the frequency and amount of
    premium payments. We credit premiums to an account maintained
    for the policyholder. Premiums are credited net of specified
    expenses. Interest is credited to the policyholder’s
    account at interest rates we determine, subject to specified
    minimums. Specific charges are made against the
    policyholder’s account for the cost of insurance protection
    and for expenses. With some products, by maintaining a certain
    premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various
    guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse
    investment experience.



Term Life.Term life products provide a
    guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured for a specified
    time period in return for the periodic payment of premiums.
    Specified coverage periods range from one year to 30 years,
    but in no event are they longer than the period over which
    premiums are paid. Death benefits may be level over the period
    or decreasing. Decreasing coverage is used principally to
    provide for loan repayment in the event of death. Premiums may
    be guaranteed at a level amount for the coverage period or may
    be non-level and non-guaranteed. Term insurance products are
    sometimes referred to as pure protection products, in that there
    are typically no savings or investment elements. Term contracts
    expire without value at the end of the coverage period when the
    insured party is still living.



Whole Life.Whole life products provide a
    guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured in return for
    the periodic payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined
    period. Premium payments may be required for the entire life of
    the contract period, to a specified age or period, and may be
    level or change in accordance with a predetermined schedule.
    Whole life insurance includes policies that provide a
    participation feature in the form of dividends. Policyholders
    may receive dividends in cash or apply them to increase death
    benefits, increase cash values available upon surrender or
    reduce the premiums required to maintain the contract in-force.
    Because the use of dividends is specified by the policyholder,
    this group of products provides significant flexibility to
    individuals to tailor the product to suit their specific needs
    and circumstances, while at the same time providing guaranteed
    benefits.



Our Non-Medical Health insurance products and services include
    dental insurance, group short- and long-term disability,
    individual disability income, long-term care (“LTC”),
    critical illness and accidental death & dismemberment
    coverages. Other products and services include
    employer-sponsored auto and homeowners insurance provided
    through the Auto & Home segment and prepaid legal
    plans. We also sell administrative services-only
    (“ASO”) arrangements to some employers. The major
    products in this area are:



Dental.Dental products provide insurance and
    ASO plans that assist employees, retirees and their families in
    maintaining oral health while reducingout-of-pocketexpenses and providing superior customer service. Dental plans
    include the Preferred Dentist Program and the Dental Health
    Maintenance Organization.



Disability.Disability products provide a
    benefit in the event of the disability of the insured. In most
    instances, this benefit is in the form of monthly income paid
    until the insured reaches age 65. In addition to income
    replacement, the product may be used to provide for the payment
    of business overhead expenses for disabled business owners or
    mortgage payment protection. This is offered on both a group and
    individual basis.



Long-term Care.LTC products provide a fixed
    benefit amount on a daily or monthly basis for individuals who
    need assistance with activities of daily living or have a
    cognitive impairment. These products are offered on both a group
    and individual basis.



Retirement
    Products



Our Retirement products segment includes a variety of variable
    and fixed annuities that are primarily sold to individuals and
    employees of corporations and other institutions. The major
    products in this area are:



Variable Annuities.Variable annuities provide
    for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs.
    Variable annuities allow the contractholder to make deposits
    into various investment accounts, as determined by the
    contractholder. The investment accounts are separate accounts
    and risks associated with such investments are borne entirely by
    the contractholder, except where guaranteed minimum benefits are





involved. In certain variable annuity products, contractholders
    may also choose to allocate all or a portion of their account to
    the Company’s general account and are credited with
    interest at rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. In
    addition, contractholders may also elect certain minimum death
    benefit and minimum living benefit guarantees for which
    additional fees are charged.



Fixed Annuities.Fixed annuities provide for
    both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Fixed
    annuities do not allow the same investment flexibility provided
    by variable annuities, but provide guarantees related to the
    preservation of principal and interest credited. Deposits made
    into deferred annuity contracts are allocated to the
    Company’s general account and are credited with interest at
    rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. Credited
    interest rates are guaranteed not to change for certain limited
    periods of time, ranging from one to ten years. Fixed income
    annuities provide a guaranteed monthly income for a specified
    period of yearsand/orfor
    the life of the annuitant.



Corporate
    Benefit Funding



Our Corporate Benefit Funding segment includes an array of
    annuity and investment products, including, guaranteed interest
    products and other stable value products, income annuities, and
    separate account contracts for the investment management of
    defined benefit and defined contribution plan assets. This
    segment also includes certain products to fund postretirement
    benefits and company, bank or trust owned life insurance used to
    finance non-qualified benefit programs for executives. The major
    products in this area are:



Stable Value Products.We offer general
    account guaranteed interest contracts, separate account
    guaranteed interest contracts, and similar products used to
    support the stable value option of defined contribution plans.
    We also offer private floating rate funding agreements that are
    used for money market funds, securities lending cash collateral
    portfolios and short-term investment funds.



Pensions Closeouts.We offer general account
    and separate account annuity products, generally in connection
    with the termination of defined benefit pension plans, both
    domestically and in the United Kingdom. We also offer
    partial risk transfer solutions that allow for partial transfers
    of pension liabilities. Annuity products include single premium
    buyouts and terminal funding contracts.



Torts and Settlements.We offer innovative
    strategies for complex litigation settlements, primarily
    structured settlement annuities.



Capital Markets Investment Products.Products
    offered include funding agreements (including our Global GIC
    Programs), Federal Home Loan Bank advances and funding agreement
    backed commercial paper.



Other Corporate Benefit Funding Products and
    Services.We offer specialized life insurance
    products designed specifically to provide solutions for
    non-qualified benefit and retiree benefit funding purposes.



Auto &
    Home



Our Auto & Home segment includes personal lines
    property and casualty insurance offered directly to employees at
    their employer’s worksite, as well as to individuals
    through a variety of retail distribution channels, including
    independent agents, property and casualty specialists, direct
    response marketing and the agency distribution group.
    Auto & Home primarily sells auto insurance, which
    represented 68% of Auto & Home’s total net earned
    premiums in 2009. Homeowners and other insurance represented 32%
    of Auto & Home’s total net earned premiums in
    2009. The major products in this area are:



Auto Coverages.Auto insurance policies
    provide coverage for private passenger automobiles, utility
    automobiles and vans, motorcycles, motor homes, antique or
    classic automobiles and trailers. Auto & Home offers
    traditional coverage such as liability, uninsured motorist, no
    fault or personal injury protection and collision and
    comprehensive.



Homeowners and Other
    Coverages.Homeowners’ insurance policies
    provide protection for homeowners, renters, condominium owners
    and residential landlords against losses arising out of damage
    to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well
    as coverage for liability arising from ownership





or occupancy. Other insurance includes personal excess liability
    (protection against losses in excess of amounts covered by other
    liability insurance policies), and coverage for recreational
    vehicles and boat owners.



Traditional insurance policies for dwellings represent the
    majority of Auto & Home’s homeowners’
    policies providing protection for loss on a “replacement
    cost” basis. These policies provide additional coverage for
    reasonable, normal living expenses incurred by policyholders
    that have been displaced from their homes.



Sales
    Distribution



Our U.S. Business markets our products and services through
    various distribution groups. Our life insurance and retirement
    products targeted to individuals are sold via sales forces,
    comprised of MetLife employees, in addition to third-party
    organizations. Our group life and non-medical health insurance
    and corporate benefit funding products are sold via sales forces
    primarily comprised of MetLife employees. Personal lines
    property and casualty insurance products are directly marketed
    to employees at their employer’s worksite. Auto &
    Home products are also marketed and sold to individuals by
    independent agents and property and casualty specialists through
    a direct response channel and the agency distribution group.
    MetLife sales employees work with all distribution groups to
    better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and
    other intermediaries.



Individual
    Sales Distribution



Our individual distribution targets the large middle-income
    market, as well as affluent individuals, owners of small
    businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized companies.
    We have also been successful in selling our products in various
    multi-cultural markets.



Insurance Products are sold through our individual sales
    distribution organization and also through various third-party
    organizations utilizing two models. In the coverage model,
    wholesalers sell to high net worth individuals and small- to
    medium-sized businesses through independent general agencies,
    financial advisors, consultants, brokerage general agencies and
    other independent marketing organizations under contractual
    arrangements. Wholesalers sell through financial intermediaries,
    including regional broker-dealers, brokerage firms, financial
    planners and banks.



Retirement Products are sold through our individual sales
    distribution organization and also through various third-party
    organizations such as regional broker-dealers, New York Stock
    Exchange (“NYSE”) brokerage firms, financial planners
    and banks.



Individual sales distribution representatives market
    Auto & Home products to individuals through a variety
    of means.



The individual sales distribution organization is comprised of
    three channels: the MetLife distribution channel, a career
    agency system, the New England financial distribution channel, a
    general agency system, and MetLife Resources, a career agency
    system.



The MetLife distribution channel had 5,762 MetLife agents under
    contract in 82 agencies at December 31, 2009. The career
    agency sales force focuses on the large middle-income and
    affluent markets, including multi-cultural markets. We support
    our efforts in multi-cultural markets through targeted
    advertising, specially trained agents and sales literature
    written in various languages.



The New England financial distribution channel included 36
    general agencies providing support to 2,232 general agents and a
    network of independent brokers throughout the United States at
    December 31, 2009. The New England financial distribution
    channel targets high net worth individuals, owners of small
    businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized companies.



MetLife Resources, a focused distribution channel of MetLife,
    markets retirement, annuity and other financial products on a
    national basis through 621 MetLife agents and independent
    brokers at December 31, 2009. MetLife Resources targets the
    nonprofit, educational and healthcare markets.





We market and sell Auto & Home products through
    independent agents, property and casualty specialists, a direct
    response channel and the agency distribution group. In recent
    years, we have increased the number of independent agents
    appointed to sell these products.



In 2009, Auto & Home’s business was concentrated
    in the following states, as measured by amount and percentage of
    total direct earned premiums:



For the Year Ended December 31, 2009(In millions)PercentNew York$39213%Massachusetts$2819%Illinois$2017%Florida$1696%Connecticut$1505%Texas$1294%





Group
    Sales Distribution



Insurance Products distributes its group life and non-medical
    health insurance products and services through a sales force
    that is segmented by the size of the target customer. Marketing
    representatives sell either directly to corporate and other
    group customers or through an intermediary, such as a broker or
    consultant. Voluntary products are sold through the same sales
    channels, as well as by specialists for these products.
    Employers have been emphasizing such voluntary products and, as
    a result, we have increased our focus on communicating and
    marketing to such employees in order to further foster sales of
    those products. At December 31, 2009, the group life and
    non-medical health insurance sales channels had 385 marketing
    representatives.



Retirement Products markets its retirement, savings, investment
    and payout annuity products and services to sponsors and
    advisors of benefit plans of all sizes. These products and
    services are offered to private and public pension plans,
    collective bargaining units, nonprofit organizations, recipients
    of structured settlements and the current and retired members of
    these and other institutions.



Corporate Benefit Funding products and services are distributed
    through dedicated sales teams and relationship managers located
    in 12 offices around the country. In addition, the
    retirement & benefits funding organization works with
    individual distribution and group life and non-medical health
    insurance distribution areas to better reach and service
    customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries.



Auto & Home is a leading provider of personal lines
    property and casualty insurance products offered to employees at
    their employer’s worksite. At December 31, 2009, 2,223
    employers offered MetLife Auto & Home products to
    their employees.



Group marketing representatives market personal lines property
    and casualty insurance products to employers through a variety
    of means, including broker referrals and cross-selling to group
    customers. Once permitted by the employer, MetLife commences
    marketing efforts to employees. Employees who are interested in
    the auto and homeowners products can call a toll-free number to
    request a quote to purchase coverage and to request payroll
    deduction over the telephone. Auto & Home has also
    developed a proprietary software that permits an employee in
    most states to obtain a quote for auto insurance through
    Auto & Home’s Internet website.



We have entered into several joint ventures and other
    arrangements with third parties to expand the marketing and
    distribution opportunities of group products and services. We
    also seek to sell our group products and services through
    sponsoring organizations and affinity groups. For example, we
    are the provider of LTC products for the National Long-Term Care
    Coalition, a group of some of the nation’s largest
    employers. In addition, we also provide life and dental coverage
    to federal employees.





International



Overview



International provides life insurance, accident and health
    insurance, credit insurance, annuities, endowment and
    retirement & savings products to both individuals and
    groups. We focus on emerging markets primarily within the Latin
    America, Asia Pacific and EMEI regions. We operate in
    international markets through subsidiaries and joint ventures.
    See “Risk Factors — Fluctuations in Foreign
    Currency Exchange Rates and Foreign Securities Markets Could
    Negatively Affect Our Profitability,” and “Risk
    Factors — Our International Operations Face Political,
    Legal, Operational and Other Risks that Could Negatively Affect
    Those Operations or Our Profitability,” and
    “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk.”



Latin
    America Region



We operate in the Latin America region in Mexico, Chile, Brazil,
    Argentina, and Uruguay. The operations in Mexico and Chile
    represented 83% of the total premiums and fees in this region
    for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Mexican operation
    is the largest life insurance company in both the individual and
    group businesses in Mexico according to Asociación Mexicana
    de Instituciones de Seguro, a Mexican industry trade group which
    provides ranking for insurance companies. The Chilean operation
    is the second largest annuity company in Chile, based on market
    share according to Superintendencia Valores y Seguros, the
    Chilean insurance regulator. The Chilean operation also offers
    individual life insurance and group insurance products. We also
    actively market individual life insurance, group insurance
    products and credit life coverage in Argentina, but the
    nationalization of the pension system substantially reduced our
    presence in Argentina. The business environment in Argentina has
    been, and may continue to be, affected by governmental and legal
    actions which impact our results of operations.



Asia
    Pacific Region



We operate in the Asia Pacific region in South Korea, Hong Kong,
    Taiwan, Australia, Japan, and China. The activities in the
    region are primarily focused on individual business. The
    operations in South Korea and Hong Kong represented 63% of the
    total premiums and fees in this region for the year ended
    December 31, 2009. The South Korean operation has
    significant sales of variable universal life and annuity
    products. The Hong Kong operation has significant sales of
    variable universal life and endowment products. The Japanese
    joint venture operation offers fixed and guaranteed variable
    annuities and variable life products. We have a quota share
    reinsurance agreement with the joint venture in Japan, whereby
    we assume 100% of the living and death guarantee benefits
    associated with the variable annuity business written after
    April 2005 by the joint venture. The operating results of the
    joint venture operations in Japan and China are reflected in net
    investment income and are not consolidated in the financial
    results.



Europe,
    Middle East and India Region



We operate in Europe in the United Kingdom, Belgium, Poland and
    Ireland. The results of our operations in the Middle East and
    our consolidated joint venture in India are also included in our
    EMEI region. The operations in the United Kingdom and India
    represented 72% of the total premiums and fees in this region
    for the year ended December 31, 2009. The United Kingdom
    operation underwrites risk in its home market and fourteen other
    countries across Europe and the Middle East offering credit
    insurance coverage. The Indian operation has significant sales
    of unit-linked and traditional life insurance products.



Banking,
    Corporate & Other



Banking, Corporate & Other contains the excess capital
    not allocated to the business segments, which is invested to
    optimize investment spread and to fund company initiatives,
    variousstart-upentities, and run-off entities. Banking, Corporate &
    Other also includes interest expense related to the majority of
    our outstanding debt and expenses associated with certain legal
    proceedings. The elimination of transactions from activity
    between U.S. Business, International, and Banking,
    Corporate & Other occurs within Banking,
    Corporate & Other.





Banking, Corporate & Other also includes the financial
    results of MetLife Bank, which offers a variety of residential
    mortgage and deposit products. The residential mortgage banking
    activities include the origination and servicing of mortgage
    loans. Mortgage loans areheld-for-investmentor sold primarily into Federal National Mortgage Association
    (“FNMA”), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
    (“FHLMC”) or Government National Mortgage Association
    (“GNMA”) securities. MetLife Bank also leverages
    MetLife’s investment platform to source commercial and
    agriculture loans as investments on its balance sheet. MetLife
    Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal
    Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLB”) and is subject to
    regulation, examination and supervision by the Office of the
    Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) and secondarily by
    the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) and
    the Federal Reserve.



Products offered by MetLife Bank include forward and reverse
    residential mortgage loans and consumer deposits. Residential
    mortgage loans are originated through MetLife Bank’s
    national sales force, mortgage brokers and mortgage
    correspondents. In addition, MetLife Bank principally seeks
    deposits from direct customers via the Internet and mail, as
    well as customers of its affiliates having access to
    affiliates’ distribution channels and field force,
    including through voluntary benefits platforms.



The origination of forward and reverse mortgage single family
    loans include both variable and fixed rate products. MetLife
    Bank does not originatesub-primeor
    alternative residential mortgage loans (“Alt-A”)
    mortgage loans and the funding for the mortgage banking
    activities is provided by deposits and borrowings.



Deposit products include traditional savings accounts, money
    market savings accounts, certificates of deposit
    (“CDs”) and individual retirement accounts. MetLife
    Bank participates in the Certificate of Deposit Account Registry
    Service program through which certain customer CDs are exchanged
    for CDs of similar amounts from participating banks. The deposit
    products provide a relatively stable source of funding and
    liquidity and are used to fund securities and loans.



Policyholder
    Liabilities



We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined
    amounts that are calculated to meet our policy obligations when
    a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes
    disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to
    provide for future annuity payments. We compute the amounts for
    actuarial liabilities reported in our consolidated financial
    statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). For
    more details on Policyholder Liabilities see
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Summary of
    Critical Accounting Estimates — Liability for Future
    Policy Benefits” and “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Policyholder Liabilities.”



Pursuant to state insurance laws, the Holding Company’s
    insurance subsidiaries establish statutory reserves, reported as
    liabilities, to meet their obligations on their respective
    policies. These statutory reserves are established in amounts
    sufficient to meet policy and contract obligations, when taken
    together with expected future premiums and interest at assumed
    rates. Statutory reserves generally differ from actuarial
    liabilities for future policy benefits determined using GAAP.



The New York Insurance Law and regulations require certain
    MetLife entities to submit to the New York Superintendent of
    Insurance or other state insurance departments, with each annual
    report, an opinion and memorandum of a “qualified
    actuary” that the statutory reserves and related actuarial
    amounts recorded in support of specified policies and contracts,
    and the assets supporting such statutory reserves and related
    actuarial amounts, make adequate provision for their statutory
    liabilities with respect to these obligations. See
    “— Regulation — Insurance Regulation
    — Policy and Contract Reserve Sufficiency
    Analysis.”



Underwriting
    and Pricing



Underwriting



Underwriting generally involves an evaluation of applications
    for Insurance Products, Retirement Products, Corporate Benefit
    Funding, and Auto & Home by a professional staff of
    underwriters and actuaries, who determine the type and the
    amount of risk that we are willing to accept. In addition to the
    products described above, the International segment, also offers
    credit insurance and in a limited number of countries, major
    medical products. We





employ detailed underwriting policies, guidelines and procedures
    designed to assist the underwriter to properly assess and
    quantify risks before issuing policies to qualified applicants
    or groups.



Insurance underwriting considers not only an applicant’s
    medical history, but also other factors such as financial
    profile, foreign travel, vocations and alcohol, drug and tobacco
    use. Group underwriting generally evaluates the risk
    characteristics of each prospective insured group, although with
    certain voluntary products, employees may be underwritten on an
    individual basis. We generally perform our own underwriting;
    however, certain policies are reviewed by intermediaries under
    guidelines established by us. Generally, we are not obligated to
    accept any risk or group of risks from, or to issue a policy or
    group of policies to, any employer or intermediary. Requests for
    coverage are reviewed on their merits and generally a policy is
    not issued unless the particular risk or group has been examined
    and approved by our underwriters.



Our remote underwriting offices, intermediaries, as well as our
    corporate underwriting office are periodically reviewed via
    continuous on-going internal underwriting audits to maintain
    high-standards of underwriting and consistency across the
    Company. Such offices are also subject to periodic external
    audits by reinsurers with whom we do business.



We have established senior level oversight of the underwriting
    process that facilitates quality sales and serves the needs of
    our customers, while supporting our financial strength and
    business objectives. Our goal is to achieve the underwriting,
    mortality and morbidity levels reflected in the assumptions in
    our product pricing. This is accomplished by determining and
    establishing underwriting policies, guidelines, philosophies and
    strategies that are competitive and suitable for the customer,
    the agent and us.



Auto & Home’s underwriting function has six
    principal aspects: evaluating potential worksite marketing
    employer accounts and independent agencies; establishing
    guidelines for the binding of risks; reviewing coverage bound by
    agents; underwriting potential insureds, on a case by case
    basis, presented by agents outside the scope of their binding
    authority; pursuing information necessary in certain cases to
    enable Auto & Home to issue a policy within our
    guidelines; and ensuring that renewal policies continue to be
    written at rates commensurate with risk.



Subject to very few exceptions, agents in each of the
    U.S. Business distribution channels have binding authority
    for risks which fall within its published underwriting
    guidelines. Risks falling outside the underwriting guidelines
    may be submitted for approval to the underwriting department;
    alternatively, agents in such a situation may call the
    underwriting department to obtain authorization to bind the risk
    themselves. In most states, the Company generally has the right
    within a specified period (usually the first 60 days) to
    cancel any policy.



Pricing



Pricing has traditionally reflected our corporate underwriting
    standards. Product pricing is based on the expected payout of
    benefits calculated through the use of assumptions for
    mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency and investment
    returns, as well as certain macroeconomic factors, such as
    inflation. Investment-oriented products are priced based on
    various factors, which may include investment return, expenses,
    persistency and optionality. For certain investment oriented
    products in the U.S. and certain business sold
    internationally, pricing may include prospective and
    retrospective experience rating features. Prospective experience
    rating involves the evaluation of past experience for the
    purpose of determining future premium rates and all prior year
    gains and losses are borne by the Company. Retrospective
    experience rating also involves the evaluation of past
    experience for the purpose of determining the actual cost of
    providing insurance for the customer, however, the contract
    includes certain features that allow the Company to recoup
    certain losses or distribute certain gains back to the
    policyholder based on actual prior years’ experience.



Rates for group life and non-medical health products are based
    on anticipated results for the book of business being
    underwritten. Renewals are generally reevaluated annually or
    biannually and are repriced to reflect actual experience on such
    products. Products offered by CBF are priced frequently and are
    very responsive to bond yields, and such prices include
    additional margin in periods of market uncertainty. This
    business is predominantly illiquid, because policyholders have
    no contractual rights to cash values and no options to change
    the form of the product’s benefits.





Rates for individual life insurance products are highly
    regulated and must be approved by the state regulators where the
    product is sold. Generally such products are renewed annually
    and may include pricing terms that are guaranteed for a certain
    period of time. Fixed and variable annuity products are also
    highly regulated and approved by the individual state
    regulators. Such products generally include penalties for early
    withdrawals and policyholder benefit elections to tailor the
    form of the product’s benefits to the needs of the opting
    policyholder. The Company periodically reevaluates the costs
    associated with such options and will periodically adjust
    pricing levels on its guarantees. Further, the Company from time
    to time may also reevaluate the type and level of guarantee
    features currently being offered.



Rates for Auto & Home’s major lines of insurance
    are based on its proprietary database, rather than relying on
    rating bureaus. Auto & Home determines prices in part
    from a number of variables specific to each risk. The pricing of
    personal lines insurance products takes into account, among
    other things, the expected frequency and severity of losses, the
    costs of providing coverage (including the costs of acquiring
    policyholders and administering policy benefits and other
    administrative and overhead costs), competitive factors and
    profit considerations. The major pricing variables for personal
    lines insurance include characteristics of the insured property,
    such as age, make and model or construction type, as well as
    characteristics of the insureds, such as driving record and loss
    experience, and the insured’s personal financial
    management. Auto & Home’s ability to set and
    change rates is subject to regulatory oversight.



As a condition of our license to do business in each state,
    Auto & Home, like all other automobile insurers, is
    required to write or share the cost of private passenger
    automobile insurance for higher risk individuals who would
    otherwise be unable to obtain such insurance. This
    “involuntary” market, also called the “shared
    market,” is governed by the applicable laws and regulations
    of each state, and policies written in this market are generally
    written at rates higher than standard rates.



We continually review our underwriting and pricing guidelines so
    that our policies remain competitive and supportive of our
    marketing strategies and profitability goals. The current
    economic environment, with its volatility and uncertainty is not
    expected to materially impact the pricing of our products.



Reinsurance
    Activity



We enter into various agreements with reinsurers that cover
    individual risks, group risks or defined blocks of business,
    primarily on a coinsurance, yearly renewable term, excess or
    catastrophe excess basis. These reinsurance agreements spread
    risk and minimize the effect of losses. The extent of each risk
    retained by us depends on our evaluation of the specific risk,
    subject, in certain circumstances, to maximum retention limits
    based on the characteristics of coverages. We also cede first
    dollar mortality risk under certain contracts. In addition to
    reinsuring mortality risk, we reinsure other risks, as well as
    specific coverages. We routinely reinsure certain classes of
    risks in order to limit our exposure to particular travel,
    avocation and lifestyle hazards. We obtain reinsurance for
    capital requirement purposes and also when the economic impact
    of the reinsurance agreement makes it appropriate to do so.



Under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer
    agrees to reimburse us for the ceded amount in the event a claim
    is paid. However, we remain liable to our policyholders with
    respect to ceded reinsurance should any reinsurer be unable to
    meet its obligations under these agreements. Since we bear the
    risk of nonpayment by one or more of our reinsurers, we
    primarily cede reinsurance to well-capitalized, highly rated
    reinsurers. We analyze recent trends in arbitration and
    litigation outcomes in disputes, if any, with our reinsurers. We
    monitor ratings and evaluate the financial strength of our
    reinsurers by analyzing their financial statements. In addition,
    the reinsurance recoverable balance due from each reinsurer is
    evaluated as part of the overall monitoring process.
    Recoverability of reinsurance recoverable balances are evaluated
    based on these analyses. We generally secure large reinsurance
    recoverable balances with various forms of collateral, including
    secured trusts, funds withheld accounts and irrevocable letters
    of credit.



We reinsure our business through a diversified group of
    reinsurers. In the event that reinsurers do not meet their
    obligations under the terms of the reinsurance agreements,
    reinsurance balances recoverable could become uncollectible.
    Cessions under reinsurance arrangements do not discharge our
    obligations as the primary insurer.





U.S.
    Business



Our Insurance Products segment participates in reinsurance
    activities in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to
    significant risks, and provide additional capacity for future
    growth. For our individual life insurance products, we have
    historically reinsured the mortality risk primarily on an excess
    of retention basis or a quota share basis. Until 2005, we
    reinsured up to 90% of the mortality risk for all new individual
    life insurance policies that we wrote through our various
    subsidiaries. During 2005, we changed our retention practices
    for certain individual life insurance policies. Under the new
    retention guidelines, we reinsure up to 90% of the mortality
    risk in excess of $1 million. Retention limits remain
    unchanged for other new individual life insurance policies.
    Policies reinsured in years prior to 2005 remain reinsured under
    the original reinsurance agreements. On a case by case basis, we
    may retain up to $20 million per life and reinsure 100% of
    amounts in excess of our retention limits. We evaluate our
    reinsurance programs routinely and may increase or decrease our
    retention at any time. Placement of reinsurance is done
    primarily on an automatic basis and also on a facultative basis
    for risks with specific characteristics.



For other policies within the Insurance Products segment, we
    generally retain most of the risk and only cede particular risks
    on certain client arrangements.



Our Retirement Products segment reinsures a portion of the
    living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with
    our variable annuities. Under these reinsurance agreements, we
    pay a reinsurance premium generally based on fees associated
    with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and receive
    reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account
    values, subject to certain limitations. We enter into similar
    agreements for new or in-force business depending on market
    conditions.



Our Corporate Benefit Funding segment has periodically engaged
    in reinsurance activities, as considered appropriate.



Our Auto & Home segment purchases reinsurance to
    manage its exposure to large losses (primarily catastrophe
    losses) and to protect statutory surplus. We cede to reinsurers
    a portion of losses and premiums based upon the exposure of the
    policies subject to reinsurance. To manage exposure to large
    property and casualty losses, we utilize property catastrophe,
    casualty and property per risk excess of loss agreements.



International



Our International segment has periodically engaged in
    reinsurance activities, as considered appropriate.



Banking,
    Corporate & Other



We also reinsure through 100% quota share reinsurance agreements
    certain run-off long-term care and workers’ compensation
    business written by MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut
    (“MICC”), a subsidiary of the Company.



Catastrophe
    Coverage



We have exposure to catastrophes, which could contribute to
    significant fluctuations in our results of operations. We use
    excess of retention and quota share reinsurance arrangements to
    provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure to
    larger risks.



Reinsurance
    Recoverables



For information regarding ceded reinsurance recoverable
    balances, included in premiums and other receivables in the
    consolidated balance sheets, see Note 9 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.



Regulation



Insurance
    Regulation



Metropolitan Life Insurance Company is licensed to transact
    insurance business in, and is subject to regulation and
    supervision by, all 50 states, the District of Columbia,
    Guam, Puerto Rico, Canada, the U.S. Virgin Islands and





Northern Mariana Islands. Each of MetLife’s insurance
    subsidiaries is licensed and regulated in each U.S. and
    international jurisdiction where they conduct insurance
    business. The extent of such regulation varies, but most
    jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing the financial
    aspects of insurers, including standards of solvency, statutory
    reserves, reinsurance and capital adequacy, and the business
    conduct of insurers. In addition, statutes and regulations
    usually require the licensing of insurers and their agents, the
    approval of policy forms and certain other related materials
    and, for certain lines of insurance, the approval of rates. Such
    statutes and regulations also prescribe the permitted types and
    concentration of investments. New York Insurance Law limits the
    amount of compensation that insurers doing business in New York
    may pay to their agents, as well as the amount of total
    expenses, including sales commissions and marketing expenses,
    that such insurers may incur in connection with the sale of life
    insurance policies and annuity contracts throughout the United
    States.



Each insurance subsidiary is required to file reports, generally
    including detailed annual financial statements, with insurance
    regulatory authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which it
    does business, and its operations and accounts are subject to
    periodic examination by such authorities. These subsidiaries
    must also file, and in many jurisdictions and in some lines of
    insurance obtain regulatory approval for, rules, rates and forms
    relating to the insurance written in the jurisdictions in which
    they operate.



The National Association of Insurance Commissioners
    (“NAIC”) has established a program of accrediting
    state insurance departments. NAIC accreditation contemplates
    that accredited states will conduct periodic examinations of
    insurers domiciled in such states. NAIC-accredited states will
    not accept reports of examination of insurers from unaccredited
    states, except under limited circumstances. As a direct result,
    insurers domiciled in unaccredited states may be subject to
    financial examination by accredited states in which they are
    licensed, in addition to any examinations conducted by their
    domiciliary states. In 2009, the New York State Department of
    Insurance (the “Department”), MLIC’s principal
    insurance regulator, received accreditation from the NAIC.
    Previously, the Department was not accredited by the NAIC, but
    the absence of this accreditation did not have a significant
    impact upon our ability to conduct our insurance businesses.



State and federal insurance and securities regulatory
    authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and
    attorneys general from time to time make inquiries regarding
    compliance by the Holding Company and its insurance subsidiaries
    with insurance, securities and other laws and regulations
    regarding the conduct of our insurance and securities
    businesses. We cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective
    action when warranted. See Note 16 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.



Holding Company Regulation.The Holding
    Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation
    under the insurance holding company laws of various
    jurisdictions. The insurance holding company laws and
    regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but
    generally require a controlled insurance company (insurers that
    are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies) to register
    with state regulatory authorities and to file with those
    authorities certain reports, including information concerning
    its capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain
    intercompany transactions and general business operations.



State insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and
    limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions
    payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent
    companies, as well as on transactions between an insurer and its
    affiliates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Holding
    Company — Liquidity and Capital Sources —
    Dividends from Subsidiaries.” The New York Insurance Law
    and the regulations thereunder also restrict the aggregate
    amount of investments MLIC may make in non-life insurance
    subsidiaries, and provide for detailed periodic reporting on
    subsidiaries.



Guaranty Associations and Similar
    Arrangements.Most of the jurisdictions in which
    the Company’s insurance subsidiaries are admitted to
    transact business require life and property and casualty
    insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate
    in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay certain
    contractual insurance benefits owed pursuant to insurance
    policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These
    associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all
    member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the
    proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers
    in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or
    failed insurer is engaged. Some states permit member insurers to
    recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax
    offsets.





In the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against
    MetLife have not been material. We have established liabilities
    for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate for
    assessments with respect to insurers that are currently subject
    to insolvency proceedings. See Note 16 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on
    the insolvency assessments.



Statutory Insurance Examination.As part of
    their regulatory oversight process, state insurance departments
    conduct periodic detailed examinations of the books, records,
    accounts, and business practices of insurers domiciled in their
    states. State insurance departments also have the authority to
    conduct examinations of non-domiciliary insurers that are
    licensed in their states. During the three-year period ended
    December 31, 2009, MetLife has not received any material
    adverse findings resulting from state insurance department
    examinations of its insurance subsidiaries conducted during this
    three-year period.



Regulatory authorities in a small number of states and Financial
    Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) have had
    investigations or inquiries relating to sales of individual life
    insurance policies or annuities or other products by MLIC,
    MetLife Securities, Inc., New England Mutual Life Insurance
    Company, New England Life Insurance Company, New England
    Securities Corporation, General American Life Insurance Company,
    Walnut Street Securities, Inc., MICC and Tower Square
    Securities, Inc. Over the past several years, these and a number
    of investigations by other regulatory authorities were resolved
    for monetary payments and certain other relief. We may continue
    to resolve investigations in a similar manner. See Note 16
    of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Policy and Contract Reserve Sufficiency
    Analysis.Annually, MetLife’s
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries are required to conduct an
    analysis of the sufficiency of all statutory reserves. In each
    case, a qualified actuary must submit an opinion which states
    that the statutory reserves, when considered in light of the
    assets held with respect to such reserves, make good and
    sufficient provision for the associated contractual obligations
    and related expenses of the insurer. If such an opinion cannot
    be provided, the insurer must set up additional reserves by
    moving funds from surplus. Since inception of this requirement,
    the Company’s insurance subsidiaries which are required by
    their states of domicile to provide these opinions have provided
    such opinions without qualifications.



Surplus and Capital.The Company’s
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to the supervision
    of the regulators in each jurisdiction in which they are
    licensed to transact business. Regulators have discretionary
    authority, in connection with the continued licensing of these
    insurance subsidiaries, to limit or prohibit sales to
    policyholders if, in their judgment, the regulators determine
    that such insurer has not maintained the minimum surplus or
    capital or that the further transaction of business will be
    hazardous to policyholders. See “— Risk-Based
    Capital.”



Risk-Based Capital
    (“RBC”).Each of the
    Company’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries is subject to
    RBC requirements and reports its RBC based on a formula
    calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and
    statutory reserve items, as well as taking into account the risk
    characteristics of the insurer. The major categories of risk
    involved are asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk,
    market risk and business risk. The formula is used as an early
    warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately
    capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory
    action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. State
    insurance laws provide insurance regulators the authority to
    require various actions by, or take various actions against,
    insurers whose RBC ratio does not meet or exceed certain RBC
    levels. As of the date of the most recent annual statutory
    financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the RBC of
    each of these subsidiaries was in excess of each of those RBC
    levels. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company
    — Capital.”



The NAIC provides standardized insurance industry accounting and
    reporting guidance through its Accounting Practices and
    Procedures Manual (the “Manual”). However, statutory
    accounting principles continue to be established by individual
    state laws, regulations and permitted practices. The Department
    has adopted the Manual with certain modifications for the
    preparation of statutory financial statements of insurance
    companies domiciled in New York. Changes to the Manual or
    modifications by the various state insurance departments may
    impact the statutory capital and surplus of the Company’s
    insurance subsidiaries.





Regulation of Investments.Each of the
    Company’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to
    state laws and regulations that require diversification of its
    investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in
    certain asset categories, such as below investment grade fixed
    income securities, equity real estate, other equity investments,
    and derivatives. Failure to comply with these laws and
    regulations would cause investments exceeding regulatory
    limitations to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of
    measuring surplus, and, in some instances, would require
    divestiture of such non-qualifying investments. We believe that
    the investments made by each of the Company’s insurance
    subsidiaries complied, in all material respects, with such
    regulations at December 31, 2009.



Federal Initiatives.Although the federal
    government generally does not directly regulate the insurance
    business, federal initiatives often have an impact on our
    business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal
    measures are proposed which may significantly affect the
    insurance business. In addition, various forms of direct and
    indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from
    time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an
    optional federal charter for insurance companies. As part of a
    proposed comprehensive reform of financial services regulation,
    Congress is considering the creation of an office within the
    federal government to collect information about the insurance
    industry, recommend prudential standards, and represent the
    United States in dealings with foreign insurance regulators. See
    “Risk Factors — Our Insurance and Banking
    Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth.”



Legislative Developments.As part of their
    proposed financial services regulatory reform legislation, the
    Obama Administration and Congress have made various proposals
    that would change the capital and liquidity requirements, credit
    exposure concentrations and similar prudential matters for bank
    holding companies, banks and other financial firms. For example:



•Bank regulatory agencies have issued proposed interagency
    guidance for funding and liquidity risk management that would
    apply to MetLife as a bank holding company.•The proposals under consideration in Congress also include
    special regulatory and insolvency regimes, including even higher
    capital and liquidity standards, for financial institutions that
    are deemed to be systemically significant. These insolvency
    regimes could vary from the resolution regimes currently
    applicable to some subsidiaries of such companies and could
    include assessments on financial companies to provide for a
    systemic resolution fund.•The Obama Administration, members of Congress and Federal
    banking regulators have suggested new or increased taxes or
    assessments on banks and financial firms to mitigate the costs
    to taxpayers of various government programs established to
    address the financial crisis and to offset the costs of
    potential future crises.•The proposed legislation also includes new conditions on the
    writing and trading of certain standardized and non-standardized
    derivatives.



Congress is also considering establishing a new governmental
    agency that would supervise and regulate institutions that
    provide certain financial products and services to consumers.
    Although the consumer financial services to which this
    legislation would apply might exclude certain insurance
    business, the new agency would have authority to regulate
    consumer services provided by MetLife Bank. The proposed
    legislation may also eliminate or significantly restrict federal
    pre-emption of state consumer protection laws applicable to
    banking services, which would increase the regulatory and
    compliance burden on MetLife Bank and could adversely affect its
    business and results of operations. We cannot predict whether
    these or other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if
    any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our
    business, financial condition or results of operations or on our
    dealings with other financial institutions. See “Risk
    Factors — Our Insurance and Banking Businesses Are
    Heavily Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth.”



We cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what
    legislation may be introduced or enacted or the impact of any
    such legislation on our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.





Governmental
    Responses to Extraordinary Market Conditions



U.S. Federal Governmental
    Responses.Throughout 2008 and continuing in
    2009, Congress, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the
    U.S. Treasury and other agencies of the Federal government
    took a number of increasingly aggressive actions (in addition to
    continuing a series of interest rate reductions that began in
    the second half of 2007) intended to provide liquidity to
    financial institutions and markets, to avert a loss of investor
    confidence in particular troubled institutions and to prevent or
    contain the spread of the financial crisis. These measures
    included:



•expanding the types of institutions that have access to the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s discount window;•providing asset guarantees and emergency loans to particular
    distressed companies;•a temporary ban on short selling of shares of certain financial
    institutions (including, for a period, MetLife);•programs intended to reduce the volume of mortgage foreclosures
    by modifying the terms of mortgage loans for distressed
    borrowers;•temporarily guaranteeing money market funds; and•programs to support the mortgage-backed securities market and
    mortgage lending.





In February 2009, the Treasury Department outlined a financial
    stability plan with additional measures to provide capital
    relief to institutions holding troubled assets, including a
    capital assistance program for banks that have undergone a
    “stress test” (the “Capital Assistance
    Program”) and a public-private investment fund to purchase
    troubled assets from financial institutions. MetLife was
    eligible to participate in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital
    Purchase Program, a voluntary capital infusion program
    established under EESA, but elected not to participate in that
    program. MetLife took part in the “stress test” and
    was advised by the Federal Reserve in May 2009 that, based on
    the stress test’s economic scenarios and methodology,
    MetLife had adequate capital to sustain a further deterioration
    in the economy. The choices made by the U.S. Treasury in
    its distribution of amounts available under the EESA, the
    Capital Assistance Program and other programs could have the
    effect of supporting some aspects of the financial services
    industry more than others or providing advantages to some of our
    competitors. See “Risk Factors — Competitive
    Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and
    Profitability.”



In addition to the various measures to foster liquidity and
    recapitalize the banking sector, the Federal government also
    passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in February
    2009 that provided for nearly $790 billion in additional
    federal spending, tax cuts and federal aid intended to spur
    economic activity.



MetLife, Inc. and some or all of its affiliates may be eligible
    to sell assets to the U.S. Treasury under one or more of
    the programs established under EESA, and some of their assets
    may be among those the U.S. Treasury or the public-private
    investment partnership proposed by the U.S. Treasury offers
    to purchase, either directly or through auction. MetLife, Inc.
    and its affiliates may also be able to purchase assets under
    some of these programs,





including the public-private investment program and the Term
    Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, which provides funding
    for the purchase of specified types of asset-backed securities.



MetLife Bank has the capacity to borrow from the Federal Reserve
    Bank of New York’s Discount Window and from the Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York under the Term Auction Facility. At
    December 31, 2009, there were no outstanding borrowings
    under the Term Auction Facility.



State Insurance Regulatory Responses.In
    January 2009, the NAIC considered, but declined, a number of
    reserve and capital relief proposals made by the American
    Council of Life Insurers (the “ACLI”), acting on
    behalf of its member companies. However, notwithstanding that
    NAIC action, insurance companies had the right to approach the
    insurance regulator in their respective state of domicile and
    request relief. Several MetLife insurance entities requested and
    were granted relief, resulting in a beneficial impact on
    reserves and capital. During the latter part of 2009, the NAIC
    adopted a number of reserve and capital relief proposals made by
    the ACLI, acting on behalf of its member companies. These
    changes superseded the actions described above and have
    generally resulted in lower statutory reserve and capital
    requirements, effective December 31, 2009, for life
    insurance companies. We cannot quantify or project the impact on
    the competitive landscape of the reserve and capital relief
    granted or any subsequent regulatory relief that may be granted.



In late 2009, following rating agency downgrades of virtually
    all residential mortgage-backed securities (“RMBS”)
    from certain vintages, the NAIC engaged PIMCO, a well-known
    investment management firm, to analyze approximately 20,000
    residential mortgage-backed securities held by insurers and
    evaluate the likely loss that holders of those securities would
    suffer in the event of a default. PIMCO’s analysis showed
    that the severity of expected losses on those securities
    evaluated that are held by our insurance companies was
    significantly less than would be implied by the rating
    agencies’ ratings of such securities. The NAIC incorporated
    the results of PIMCO’s analysis into the risk-based capital
    charges assigned to the evaluated securities, with a beneficial
    impact on the risk-based capital to our insurance subsidiaries.



In late 2009, the NAIC approved an adjustment, for year-end 2009
    only, to the mortgage experience adjustment factor (the
    “MEAF”), which is utilized in calculating the RBC
    charges that are assigned to commercial and agricultural
    mortgages held by our domestic insurers. The MEAF calculation
    includes the ratio of an insurer’s commercial and
    agricultural mortgage default experience to the industry average
    commercial and agricultural mortgage default experience and,
    prior to the adjustment, had a cap of 350% and a floor of 50% of
    an industry-wide base factor. As a result of the adjustment, the
    minimum adjustment factor was raised from 50% to 75% and the
    maximum adjustment factor was lowered from 350% to 125%, based
    on an insurer’s actual experience. As a result of our
    experience and the increase in the floor, the corresponding RBC
    charges of certain of our domestic insurers, including MLIC,
    increased. It is our understanding that the Capital Adequacy
    Task Force of the NAIC will monitor market conditions and
    progress on proposals that may result in modifying or extending
    the proposal beyond 2009. There can be no assurance that the
    short-term adjustment will continue beyond 2009.



In late 2009, the NAIC issued Statement of Statutory Accounting
    Principles (“SSAP”) 10R (“SSAP 10R”). SSAP
    10R increased the amount of deferred tax assets that may be
    admitted on a statutory basis. The admission criteria for
    realizing the value of deferred tax assets was increased from a
    one year to a three year period. Further, the aggregate cap on
    deferred tax assets that may be admitted was increased from 10%
    to 15% of surplus. These changes increased the capital and
    surplus of our insurance subsidiaries, thereby positively
    impacting RBC at December 31, 2009. To temper this positive
    RBC impact, and as a temporary measure at December 31, 2009
    only, a 5% pre-tax RBC charge must be applied to the additional
    admitted deferred tax assets generated by SSAP 10R.



Foreign Governmental Responses.In an effort
    to strengthen the financial condition of key financial
    institutions or avert their collapse, and to forestall or reduce
    the effects of reduced lending activity, a number of foreign
    governments have also taken actions similar to some of those
    taken by the U.S. Federal government, including injecting
    capital into domestic financial institutions in exchange for
    ownership stakes. We cannot predict whether these actions will
    achieve their intended purpose or how they will impact
    competition in the financial services industry.





Broker-Dealer
    and Securities Regulation



sub-accounts,



Federal and state securities regulatory authorities and FINRA
    from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations
    regarding compliance by the Holding Company and its subsidiaries
    with securities and other laws and regulations. We cooperate
    with such inquiries and examinations and take corrective action
    when warranted.



Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily
    intended to protect investors in the securities markets and
    generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and
    enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the
    conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and
    regulations. We may also be subject to similar laws and
    regulations in the foreign countries in which we provide
    investment advisory services, offer products similar to those
    described above, or conduct other activities.



Environmental
    Considerations



As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to
    extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and
    regulations. Inherent in such ownership and operation is also
    the risk that there may be potential environmental liabilities
    and costs in connection with any required remediation of such
    properties. In addition, we hold equity interests in companies
    that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities.
    We routinely have environmental assessments performed with
    respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real
    property to be acquired through foreclosure. We cannot provide
    assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not
    arise. However, based on information currently available to us,
    we believe that any costs associated with compliance with
    environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of such
    properties will not have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations or financial condition.



Employee
    Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”)
    Considerations



We provide products and services to certain employee benefit
    plans that are subject to ERISA, or the Internal Revenue Code of
    1986, as amended (the “Code”). As such, our activities
    are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code,
    including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must
    perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan
    participants and beneficiaries and the requirement under ERISA
    and the Code that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to
    engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain
    relationships with respect to such plans. The applicable
    provisions of ERISA and the Code are subject to enforcement by
    the Department of Labor, the Internal Revenue Service and the
    Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”).



InJohn Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company v.Harris Trust and Savings Bank (1993),the
    U.S. Supreme Court held that certain assets in excess of
    amounts necessary to satisfy guaranteed obligations under a
    participating group annuity general account contract are
    “plan assets.” Therefore, these assets are subject to
    certain fiduciary obligations under ERISA, which requires
    fiduciaries to perform their duties solely in the interest of
    ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries. On January 5,
    2000, the Secretary of Labor issued final regulations
    indicating, in cases where an insurer has issued a policy backed
    by the insurer’s general account to or for an employee
    benefit





plan, the extent to which assets of the insurer constitute plan
    assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. The regulations apply
    only with respect to a policy issued by an insurer on or before
    December 31, 1998 (“Transition Policy”). No
    person will generally be liable under ERISA or the Code for
    conduct occurring prior to July 5, 2001, where the basis of
    a claim is that insurance company general account assets
    constitute plan assets. An insurer issuing a new policy that is
    backed by its general account and is issued to or for an
    employee benefit plan after December 31, 1998 will
    generally be subject to fiduciary obligations under ERISA,
    unless the policy is a guaranteed benefit policy.



The regulations indicate the requirements that must be met so
    that assets supporting a Transition Policy will not be
    considered plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. These
    requirements include detailed disclosures to be made to the
    employee benefits plan and the requirement that the insurer must
    permit the policyholder to terminate the policy on 90 day
    notice and receive without penalty, at the policyholder’s
    option, either (i) the unallocated accumulated fund balance
    (which may be subject to market value adjustment) or (ii) a
    book value payment of such amount in annual installments with
    interest. We have taken and continue to take steps designed to
    ensure compliance with these regulations.



Banking
    Regulation



As a federally chartered national association, MetLife Bank is
    subject to a wide variety of banking laws, regulations and
    guidelines. Federal banking laws regulate most aspects of the
    business of MetLife Bank, but certain state laws may apply as
    well. MetLife Bank is principally regulated by the OCC, the
    Federal Reserve and the FDIC. Federal banking laws and
    regulations address various aspects of MetLife Bank’s
    business and operations with respect to, among other things,
    chartering to carry on business as a bank; maintaining minimum
    capital ratios; capital management in relation to the
    bank’s assets; safety and soundness standards; loan loss
    and other statutory reserves; liquidity; financial reporting and
    disclosure standards; counterparty credit concentration;
    restrictions on related party and affiliate transactions;
    lending limits; payment of interest; unfair or deceptive acts or
    practices; privacy; and bank holding company and bank change of
    control. The FDIC has the right to assess FDIC-insured banks for
    funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent banks to
    depositors. Federal and state banking regulators regularly
    re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to banks and
    their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the bank.



Financial
    Holding Company Regulation



Regulatory Agencies.In connection with its
    acquisition of a federally-chartered commercial bank, MetLife,
    Inc. became a bank holding company and financial holding company
    on February 28, 2001. As such, the Holding Company is
    subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of
    1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”), and to inspection,
    examination, and supervision by the Board of Governors of the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In addition, MetLife Bank is
    subject to regulation and examination primarily by the OCC and
    secondarily by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the FDIC.



Financial Holding Company Activities.As a
    financial holding company, MetLife, Inc.’s activities and
    investments are restricted by the BHC Act, as amended by the
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the “GLB Act”), to
    those that are “financial” in nature or
    “incidental” or “complementary” to such
    financial activities. Activities that are financial in nature
    include securities underwriting, dealing and market making,
    sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies, insurance
    underwriting and agency, merchant banking and activities that
    the Federal Reserve Board has determined to be closely related
    to banking. In addition, under the insurance company investment
    portfolio provision of the GLB Act, financial holding companies
    are authorized to make investments in other financial and
    non-financial companies, through their insurance subsidiaries,
    that are in the ordinary course of business and in accordance
    with state insurance law, provided the financial holding company
    does not routinely manage or operate such companies except as
    may be necessary to obtain a reasonable return on investment.



Other Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies
    and Financial Holding Companies
    — Capital.MetLife, Inc. and MetLife
    Bank are subject to risk-based and leverage capital guidelines
    issued by the federal banking





regulatory agencies for banks and financial holding companies.
    The federal banking regulatory agencies are required by law to
    take specific prompt corrective actions with respect to
    institutions that do not meet minimum capital standards. At
    December 31, 2009, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank were in
    compliance with the aforementioned guidelines.



Other Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies
    and Financial Holding Companies — Consumer Protection
    Laws.Numerous other federal and state laws also
    affect the Holding Company’s and MetLife Bank’s
    earnings and activities, including federal and state consumer
    protection laws. The GLB Act included consumer privacy
    provisions that, among other things, require disclosure of a
    financial institution’s privacy policy to customers. In
    addition, these provisions permit states to adopt more extensive
    privacy protections through legislation or regulation. As part
    of its consideration of comprehensive reform of financial
    services regulation, Congress is considering establishing a
    Consumer Financial Protection Agency, a new governmental agency
    that would supervise and regulate institutions that provide
    certain financial products and services to consumers. Although
    the consumer financial services to which this legislation would
    apply might exclude certain insurance business, the new agency
    would have authority to regulate consumer services provided by
    MetLife Bank. The proposed legislation may also eliminate or
    significantly restrict federal pre-emption of state consumer
    protection laws applicable to banking services, which would
    increase the regulatory and compliance burden on MetLife Bank
    and could adversely affect its business and results of
    operations.



Other Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies
    and Financial Holding Companies — Change of
    Control.Because MetLife, Inc. is a financial
    holding company and bank holding company under the federal
    banking laws, no person may acquire control of MetLife, Inc.
    without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board. A
    change of control is conclusively presumed upon acquisition of
    25% or more of any class of voting securities and rebuttably
    presumed upon acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting
    securities. Further, as a result of MetLife, Inc.’s
    ownership of MetLife Bank, approval from the OCC would be
    required in connection with a change of control (generally
    presumed upon the acquisition of 10% or more of any class of
    voting securities) of MetLife, Inc.



Competition



We believe that competition faced by our business segments is
    based on a number of factors, including service, product
    features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying
    ratings, credit ratings, ebusiness capabilities and name
    recognition. We compete with a large number of other insurance
    companies, as well as non-insurance financial services
    companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for
    individual consumers, employer and other group customers as well
    as agents and other distributors of insurance and investment
    products. Some of these companies offer a broader array of
    products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to
    other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability
    ratings. Many of our insurance products are underwritten
    annually and, accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers
    may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors
    rather than renewing coverage with us.



We believe that the turbulence in financial markets that began
    in the latter half of 2008, its impact on the capital position
    of many competitors, and subsequent actions by regulators and
    rating agencies have altered the competitive environment. In
    particular, we believe that these factors have highlighted
    financial strength as the most significant differentiator from
    the perspective of some customers and certain distributors. We
    believe the Company is well positioned to compete in this
    environment. In particular, the Company distributes many of its
    individual products through other financial institutions such as
    banks and broker-dealers. These distribution partners are
    currently placing greater emphasis on the financial strength of
    the company whose products they sell. In addition, the financial
    market turbulence has highlighted the extent of the risk
    associated with certain variable annuity products and has led
    many companies in our industry to re-examine the pricing and
    features of the products they offer. The effects of current
    market conditions may also lead to consolidation in the life
    insurance industry. Although we cannot predict the ultimate
    impact of these conditions, we believe that the strongest
    companies will enjoy a competitive advantage as a result of the
    current circumstances.



We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to
    sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong
    competition exists among insurance companies for sales
    representatives with demonstrated ability. We compete with other
    insurance companies for sales representatives primarily on the
    basis of our financial





position, support services and compensation and product
    features. See “— U.S. Business —
    Sales Distribution.” We continue to undertake several
    initiatives to grow our career agency force, while continuing to
    enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales
    force. We cannot provide assurance that these initiatives will
    succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of
    individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our
    results of operations and financial position could be materially
    adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and
    retaining agents.



Numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation.
    Legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory
    environment can affect our competitive position within the life
    insurance industry and within the broader financial services
    industry. See “— Regulation,” “Risk
    Factors — Our Insurance and Banking Businesses Are
    Heavily Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth” and “Risk Factors
    — Changes in U.S. Federal and State Securities
    Laws and Regulations May Affect Our Operations and Our
    Profitability.”



Company
    Ratings



Insurer financial strength ratings represent the opinions of
    rating agencies, including A.M. Best Company
    (“A.M. Best”), Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”),
    Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) and
    Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services
    (“S&P”), regarding the ability of an insurance
    company to meet its financial obligations to policyholders and
    contractholders. Credit ratings represent the opinions of rating
    agencies regarding an issuer’s ability to repay its
    indebtedness.



Rating
    Stability Indicators



Rating agencies use an “outlook statement” of
    “positive,” “stable,” “negative”
    or “developing” to indicate a medium- or long-term
    trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a
    rating change. A rating may have a “stable” outlook to
    indicate that the rating is not expected to change; however, a
    “stable” rating does not preclude a rating agency from
    changing a rating at any time, without notice. Certain rating
    agencies assign rating modifiers such as “CreditWatch”
    or “Under Review” to indicate their opinion regarding
    the potential direction of a rating. These ratings modifiers are
    generally assigned in connection with certain events such as
    potential mergers and acquisitions, or material changes in a
    company’s results, in order for the rating agencies to
    perform its analysis to fully determine the rating implications
    of the event. See “Risk Factors — A Downgrade or
    a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or Credit
    Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.”



Rating
    Actions



Throughout 2009, A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody’s, and
    S&P maintained its outlook for the U.S. life insurance
    sector as negative. We believe the rating agencies have
    heightened the level of scrutiny that they apply to such
    institutions, increased the frequency and scope of their credit
    reviews, and have requested additional information from the
    companies that they rate. In December 2009 and February 2010,
    Moody’s and Fitch, respectively, downgraded by one notch
    the insurer financial strength and credit ratings assigned to
    MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries and each raised the rating
    outlook from “negative” to “stable.” In
    February 2010, S&P and A.M. Best each placed the
    ratings of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries on
    “CreditWatch with negative implications” and





“Under Review with negative implications,”
    respectively, based on our disclosure of a potential
    acquisition. Our insurer financial strength ratings and credit
    ratings at the date of this filing are listed in the tables
    below:



Insurer
    Financial Strength Ratings



A.M. Best (1)*Fitch (2)Moody’s (3)S&P (4)**First MetLife Investors Insurance CompanyA+N/RN/RAA−General American Life Insurance CompanyA+AA−Aa3AA−MetLife Insurance Company of ConnecticutA+AA−Aa3AA−MetLife Investors Insurance CompanyA+AA−Aa3AA−MetLife Investors USA Insurance CompanyA+AA−Aa3AA−Metropolitan Casualty Insurance CompanyAN/RN/RN/RMetropolitan Direct Property and Casualty Insurance CompanyAN/RN/RN/RMetropolitan General Insurance CompanyAN/RN/RN/RMetropolitan Group Property & Casualty Insurance
    CompanyAN/RN/RN/RMetropolitan Life Insurance CompanyA+AA−Aa3AA−Metropolitan Lloyds Insurance Company of TexasAN/RN/RN/RMetropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance CompanyAN/RN/RN/RMetropolitan Tower Life Insurance CompanyA+N/RAa3N/RNew England Life Insurance CompanyA+AA−Aa3AA−





Credit
    Ratings



A.M. Best (1)*Fitch (2)Moody’s (3)S&P (4)**General American Life Insurance Company (Surplus Notes)aN/RA2AMetLife Capital Trust IV & X
    (Trust Securities)bbbBBBBaa2BBBMetLife Funding, Inc. (Commercial Paper)AMB-1+F1+P-1A-1+MetLife Short Term Funding LLC (Commercial Paper)N/RN/RP-1A-1+MetLife, Inc. (Commercial Paper)AMB-1F1P-2A-2MetLife, Inc. (Senior Unsecured Debt)a−A−A3A−MetLife, Inc. (Subordinated Debt)bbb+N/RBaa1NRMetLife, Inc. (Junior Subordinated Debt)bbbBBBBaa2BBBMetLife, Inc. (Preferred Stock)bbbNRBaa2BBBMetLife, Inc. (Non−Cumulative Preferred Stock)bbbBBBBaa2BBB−Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (Surplus Notes)aAA2AMetropolitan Life Global Funding I (Senior Secured Debt)aa−NRAa3AA−MetLife Institutional Funding I, LLC (Senior Secured Debt)aa−NRAa3AA−









*Under Review with negative implications**CreditWatch negative outlook(1)A.M. Best financial strength ratings range from “A++
    (superior)” to “S (Suspended).” Ratings of
    “A+” and “A” are in the “superior”
    and “excellent” categories, respectively.A.M. Best’s long-term credit ratings range from
    “aaa (exceptional)” to “d (in default).” A
    “+” or “−” may be appended to ratings
    from “aa” to “ccc” to indicate relative
    position within a category. Ratings of “a” and
    “bbb” are in the “strong” and
    “adequate” categories.A.M. Best’s short-term credit ratings range from
    “AMB-1+ (strongest)” to “d (in default).”(2)Fitch insurer financial strength ratings range from “AAA
    (exceptionally strong)” to “C (ceased or interrupted
    payments imminent).” A “+” or “−”
    may be appended to ratings from “AA” to
    “CCC” to indicate relative position within a category.
    A rating of “AA” is in the “very strong”
    category.









Fitch long-term credit ratings range from “AAA (highest
    credit quality),” to “D (default).” A
    “+” or “−” may be appended to ratings
    from “AA” to “CCC” to indicate relative
    position within a category. Ratings of “A” and
    “BBB” are in the “strong” and
    “adequate” categories, respectively.



Fitch short-term credit ratings range from “F1+
    (exceptionally strong credit quality)” to “D (in
    default).” A rating of “F1” is in the
    “highest credit quality” category.



(3)Moody’s insurance financial strength ratings range from
    “Aaa (exceptional)” to “C (extremely poor).”
    A numeric modifier may be appended to ratings from
    “Aa” to “Caa” to indicate relative position
    within a category, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the
    lowest. A rating of “Aa” is in the
    “excellent” category. Moody’s long-term credit
    ratings range from “Aaa (highest quality)” to “C
    (typically in default).” A numeric modifier may be appended
    to ratings from “Aa” to “Caa” to indicate
    relative position within a category, with 1 being the highest
    and 3 being the lowest. Ratings of “A” and
    “Baa” are in the “upper-medium grade” and
    “medium-grade” categories, respectively.



Moody’s short-term credit ratings range from“P-1(superior)” to “NP (not prime).”



(4)S&P long-term insurer financial strength ratings range from
    “AAA (extremely strong)” to “R (under regulatory
    supervision).” A “+” or “−” may
    be appended to ratings from “AA” to “CCC” to
    indicate relative position within a category. A rating of
    “AA” is in the “very strong” category.



S&P long-term credit ratings range from “AAA
    (extremely strong)” to “D (payment default).” A
    “+” or “−” may be appended to ratings
    from “AA” to “CCC” to indicate relative
    position within a category. A rating of “A” is in the
    “strong” category. A rating of “BBB” has
    adequate protection parameters and is considered investment
    grade.



S&P short-term credit ratings range from“A-1+(extremely strong)” to “D (payment default).” A
    rating of“A-1”is in the “strong” category.



N/Rindicates not rated.



The foregoing insurer financial strength ratings reflect each
    rating agency’s opinion of MLIC and the Holding
    Company’s other insurance subsidiaries’ financial
    characteristics with respect to their ability to pay obligations
    under insurance policies and contracts in accordance with their
    terms, and are not evaluations directed toward the protection of
    investors in the Holding Company’s securities. Credit
    ratings are opinions of each agency with respect to specific
    securities and contractual financial obligations and the
    issuer’s ability and willingness to meet those obligations
    when due. Neither insurer financial strength nor credit ratings
    are statements of fact nor are they recommendations to purchase,
    hold or sell any security, contract or policy. Each rating
    should be evaluated independently of any other rating.



A ratings downgrade (or the potential for such a downgrade) of
    MLIC or any of the Holding Company’s other insurance
    subsidiaries could potentially, among other things, increase the
    number of policies surrendered and withdrawals by policyholders
    of cash values from their policies, adversely affect
    relationships with broker-dealers, banks, agents, wholesalers
    and other distributors of our products and services, negatively
    impact new sales, and adversely affect our ability to compete
    and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition. See also
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and
    Capital Resources” for a more complete description of the
    impact of a ratings downgrade.



Employees



At December 31, 2009, we had approximately
    54,000 employees. We believe that our relations with our
    employees are satisfactory.



Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



Set forth below is information regarding the executive officers
    of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC:



C. Robert Henrikson,age 62, has been Chairman,
    President and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since April 25, 2006. Previously, he was President and
    Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from
    March 1, 2006, President and Chief Operating Officer of
    MetLife, Inc. from June 2004, and President of





the U.S. Insurance and Financial Services businesses of
    MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from July 2002 to June 2004. He served as
    President of Institutional Business of MetLife, Inc. from
    September 1999 to July 2002 and President of Institutional
    Business of MLIC from May 1999 through June 2002. He was Senior
    Executive Vice President, Institutional Business, of MLIC from
    December 1997 to May 1999, Executive Vice President,
    Institutional Business, from January 1996 to December 1997, and
    Senior Vice President, Pensions, from January 1991 to January
    1995. He is a director of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC.



Gwenn L. Carr,age 64, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief of Staff to the Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since August 2009. Previously,
    she was Senior Vice President and Chief of Staff to the Chairman
    and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from June
    2009, Senior Vice President, Secretary and Chief of Staff to the
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc, and MLIC
    from 2007, Senior Vice President and Secretary of MetLife, Inc.
    and MLIC from October 2004, and Vice President and Secretary of
    MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from August 1999. Ms. Carr was Vice
    President and Secretary of ITT Corporation from 1990 to 1999.



Steven A. Kandarian,age 57, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since April 2005. Previously, he was the executive director of
    the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation from 2001 to 2004.
    Before joining the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation,
    Mr. Kandarian was founder and managing partner of Orion
    Capital Partners, LP, where he managed a private equity fund
    specializing in venture capital and corporate acquisitions for
    eight years. He is a director of MetLife Bank.



James L. Lipscomb,age 63, has been Executive Vice
    President and General Counsel of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since
    July 2003. He was Senior Vice President and Deputy General
    Counsel from July 2001 to July 2003. Mr. Lipscomb was
    President and Chief Executive Officer of Conning Corporation, a
    former subsidiary of MLIC, from March 2000 to July 2001, prior
    to which he served in various senior management positions with
    MLIC for more than five years.



Maria R. Morris,age 47, has been Executive Vice
    President, Technology and Operations, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since January 2008. Previously, she was Executive Vice President
    of MLIC from December 2005 to January 2008, Senior Vice
    President of MLIC from July 2003 to December 2005, and Vice
    President of MLIC from March 1997 to July 2003. Ms. Morris
    is a director of MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut.



William J. Mullaney,age 50, has been President,
    U.S. Business of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since August 2009.
    Previously, he was President, Institutional Business, of
    MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from January 2007 to July 2009, President
    of Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company from
    January 2005 to January 2007, Senior Vice President of
    Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company from July
    2002 to December 2004, Senior Vice President, Institutional
    Business, of MLIC from August 2001 to July 2002, and a Vice
    President of MLIC for more than five years. He is a director of
    MetLife Bank.



William J. Toppeta,age 61, has been President,
    International, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since June 2001. He was
    President of Client Services and Chief Administrative Officer of
    MetLife, Inc. from September 1999 to June 2001 and President of
    Client Services and Chief Administrative Officer of MLIC from
    May 1999 to June 2001. He was Senior Executive Vice President,
    Head of Client Services, of MLIC from March 1999 to May 1999,
    Senior Executive Vice President, Individual, from February 1998
    to March 1999, Executive Vice President, Individual Business,
    from July 1996 to February 1998, Senior Vice President from
    October 1995 to July 1996 and President and Chief Executive
    Officer of its Canadian Operations from July 1993 to October
    1995.



William J. Wheeler,age 48, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since December 2003, prior to which he was a Senior Vice
    President of MLIC from 1997 to December 2003. Previously, he was
    a Senior Vice President of Donaldson, Lufkin &
    Jenrette for more than five years. Mr. Wheeler is a
    director of MetLife Bank.



Trademarks



We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider
    important in the marketing of our products and services,
    including, among others, the trademark “MetLife.” We
    also have the exclusive license to use the
    Peanuts®characters in the area of financial services and healthcare
    benefit services in the United States and internationally





under an advertising and premium agreement with United Feature
    Syndicate until December 31, 2014. Furthermore, we also
    have a non-exclusive license to use certain Citigroup-owned
    trademarks in connection with the marketing, distribution or
    sale of life insurance and annuity products under a licensing
    agreement with Citigroup until June 30, 2015. We believe
    that our rights in our trademarks and under our
    Peanuts®characters license and our Citigroup license are well protected.



Available
    Information



MetLife files periodic reports, proxy statements and other
    information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and
    other information may be obtained by visiting the Public
    Reference Room of the SEC at its Headquarters Office,
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or by
    calling the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 or1-800-SEC-0330(Office of Investor Education and Advocacy). In addition, the
    SEC maintains an internet website (www.sec.gov) that contains
    reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding
    issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including
    MetLife, Inc.



MetLife makes available, free of charge, on its website
    (www.metlife.com) through the Investor Relations page, its
    annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and amendments to all those reports, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after filing (furnishing) such reports to the SEC.
    Other information found on the website is not part of this or
    any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.



