Item 1.Business



As used in thisForm 10-K,“MetLife,” the “Company,” “we,”
    “our” and “us” refer to MetLife, Inc., a
    Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the “Holding
    Company”), its subsidiaries and affiliates.



With a more than140-yearhistory, we have grown to become a leading global provider of
    insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs, serving
    90 million customers in over 60 countries. Through our
    subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife holds leading market
    positions in the United States (“U.S.”), Japan, Latin
    America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. Over the past
    several years, we have grown our core businesses, as well as
    successfully executed on our growth strategy. This has included
    completing a number of transactions that have resulted in the
    acquisition and, in some cases, divestiture of certain
    businesses while also further strengthening our balance sheet to
    position MetLife for continued growth.



On November 1, 2010 (the “Acquisition Date”),
    MetLife, Inc. completed the acquisition of American Life
    Insurance Company (“American Life”), from ALICO
    Holdings LLC (“ALICO Holdings”), a subsidiary of
    American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”), and
    Delaware American Life Insurance Company (“DelAm,”)
    from AIG, (American Life, together with DelAm, collectively,
    “ALICO”) (the “Acquisition”) for a total
    purchase price of $16.4 billion. The business acquired in
    the Acquisition provides consumers and businesses with products
    and services, life insurance, accident and health insurance,
    retirement and wealth management solutions. This transaction
    delivers on our global growth strategies, adding significant
    scale and reach to MetLife’s international footprint,
    furthering our diversification in geographic mix and product
    offerings, as well as increasing our distribution strength. See
    Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.



MetLife is organized into five segments: Insurance Products,
    Retirement Products, Corporate Benefit Funding and
    Auto & Home (collectively,
    “U.S. Business”) and International. The assets
    and liabilities of ALICO as of November 30, 2010 and the
    operating results of ALICO from the Acquisition Date through
    November 30, 2010 are included in the International
    segment. In addition, the Company reports certain of its results
    of operations in Banking, Corporate & Other, which
    includes MetLife Bank, National Association (“MetLife
    Bank”) and other business activities. For reporting periods
    beginning in 2011, ournon-U.S. Businessresults will be presented within two separate segments: Japan
    and Other International Regions. MetLife’s management
    continues to evaluate the Company’s segment performance and
    allocated resources and may adjust such measurements in the
    future to better reflect segment profitability.



U.S. Business provides a variety of insurance and financial
    services products — including life, dental,
    disability, auto and homeowner insurance, guaranteed interest
    and stable value products, and annuities — through
    both proprietary and independent retail distribution channels,
    as well as at the workplace. This business serves over 60,000
    group customers, including over 90 of the top one hundred
    FORTUNE
    500®companies, and provides protection and retirement solutions to
    millions of individuals.



International operates in Japan and 64 countries within Latin
    America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. MetLife is
    the largest life insurer in Mexico and also holds leading market
    positions in Japan, Poland, Chile and South Korea. This business
    provides life insurance, accident and health insurance, credit
    insurance, annuities, endowment and retirement &
    savings products to both individuals and groups. International
    is the fastest-growing of MetLife’s businesses, and we
    believe it will be one of the largest future growth areas.



Within the U.S., we also provide a variety of mortgage and
    deposit products through MetLife Bank. Results of our banking
    operation are reported in Banking, Corporate & Other.



Operating revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10%
    of consolidated operating revenues in any of the last three
    years. Financial information, including revenues, expenses,
    operating earnings, and total assets by segment, is provided in
    Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. Operating revenues and operating earnings are
    performance measures that are not based on accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States of America
    (“GAAP”). See “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
    for definitions of such measures.





We are one of the largest institutional investors in the
    U.S. with a $476 billion general account portfolio
    invested primarily in investment grade corporate bonds,
    structured finance securities, commercial and agricultural
    mortgage loans, U.S. Treasury, agency and government
    guaranteed securities, as well as real estate and corporate
    equity. Over the past several years, we have taken a number of
    actions to further diversify and strengthen our general account
    portfolio.



Our well-recognized brand, leading market positions, competitive
    and innovative product offerings and financial strength and
    expertise should help drive future growth and enhance
    shareholder value, building on a long history of fairness,
    honesty and integrity. Over the course of the next several
    years, we will pursue the following objectives to achieve our
    goals:



•Strengthen our growth platform



–Focus on targeted, disciplined global growth of
    our businesses



–Build on our widely recognized brand name



–Capitalize on our large base of institutional and
    individual customers



•Optimize our delivery and operations



–Expand and leverage our broad, diverse
    distribution channels



–Focus on margin improvement and return on equity
    expansion



•Protect and extend our risk management



–Build on our strong risk management and
    investment expertise



–Maintain a balanced focus on income and
    protection products



•Enhance organizational effectiveness



–Further our commitment to a diverse, high
    performance workplace



•Capitalize on innovation



–Continue to introduce innovative and competitive
    products



U.S.
    Business



Overview



Insurance
    Products



Our Insurance Products segment offers a broad range of
    protection products and services aimed at serving the financial
    needs of our customers throughout their lives. These products
    are sold to individuals and corporations, as well as other
    institutions and their respective employees. We have built a
    leading position in the U.S. group insurance market through
    long-standing relationships with many of the largest corporate
    employers in the U.S., and are one of the largest issuers of
    individual life insurance products in the U.S. We are
    organized into three businesses: Group Life, Individual Life and
    Non-Medical Health.



Our Group Life insurance products and services include variable
    life, universal life, and term life products. We offer group
    insurance products as employer-paid benefits or as voluntary
    benefits where all or a portion of the premiums are paid by the
    employee. These group products and services also include
    employee paid supplemental life and are offered as standard
    products or may be tailored to meet specific customer needs.



Our Individual Life insurance products and services include
    variable life, universal life, term life and whole life
    products. Additionally, through our broker-dealer affiliates, we
    offer a full range of mutual funds and other securities
    products. The elimination of transactions from activity between
    the segments within U.S. Business occurs within Individual
    Life.





The major products within both Group Life and Individual Life
    are as follows:



Variable Life.Variable life products provide
    insurance coverage through a contract that gives the
    policyholder flexibility in investment choices and, depending on
    the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with
    certain guarantees. Most importantly, with variable life
    products, premiums and account balances can be directed by the
    policyholder into a variety of separate account investment
    options or directed to the Company’s general account. In
    the separate account investment options, the policyholder bears
    the entire risk of the investment results. We collect specified
    fees for the management of the investment options. The
    policyholder’s cash value reflects the investment return of
    the selected investment options, net of management fees and
    insurance-related and other charges. In some instances,
    third-party money management firms manage these investment
    options. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium
    level, policyholders may have the advantage of various
    guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse
    investment experience.



Universal Life.Universal life products
    provide insurance coverage on the same basis as variable life,
    except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated balances,
    are allocated only to the Company’s general account.
    Universal life products may allow the insured to increase or
    decrease the amount of death benefit coverage over the term of
    the contract and the owner to adjust the frequency and amount of
    premium payments. We credit premiums to an account maintained
    for the policyholder. Premiums are credited net of specified
    expenses. Interest is credited to the policyholder’s
    account at interest rates we determine, subject to specified
    minimums. Specific charges are made against the
    policyholder’s account for the cost of insurance protection
    and for expenses. With some products, by maintaining a certain
    premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various
    guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse
    investment experience.



Term Life.Term life products provide a
    guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured for a specified
    time period in return for the periodic payment of premiums.
    Specified coverage periods range from one year to 30 years,
    but in no event are they longer than the period over which
    premiums are paid. Death benefits may be level over the period
    or decreasing. Decreasing coverage is used principally to
    provide for loan repayment in the event of death. Premiums may
    be guaranteed at a level amount for the coverage period or may
    be non-level and non-guaranteed. Term insurance products are
    sometimes referred to as pure protection products, in that there
    are typically no savings or investment elements. Term contracts
    expire without value at the end of the coverage period when the
    insured party is still living.



Whole Life.Whole life products provide a
    guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured in return for
    the periodic payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined
    period. Premium payments may be required for the entire life of
    the contract period, to a specified age or period, and may be
    level or change in accordance with a predetermined schedule.
    Whole life insurance includes policies that provide a
    participation feature in the form of dividends. Policyholders
    may receive dividends in cash or apply them to increase death
    benefits, increase cash values available upon surrender or
    reduce the premiums required to maintain the contract in-force.
    Because the use of dividends is specified by the policyholder,
    this group of products provides significant flexibility to
    individuals to tailor the product to suit their specific needs
    and circumstances, while at the same time providing guaranteed
    benefits.



Our Non-Medical Health products and services include dental
    insurance, group short- and long-term disability, individual
    disability income, long-term care (“LTC”), critical
    illness and accidental death & dismemberment
    coverages. Other products and services include
    employer-sponsored auto and homeowners insurance provided
    through the Auto & Home segment and prepaid legal
    plans. We also sell administrative services-only
    (“ASO”) arrangements to some employers. The major
    products in this area are:



Dental.Dental products provide insurance and
    ASO plans that assist employees, retirees and their families in
    maintaining oral health while reducingout-of-pocketexpenses and providing superior customer service. Dental plans
    include the Preferred Dentist Program and the Dental Health
    Maintenance Organization.



Disability.Disability products provide a
    benefit in the event of the disability of the insured. In most
    instances, this benefit is in the form of monthly income paid
    until the insured reaches age 65. In addition to





income replacement, the product may be used to provide for the
    payment of business overhead expenses for disabled business
    owners or mortgage payment protection. This is offered on both a
    group and individual basis.



Long-term Care.LTC products provide
    protection against the potentially high costs of LTC services.
    They generally pay benefits to insureds who need assistance with
    activities of daily living or have a cognitive impairment. In
    November 2010, we announced our decision to discontinue all new
    sales of individual and employer group LTC products, as well as
    our intent to file for an in-force rate increase on our employer
    group business. We remain committed to our existing LTC insureds
    and will ensure that they continue to receive the same high
    level of service.



Retirement
    Products



Our Retirement products segment includes a variety of variable
    and fixed annuities that are primarily sold to individuals and
    employees of corporations and other institutions. The major
    products in this area are:



Variable Annuities.Variable annuities provide
    for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs.
    Variable annuities allow the contractholder to make deposits
    into various investment options in a separate account, as
    determined by the contractholder. The risks associated with such
    investment options are borne entirely by the contractholder,
    except where guaranteed minimum benefits are involved. In
    certain variable annuity products, contractholders may also
    choose to allocate all or a portion of their account to the
    Company’s general account and are credited with interest at
    rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. In addition,
    contractholders may also elect certain minimum death benefit and
    minimum living benefit guarantees for which additional fees are
    charged.



Fixed Annuities.Fixed annuities provide for
    both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Fixed
    annuities do not allow the same investment flexibility provided
    by variable annuities, but provide guarantees related to the
    preservation of principal and interest credited. Deposits made
    into deferred annuity contracts are allocated to the
    Company’s general account and are credited with interest at
    rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. Credited
    interest rates are guaranteed not to change for certain limited
    periods of time, ranging from one to ten years. Fixed income
    annuities provide a guaranteed monthly income for a specified
    period of yearsand/orfor
    the life of the annuitant.



In the fourth quarter of 2010, management realigned certain
    income annuity products within the Company’s segments to
    better conform to the way it manages and assesses its business
    and began reporting such product results in the Retirement
    Products segment previously reported in the Corporate Benefit
    Funding segment. Accordingly, prior period segment results have
    been adjusted to reflect such product reclassifications. See
    Note 1 and Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for further information.



Corporate
    Benefit Funding



Our Corporate Benefit Funding segment includes an array of
    annuity and investment products, including, guaranteed interest
    products and other stable value products, income annuities, and
    separate account contracts for the investment management of
    defined benefit and defined contribution plan assets. This
    segment also includes certain products to fund postretirement
    benefits and company, bank or trust owned life insurance used to
    finance non-qualified benefit programs for executives. The major
    products in this area are:



Stable Value Products.We offer general
    account guaranteed interest contracts, separate account
    guaranteed interest contracts, and similar products used to
    support the stable value option of defined contribution plans.
    We also offer private floating rate funding agreements that are
    used for money market funds, securities lending cash collateral
    portfolios and short-term investment funds.



Pensions Closeouts.We offer general account
    and separate account annuity products, generally in connection
    with the termination of defined benefit pension plans, both in
    the U.S. and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”). We also
    offer partial risk transfer solutions that allow for partial
    transfers of pension liabilities and annuity products that
    include single premium buyouts.





Torts and Settlements.We offer innovative
    strategies for complex litigation settlements, primarily
    structured settlement annuities.



Capital Markets Investment Products.Products
    offered include funding agreements, Federal Home Loan Bank
    advances and funding agreement-backed commercial paper.



Other Corporate Benefit Funding Products and
    Services.We offer specialized life insurance
    products designed specifically to provide solutions for
    non-qualified benefit and retiree benefit funding purposes.



Auto &
    Home



Our Auto & Home segment includes personal lines
    property and casualty insurance offered directly to employees at
    their employer’s worksite, as well as to individuals
    through a variety of retail distribution channels, including
    independent agents, property and casualty specialists, direct
    response marketing and the individual distribution sales group.
    Auto & Home primarily sells auto insurance, which
    represented 68% of Auto & Home’s total net earned
    premiums in 2010. Homeowners and other insurance represented 32%
    of Auto & Home’s total net earned premiums in
    2010. The major products in this area are:



Auto Coverages.Auto insurance policies
    provide coverage for private passenger automobiles, utility
    automobiles and vans, motorcycles, motor homes, antique or
    classic automobiles and trailers. Auto & Home offers
    traditional coverage such as liability, uninsured motorist, no
    fault or personal injury protection, as well as collision and
    comprehensive.



Homeowners and Other
    Coverages.Homeowners’ insurance policies
    provide protection for homeowners, renters, condominium owners
    and residential landlords against losses arising out of damage
    to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well
    as coverage for liability arising from ownership or occupancy.
    Other insurance includes personal excess liability (protection
    against losses in excess of amounts covered by other liability
    insurance policies), and coverage for recreational vehicles and
    boat owners. Most of Auto & Home’s
    homeowners’ policies are traditional insurance policies for
    dwellings, providing protection for loss on a “replacement
    cost” basis. These policies also provide additional
    coverage for reasonable, normal living expenses incurred by
    policyholders that have been displaced from their homes.



Sales
    Distribution



U.S. Business markets our products and services through
    various distribution groups. Our life insurance and retirement
    products targeted to individuals are sold via sales forces,
    comprised of MetLife employees, in addition to third-party
    organizations. Our group life, non-medical health and corporate
    benefit funding products are sold via sales forces primarily
    comprised of MetLife employees. Personal lines property and
    casualty insurance products are directly marketed to employees
    at their employer’s worksite. Auto & Home
    products are also marketed and sold to individuals by
    independent agents and property and casualty specialists through
    a direct response channel and the individual distribution sales
    group. MetLife sales employees work with all distribution groups
    to better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and
    other intermediaries.



Individual
    Distribution



Our individual distribution sales group targets the large
    middle-income market, as well as affluent individuals, owners of
    small businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized
    companies. We have also been successful in selling our products
    in various multi-cultural markets.



Insurance Products are sold through our individual distribution
    sales group and also through various third-party organizations
    utilizing two models. In the coverage model, wholesalers sell to
    high net worth individuals and small- to medium-sized businesses
    through independent general agencies, financial advisors,
    consultants, brokerage general agencies and other independent
    marketing organizations under contractual arrangements. In the
    point of sale model, wholesalers sell through financial
    intermediaries, including regional broker-dealers, brokerage
    firms, financial planners and banks.





Retirement Products are sold through our individual distribution
    sales group and also through various third-party organizations
    such as regional broker-dealers, New York Stock Exchange
    (“NYSE”) brokerage firms, financial planners and banks.



The individual distribution sales group is comprised of three
    channels: the MetLife distribution channel, a career agency
    system, the New England financial distribution channel, a
    general agency system, and MetLife Resources, a career agency
    system.



The MetLife distribution channel had 5,053 MetLife agents under
    contract in 54 agencies at December 31, 2010. The career
    agency sales force focuses on the large middle-income and
    affluent markets, including multi-cultural markets. We support
    our efforts in multi-cultural markets through targeted
    advertising, specially trained agents and sales literature
    written in various languages.



The New England financial distribution channel included 33
    general agencies providing support to 2,102 general agents and a
    network of independent brokers throughout the U.S. at
    December 31, 2010. The New England financial distribution
    channel targets high net worth individuals, owners of small
    businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized companies.



MetLife Resources, a focused distribution channel of MetLife,
    markets retirement, annuity and other financial products on a
    national basis through 547 MetLife agents and independent
    brokers at December 31, 2010. MetLife Resources targets the
    nonprofit, educational and healthcare markets.



We market and sell Auto & Home products through
    independent agents, property and casualty specialists, a direct
    response channel and the direct distribution group. In recent
    years, we have increased the number of independent agents
    appointed to sell these products.



In 2010, Auto & Home’s business was concentrated
    in the following states, as measured by amount and percentage of
    total direct earned premiums:



For the Year Ended December 31, 2010(In millions)PercentNew York$39113%Massachusetts$2589%Illinois$2037%Florida$1645%Connecticut$1535%Texas$1425%





Group
    Distribution



Insurance Products distributes its group life and non-medical
    health products and services through a sales force that is
    segmented by the size of the target customer. Marketing
    representatives sell either directly to corporate and other
    group customers or through an intermediary, such as a broker or
    consultant. Voluntary products are sold through the same sales
    channels, as well as by specialists for these products.
    Employers have been emphasizing such voluntary products and, as
    a result, we have increased our focus on communicating and
    marketing to such employees in order to further foster sales of
    those products. At December 31, 2010, the group life and
    non-medical health sales channels had 356 marketing
    representatives.



Retirement Products markets its retirement, savings, investment
    and payout annuity products and services to sponsors and
    advisors of benefit plans of all sizes. These products and
    services are offered to private and public pension plans,
    collective bargaining units, nonprofit organizations, recipients
    of structured settlements and the current and retired members of
    these and other institutions.



Corporate Benefit Funding products and services are distributed
    through dedicated sales teams and relationship managers located
    in 12 offices around the country. In addition, the
    retirement & benefits funding organization works with
    individual distribution and group life and non-medical health
    distribution areas to better reach and service customers,
    brokers, consultants and other intermediaries.





Auto & Home is a leading provider of personal lines
    property and casualty insurance products offered to employees at
    their employer’s worksite. At December 31, 2010, 2,215
    employers offered MetLife Auto & Home products to
    their employees.



Group marketing representatives market personal lines property
    and casualty insurance products to employers through a variety
    of means, including broker referrals and cross-selling to group
    customers. Once permitted by the employer, MetLife commences
    marketing efforts to employees. Employees who are interested in
    the auto and homeowners products can call a toll-free number to
    request a quote to purchase coverage and to request payroll
    deduction over the telephone. Auto & Home has also
    developed a proprietary software that permits an employee in
    most states to obtain a quote for auto insurance through
    Auto & Home’s internet website.



We have entered into several joint ventures and other
    arrangements with third parties to expand the marketing and
    distribution opportunities of group products and services. We
    also seek to sell our group products and services through
    sponsoring organizations and affinity groups. In addition, we
    also provide life and dental coverage to federal employees.



International



Overview



International provides life insurance, accident and health
    insurance, credit insurance, annuities, endowment and
    retirement & savings products to both individuals and
    groups. We focus on markets primarily within Japan, Latin
    America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. We operate in
    international markets through subsidiaries and affiliates. See
    “Risk Factors — Fluctuations in Foreign Currency
    Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability,”
    and “Risk Factors — Our International Operations
    Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including
    Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could
    Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability,”
    and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk.”



Japan



Our Japan operation (excluding our Japan joint venture, as
    described below under “— Asia Pacific”) is
    comprised of the business acquired in the Acquisition. Our Japan
    operation is among the largest foreign life insurers in Japan
    and ranks 6th in the Japanese life insurance industry
    measured by total premiums according to the Statistics of Life
    Insurance in Japan 2009. It provides life insurance, accident
    and health insurance, annuities and endowment products to both
    individuals and groups. Its products are distributed through a
    multi-distribution platform consisting of captive agents,
    independent agents, brokers, bancassurance, and direct
    marketing (“DM”).



Latin
    America



We operate in 20 countries in Latin America, with the largest
    operations in Mexico, Chile and Argentina. The Mexican operation
    is the largest life insurance company in both the individual and
    group businesses in Mexico according to Asociación Mexicana
    de Instituciones de Seguro, a Mexican industry trade group which
    provides rankings for insurance companies. Our Chilean operation
    is the largest annuity company in Chile, based on market share
    according to Superintendencia Valores y Seguros, the Chilean
    insurance regulator. The Chilean operation also offers
    individual life insurance and group insurance products. We also
    actively market individual life insurance, group insurance
    products and credit life coverage in Argentina, but the
    nationalization of the pension system substantially reduced our
    presence in Argentina. The business environment in Argentina has
    been, and may continue to be, affected by governmental and legal
    actions which impact our results of operations.



Asia
    Pacific



We operate in 5 countries in Asia Pacific with the largest
    operations in South Korea, Hong Kong and Australia. Our South
    Korean operation has significant sales of variable universal
    life and annuity products. Our Hong Kong operation has
    significant sales of variable universal life and endowment
    products. Our Australia operation has significant sales of
    credit insurance and group life products. We also operate
    through joint ventures in Japan and China, the results of which
    are reflected in net investment income and are not consolidated
    in the financial results.





We have a quota share reinsurance agreement with the joint
    venture in Japan, whereby we assume 100% of the living and death
    guarantee benefits associated with the variable annuity business
    written after April 2005 by the joint venture. As discussed in
    Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements, the Company reached an agreement to sell its 50%
    interest in the joint venture in Japan.



Europe
    and the Middle East



We operate in 39 countries in Europe and the Middle East with
    our largest operations in Poland, the U.K., France, and the
    United Arab Emirates, as well as through a consolidated joint
    venture in India. Our Poland operation is a leading provider of
    life insurance, accident and health insurance, and credit
    insurance. It is consistently ranked as a top 3 company in
    net profits according to “Rzeczpospolita” financial
    daily. Our U.K. operation provides life insurance, accident and
    health insurance and variable annuities in its home market and
    throughout Europe. Our operation in France provides life
    insurance, accident and health insurance and credit insurance.
    In the Middle East, we provide life insurance, accident and
    health insurance, credit insurance, annuities, endowment and
    retirement & savings products.



Sales
    Distribution



International markets its products and services through a
    multi-distribution strategy which varies by geographic region.
    The various distribution channels include: agency,
    bancassurance, DM, brokerage ande-commerce.In developing countries, agency covers the needs of the emerging
    middle class with primarily traditional products (e.g.,
    endowment and accident and health). In more developed and mature
    markets, agents, while continuing to serve their existing
    customers to keep pace with their developing financial needs,
    also target upper middle class and high net worth customer bases
    with a more sophisticated product set including more
    investment-sensitive products, such as universal life, mutual
    fund and single premium deposits.



In the bancassurance channel, International leverages
    partnerships that span all regions. In addition, DM has
    extensive and far reaching capabilities in all regions. The DM
    operations deploy both broadcast marketing approaches (e.g.
    direct response TV, web-based lead generation) and traditional
    DM techniques such as telemarketing. Japan represents the
    largest DM market.



Japan



Japan’s multi-channel distribution strategy consists of
    captive agents, independent agents, bancassurance and DM. Whileface-to-facechannels continue to be core to Japan’s business, other
    channels, including bancassurance and DM, have become a critical
    part of Japan’s distribution strategy. Our Japan operation
    has maintained its position in bancassurance due to its strong
    distribution relationship with Japan’s mega banks, trust
    banks and various regional banks, as well as with the Japan
    Post. The DM channel is supported by an industry-leading
    marketing platform,state-of-the-artcall center infrastructure and its own campaign management
    system.



Japan has 5,397 captive agents, 10,642 independent agents, 96
    bancassurance relationships, including Japan Post, and 195
    DM sponsors.



Latin
    America



Latin America’s key distribution channels include captive
    agents, large multinational brokers and small-and medium-sized
    brokers, direct and group sales forces (mostly for group
    policies without broker intermediation), DM, bancassurance and
    worksite marketing. The region has an exclusive and captive
    agency distribution network with more than 3,000 agents also
    selling a variety of individual life, accident and health, and
    pension products (“AFORE”), as well as small- and
    medium-sized group life and medical solutions products. We
    currently work with over 3,300 active brokers with registered
    sales of group and individual life, accident and health, group
    medical, dental and pension products. Worksite marketing has
    over 2,300 agents.





Asia
    Pacific



In Asia Pacific, distribution strategies differ by country but
    generally utilize a combination of captive agents, bancassurance
    relationships and DM. Agency sales are achieved through a force
    of approximately 7,500 agents and a growing force of independent
    general agents. Bancassurance sales are currently reliant upon a
    significant regional strategic partnership along with a number
    of smaller partnerships in each market. Throughout the region,
    our Asia Pacific operation leverages its expertise in DM
    operations management to conduct its own campaigns and provide
    those DM capabilities to third-party sponsors.



While not a significant part of the region’s overall
    business, sales of group life and pension business are primarily
    achieved through independent brokers and an employee sales force.



Europe
    and the Middle East



Our operation in Central and Eastern Europe (“CEE”)
    has a multi-channel distribution strategy, which includes
    significant face to face channels, built on a strong captive
    agency force of more than 3,450 agents, and relationships with
    more than 150 independent brokers and third-party multi-level
    agency networks. Our CEE operation also has a group/corporate
    business direct sales force of more than 70 and distribution
    relationships with more than 90 banks, other financial and non
    financial institutions, as well as a fast growing DM channel.
    The primary method of distribution is captive and third party
    agency and captive direct sales forces, with a growing presence
    in bank, other financial and non financial institutions,
    and DM.



Our operation in Continental Western Europe (“CWE”)
    also has a multi-channel distribution strategy, including DM,
    brokerage, banks and financial institutions. Our U.K. operation
    has built a strong position in the U.K. independent financial
    advisor sector through its strong distribution relationships
    with Britain’s leading advisory networks, serving the
    mainstream markets specializing particularly in guaranteed
    products. Recent arrangements with two U.K. banks should enhance
    our distribution capability going forward. Our U.K. operation
    also has an agency force which focuses on the protection market.



In the Middle East, our products are distributed via a variety
    of channels including approximately 16,400 agents,
    bancassurance, brokers and DM. Agency distribution is the
    primary channel, with MetLife having the largest captive network
    in the Middle East. Bancassurance is a growing channel with
    approximately 100 relationships, and approximately 250
    programs providing access to millions of bank customers.



Banking,
    Corporate & Other



Banking, Corporate & Other contains the excess capital
    not allocated to the segments, which is invested to optimize
    investment spread and to fund company initiatives and variousstart-upand
    run-off entities. Banking, Corporate & Other also
    includes interest expense related to the majority of our
    outstanding debt and expenses associated with certain legal
    proceedings, as well as the financial results of MetLife Bank,
    which offers a variety of mortgage and deposit products. The
    elimination of transactions from activity between
    U.S. Business, International, and Banking,
    Corporate & Other occurs within Banking,
    Corporate & Other.



Mortgage products offered by MetLife Bank include forward and
    reverse residential mortgage loans. Residential mortgage loans
    are originated through MetLife Bank’s national sales force,
    mortgage brokers and mortgage correspondents.



The residential mortgage banking activities include the
    origination and servicing of mortgage loans. Mortgage loans areheld-for-investmentor sold primarily into Federal National Mortgage Association
    (“FNMA”), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
    (“FHLMC”) or Government National Mortgage Association
    (“GNMA”) securities. MetLife Bank also leverages
    MetLife’s investment platform to source commercial and
    agriculture loans as investments on its balance sheet. MetLife
    Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal
    Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLB of NY”) and is
    subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the Office
    of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) and
    secondarily by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
    (“FDIC”) and the Federal Reserve.





The origination of forward and reverse mortgage single family
    loans include both variable and fixed rate products. MetLife
    Bank does not originatesub-primeor
    alternative residential mortgage loans (“Alt-A”) and
    the funding for the mortgage banking activities is provided by
    deposits and borrowings.



Deposit products include traditional savings accounts, money
    market savings accounts, certificates of deposit
    (“CDs”) and individual retirement accounts. MetLife
    Bank participates in the Certificate of Deposit Account Registry
    Service program through which certain customer CDs are exchanged
    for CDs of similar amounts from participating banks. The deposit
    products provide a relatively stable source of funding and
    liquidity and are used to fund securities and loans. In
    addition, MetLife Bank principally seeks deposits from direct
    customers via the Internet and postal mail, and takes advantage
    of cross-marketing opportunities, including through voluntary
    benefits platforms of its affiliates’ customers.



Policyholder
    Liabilities



We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined
    amounts that are calculated to meet our policy obligations when
    a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes
    disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to
    provide for future annuity payments. We compute the amounts for
    actuarial liabilities reported in our consolidated financial
    statements in conformity with GAAP. For more details on
    Policyholder Liabilities see “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates — Liability for Future Policy Benefits”
    and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Policyholder
    Liabilities.”



Pursuant to state insurance laws and country regulators, the
    Holding Company’s insurance subsidiaries establish
    statutory reserves, reported as liabilities, to meet their
    obligations on their respective policies. These statutory
    reserves are established in amounts sufficient to meet policy
    and contract obligations, when taken together with expected
    future premiums and interest at assumed rates. Statutory
    reserves generally differ from actuarial liabilities for future
    policy benefits determined using GAAP.



The New York Insurance Law and regulations require certain
    MetLife entities to submit to the New York Superintendent of
    Insurance or other state insurance departments, with each annual
    report, an opinion and memorandum of a “qualified
    actuary” that the statutory reserves and related actuarial
    amounts recorded in support of specified policies and contracts,
    and the assets supporting such statutory reserves and related
    actuarial amounts, make adequate provision for their statutory
    liabilities with respect to these obligations. See
    “— U.S. Regulation — Insurance
    Regulation — Policy and Contract Reserve Sufficiency
    Analysis.”



Underwriting
    and Pricing



Underwriting



Underwriting generally involves an evaluation of applications
    for Insurance Products, Retirement Products, Corporate Benefit
    Funding, and Auto & Home by a professional staff of
    underwriters and actuaries, who determine the type and the
    amount of risk that we are willing to accept. In addition to the
    products described above, with the exception of Auto &
    Home, International also offers credit insurance, accident and
    health, and medical products. We employ detailed underwriting
    policies, guidelines and procedures designed to assist the
    underwriter to properly assess and quantify risks before issuing
    policies to qualified applicants or groups.



Insurance underwriting considers not only an applicant’s
    medical history, but also other factors such as financial
    profile, foreign travel, vocations and alcohol, drug and tobacco
    use. Group underwriting generally evaluates the risk
    characteristics of each prospective insured group, although with
    certain voluntary products and for certain coverages, members of
    a group may be underwritten on an individual basis. We generally
    perform our own underwriting; however, certain policies are
    reviewed by intermediaries under guidelines established by us.
    Generally, we are not obligated to accept any risk or group of
    risks from, or to issue a policy or group of policies to, any
    employer or intermediary. Requests for coverage are reviewed on
    their merits and generally a policy is not issued unless the
    particular risk or group has been examined and approved by our
    underwriters.





Our remote underwriting offices, intermediaries, as well as our
    corporate underwriting office, are periodically reviewed via
    continuous on-going internal underwriting audits to maintain
    high-standards of underwriting and consistency. Such offices are
    also subject to periodic external audits by reinsurers with whom
    we do business.



We have established senior level oversight of the underwriting
    process that facilitates quality sales and serves the needs of
    our customers, while supporting our financial strength and
    business objectives. Our goal is to achieve the underwriting,
    mortality and morbidity levels reflected in the assumptions in
    our product pricing. This is accomplished by determining and
    establishing underwriting policies, guidelines, philosophies and
    strategies that are competitive and suitable for the customer,
    the agent and us.



Auto & Home’s underwriting function has six
    principal aspects: evaluating potential worksite marketing
    employer accounts and independent agencies; establishing
    guidelines for the binding of risks; reviewing coverage bound by
    agents; underwriting potential insureds, on a case by case
    basis, presented by agents outside the scope of their binding
    authority; pursuing information necessary in certain cases to
    enable Auto & Home to issue a policy within our
    guidelines; and ensuring that renewal policies continue to be
    written at rates commensurate with risk.



Subject to very few exceptions, agents in each of the
    U.S. Business distribution channels have binding authority
    for risks which fall within its published underwriting
    guidelines. Risks falling outside the underwriting guidelines
    may be submitted for approval to the underwriting department;
    alternatively, agents in such a situation may call the
    underwriting department to obtain authorization to bind the risk
    themselves. In most states, we generally have the right within a
    specified period (usually the first 60 days) to cancel any
    policy.



Pricing



Pricing has traditionally reflected our corporate underwriting
    standards. Product pricing is based on the expected payout of
    benefits calculated through the use of assumptions for
    mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency and investment
    returns, as well as certain macroeconomic factors, such as
    inflation. Investment-oriented products are priced based on
    various factors, which may include investment return, expenses,
    persistency and optionality. For certain investment oriented
    products in the U.S. and certain business sold
    internationally, pricing may include prospective and
    retrospective experience rating features. Prospective experience
    rating involves the evaluation of past experience for the
    purpose of determining future premium rates and all prior year
    gains and losses are borne by us. Retrospective experience
    rating also involves the evaluation of past experience for the
    purpose of determining the actual cost of providing insurance
    for the customer, however, the contract includes certain
    features that allow us to recoup certain losses or distribute
    certain gains back to the policyholder based on actual prior
    years’ experience.



Rates for group life, non-medical health, and medical health
    products are based on anticipated results for the book of
    business being underwritten. Renewals are generally reevaluated
    annually or biannually and are repriced to reflect actual
    experience on such products. Products offered by Corporate
    Benefit Funding are priced frequently and are very responsive to
    bond yields, and such prices include additional margin in
    periods of market uncertainty. This business is predominantly
    illiquid, because a majority of the policyholders have no
    contractual rights to cash values and no options to change the
    form of the product’s benefits.



Rates for individual life insurance products are highly
    regulated and must be approved by the regulators of the
    jurisdictions in which the product is sold. Generally such
    products are renewed annually and may include pricing terms that
    are guaranteed for a certain period of time. Fixed and variable
    annuity products are also highly regulated and approved by the
    respective regulators. Such products generally include penalties
    for early withdrawals and policyholder benefit elections to
    tailor the form of the product’s benefits to the needs of
    the opting policyholder. We periodically reevaluate the costs
    associated with such options and will periodically adjust
    pricing levels on our guarantees. Further, from time to time, we
    may also reevaluate the type and level of guarantee features
    currently being offered.



Rates for Auto & Home’s major lines of insurance
    are based on its proprietary database, rather than relying on
    rating bureaus. Auto & Home determines prices in part
    from a number of variables specific to each risk. The pricing of
    personal lines insurance products takes into account, among
    other things, the expected frequency and severity of losses, the
    costs of providing coverage (including the costs of acquiring
    policyholders and administering policy





benefits and other administrative and overhead costs),
    competitive factors and profit considerations. The major pricing
    variables for personal lines insurance include characteristics
    of the insured property, such as age, make and model or
    construction type, as well as characteristics of the insureds,
    such as driving record and loss experience, and the
    insured’s personal financial management. Auto &
    Home’s ability to set and change rates is subject to
    regulatory oversight.



As a condition of our license to do business in each state,
    Auto & Home, like all other automobile insurers, is
    required to write or share the cost of private passenger
    automobile insurance for higher risk individuals who would
    otherwise be unable to obtain such insurance. This
    “involuntary” market, also called the “shared
    market,” is governed by the applicable laws and regulations
    of each state, and policies written in this market are generally
    written at rates higher than standard rates.



We continually review our underwriting and pricing guidelines so
    that our policies remain competitive and supportive of our
    marketing strategies and profitability goals. The current
    economic environment, with its volatility and uncertainty is not
    expected to materially impact the pricing of our products.



Reinsurance
    Activity



We participate in reinsurance activities in order to limit
    losses, minimize exposure to significant risks, and provide
    additional capacity for future growth. We enter into various
    agreements with reinsurers that cover individual risks, group
    risks or defined blocks of business, primarily on a coinsurance,
    yearly renewable term, excess or catastrophe excess basis. These
    reinsurance agreements spread risk and minimize the effect of
    losses. The extent of each risk retained by us depends on our
    evaluation of the specific risk, subject, in certain
    circumstances, to maximum retention limits based on the
    characteristics of coverages. We also cede first dollar
    mortality risk under certain contracts. In addition to
    reinsuring mortality risk, we reinsure other risks, as well as
    specific coverages. We obtain reinsurance for capital
    requirement purposes and also when the economic impact of the
    reinsurance agreement makes it appropriate to do so.



Under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer
    agrees to reimburse us for the ceded amount in the event a claim
    is paid. Cessions under reinsurance arrangements do not
    discharge our obligations as the primary insurer. In the event
    that reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the terms of
    the reinsurance agreements, reinsurance balances recoverable
    could become uncollectible.



We reinsure our business through a diversified group of
    well-capitalized, highly rated reinsurers. We analyze recent
    trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes, if
    any, with our reinsurers. We monitor ratings and evaluate the
    financial strength of our reinsurers by analyzing their
    financial statements. In addition, the reinsurance recoverable
    balance due from each reinsurer is evaluated as part of the
    overall monitoring process. Recoverability of reinsurance
    recoverable balances is evaluated based on these analyses. We
    generally secure large reinsurance recoverable balances with
    various forms of collateral, including secured trusts, funds
    withheld accounts and irrevocable letters of credit.



U.S.
    Business



For our individual life insurance products, we have historically
    reinsured the mortality risk primarily on an excess of retention
    basis or a quota share basis. We currently reinsure 90% of the
    mortality risk in excess of $1 million for most products
    and reinsure up to 90% of the mortality risk for certain other
    products. In addition to reinsuring mortality risk as described
    above, we reinsure other risks, as well as specific coverages.
    Placement of reinsurance is done primarily on an automatic basis
    and also on a facultative basis for risks with specified
    characteristics. On a case by case basis, we may retain up to
    $20 million per life and reinsure 100% of amounts in excess
    of the amount we retain. We evaluate our reinsurance programs
    routinely and may increase or decrease our retention at any time.



For other policies within the Insurance Products segment, we
    generally retain most of the risk and only cede particular risks
    on certain client arrangements.



Our Retirement Products segment reinsures a portion of the
    living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with
    our variable annuities. Under these reinsurance agreements, we
    pay a reinsurance premium





generally based on fees associated with the guarantees collected
    from policyholders, and receive reimbursement for benefits paid
    or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain
    limitations.



Our Corporate Benefit Funding segment has periodically engaged
    in reinsurance activities, as considered appropriate.



Our Auto & Home segment purchases reinsurance to
    manage its exposure to large losses (primarily catastrophe
    losses) and to protect statutory surplus. We cede to reinsurers
    a portion of losses and premiums based upon the exposure of the
    policies subject to reinsurance. To manage exposure to large
    property and casualty losses, we utilize property catastrophe,
    casualty and property per risk excess of loss agreements.



International



For certain of our life insurance products, we reinsure risks
    above the corporate retention limit of up to $5 million to
    external reinsurers on a yearly renewable term basis. We may
    also reinsure certain risks with external reinsurers depending
    upon the nature of the risk and local regulatory requirements.



For selected large corporate clients, our International segment
    reinsures group employee benefits or credit insurance business
    with various client-affiliated reinsurance companies, covering
    policies issued to the employees or customers of the clients.
    Additionally, we cede and assume risk with other insurance
    companies when either company requires a business partner with
    the appropriate local licensing to issue certain types of
    policies in certain countries. In these cases, the assuming
    company typically underwrites the risks, develops the products
    and assumes most or all of the risk.



Our International segment also has reinsurance agreements in
    force that reinsure a portion of the living and death benefit
    guarantees issued in connection with our variable annuities.
    Under these agreements, we pay reinsurance fees associated with
    the guarantees collected from policyholders, and receive
    reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account
    values, subject to certain limitations.



Banking,
    Corporate & Other



We also reinsure through 100% quota share reinsurance agreements
    certain run-off LTC and workers’ compensation business
    written by MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut
    (“MICC”), a subsidiary of the Company.



Catastrophe
    Coverage



We have exposure to catastrophes, which could contribute to
    significant fluctuations in our results of operations. We also
    use excess of retention and quota share reinsurance arrangements
    to provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure
    to larger risks. For our International segment, we currently
    purchase catastrophe coverage to insure risks within certain
    countries deemed by management to be exposed to the greatest
    catastrophic risks.



Reinsurance
    Recoverables



For information regarding ceded reinsurance recoverable
    balances, included in premiums, reinsurance and other
    receivables in the consolidated balance sheets, see Note 9
    of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



U.S.
    Regulation



Insurance
    Regulation



Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (“MLIC”) is
    licensed to transact insurance business in, and is subject to
    regulation and supervision by, all 50 states, the District
    of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, Canada, the U.S. Virgin
    Islands and Northern Mariana Islands. Each of MetLife’s
    insurance subsidiaries is licensed and regulated in each
    U.S. and international jurisdiction where it conducts
    insurance business. The extent of such regulation varies, but
    most jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing the
    financial aspects of insurers, including standards of





solvency, statutory reserves, reinsurance and capital adequacy,
    and the business conduct of insurers. In addition, statutes and
    regulations usually require the licensing of insurers and their
    agents, the approval of policy forms and certain other related
    materials and, for certain lines of insurance, the approval of
    rates. Such statutes and regulations also prescribe the
    permitted types and concentration of investments. New York
    Insurance Law limits the amount of compensation that insurers
    doing business in New York may pay to their agents, as well as
    the amount of total expenses, including sales commissions and
    marketing expenses, that such insurers may incur in connection
    with the sale of life insurance policies and annuity contracts
    throughout the U.S.



Each insurance subsidiary is required to file reports, generally
    including detailed annual financial statements, with insurance
    regulatory authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which it
    does business, and its operations and accounts are subject to
    periodic examination by such authorities. These subsidiaries
    must also file, and in many jurisdictions and in some lines of
    insurance obtain regulatory approval for, rules, rates and forms
    relating to the insurance written in the jurisdictions in which
    they operate.



The National Association of Insurance Commissioners
    (“NAIC”) has established a program of accrediting
    state insurance departments. NAIC accreditation contemplates
    that accredited states will conduct periodic examinations of
    insurers domiciled in such states. NAIC-accredited states will
    not accept reports of examination of insurers from unaccredited
    states, except under limited circumstances. As a direct result,
    insurers domiciled in unaccredited states may be subject to
    financial examination by accredited states in which they are
    licensed, in addition to any examinations conducted by their
    domiciliary states. In 2009, the New York State Department of
    Insurance (the “Department”), MLIC’s principal
    insurance regulator, received accreditation from the NAIC.
    Previously, the Department was not accredited by the NAIC, but
    the absence of this accreditation did not have a significant
    impact upon our ability to conduct our insurance businesses.



State and federal insurance and securities regulatory
    authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and
    attorneys general from time to time make inquiries regarding
    compliance by the Holding Company and its insurance subsidiaries
    with insurance, securities and other laws and regulations
    regarding the conduct of our insurance and securities
    businesses. We cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective
    action when warranted. See Note 16 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.



Holding Company Regulation.The Holding
    Company and its U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to
    regulation under the insurance holding company laws of various
    jurisdictions. The insurance holding company laws and
    regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but
    generally require a controlled insurance company (insurers that
    are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies) to register
    with state regulatory authorities and to file with those
    authorities certain reports, including information concerning
    its capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain
    intercompany transactions and general business operations.



State insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and
    limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions
    payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent
    companies, as well as on transactions between an insurer and its
    affiliates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Holding
    Company — Liquidity and Capital Sources —
    Dividends from Subsidiaries.”



Guaranty Associations and Similar
    Arrangements.Most of the jurisdictions in which
    our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact
    business require life and property and casualty insurers doing
    business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty
    associations, which are organized to pay certain contractual
    insurance benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by
    impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations levy
    assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in
    a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of
    the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business
    in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged.
    Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid
    through full or partial premium tax offsets.



In the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against
    MetLife have not been material. We have established liabilities
    for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate for
    assessments with respect to insurers that are currently subject
    to insolvency proceedings. See Note 16 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on
    the insolvency assessments.





Statutory Insurance Examination.As part of
    their regulatory oversight process, state insurance departments
    conduct periodic detailed examinations of the books, records,
    accounts, and business practices of insurers domiciled in their
    states. State insurance departments also have the authority to
    conduct examinations of non-domiciliary insurers that are
    licensed in their states. During the three-year period ended
    December 31, 2010, MetLife has not received any material
    adverse findings resulting from state insurance department
    examinations of its insurance subsidiaries conducted during this
    three-year period.



Regulatory authorities in a small number of states, Financial
    Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) and,
    occasionally, the SEC, have had investigations or inquiries
    relating to sales of individual life insurance policies or
    annuities or other products by MLIC, MetLife Securities, Inc.,
    New England Life Insurance Company, New England Securities
    Corporation, General American Life Insurance Company, Walnut
    Street Securities, Inc., MICC and Tower Square Securities, Inc.
    These investigations often focus on the conduct of particular
    financial services representatives and the sale of unregistered
    or unsuitable products or the misuse of client assets. Over the
    past several years, these and a number of investigations by
    other regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments
    and certain other relief, including restitution payments. We may
    continue to resolve investigations in a similar manner.



Policy and Contract Reserve Sufficiency
    Analysis.Annually, our U.S. insurance
    subsidiaries are required to conduct an analysis of the
    sufficiency of all statutory reserves. In each case, a qualified
    actuary must submit an opinion which states that the statutory
    reserves, when considered in light of the assets held with
    respect to such reserves, make good and sufficient provision for
    the associated contractual obligations and related expenses of
    the insurer. If such an opinion cannot be provided, the insurer
    must set up additional reserves by moving funds from surplus.
    Since inception of this requirement, our U.S. insurance
    subsidiaries which are required by their states of domicile to
    provide these opinions have provided such opinions without
    qualifications.



Surplus and Capital.Our U.S. insurance
    subsidiaries are subject to the supervision of the regulators in
    each jurisdiction in which they are licensed to transact
    business. Regulators have discretionary authority, in connection
    with the continued licensing of these insurance subsidiaries, to
    limit or prohibit sales to policyholders if, in their judgment,
    the regulators determine that such insurer has not maintained
    the minimum surplus or capital or that the further transaction
    of business will be hazardous to policyholders. See
    “— Risk-Based Capital.”



Risk-Based Capital
    (“RBC”).Each of our
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries that is subject to RBC
    requirements reports its RBC based on a formula calculated by
    applying factors to various asset, premium and statutory reserve
    items, as well as taking into account the risk characteristics
    of the insurer. The major categories of risk involved are asset
    risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk, market risk and
    business risk. The formula is used as an early warning
    regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately capitalized
    insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not
    as a means to rank insurers generally. State insurance laws
    provide insurance regulators the authority to require various
    actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose RBC
    ratio does not meet or exceed certain RBC levels. As of the date
    of the most recent annual statutory financial statements filed
    with insurance regulators, the RBC of each of these subsidiaries
    was in excess of each of those RBC levels. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and
    Capital Resources — The Company —
    Capital.”



Statutory Accounting Principles.The NAIC
    provides standardized insurance industry accounting and
    reporting guidance through its Accounting Practices and
    Procedures Manual (the “Manual”). However, statutory
    accounting principles continue to be established by individual
    state laws, regulations and permitted practices. The Department
    has adopted the Manual with certain modifications for the
    preparation of statutory financial statements of insurance
    companies domiciled in New York. Changes to the Manual or
    modifications by the various state insurance departments may
    impact the statutory capital and surplus of the Company’s
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries.



Regulation of Investments.Each of our
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to state laws and
    regulations that require diversification of our investment
    portfolios and limit the amount of investments in certain asset
    categories, such as below investment grade fixed income
    securities, equity real estate, other equity investments, and
    derivatives. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations
    would cause investments exceeding regulatory limitations to be
    treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring surplus
    and, in some instances, would





require divestiture of such non-qualifying investments. We
    believe that the investments made by each of the Company’s
    insurance subsidiaries complied, in all material respects, with
    such regulations at December 31, 2010.



Until various studies are completed and final regulations are
    promulgated pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
    Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”), the full
    impact of Dodd-Frank on the investments, investment activities
    and insurance and annuity products of the Company remain
    unclear. See “Risk Factors — Various Aspects of
    Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital
    Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our Growth.”



Federal Initiatives.Although the federal
    government generally does not directly regulate the insurance
    business, federal initiatives often have an impact on our
    business in a variety of ways. See “Risk
    Factors — Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact
    Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability
    and Limit Our Growth.” From time to time, federal measures
    are proposed which may significantly affect the insurance
    business. These areas include financial services regulation,
    securities regulation, pension regulation, health care
    regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In
    addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal
    regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time,
    including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal
    charter for insurance companies. Dodd-Frank established the
    Federal Insurance Office within the Department of Treasury to
    collect information about the insurance industry, recommend
    prudential standards, and represent the U.S. in dealings
    with foreign insurance regulators. See “Risk
    Factors — Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking
    Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth.”



Financial
    Holding Company Regulation



Regulatory Agencies.As the owner of a
    federally-chartered bank, MetLife, Inc. is a bank holding
    company and financial holding company. As such, the Holding
    Company is subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company
    Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”), and to
    inspection, examination, and supervision by the Board of
    Governors of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In addition,
    MetLife Bank is subject to regulation and examination primarily
    by the OCC and secondarily by the Federal Reserve Bank of New
    York and the FDIC, as described below under “— Banking
    Regulation.”



Financial Holding Company Activities.



Capital.MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank are
    subject to risk-based and leverage capital guidelines issued by
    the federal banking regulatory agencies for banks and financial
    holding companies. The federal banking regulatory agencies are
    required by law to take specific prompt corrective actions with
    respect to institutions that do not meet minimum capital
    standards. MetLife, Inc. may become required to comply with
    further requirements relating to the





calculation of capital, commonly referred to as “Basel
    II,” which could require significant investment by the
    Company, including software. In addition, in December 2010, the
    Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published its final rules
    for increased capital and liquidity requirements (commonly
    referred to as “Basel III”) for bank holding
    companies, such as MetLife, Inc. Assuming these requirements are
    endorsed and adopted by the U.S., they are to be phased in
    beginning January 1, 2013. It is possible that even more
    stringent capital and liquidity requirements could be imposed
    under Dodd-Frank if MetLife, Inc. is determined to be a
    systemically important company. The ability of MetLife Bank and
    MetLife, Inc. to pay dividends could be reduced by any
    additional capital requirements that might be imposed as a
    result of the enactment of Dodd-Frankand/orthe
    endorsement and adoption by the U.S. of Basel III. See
    “Risk Factors — Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank
    Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth” and “Risk
    Factors — Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking
    Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth.” At December 31, 2010, MetLife, Inc. and
    MetLife Bank were in compliance with applicable requirements
    currently in effect.



Consumer Protection Laws.Numerous other
    federal and state laws also affect the Holding Company’s
    and MetLife Bank’s earnings and activities, including
    federal and state consumer protection laws. The GLB Act included
    consumer privacy provisions that, among other things, require
    disclosure of a financial institution’s privacy policy to
    customers. In addition, these provisions permit states to adopt
    more extensive privacy protections through legislation or
    regulation. As part of Dodd-Frank, Congress established the
    Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection to supervise and
    regulate institutions that provide certain financial products
    and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial
    services subject to the Bureau’s jurisdiction generally
    exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the
    Bureau does have authority to regulate consumer services
    provided by MetLife Bank.



Change of Control and Restrictions on Mergers and
    Acquisitions.Because MetLife, Inc. is a
    financial holding company and bank holding company, no person
    may acquire control of MetLife, Inc. without the prior approval
    of the Federal Reserve Board. A change of control is
    conclusively presumed upon acquisition of 25% or more of any
    class of voting securities and rebuttably presumed upon
    acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting securities.
    Further, as a result of MetLife, Inc.’s ownership of
    MetLife Bank, approval from the OCC would be required in
    connection with a change of control (generally presumed upon the
    acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting securities) of
    MetLife, Inc. As a result of Dodd-Frank, Federal Reserve
    approval would be required after July 21, 2011, for any
    acquisition of a non-bank firm by a bank holding company having
    more than $10 billion of assets, such as MetLife, Inc. As a
    bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more,
    MetLife, Inc. will be required to provide prior notice to the
    Federal Reserve before acquiring control of voting shares of a
    company engaged in financial activities that has
    $10 billion or more of consolidated assets. MetLife, Inc.
    received the approval of the Federal Reserve prior to
    consummating the Acquisition.



Banking
    Regulation



Dodd-Frank





re-examineexisting laws and regulations applicable to banks and their
    products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the bank.



Securities,
    Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation



sub-accounts,



Federal and state securities regulatory authorities and FINRA
    from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations
    regarding compliance by the Holding Company and its subsidiaries
    with securities and other laws and regulations. We cooperate
    with such inquiries and examinations and take corrective action
    when warranted.



Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily
    intended to protect investors in the securities markets and
    generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and
    enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the
    conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and
    regulations. We may also be subject to similar laws and
    regulations in the foreign countries in which we provide
    investment advisory services, offer products similar to those
    described above, or conduct other activities.



Environmental
    Considerations



As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to
    extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and
    regulations. Inherent in such ownership and operation is also
    the risk that there may be potential environmental liabilities
    and costs in connection with any required remediation of such
    properties. In addition, we hold equity interests in companies
    that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities.
    We routinely have environmental assessments performed with
    respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real
    property to be acquired through foreclosure. We cannot provide
    assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not
    arise. However, based on information currently available to us,
    we believe that any costs associated with compliance with
    environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of such
    properties will not have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations or financial condition.



Employee
    Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”)
    Considerations



We provide products and services to certain employee benefit
    plans that are subject to ERISA, or the Internal Revenue Code of
    1986, as amended (the “Code”). As such, our activities
    are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code,
    including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must
    perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan
    participants and beneficiaries and the requirement under ERISA
    and the Code that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to
    engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain
    relationships with respect to such plans. The applicable
    provisions of ERISA and the Code are subject to enforcement by
    the Department of Labor (“DOL”), the Internal Revenue
    Service (“IRS”) and the Pension Benefit Guaranty
    Corporation.



InJohn Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company v. Harris Trust
    and Savings Bank (1993),the U.S. Supreme Court held
    that certain assets in excess of amounts necessary to satisfy
    guaranteed obligations under a participating group annuity
    general account contract are “plan assets.” Therefore,
    these assets are subject to certain fiduciary





obligations under ERISA, which requires fiduciaries to perform
    their duties solely in the interest of ERISA plan participants
    and beneficiaries. On January 5, 2000, the Secretary of
    Labor issued final regulations indicating, in cases where an
    insurer has issued a policy backed by the insurer’s general
    account to or for an employee benefit plan, the extent to which
    assets of the insurer constitute plan assets for purposes of
    ERISA and the Code. The regulations apply only with respect to a
    policy issued by an insurer on or before December 31, 1998
    (“Transition Policy”). No person will generally be
    liable under ERISA or the Code for conduct occurring prior to
    July 5, 2001, where the basis of a claim is that insurance
    company general account assets constitute plan assets. An
    insurer issuing a new policy that is backed by its general
    account and is issued to or for an employee benefit plan after
    December 31, 1998 will generally be subject to fiduciary
    obligations under ERISA, unless the policy is a guaranteed
    benefit policy.



The regulations indicate the requirements that must be met so
    that assets supporting a Transition Policy will not be
    considered plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. These
    requirements include detailed disclosures to be made to the
    employee benefits plan and the requirement that the insurer must
    permit the policyholder to terminate the policy on 90 day
    notice and receive without penalty, at the policyholder’s
    option, either (i) the unallocated accumulated fund balance
    (which may be subject to market value adjustment) or (ii) a
    book value payment of such amount in annual installments with
    interest. We have taken and continue to take steps designed to
    ensure compliance with these regulations.



Legislative
    and Regulatory Developments





We cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what
    legislation may be introduced or enacted or the impact of any
    such legislation on our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.



International
    Regulation



With the acquisition of ALICO, the Company has significantly
    expanded its scope of operations in foreign jurisdictions. The
    Company’s international operations are regulated in the
    jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. The
    Company’s international insurance operations are subject to
    minimum capital, solvency and operational requirements. The
    authority of the Company’s international operations to
    conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits
    and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to
    modification and revocation. Periodic examinations of insurance
    company books and records, financial reporting requirements,
    market conduct examinations and policy filing requirements are
    among the techniques used by regulators to supervise ournon-U.S. insurancebusinesses. The Company also has investment and pension
    companies in certain foreign jurisdictions that provide mutual
    fund, pension and other financial products and services. Those
    entities are subject to securities, investment, pension and
    other laws and regulations, and oversight by the relevant
    securities, pension and other authorities of the countries in
    which the companies operate.



The Company’s international operations are exposed to
    increased political, legal, financial, operational and other
    risks. Our international operations may be materially adversely
    affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and
    regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of
    assets, the imposition of limits





on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws
    (including tax laws and regulations), their application or
    interpretation, political instability, dividend limitations,
    price controls, currency exchange controls or other restrictions
    that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations
    out of the countries in which they operate or converting local
    currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies,
    as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental
    authorities and regulators. Such actions may negatively affect
    our business in these jurisdictions. See “Risk
    Factors — Our International Operations Face Political,
    Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local
    and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect
    Those Operations or Our Profitability.”



Certain of the Company’s international insurance
    operations, including Japan, may be subject to assessments,
    generally based on their proportionate share of business written
    in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations to
    policyholders and claimants resulting from the insolvency of
    insurance companies. Under the Japanese Insurance Business Law,
    all licensed life insurers in Japan are assessed on a pre-funded
    basis by the Life Insurance Policyholders Protection Corporation
    of Japan. These assessments are aggregated across all licensed
    life insurers in Japan and used to satisfy certain obligations
    to policyholders and claimants of insolvent life insurance
    companies. As we cannot predict the timing and scope of future
    assessments, they may materially affect the results of
    operations of the Company’s international insurance
    operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. In
    addition, in some jurisdictions, some of the Company’s
    insurance products are considered “securities” under
    local law and may be subject to local securities regulations and
    oversight by local securities regulators.



Our operations in Japan are subject to regulation and
    examination by Japan’s Financial Services Agency
    (“FSA”). Our operations in Japan are required to file
    with the FSA annual reports which include financial statements.
    Similar to the U.S., Japanese law provides that insurers in
    Japan must maintain specified solvency standards for the
    protection of policyholders and to support the financial
    strength of licensed insurers. As of September 30, 2010,
    the date of our most recent regulatory filing in Japan, the
    solvency margin ratio of our Japan operations was 1,466%, which
    is significantly in excess of the legally mandated solvency
    margin in Japan. The FSA has issued a proposal to revise the
    current method of calculating the solvency margin ratio. The FSA
    intends to apply the revised method to life insurance companies
    for the fiscal year-end 2011 (March 31, 2012) for life
    insurance companies in Japan, and require the disclosure of the
    ratio as reference information for fiscal year-end 2010
    (March 31, 2011).



A portion of the annual earnings of our Japan operations may be
    repatriated each year, and may further be distributed to the
    Holding Company as a dividend. We may determine not to
    repatriate profits from the Japan operations or to repatriate a
    reduced amount in order to maintain or improve the solvency
    margin of the Japan operations or for other reasons. In
    addition, the FSA may limit or not permit profit repatriations
    or other transfers of funds to the U.S. if such transfers would
    be detrimental to the solvency or financial strength of our
    Japan operations or for other reasons.



In addition, the European Commission has established
    Solvency II as a new capital adequacy regime for the
    European insurance industry, which will become effective
    beginning in 2013. Solvency II sets capital standards for
    insurers on a risk basis and has a three-pillar structure
    covering quantitative requirements, supervisory review, and
    market disclosure. Regulators in certain other countries, such
    as Mexico, are also establishing new capital regimes similar to
    Solvency II. Compliance with these new capital standards
    may impact the level of capital required to be held at
    individual legal entities. Further, the efforts required to
    comply with these regulations may increase operating costs at
    these entities.



We expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the
    U.S., as well as regulatory oversight, generally to continue to
    increase. That oversight, and the legal and regulatory
    environment in the countries in which the Company operates,
    could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    results of operations.



Governmental
    Responses to Extraordinary Market Conditions



U.S.
    Federal Governmental Responses



Dodd-Frank was enacted in response to the recent economic
    crisis. See “— Legislative and Regulatory
    Developments.” Actions taken by Congress, the Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York, the U.S. Treasury and other





agencies of the U.S. Federal government prior to the
    enactment of Dodd-Frank were increasingly aggressive and,
    together with a series of interest rate reductions that began in
    the second half of 2007, intended to provide liquidity to
    financial institutions and markets, to avert a loss of investor
    confidence in particular troubled institutions and to prevent or
    contain the spread of the financial crisis. These measures
    included:



•expanding the types of institutions that have access to the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s discount window;•providing asset guarantees and emergency loans to particular
    distressed companies;•a temporary ban on short selling of shares of certain financial
    institutions (including, for a period, MetLife);•programs intended to reduce the volume of mortgage foreclosures
    by modifying the terms of mortgage loans for distressed
    borrowers;•temporarily guaranteeing money market funds; and•programs to support the mortgage-backed securities market and
    mortgage lending.



Many of the actions outlined above expired or terminated by
    mid-2010 or earlier.



In addition to these actions, pursuant to the Emergency Economic
    Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”), enacted in October
    2008, the U.S. Treasury injected capital into selected
    financial institutions and their holding companies. EESA also
    authorized the U.S. Treasury to purchase mortgage-backed
    and other securities from financial institutions as part of the
    overall $700 billion available for the purpose of
    stabilizing the financial markets; this authority expired in
    October 2010. The Federal government, the Federal Reserve Bank
    of New York, FDIC and other governmental and regulatory bodies
    also took other actions to address the financial crisis. For
    example, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York made funds
    available to commercial and financial companies under a number
    of programs, including the Commercial Paper Funding Facility
    (the “CPFF”), and the FDIC established the Temporary
    Liquidity Guarantee Program (the “FDIC Program”). In
    March 2009, MetLife, Inc. issued $397 million of senior
    notes guaranteed by the FDIC under the FDIC Program. The FDIC
    Program and the CPFF expired in late 2009 and early 2010,
    respectively. During the period of its existence, the Company
    made limited use of the CPFF, and no amounts were outstanding
    under the CPFF at December 31, 2009.





State
    Insurance Regulatory Responses



The NAIC adopted a number of reserve and capital relief
    proposals during 2009. The NAIC revisited many of those
    adoptions and studied related and additional topics for
    potential adoption during 2010.



The NAIC revisited the mortgage experience adjustment factor
    (the “MEAF”) which is utilized in calculating RBC
    charges that are assigned to commercial and agricultural
    mortgages held by our domestic insurers. The MEAF calculation
    includes the ratio of an insurer’s commercial and
    agricultural mortgage default experience to the industry average
    commercial and agricultural mortgage default experience and, in
    2009, a cap of 125% and a floor





of 75% were adopted. The NAIC adopted during 2010 a cap of 175%
    and a floor of 80%. As a result of this revision in MEAF for
    2010, the RBC impact on our U.S. insurance subsidiaries is
    not likely to be material.



In late 2009, the NAIC issued Statement of Statutory Accounting
    Principles (“SSAP”) 10R (“SSAP 10R”). SSAP
    10R increased the amount of deferred tax assets that may be
    admitted on a statutory basis. The admission criteria for
    realizing the value of deferred tax assets was increased from a
    one year to a three year period. Further, the aggregate cap on
    deferred tax assets that may be admitted was increased from 10%
    to 15% of surplus. These changes increased the capital and
    surplus of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, thereby
    positively impacting RBC at December 31, 2009. To temper
    this positive RBC impact, and as a temporary measure at
    December 31, 2009 only, a 5% pre-tax RBC charge must be
    applied to the additional admitted deferred tax assets generated
    by SSAP 10R. The adoption for 2009 had a December 31, 2009
    sunset; however, during 2010, the 2009 adoption, including the
    5% pre-tax RBC charge, was extended through December 31,
    2011.





Foreign
    Governmental and Intergovernmental Responses



In an effort to strengthen the financial condition of key
    financial institutions or avert their collapse, and to forestall
    or reduce the effects of reduced lending activity, a number of
    foreign governments and intergovernmental entities have taken
    action to enhance stability and liquidity, reduce risk and
    increase regulatory controls and oversight. Foreign government
    and intergovernmental responses have been similar to some of
    those taken by the U.S. Federal government, including
    injecting capital into domestic financial institutions in
    exchange for ownership stakes and, in the case of certain
    European Union member states such as Greece, Spain, Portugal and
    Ireland, providing or making available certain funds and rescue
    packages to support the solvency of such countries or financial
    institutions, and such responses are intended to achieve similar
    goals. We cannot predict whether foreign governmentand/orintergovernmental actions will achieve their intended purpose or
    how such actions will impact competition in the financial
    services industry. We expect the scope and extent of regulation
    outside the U.S., as well as regulatory oversight, generally to
    continue to increase. That oversight, and the legal and
    regulatory environment in the countries in which the Company
    operates, could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations.



Competition



We believe that competition faced by our segments is based on a
    number of factors, including service, product features, scale,
    price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit
    ratings,e-businesscapabilities and name recognition. We compete with a large
    number of other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance
    financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and
    asset managers, for individual consumers, employer and other
    group customers as well as agents and other distributors of
    insurance and investment products. Some of these companies offer
    a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or,
    with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims
    paying ability ratings. Many of our insurance products are
    underwritten annually and, accordingly, there is a risk that
    group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from
    competitors rather than renewing coverage with us.





We believe that the turbulence in financial markets that began
    in the second half of 2007, its impact on the capital position
    of many competitors, and subsequent actions by regulators and
    rating agencies have altered the competitive environment. In
    particular, we believe that these factors have highlighted
    financial strength as the most significant differentiator from
    the perspective of some customers and certain distributors. We
    believe the Company is well positioned to compete in this
    environment. In particular, the Company distributes many of its
    individual products through other financial institutions such as
    banks and broker-dealers. These distribution partners are
    currently placing greater emphasis on the financial strength of
    the company whose products they sell. In addition, the financial
    market turbulence has highlighted the extent of the risk
    associated with certain variable annuity products and has led
    many companies in our industry to re-examine the pricing and
    features of the products they offer. The effects of current
    market conditions may also lead to consolidation in the life
    insurance industry. Although we cannot predict the ultimate
    impact of these conditions, we believe that the strongest
    companies will enjoy a competitive advantage as a result of the
    current circumstances.



We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to
    sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong
    competition exists among insurance companies for sales
    representatives with demonstrated ability. We compete with other
    insurance companies for sales representatives primarily on the
    basis of our financial position, support services and
    compensation and product features. See
    “— U.S. Business — Sales
    Distribution.” In the U.S. and selected international
    markets, we continue to undertake several initiatives to grow
    our career agency force, while continuing to enhance the
    efficiency and production of our existing sales force. We cannot
    provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in
    attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of individual
    insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of
    operations and financial position could be materially adversely
    affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining
    agents. See “Risk Factors — We May Be Unable to
    Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our Products.”



Numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation.
    Legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory
    environment can affect our competitive position within the life
    insurance industry and within the broader financial services
    industry. See “— U.S. Regulation,”
    “— International Regulation,” “Risk
    Factors — Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking
    Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth” and “Risk Factors — Changes in
    U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and
    State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity
    Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our
    Profitability.”



Employees



At December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    66,000 employees. We believe that our relations with our
    employees are satisfactory.



Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



Set forth below is information regarding the executive officers
    of MetLife, Inc.:



C. Robert Henrikson,age 63, has been Chairman,
    President and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since April 25, 2006. Previously, he was President and
    Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from
    March 1, 2006, President and Chief Operating Officer of
    MetLife, Inc. from June 2004, and President of the
    U.S. Insurance and Financial Services businesses of
    MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from July 2002 to June 2004. He served as
    President of Institutional Business of MetLife, Inc. from
    September 1999 to July 2002 and President of Institutional
    Business of MLIC from May 1999 through June 2002. He was Senior
    Executive Vice President, Institutional Business, of MLIC from
    December 1997 to May 1999, Executive Vice President,
    Institutional Business, from January 1996 to December 1997, and
    Senior Vice President, Pensions, from January 1991 to January
    1995. He is a director of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC.



Gwenn L. Carr,age 65, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief of Staff to the Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since August 2009. Previously,
    she was Senior Vice President and Chief of Staff to the Chairman
    and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from June
    2009, Senior Vice President, Secretary and Chief of Staff to the
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc, and MLIC
    from 2007, Senior Vice President and Secretary of MetLife, Inc.
    and MLIC from October 2004, and Vice President





and Secretary of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from August 1999.
    Ms. Carr was Vice President and Secretary of
    ITT Corporation from 1990 to 1999.



Kathleen A. Henkel,age 62, has been Executive Vice
    President, Human Resources, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since
    March 2010. Previously, she was Senior Vice President, Human
    Resources, of MLIC from July 2008 to March 2010 and Senior Vice
    President, Institutional Business, of MLIC from December 2005 to
    July 2008. Ms. Henkel was promoted to Senior Vice President
    of MLIC after serving as a Vice President of MLIC from 1992 to
    2004. Ms. Henkel joined the Company in 1966 and has served
    in various senior management positions since that time.



Steven A. Kandarian,age 58, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since April 2005. Previously, he was the executive director of
    the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation from 2001 to 2004.
    Before joining the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation,
    Mr. Kandarian was founder and managing partner of Orion
    Capital Partners, LP, where he managed a private equity fund
    specializing in venture capital and corporate acquisitions for
    eight years. He is a director of MetLife Bank.



Nicholas D. Latrenta,age 59, has been Executive
    Vice President of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since August 2010 and
    General Counsel of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since May 2010.
    Previously, he was Senior Chief Counsel of MLIC supporting the
    Insurance Group from March 2007 to April 2010, Chief Counsel of
    MLIC supporting Institutional Business, ERISA and the Product
    Tax Legal Group from April 2006 to February 2007, Chief Counsel
    of MLIC supporting MetLife Business-Legal from July 2004 to
    March 2006, and Senior Vice President of MLIC Institutional
    Business from October 2000 to June 2004. Mr. Latrenta was
    promoted to Senior Vice President of MLIC in 1997 after serving
    as a Vice President of MLIC from 1986 to 1997. Mr. Latrenta
    joined the Company in 1969 and has served in various senior
    management positions since that time. Mr. Latrenta is a
    director of American Life Insurance Company.



Maria R. Morris,age 48, has been Executive Vice
    President, Technology and Operations, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since January 2008. Previously, she was Executive Vice President
    of MLIC from December 2005 to January 2008, Senior Vice
    President of MLIC from July 2003 to December 2005, and Vice
    President of MLIC from March 1997 to July 2003. Ms. Morris
    is a director of MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut.



William J. Mullaney,age 51, has been President,
    U.S. Business of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since August 2009.
    Previously, he was President, Institutional Business, of
    MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from January 2007 to July 2009, President
    of Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company from
    January 2005 to January 2007, Senior Vice President of
    Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company from July
    2002 to December 2004, Senior Vice President, Institutional
    Business, of MLIC from August 2001 to July 2002, and a Vice
    President of MLIC for more than five years. He is a director of
    MetLife Bank.



William J. Toppeta,age 62, has been President,
    International, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since June 2001. He was
    President of Client Services and Chief Administrative Officer of
    MetLife, Inc. from September 1999 to June 2001 and President of
    Client Services and Chief Administrative Officer of MLIC from
    May 1999 to June 2001. He was Senior Executive Vice President,
    Head of Client Services, of MLIC from March 1999 to May 1999,
    Senior Executive Vice President, Individual, from February 1998
    to March 1999, Executive Vice President, Individual Business,
    from July 1996 to February 1998, Senior Vice President from
    October 1995 to July 1996 and President and Chief Executive
    Officer of its Canadian Operations from July 1993 to October
    1995. Mr. Toppeta is a director of American Life Insurance
    Company.



William J. Wheeler,age 49, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since December 2003, prior to which he was a Senior Vice
    President of MLIC from 1997 to December 2003. Previously, he was
    a Senior Vice President of Donaldson, Lufkin &
    Jenrette for more than five years. Mr. Wheeler is a
    director of MetLife Bank.



Trademarks



We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider
    important in the marketing of our products and services,
    including, among others, the trademark “MetLife.” We
    also have the exclusive license to use the
    Peanuts®characters in the area of financial services and healthcare
    benefit services in the U.S. and internationally under an





advertising and premium agreement with Peanuts Worldwide, LLC
    until December 31, 2014. We also have a non-exclusive
    license to use certain Citigroup-owned trademarks in connection
    with the marketing, distribution or sale of life insurance and
    annuity products under a licensing agreement with Citigroup
    until June 30, 2015. Furthermore, as result of the recent
    Acquisition, we acquired American Life Insurance Company and its
    trademarks, including the “Alico” trademark. We
    believe that our rights in our trademarks and under our
    Peanuts®characters license and our Citigroup license are well protected.



Available
    Information



MetLife files periodic reports, proxy statements and other
    information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and
    other information may be obtained by visiting the Public
    Reference Room of the SEC at its Headquarters Office,
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or by
    calling the SEC at1-202-551-8090or1-800-SEC-0330(Office of Investor Education and Advocacy). In addition, the
    SEC maintains an internet website (www.sec.gov) that contains
    reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding
    issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including
    MetLife, Inc.



MetLife makes available, free of charge, on its website
    (www.metlife.com) through the Investor Relations page, its
    annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and amendments to all those reports, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after filing (furnishing) such reports to the SEC.
    Other information found on the website is not part of this or
    any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.



