Item 1:Business

Teradyne, Inc. (the “Company” or “Teradyne”) was founded in 1960 and is a leading global supplier of automatic test
equipment.

We design, develop, manufacture and sell automatic test systems and solutions used to test semiconductors,
wireless products, hard disk drives and circuit boards in the consumer electronics, wireless, automotive, industrial, computing, communications and aerospace and defense industries. Our automatic test equipment products and services include:



•semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems;



•wireless test (“Wireless Test”) systems; and



•military/aerospace (“Mil/Aero”) test instrumentation and systems, storage test (“Storage Test”) systems, and circuit-board test and
inspection (“Commercial Board Test”) systems (collectively these products represent “Systems Test Group”).

We have a broad customer base which includes integrated device manufacturers (“IDMs”), outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers (“OSATs”), wafer foundries, fabless
companies that design, but contract with others for the manufacture of integrated circuits (“ICs”), developers of wireless devices and consumer electronics, manufacturers of circuit boards, automotive suppliers, wireless product
manufacturers, storage device manufacturers, aerospace and military contractors.

In 2011, we acquired LitePoint Corporation
(“LitePoint”) to expand our product portfolio of test equipment in the wireless test sector. LitePoint designs, develops, and supports advanced wireless test solutions for the development and manufacturing of wireless devices, including
smart phones, tablets, notebooks, laptops, personal computer peripherals, and other Wi-Fi and cellular enabled devices. LitePoint is our Wireless Test segment.

In 2009, we entered the High Speed dynamic random access memory (“DRAM”) testing market with our UltraFlex-M product. High speed DRAM memory devices are used for data storage and high-end
graphics applications in personal computer and gaming consoles.

In 2009, we also entered the market for hard disk drive test
systems with our Neptune product. The Neptune product line currently is used to test 2.5 inch hard disk drives for laptops, notebooks and consumer electronic storage devices. In 2013, we intend to enter the test market for 3.5 inch hard disk drives
which are used in cloud computing and other applications.

In 2008, we acquired Nextest Systems Corporation
(“Nextest”) and Eagle Test Systems, Inc. (“Eagle Test”) to expand our product portfolio of automatic test equipment for the semiconductor industry. Nextest develops systems to test integrated circuits such as microcontrollers,
image sensors, smart cards and field programmable logic devices for the flash memory, flash card and flash memory based system-on-a-chip (“SOC”) markets. Eagle Test develops systems to test analog, mixed-signal and radio frequency
semiconductors used in digital cameras, MP3 players, cellular telephones, video/multimedia products, automotive electronics and notebook and desktop computers. Nextest and Eagle Test are included within our Semiconductor Test segment.

Investor Information

We
are a Massachusetts corporation incorporated on September 23, 1960. We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”). We file periodic reports, proxy statements and other
information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Such reports,







proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In
addition, the SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file documents electronically.

You can access financial and other information, including the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and
Corporate Governance Committee, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct, by clicking the Investors link on our web site at www.teradyne.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our filings with the SEC, including our annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable
after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC.

Products

Semiconductor Test

We design, manufacture, sell and support Semiconductor Test products and services on a worldwide basis. The test systems we provide are
used both for wafer level and device package testing. These chips are used in automotive, industrial, communications, consumer, computer and electronic game applications, among others. Semiconductor devices span a broad range of functionality, from
very simple low-cost devices such as appliance microcontrollers, operational amplifiers or voltage regulators to complex digital signal processors, microprocessors, high-density as well as high speed memory devices. Semiconductor Test products and
services are sold to IDMs that integrate the fabrication of silicon wafers into their business, “Fabless” companies that outsource the manufacturing of silicon wafers, “Foundries” that cater to the processing and manufacturing of
silicon wafers, and OSATs that provide test and assembly services for the final packaged devices to both Fabless companies and IDMs. Fabless companies perform the design of integrated circuits without manufacturing capabilities, and use Foundries
for wafer manufacturing and OSATs for test and assembly. These customers obtain the overall benefit of comprehensively testing devices and reducing the total costs associated with testing by using our Semiconductor Test systems to:



•improve and control product quality;



•measure and improve product performance;



•reduce time to market; and



•increase production yields.

Our FLEX Test Platform architecture advances our core technologies to produce test equipment that is designed for high efficiency multi-site testing. Multi-site testing involves the simultaneous testing
of many devices and functions in parallel. Leading semiconductor manufacturers are using multi-site testing to significantly improve their “Cost of Test” economics. The FLEX Test Platform architecture addresses customer requirements
through the following key capabilities:

1) A high efficiency multi-site architecture that eliminates tester overhead such as
instrument setup, synchronization and data movement, and signal processing;

2) The IG-XL™ software operating system which
provides fast program development, including instant conversion from single to multi-site test; and

3) Broad technology
coverage by instruments designed to cover the range of test parameters, coupled with a universal slot test head design that allows easy test system reconfiguration to address changing test needs.

FLEX Test Platform purchases are being made by IDMs, OSATs, Foundries and Fabless customers. The FLEX Test Platform has become a widely
used test solution at OSATs and test houses by providing versatile testers that can handle the widest range of devices, allowing OSATs to leverage their capital investments. The







broad consumer, automotive and broadband markets have historically driven most of the device volume growth in the semiconductor industry. These markets include smart phones, cell phones, tablets,
set top boxes, HDTVs, game controllers, computer graphics, and automotive controllers to name a few. These end use markets continue to be drivers for the FLEX Test Platform family of products because they require a wide range of technologies and
instrument coverage. The FLEX Test Platform has an installed base of more than 3,500 systems to date and it continues to grow. The introduction of the UltraFLEX-M tester in 2009 extended the FLEX Test Platform into the High Speed DRAM testing
market.

Our J750™ test system shares the IG-XL software environment with the family of FLEX Test Platform systems. The
J750 is designed to address the highest volume semiconductor devices such as microcontrollers that are central to the functionality of almost every consumer electronics product, from small appliances to automotive engine controllers. J750 test
systems combine compact packaging, high throughput and ease of production test. We extended the J750 platform technology to create the IP750 Image Sensor™ test system. The IP750 is focused on testing image sensor devices used in digital cameras
and other imaging products. We continue to invest in the J750 platform with new instrument releases that bring new capabilities to existing market segments and expand the J750 platform to new devices that include high end microcontrollers and the
latest generation of cameras. The J750 platform has an installed base of over 3,900 systems and it continues to grow.

Our
acquisition of Nextest in January of 2008 expanded our product offerings to include the Magnum test platform. The Magnum products address the requirements of mass production test of memory devices such as flash memory and DRAM. Flash and DRAM memory
are widely used core building blocks in modern electronic products finding wide application in consumer, industrial, and computing equipment. Magnum II is the newest member of the family. With test rates up to 800 megabits per second and a versatile
architecture designed for maximal throughput, Magnum II tests flash and DRAM devices, an important advantage for large memory producers that manufacture both types of memory. The Magnum platform has an installed base of over 1,300 systems and it
continues to grow.

Our acquisition of Eagle Test in November of 2008 expanded our product offerings to include the ETS
platform. The ETS platform is used by semiconductor manufacturers and assembly and test subcontractors, primarily in the low pin count analog/mixed signal discrete markets that cover more cost sensitive applications. Eagle Test’s proprietary
SmartPin™ technology enables multiple semiconductor devices to be tested simultaneously, or in parallel, on an individual test system, permitting greater test throughput. Semiconductors tested by Eagle Test’s systems are incorporated into
a wide range of products in historically high-growth markets, including digital cameras, MP3 players, cell phones, video/multimedia products, automotive electronics, computer peripherals, and notebook and desktop computers. The ETS platform has an
installed base of over 2,900 systems and it continues to grow.

Wireless Test

Our acquisition of LitePoint in October of 2011 expanded our product offerings in the wireless test industry. LitePoint designs, develops,
and supports advanced wireless test solutions for the development and manufacturing of wireless devices, including smart phones, tablets, notebooks/laptops, personal computer peripherals, and other Wi-Fi and cellular enabled devices. LitePoint
collaborates with developers, component manufacturers, and industry leaders to create agile systems capable of analyzing the entire wireless landscape. Using easy-to-deploy, innovative test methodologies running on software-controlled module design,
LitePoint’s IQ product line is designed for high-volume, low-cost product test. LitePoint’s products fall into two categories: cellular and connectivity.

Cellular

The LitePoint IQxstream™is an optimized solution for high-speed testing of GSM, EDGE, W-CDMA, HSPA+, cdma2000, and LTE
technologies—used for calibration and verification of smartphones, tablets, and embedded cellular modules. As the industry’s fist “multi-DUT” test solution, it greatly increases production







output through the implementation of parallel test methods of multiple devices. IQxstream is complemented by LitePoint’s IQvector™solution, a turnkey production-optimized testing package that supports the leading cellular chipset solutions, and allows manufacturers to ramp volume production in
a matter of weeks, rather than months.

Connectivity

LitePoint offers a comprehensive range of hardware and software solutions for connectivity testing. The IQxel™, IQxel80, and new IQxel160 enable testing of the latest Wi-Fi standard—802.11ac—taking wireless data
rates beyond the gigabit per second barrier. The IQxel supports multiple bandwidths and channel configurations, MIMO antenna arrangements, Bluetooth™1.0-4.0, as well as legacy 802.11 a/b/g/n/p modes. It is targeted at manufacturers of networking equipment, Internet access devices, and embedded modules used in
smartphones, tablets, and PCs. The LitePoint IQ2015™is a one-box solution for multi-connectivity needs,
including Wi-Fi (a/b/g/n), Bluetooth™(1.0-4.0), GPS/GLONASS, FM, WiMAX and ZigBee. It is a preferred choice by
manufacturers of smartphones and tablets. LitePoint continues to deliver and support its legacy products, including
IQflex™, IQnxn™, IQ2010™, IQnav™, and IQview™.

LitePoint IQfactPlus™ is a turnkey,
chipset specific solution, enabling rapid volume manufacturing with a minimum of engineering effort. IQfact solution can be customized for a specific end product and then deployed on LitePoint test equipment.

Systems Test Group

Our Systems Test Group segment is comprised of three business units: Mil/Aero, Storage Test and Commercial Board Test.

Mil/Aero

We are a leading provider of high-performance test systems, subsystems, instruments, software solutions and service for the defense and aerospace markets. Our solutions are used to ensure the readiness of
military and commercial aerospace electronics systems. New programs, such as tactical aircraft and missile systems, as well as upgrade programs, continue to fuel the demand for high performance test systems in this market. Our solutions are
well-suited to the demands of defense/aerospace electronics manufacturers and repair depots worldwide. Our leadership in this market is underscored by our success with major Department of Defense programs across all U.S. military service branches
and many allied defense services worldwide.

Storage Test

The Storage Test business unit addresses the high throughput, automated manufacturing test requirement of hard disk drive (HDD)
manufacturers. Our products address the 2.5 inch HDD market that is driven by the needs of laptop, ultrabook, and enterprise storage products. We are a leading supplier of test equipment to this market as illustrated by our success at each of the
HDD manufacturers. Our Neptune tester is a leader in addressing customer requirements related to factory density, thermal performance and vibration isolation. In 2013, we intend to enter the test market for 3.5 inch hard disk drives which are used
in cloud computing and other applications.

Commercial Board Test

Our test and inspection systems are used by electronics manufacturers worldwide. Our products verify that printed circuit boards are
assembled correctly and operational. Fast, accurate and cost-effective test capabilities are hallmark features of our In-Circuit-Test (ICT) systems, including the TestStation™ and Spectrum™ product families. We offer a full range of ICT
equipment, including handler-ready, in-line test systems for high volume automated board manufacturing, standalone offline systems and combined ICT/functional test solutions.







Discontinued Operations

On March 21, 2011, our Diagnostic Solutions business unit was sold to SPX Corporation for $40.2 million in cash. This business
provided electronic test and diagnostic systems to the automotive OEMs and their major subcontractors. This business unit was in our Systems Test Group segment. Diagnostic Solutions has been reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying
financial statements.

Summary of Net Revenues by Reportable Segment

Our three reportable segments accounted for the following percentages of consolidated net revenues for each of the last three years:



201220112010Semiconductor Test68%77%90%Wireless Test172—Systems Test Group152110100%100%100%

Sales and Distribution

In 2012, revenues from Apple Inc. accounted for 10% of our consolidated net revenues. Apple Inc. is a customer of our Wireless Test segment. In 2011 and 2010, no single customer accounted for 10% or more
of our consolidated net revenues. In each of the years 2012, 2011 and 2010, our three largest customers in aggregate accounted for 29%, 19% and 21% of our consolidated net revenues, respectively.

Direct sales to United States government agencies accounted for 2%, 2% and 1% of our consolidated net revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. Approximately 15%, 8% and 8% of Systems Test Group’s revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, were to United States government agencies and 20%, 17% and 35% of Systems Test Group’s revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively, were to government contractor customers.

We have sales and service offices located throughout North America,
Asia and Europe, as our customers outside the United States are located primarily in these geographic areas. We sell in these areas predominantly through a direct sales force. Our manufacturing activities are primarily conducted through
subcontractors and outsourced contract manufacturers with a significant operation concentrated in China.

Sales to customers
outside the United States were 86%, 84% and 85% of our consolidated net revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Sales are attributed to geographic areas based on the location of the customer site.

Sales to customers outside of the United States that accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues in any of the previous
three years were as follows:



201220112010China21%13%9%Taiwan181218Korea14108Japan6105Philippines6912Malaysia41013







See also “Item 1A: Risk Factors” and Note S: “Operating Segment, Geographic
and Significant Customer Information” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Competition

We face significant competition throughout the world in each of our reportable segments. Competitors in the Semiconductor Test segment
include, among others, Advantest Corporation and LTX–Credence Corporation. Competitors in the Systems Test Group include, among others, Agilent Technologies, Inc. and Xyratex Ltd. Competitors in our Wireless Test segment include, among others,
Agilent Technologies, Inc., Aeroflex, Inc., Anritsu Company, National Instruments Corporation and Rohde & Schwarz GmbH & Co. KG.

Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. In particular, our largest competitor
in the Semiconductor Test segment spends considerably more than us on research and development which may provide it with a competitive advantage. We also face competition from emerging Asian equipment companies and from internal suppliers at several
of our customers. Some of our competitors have introduced or announced new products with certain performance characteristics which may be considered equal or superior to those we currently offer. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the
performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that provide improved cost of ownership and performance characteristics. See also “Item 1A: Risk Factors.”

Backlog

At
December 31, 2012 and 2011, our backlog of unfilled orders in our three reportable segments was as follows:



20122011(in millions)Semiconductor Test$204.2$274.8Wireless Test29.84.4Systems Test Group120.0175.3$354.0$454.5

Of the backlog at December 31, 2012, approximately 98% of the Semiconductor Test backlog, 85% of
Systems Test Group backlog, and 48% of Wireless Test backlog, is expected to be delivered in 2013.

Customers may delay
delivery of products or cancel orders suddenly and without significant notice, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellation of orders, our backlog at any particular date is not
necessarily indicative of the actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery schedules or cancellations of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of
operations.

Raw Materials

Our products contain electronic and mechanical components that are provided by a wide range of suppliers. Some of these components are standard products, while others are manufactured to our
specifications. We can experience occasional delays in obtaining timely delivery of certain items. While the majority of our components are available from multiple suppliers, certain items are obtained from sole sources. We may experience a
temporary adverse impact if any of our sole source suppliers delay or cease to deliver products.







Intellectual Property and Licenses

The development of our products, both hardware and software, is based in significant part on proprietary information, our brands and
technology. We protect our rights in proprietary information, brands and technology through various methods, such as:



•patents;



•copyrights;



•trademarks;



•trade secrets;



•standards of business conduct and related business practices; and



•technology license agreements, software license agreements, non-disclosure agreements, employment agreements, and other agreements.

However, these protections might not be effective in all circumstances. Competitors might independently
develop similar technology or exploit our proprietary information and our brands in countries where we lack enforceable intellectual property rights or where enforcement of such rights through the legal system provides an insufficient deterrent.
Also, intellectual property protections can lapse or be invalidated through appropriate legal processes. We do not believe that any single piece of intellectual property or proprietary rights is essential to our business.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 3,600 people. Since the inception of our business, we have experienced no work stoppages or other labor disturbances. We have no collective bargaining contracts.

Engineering and Development Activities

The highly technical nature of our products requires a large and continuing engineering and development effort. Engineering and development expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011
and 2010 were $251.4 million, $197.8 million, and $191.9 million, respectively. These expenditures accounted for approximately 15%, 14%, and 12% of our consolidated net revenues in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.

Environmental Affairs

We are subject to various federal, state, and local government laws and regulations relating to the protection of employee health and
safety and the environment. We accrue for all known environmental liabilities when it becomes probable that we will incur cleanup costs and those costs can reasonably be estimated. Estimated environmental costs are not expected to materially affect
the financial position or results of our operations in future periods. However, estimates of future costs are subject to change due to protracted cleanup periods and changing environmental remediation laws and regulations.







OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the following table is included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in lieu
of being included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The table sets forth the names of all of our executive officers and certain other information relating to their positions held with Teradyne and other business
experience. Our executive officers do not have a specific term of office but rather serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.



Executive OfficerAgePositionBusiness Experience For The Past 5
YearsMichael A. Bradley64Chief Executive OfficerChief Executive Officer since 2004; President of Teradyne from 2003 to January 2013; President of Semiconductor Test from 2001 to 2003.Gregory R. Beecher55Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerVice President and Chief Financial Officer of Teradyne since 2001; Treasurer of Teradyne from 2003 to 2005 and since 2006.Charles J. Gray51Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryVice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Teradyne since April 2009; Vice President and General Counsel of Sonus Networks, Inc. from 2002 to 2008.Mark E. Jagiela52President and President of Semiconductor TestPresident of Teradyne since January 2013; President of Semiconductor Test since 2003; Vice President of Teradyne since 2001.Walter G. Vahey48President of SystemsTest
GroupPresident of Systems Test Group since July 2012; Vice President of Teradyne since 2008; General Manager of Storage Test since 2008; General Manager of Mil/Aero from 2004 to July
2012.



