Item 1:Business

Teradyne, Inc. (the “Company” or “Teradyne”) was founded in 1960 and is a leading global supplier of automatic test
equipment.

We design, develop, manufacture and sell automatic test systems and solutions used to test complex electronics in
the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, wireless, and aerospace and defense industries. Our automatic test equipment products and services include:



•semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems,



•military/aerospace (“Mil/Aero”) test instrumentation and systems, storage test (“Storage Test”) systems, and circuit-board test and
inspection (“Commercial Board Test”) systems (collectively these products represent “Systems Test Group”), and



•wireless test (“Wireless Test”) systems.

We have a broad customer base which includes integrated device manufacturers (“IDMs”), outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers (“OSATs”), wafer foundries, fabless
companies that design, but contract with others for the manufacture of integrated circuits (“ICs”), developers of wireless devices and consumer electronics, manufacturers of circuit boards, automotive companies, wireless product
manufacturers, storage device manufacturers, aerospace and military contractors as well as the United States Department of Defense.

In 2011, we acquired LitePoint Corporation (“LitePoint”) to expand our product portfolio of test equipment in the wireless test sector. LitePoint designs, develops, and supports advanced
wireless test solutions for the development and manufacturing of wireless devices, including smart phones, tablets, notebooks/laptops, personal computer peripherals, and other Wi-Fi enabled devices. LitePoint is our Wireless Test segment.

In 2009, we entered the High Speed dynamic random access memory (“DRAM”) testing market with our UltraFlex-M
product. High speed DRAM memory devices are used for high-end graphics applications in personal computer and gaming consoles.

In 2009, we also entered the market for hard disk drive test systems with our Neptune product. The Neptune product line currently is used
to test 2.5 inch hard disk drives for laptops, notebooks and consumer electronic storage devices.

In 2008, we acquired
Nextest Systems Corporation (“Nextest”) and Eagle Test Systems, Inc. (“Eagle Test”) to expand our product portfolio of automatic test equipment for the semiconductor industry. Nextest develops systems to test integrated circuits
such as microcontrollers, image sensors, smart cards and field programmable logic devices for the flash memory, flash card and flash memory based system-on-a-chip (“SOC”) markets. Eagle Test develops systems to test analog, mixed-signal
and radio frequency semiconductors used in digital cameras, MP3 players, cellular telephones, video/multimedia products, automotive electronics and notebook and desktop computers. Nextest and Eagle Test are included within our Semiconductor Test
segment.

Investor Information

We are a Massachusetts corporation incorporated on September 23, 1960. We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”). We file
periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Such reports,







proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In
addition, the SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file documents electronically.

You can access financial and other information, including the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and
Corporate Governance Committee, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct, by clicking the Investors link on our web site at www.teradyne.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our filings with the SEC, including our annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable
after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC.

Products

Semiconductor Test

We design, manufacture, sell and support Semiconductor Test products and services on a worldwide basis. The test systems we provide are
used both for wafer level and device package testing. These chips are used in automotive, communications, consumer, computer and electronic game applications, among others. Semiconductor devices span a broad range of functionality, from very simple
low-cost devices such as appliance microcontrollers, operational amplifiers or voltage regulators to complex digital signal processors, microprocessors, high-density as well as high speed memory devices. Semiconductor Test products and services are
sold to IDMs that integrate the fabrication of silicon wafers into their business, “Fabless” companies that outsource the manufacturing of silicon wafers, “Foundries” that cater to the processing and manufacturing of silicon
wafers, and OSATs that provide test and assembly services for the final packaged devices to both Fabless companies and IDMs. Fabless companies perform the design of integrated circuits without manufacturing capabilities, and use Foundries for wafer
manufacturing and OSATs for test and assembly. These customers obtain the overall benefit of comprehensively testing devices and reducing the total costs associated with testing by using our Semiconductor Test systems to:



•improve and control product quality;



•measure and improve product performance;



•reduce time to market; and



•increase production yields.

Our FLEX Test Platform architecture advances our core technologies to produce test equipment that is designed for high efficiency multi-site testing. Multi-site testing involves the simultaneous testing
of many devices and functions in parallel. Leading semiconductor manufacturers are using multi-site testing to significantly improve their “Cost of Test” economics. The FLEX Test Platform architecture addresses customer requirements
through the following key capabilities:

1) A high efficiency multi-site architecture that eliminates tester overhead such as
instrument setup, synchronization and data movement, and signal processing;

2) The IG-XL™ software operating system which
provides fast program development, including instant conversion from single to multi-site test; and

3) Broad technology
coverage by instruments designed to cover the range of test parameters, coupled with a Universal Slot test head design that allows easy test system reconfiguration to address changing test needs.

FLEX Test Platform purchases are being made by IDMs, OSATs, Foundries and Fabless customers. The FLEX Test Platform has become a widely
used test solution at OSATs and test houses by providing versatile testers that can handle the widest range of devices, allowing OSATs to leverage their capital investments. The







broad consumer, automotive and broadband markets have historically driven most of the device volume growth in the semiconductor industry. These markets include smart phones, cell phones, set top
boxes, HDTVs, game controllers, computer graphics, and automotive controllers to name a few. These end use markets continue to be drivers for the FLEX Test Platform family of products because they require a wide range of technologies and instrument
coverage. The FLEX Test Platform has an installed base of more than 3,000 customer systems to date and it continues to grow. The introduction of the UltraFLEX-M tester in 2009 extends the FLEX Test Platform into the High Speed DRAM testing market.

Our J750™ test system shares the IG-XL software environment with the family of FLEX Test Platform systems. The J750 is
designed to address the highest volume semiconductor devices such as microcontrollers that are central to the functionality of almost every consumer electronics product, from small appliances to automotive engine controllers. J750 test systems
combine compact packaging, high throughput and ease of production test. We extended the J750 platform technology to create the IP750 Image Sensor™ test system. The IP750 is focused on testing image sensor devices used in digital cameras and
other imaging products. We continue to invest in the J750 platform with new instrument releases that bring new capabilities to existing market segments and expand the J750 platform to critical new devices that include high end microcontrollers and
the latest generation of cameras. The J750 platform has an installed base of over 3,700 systems and it continues to grow.

Our
acquisition of Nextest in January of 2008 expanded our product offerings to include the Magnum test platform. The Magnum products address the requirements of mass production test of memory devices such as flash memory and DRAM. Flash and DRAM memory
are widely used core building blocks in modern electronic products finding wide application in consumer, industrial, and computing equipment. Magnum II is the newest member of the family. With test rates up to 800 megabits per second and a versatile
architecture designed for maximal throughput, Magnum II tests flash and DRAM devices, an important advantage for large memory producers that manufacture both types of memory. The Magnum platform has an installed base of over 1,200 systems and it
continues to grow.

Our acquisition of Eagle Test in November of 2008 expanded our product offerings to include the ETS
platform. The ETS platform is used by semiconductor manufacturers and assembly and test subcontractors, primarily in the low pin count analog/mixed signal discrete markets that cover more cost sensitive applications. Eagle Test’s proprietary
SmartPin™ technology enables multiple semiconductor devices to be tested simultaneously, or in parallel, on an individual test system, permitting greater test throughput. Semiconductors tested by Eagle Test’s systems are incorporated into
a wide range of products in historically high-growth markets, including digital cameras, MP3 players, cell phones, video/multimedia products, automotive electronics, computer peripherals, and notebook and desktop computers. The ETS platform has an
installed base of over 2,300 systems and it continues to grow.

Systems Test Group

Our Systems Test Group segment is comprised of three business units: Mil/Aero, Storage Test and Commercial Board Test.

Mil/Aero

Our expertise in the test and diagnosis of printed circuit boards (“PCB”) and subsystems has proven to be essential in supporting the ever-demanding military, defense and aerospace markets. Our
test solutions for these markets include high-performance systems, instruments and software solutions that manufacturers and repair depots depend on to ensure the readiness of military and commercial electronic systems.

New programs from tactical aircraft to missile systems, as well as widespread enhancement programs, continue to fuel the demand for high
performance test systems. We are a leading provider of test instrumentation and systems with performance well suited to the demands of military/aerospace electronics manufacturers and







repair depots worldwide. Success in this market is illustrated by our penetration into major Department of Defense programs across all U.S. military service branches and many allied military
services worldwide.

Storage Test

Leveraging our expertise in functional test and semiconductor test, we introduced the Neptune product line in 2009. This product is targeted at the high growth 2.5 inch hard disk drive market. In 2010, we
expanded our Neptune product line to address the enterprise drive market.

The storage growth for laptops, netbooks and
consumer electronics combined with the growth in storage density is driving the need for high density test solutions for the 2.5 inch HDD segment. The Neptune product line addresses the challenges of high throughput automated manufacturing
environments while at the same time meeting the performance requirements for next generation HDDs. Our products are targeted at the HDD manufacturers and used as part of the manufacturing and test process of drives.

Commercial Board Test

Our test and inspection systems are sold to the electronics manufacturers of cell phones, servers, computers, Internet switches, automobiles and military avionics systems worldwide.

We manufacture in-circuit test (“ICT”) systems that are used to assess electrical interconnections, verify interoperation and
find faulty circuits on fully assembled and soldered PCBs. Fast, accurate and cost-effective diagnostic capabilities are hallmark features of our ICT systems, including the TestStation™ and Spectrum™ product families used in a variety of
in-line, high-volume PCB test applications. Supporting technologies such as our patented SafeTest™ technology allow TestStation users to safely troubleshoot the low-voltage components and interconnects commonly found in battery-powered portable
consumer electronics and low-power commercial equipment. In addition to standard ICT equipment, we offer combinational test platforms and handler-ready in-line test systems for high-volume board manufacturing.

Wireless Test

Our acquisition of LitePoint in October of 2011 expanded our product offerings in the wireless test industry. LitePoint designs, develops,
and supports advanced wireless test solutions for the development and manufacturing of wireless devices, including smart phones, tablets, notebooks/laptops, personal computer peripherals, and other Wi-Fi enabled devices. LitePoint collaborates with
developers, component manufacturers, and industry leaders to create agile systems capable of analyzing the entire wireless landscape. Using easy-to-deploy, innovative test methodologies running on software-controlled module design, LitePoint’s
IQ product line is designed for high-volume, low-cost product test. LitePoint’s products fall into two categories: cellular and connectivity.

Cellular

The LitePoint IQxstream™ is a
multi-DUT cellular communication solution for verification and calibration of 2G/3G/4G mobile devices including smart phones, tablets and data cards. The IQxstream’s non-signaling technology delivers test speeds which allow for superior test
coverage and increased throughput over traditional cellular test methods, thus avoiding economic vs. test quality tradeoffs common with slower, traditional approaches.

Connectivity

LitePoint offers a suite of
products for connectivity testing. The LitePoint IQ2010™ is a comprehensive one-box solution for multi-com connectivity needs including WiFi, Bluetooth, GPS, FM, WiMax and ZigBee. When combined with the IQxstream, the IQ2010 creates a system
for testing smart phones, tablets, and other multi-radio™ devices that include cellular technology. The LitePoint
IQflex®is a testing solution focused on







wireless LAN and Bluetooth manufacturing test. LitePoint IQnxnPlus™ and IQnxn®are testing solutions for complex WiFi and WiMAX devices that utilize multiple input and multiple output RF configurations commonly called MIMO, used in R&D
environments. The LitePoint IQview®helps simplify WiFi and Bluetooth device development. The IQview offers
compatibility with the IQflex manufacturing solution enabling test software developed on the IQview to run on the IQflex platform deployed in manufacturing environments.

LitePoint IQfact™ and IQfactPlus™ are turnkey, chipset specific, solutions enabling rapid volume
manufacturing with a minimum of engineering effort. IQfact solutions can be customized for a specific end product and then deployed on LitePoint test equipment.

Discontinued Operations

On March 21, 2011, our Diagnostic
Solutions business unit was sold to SPX Corporation. This business provided electronic test and diagnostic systems to the automotive OEMs and their major subcontractors. This business unit was in our Systems Test Group segment.

On August 1, 2007, our Broadband Test Division business was sold to Tollgrade Communications, Inc. This business provided test
systems for testing lines and qualifying lines for DSL telephone networks. This business unit was in our Other Test Systems segment.

Diagnostic Solutions and Broadband Test Division have been reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying financial statements.

Summary of Net Revenue by Reportable Segment

Our three reportable
segments accounted for the following percentages of consolidated net revenue for each of last three years:



201120102009Semiconductor Test77%90%71%Systems Test Group211029Wireless Test2——100%100%100%

Sales and Distribution

In fiscal years 2011 and 2010, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue. In 2009, revenues from Western Digital Corporation accounted for more than 10% of our
consolidated net revenue. Western Digital Corporation is a customer of our Systems Test Group segment. In each of the years 2011, 2010 and 2009, our three largest customers in aggregate accounted for 19%, 21% and 27% of our consolidated net revenue,
respectively.

Direct sales to United States government agencies accounted for 2%, 1% and 4% of our consolidated net revenue
in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Approximately 8%, 8% and 14% of Systems Test Group’s revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, was to United States government agencies and 17%, 35% and 21% of Systems Test Group’s revenue in 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively, was to government contractor customers.

We have sales and service offices located throughout
North America, Asia and Europe, as our customers outside the United States are located primarily in these geographic areas. We sell in these areas predominantly through a direct sales force. Our manufacturing activities are primarily conducted
through subcontractors and outsourced contract manufacturers with a significant operation concentrated in China.







Sales to customers outside the United States accounted for 84%, 85% and 75% of our
consolidated net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales to customers located in China were 13%, 9% and 5% of consolidated net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales to customers located in Taiwan were 12%, 18% and 14% of
consolidated net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales to customers located in Japan were 10%, 5% and 6% of our consolidated net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales to customers located in Malaysia were 10%, 13% and 12%
of our consolidated net revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales to customers located in Korea were 10%, 8% and 5% of our consolidated net revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales are attributed to geographic areas based on
the location of the customer site.

See also “Item 1A: Risk Factors” and Note Q: “Operating Segment, Geographic
and Significant Customer Information” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Competition

We face significant competition throughout the world in each of our reportable segments. Competitors in the Semiconductor Test segment
include, among others, Advantest Corporation (“Advantest”) and LTX–Credence Corporation (“LTX”). The merger between Advantest and Verigy may result in a combined company that may be a stronger competitor in certain markets.
Competitors in the Systems Test Group include, among others, Agilent Technologies, Inc. and Xyratex Ltd. Competitors in our Wireless Test segment include Agilent, Aeroflex, Inc., Anritsu Company and Rohde & Schwarz GmbH & Co. KG, among
others.

Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources to pursue engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. We also face competition from emerging Asian equipment companies and from internal suppliers at several of our customers. Some of our competitors have introduced or announced new products
with certain performance characteristics which may be considered equal or superior to those we currently offer. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new
technologies that provide improved cost of ownership and performance characteristics. See also “Item 1A: Risk Factors.”

Backlog

At December 31, 2011 and 2010, our backlog of unfilled orders in our three reportable segments was as follows:



20112010(in millions)Semiconductor Test$274.8$334.2Systems Test Group175.3152.0Wireless Test4.4—$454.5$486.2

Of the backlog at December 31, 2011, approximately 99% of the Semiconductor Test backlog, 91% of
Systems Test Group backlog, and 100% of Wireless Test backlog, is expected to be delivered in 2012.

Customers may delay
delivery of products or cancel orders suddenly and without significant notice, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellation of orders, our backlog at any particular date is not
necessarily indicative of the actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery schedules and/or cancellations of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

Raw Materials

Our products contain electronic and mechanical components that are provided by a wide range of suppliers. Certain of these components are standard products, while others are manufactured to our
specifications. We can







experience occasional delays in obtaining timely delivery of certain items. While the majority of our components are available from multiple suppliers, certain items are obtained from sole
sources. We may experience a temporary adverse impact if any of our sole source suppliers delays or ceases to deliver products.

Intellectual Property and Licenses

The development of our products, both hardware and software, is based in significant part on proprietary information, our brands and technology. We protect our rights in proprietary information, brands
and technology through various methods, such as:



•patents;



•copyrights;



•trademarks;



•trade secrets;



•standards of business conduct and related business practices; and



•technology license agreements, software license agreements, non-disclosure agreements, employment agreements, and other agreements.

However, these protections might not be effective in all circumstances. Competitors might independently
develop similar technology or exploit our proprietary information and our brands in countries where we lack enforceable intellectual property rights or where enforcement of such rights through the legal system provides an insufficient deterrent.
Also, intellectual property protections can lapse or be invalidated through appropriate legal processes. We do not believe that any single piece of intellectual property or proprietary rights is essential to our business.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 3,200 people. Since the inception of our business, we have experienced no work stoppages or other labor disturbances. We have no collective bargaining contracts.

Engineering and Development Activities

The highly technical nature of our products requires a large and continuing engineering and development effort. Engineering and development expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009 were $195.6 million, $193.0 million, and $161.3 million, respectively. These expenditures amounted to approximately 14%, 12%, and 21% of consolidated net revenue in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.

Environmental Affairs

We are subject to various federal, state, and local government laws and regulations relating to the protection of employee health and
safety and the environment. We accrue for all known environmental liabilities when it becomes probable that we will incur cleanup costs and those costs can reasonably be estimated. The amounts accrued do not cover sites that are in the preliminary
stages of investigation. Estimated environmental costs are not expected to materially affect the financial position or results of our operations in future periods. However, estimates of future costs are subject to change due to protracted cleanup
periods and changing environmental remediation laws and regulations.







OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the following table is included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in lieu
of being included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The table sets forth the names of all of our executive officers and certain other information relating to their positions held with Teradyne and other business
experience. Our executive officers do not have a specific term of office but rather serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.



Executive OfficerAgePositionBusiness Experience For The Past 5
YearsMichael A. Bradley63Chief Executive Officer and PresidentChief Executive Officer since 2004; President of Teradyne since 2003; President of Semiconductor Test from 2001 to 2003.Gregory R. Beecher54Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerVice President and Chief Financial Officer of Teradyne since 2001 and Treasurer of Teradyne from 2003 to 2005 and since 2006.Charles J. Gray50Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryVice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Teradyne since April 2009; Vice President and General Counsel of Sonus Networks, Inc. from 2002 to 2008.Jeffrey R. Hotchkiss64President of SystemsTest
GroupPresident of Systems Test Group since 2007; President of Assembly Test Systems from 2004 to 2007, and President of Diagnostic Solutions from 2005 to 2007.Mark E. Jagiela51President of Semiconductor TestPresident of Semiconductor Test since 2003; Vice President of Teradyne since 2001.



