Item 1:Business

Teradyne, Inc. (the “Company” or “Teradyne”) was founded in 1960 and is a leading global supplier of automatic test equipment.

We design, develop, manufacture and sell automatic test systems and solutions used to test semiconductors, wireless products, hard disk
drives, solid state disks and circuit boards in the consumer electronics, wireless, automotive, industrial, computing, communications and aerospace and defense industries. Our automatic test equipment products and services include:



•semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems;



•wireless test (“Wireless Test”) systems; and



•defense/aerospace (“Defense/Aerospace”) test instrumentation and systems, storage test (“Storage Test”) systems, and circuit-board
test and inspection (“Production Board Test”) systems (collectively these products represent “System Test”).

We have a broad customer base which includes integrated device manufacturers (“IDMs”), outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers (“OSATs”), wafer foundries, fabless
companies that design, but contract with others for the manufacture of, integrated circuits (“ICs”), developers of wireless devices and consumer electronics, manufacturers of circuit boards, automotive suppliers, wireless product
manufacturers, storage device manufacturers, and aerospace and military contractors.

In 2014, we acquired Avionics Interface
Technologies LLC (“AIT”), a supplier of equipment for testing state-of-the-art data communication buses. The acquisition of AIT complements our Defense/Aerospace line of bus test instrumentation for commercial and defense avionics systems.
AIT is included in our System Test segment. The total purchase price for AIT was approximately $21 million.

In 2013, we
acquired ZTEC Instruments Inc. (“ZTEC”), a supplier of modular wireless test instruments. The acquisition of ZTEC expands our Wireless Test segment into the design verification test of wireless components and chipsets. The total purchase
price for ZTEC was approximately $17 million.

In 2011, we acquired LitePoint Corporation (“LitePoint”) to expand
our product portfolio of test equipment in the wireless test sector. LitePoint designs, develops, and supports advanced wireless test solutions for the






manufacturing of wireless devices, including smart phones, tablets, notebooks, laptops, personal computer peripherals, and other Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and cellular enabled devices. The total purchase
price for LitePoint was approximately $646 million. LitePoint and ZTEC represent our Wireless Test segment.

Investor Information

We are a Massachusetts corporation incorporated on September 23, 1960. We are subject to the informational
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”). We file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Such reports, proxy statements and other
information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains
reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file documents electronically.

You can
access financial and other information, including the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct, by clicking the Investors link
on our web site at www.teradyne.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our filings with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed
or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC.

Products

Semiconductor Test

We design, manufacture, sell and support Semiconductor Test products and services on a worldwide basis. The test
systems we provide are used both for wafer level and device package testing. These chips are used in automotive, industrial, communications, consumer, and computer and electronic game applications, among others. Semiconductor devices span a broad
range of functionality, from very simple low-cost devices such as appliance microcontrollers, operational amplifiers or voltage regulators to complex digital signal processors, microprocessors and high-density as well as high-speed memory devices.
Semiconductor Test products and services are sold to integrated device manufacturers (“IDMs”) that integrate the fabrication of silicon wafers into their business, “Fabless” companies that outsource the manufacturing of silicon
wafers, “Foundries” that cater to the processing and manufacturing of silicon wafers, and outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers (“OSATs”) that provide test and assembly services for the final packaged devices to
both Fabless companies and IDMs. Fabless companies perform the design of integrated circuits without manufacturing capabilities, and use Foundries for wafer manufacturing and OSATs for test and assembly. These customers obtain the overall benefit of
comprehensively testing devices and reducing the total costs associated with testing by using our Semiconductor Test systems to:



•improve and control product quality;



•measure and improve product performance;



•reduce time to market; and



•increase production yields.

Our FLEX Test Platform architecture advances our core technologies to produce test equipment that is designed for high efficiency multi-site testing. Multi-site testing involves the simultaneous testing
of many devices and functions in parallel. Leading semiconductor manufacturers are using multi-site testing to significantly improve their “Cost of Test” economics. The FLEX Test Platform architecture addresses customer requirements
through the following key capabilities:

1) A high efficiency multi-site architecture that eliminates tester overhead such as
instrument setup, synchronization and data movement, and signal processing;






2) The IG-XL™ software operating system which provides fast program development,
including instant conversion from single to multi-site test; and

3) Broad technology coverage by instruments designed to cover
the range of test parameters, coupled with a universal slot test head design that allows easy test system reconfiguration to address changing test needs.

FLEX Test Platform purchases are being made by IDMs, OSATs, Foundries and Fabless customers. The FLEX Test Platform has become a widely used test solution at OSATs by providing versatile testers that can
handle the widest range of devices, allowing OSATs to leverage their capital investments. The broad consumer, automotive and broadband markets have historically driven most of the device volume growth in the semiconductor industry. These markets
include smart phones, cell phones, tablets, set top boxes, HDTVs, game controllers, computer graphics, and automotive controllers to name a few. These end use markets continue to be drivers for the FLEX Test Platform family of products because they
require a wide range of technologies and instrument coverage. The UltraFLEX-M tester extends the FLEX Test Platform into the High Speed DRAM testing market. The FLEX Test Platform has an installed base of more than 4,400 systems.

Our J750™ test system shares the IG-XL software environment with the family of FLEX Test Platform systems. The J750 is designed to
address the highest volume semiconductor devices, such as microcontrollers, that are central to the functionality of almost every consumer electronics product, from small appliances to automotive engine controllers. J750 test systems combine compact
packaging, high throughput and ease of production test. We extended the J750 platform technology to create the IP750 Image Sensor™ test system. The IP750 is focused on testing image sensor devices used in digital cameras and other imaging
products. We continue to invest in the J750 platform with new instrument releases that bring new capabilities to existing market segments and expand the J750 platform to new devices that include high end microcontrollers and the latest generation of
cameras. In 2013, we introduced the J750 Ex-HD which includes system enhancements and new high density instruments that enable the J750 test platform to provide higher test cell productivity. The J750 platform has an installed base of over 4,600
systems.

Our Magnum platform addresses the requirements of mass production test of memory devices such as flash memory and
DRAM. Flash and DRAM memory are widely used core building blocks in modern electronic products finding wide application in consumer, industrial, and computing equipment. Magnum V, the newest member of the family, is a next generation memory test
solution designed for parallel memory test in the flash, DRAM and multi-chip package markets. The Magnum platform has an installed base of over 1,700 systems.

Our ETS platform is used by semiconductor manufacturers and assembly and test subcontractors, primarily in the low pin count analog/mixed signal discrete markets that cover more cost sensitive
applications. Our proprietary SmartPin™ technology enables multiple semiconductor devices to be tested simultaneously, or in parallel, on an individual test system, permitting greater test throughput. Semiconductors tested by ETS platform
systems are incorporated into a wide range of products in historically high-growth markets, including digital cameras, MP3 players, cell phones, video/multimedia products, automotive electronics, computer peripherals, and notebook and desktop
computers. In 2013, we introduced ETS-88, a high performance multiside production test system designed to test a wide variety of high volume commodity and precision devices. The ETS platform has an installed base of over 3,500 systems.

Wireless Test

Our acquisition of LitePoint in October of 2011 and ZTEC in October of 2013 expanded our product offerings in the wireless test industry.
LitePoint designs, develops, and supports advanced wireless test equipment for the manufacturing of wireless devices, including smart phones, tablets, notebooks, laptops, personal computer peripherals, and other Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, Near Field
Communication (“NFC”) and cellular enabled devices. LitePoint collaborates with developers, chipset/component manufacturers, and manufacturing leaders to create agile systems designed to ensure the quality of wireless products manufactured
in very large numbers. Using easy-to-deploy, innovative test methodologies LitePoint’s IQ product line is designed for high-






volume, low-cost production test, and fall into two test categories: cellular and connectivity. Our acquisition of ZTEC in October 2013 expanded our wireless product offerings into modular
wireless test instruments for the design verification test of wireless components and chipsets.

Cellular

The IQxstream™ is an optimized solution for high-speed testing of GSM, EDGE, CDMA2000, TD-SCDMA, WCDMA, HSPA+,
LTE-FDD, TD_LTE, and LTE-A technologies—used for calibration and verification of smartphones, tablets, small cell wireless gateways and embedded cellular modules. As the industry’s first “multi-DUT” test solution, IQxstream
greatly increased production output through the implementation of parallel test methods of multiple devices. IQxstream is complemented by IQvector™, a turnkey production-optimized testing package that supports the leading cellular chipset
solutions, which allows manufacturers to ramp volume production in a matter of weeks, rather than months. The IQxstream is embedded in the test software provided by leading cellular chipset companies including Qualcomm, Intel, MediaTek, Spreadtrum,
Marvell and others.

Connectivity

We offer a comprehensive range of test equipment for connectivity testing. The IQxel™ family enables calibration and verification of the latest Wi-Fi standard-802.11ac-taking wireless data rates
beyond the gigabit per second barrier. The IQxel family supports multiple bandwidth and channel configurations, MIMO antenna arrangements, Bluetooth™ Classic and Low Energy, and covers the full range of communication standards. These solutions
target manufacturers of networking equipment, Internet access devices, Internet of Things (IoT) products and embedded modules used in smartphones, tablets, and PCs. The IQ2015™ is a one-box solution for multi-connectivity needs, covers the full
range of communication standards. It is a preferred choice by manufacturers of smartphones and tablets. We were the first to introduce parametric production test of NFC technology with our IQnfc™ addressing the growing use of NFC technology for
mobile payments with smartphones.

To complement the IQ family of connectivity testers, we offer IQfact+™ a turnkey,
chipset-optimized, customizable software library covering over 300 wireless IC solutions, enabling the rapid development of volume manufacturing solutions with a minimum of engineering effort by our customers. Similar to our cellular products,
drivers for our connectivity products are found in the test software solutions from Broadcom, Qualcomm, Marvell, MediaTek and others.

Design Verification Test

We offer the zSeries of modular wireless
test instruments for the design verification test of wireless components and chipsets. In 2014, we released the zSignal for testing LTE cellular devices.

System Test

Our System Test segment is comprised of three business
units: Defense/Aerospace, Storage Test and Production Board Test.

Defense/Aerospace

We are a leading provider of high-performance test systems, subsystems, instruments and service for the defense and aerospace markets. Our
test products are used to ensure the readiness of military and commercial aerospace electronics systems. New programs, such as tactical aircraft and missile systems, as well as upgrade programs, continue to fuel the demand for high performance test
systems in this market. Our test products are well-suited to the demands of defense/aerospace electronics manufacturers and repair depots worldwide. Our






leadership in this market is underscored by our success with major Department of Defense programs across all U.S. military service branches and many allied defense services worldwide. Our
acquisition of AIT in 2014 complements our line of bus test instrumentation for commercial and defense avionics systems. AIT is a supplier of equipment for testing state-of-the-art data communication buses.

Storage Test

The Storage Test business unit addresses the high throughput, automated manufacturing test requirements of hard disk drive (“HDD”) and solid state disk (“SSD”) manufacturers. Our
products address the client and enterprise storage markets. The client market is driven by the needs of desktop, laptop, and external HDD and SSD storage products. The enterprise market is driven by the needs of data centers and cloud storage. Our
products lead in addressing customer requirements related to factory density, throughput, thermal performance and vibration isolation.

Production Board Test

Our test systems are used by electronics
manufacturers worldwide to perform In-Circuit-Test (“ICT”) and device programming of printed circuit board assemblies. Fast, accurate and cost-effective test capabilities are hallmark features of our Test Station and Spectrum ICT product
families. We offer the Test Station in off-line and automated in-line configurations. The automated in-line configurations address the growing requirements for increased throughput in high volume applications.

Summary of Revenues by Reportable Segment

Our three reportable segments accounted for the following percentages of consolidated revenues for each of the last three years:



201420132012Semiconductor Test79%71%68%Wireless Test111817System Test101115100%100%100%

Sales and Distribution

In 2014, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. In 2013 and 2012, revenues from Apple Inc. accounted for 12% and 10%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues.
Apple Inc. is a customer of our Semiconductor Test and Wireless Test segments. In each of the years, 2014, 2013 and 2012, our three largest customers in aggregate accounted for 21%, 26% and 29% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. OSAT
customers often purchase our test systems based upon recommendations from IDMs and Fabless companies. In all cases when an OSAT customer purchases a test system from us, we consider the OSAT as the customer since credit risk, title and risk of loss,
among other things, are between Teradyne and the OSAT.

Direct sales to United States government agencies accounted for 2%, 3%
and 2% of our consolidated revenues in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Approximately 20%, 32% and 15% of System Test’s revenues in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, were to United States government agencies and 23%, 24% and 20% of System
Test’s revenues in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, were to government contractor customers.

We have sales and service
offices located throughout North America, Asia and Europe, as our customers outside the United States are located primarily in these geographic areas. We sell in these areas predominantly through a direct sales force. Our manufacturing activities
are primarily conducted through subcontractors and outsourced contract manufacturers with a significant operation concentrated in China.






Sales to customers outside the United States were 87%, 84% and 86% of our consolidated
revenues in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Sales are attributed to geographic areas based on the location of the customer site.

Sales to customers by country outside of the United States that accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenues in any of the previous three years were as follows:



201420132012Taiwan30%19%18%China182321Korea9813

See also “Item 1A: Risk Factors” and Note Q: “Operating Segment, Geographic and
Significant Customer Information” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Competition

We face significant competition throughout the world in each of our reportable segments. Competitors in the Semiconductor Test segment
include, among others, Advantest Corporation and Xcerra Corporation. Competitors in the System Test segment include, among others, Keysight Technologies, Inc. (formerly Agilent Technologies), Astronics, Test Research Inc. and SPEA S.p.A.

Competitors in our Wireless Test segment include, among others, Keysight Technologies, Inc., Cobham/Aeroflex, Inc., Anritsu Company,
National Instruments Corporation and Rohde & Schwarz GmbH & Co. KG.

Some of our competitors have
substantially greater financial and other resources to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. We also face competition from emerging Asian equipment companies and from internal suppliers at several of our
customers. Some of our competitors have introduced or announced new products with certain performance characteristics which may be considered equal or superior to those we currently offer. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the
performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that provide improved cost of ownership and performance characteristics. See also “Item 1A: Risk Factors.”

Backlog

At
December 31, 2014 and 2013, our backlog of unfilled orders in our three reportable segments was as follows:



20142013(in millions)Semiconductor Test$262.8$233.8Wireless Test37.031.2System Test96.196.6$395.9$361.6

Of the backlog at December 31, 2014, approximately 97% of the Semiconductor Test backlog, 66% of
Wireless Test backlog and 97% of System Test backlog, is expected to be delivered in 2015.

Customers may delay delivery of
products or cancel orders suddenly and without advanced notice, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellation of orders, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily
indicative of the actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery schedules or cancellations of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.






Raw Materials

Our products contain electronic and mechanical components that are provided by a wide range of suppliers. Some of these components are standard products, while others are manufactured to our
specifications. We can experience occasional delays in obtaining timely delivery of certain items. While the majority of our components are available from multiple suppliers, certain items are obtained from sole sources. We may experience a
temporary adverse impact if any of our sole source suppliers delay or cease to deliver products.

Intellectual Property and Licenses

The development of our products, both hardware and software, is based in significant part on proprietary information, our
brands and technology. We protect our rights in proprietary information, brands and technology through various methods, such as:



•patents;



•copyrights;



•trademarks;



•trade secrets;



•standards of business conduct and related business practices; and



•technology license agreements, software license agreements, non-disclosure agreements, employment agreements, and other agreements.

However, these protections might not be effective in all circumstances. Competitors might independently
develop similar technology or exploit our proprietary information and our brands in countries where we lack enforceable intellectual property rights or where enforcement of such rights through the legal system provides an insufficient deterrent.
Also, intellectual property protections can lapse or be invalidated through appropriate legal processes. We do not believe that any single piece of intellectual property or proprietary rights is essential to our business.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2014, we employed approximately 3,900 people. Since the inception of our business, we have experienced no work stoppages or other labor disturbances. We have no collective bargaining contracts.

Engineering and Development Activities

The highly technical nature of our products requires a large and continuing engineering and development effort. For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, our engineering and development
expenditures were $291.6 million, $264.1 million, and $255.9 million, respectively. These expenditures accounted for approximately 17.7%, 18.5%, and 15.4% of our consolidated revenues in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.

Environmental Affairs

We are subject to various federal, state, and local government laws and regulations relating to the protection of employee health and
safety and the environment. We accrue for all known environmental liabilities when it becomes probable that we will incur cleanup costs and those costs can reasonably be estimated. Estimated environmental costs are not expected to materially affect
the financial position or results of our operations in future periods. However, estimates of future costs are subject to change due to protracted cleanup periods and changing environmental remediation laws and regulations.






OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the following table is included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in lieu
of being included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The table sets forth the names of all of our executive officers and certain other information relating to their positions held with Teradyne and other business
experience. Our executive officers do not have a specific term of office but rather serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.



Executive OfficerAgePositionBusiness Experience For The Past 5
YearsMark E. Jagiela54Chief Executive Officer, President and President of Semiconductor TestChief Executive Officer since February 2014; President of Teradyne since January 2013; President of Semiconductor Test since 2003; Vice President of Teradyne from 2001 to
2013.Gregory R. Beecher57Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerVice President and Chief Financial Officer of Teradyne since 2001; Treasurer of Teradyne from 2003 to 2005 and since 2006.Charles J. Gray53Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryVice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Teradyne since April 2009.Bradford B. Robbins56President of Wireless TestPresident of Wireless Test since August 2014; Chief Operating Officer of LitePoint Corporation from 2012 to 2014; Vice President of Teradyne since 2001.Walter G. Vahey50President of System TestPresident of System Test since July 2012; Vice President of Teradyne since 2008; General Manager of Storage Test since 2008; General Manager of Production Board Test since April
2013; General Manager of Defense/Aerospace from 2004 to July 2012.



