Item 1:Business

Teradyne, Inc. (the “Company” or “Teradyne”) was founded in 1960 and is a leading global supplier of automatic test equipment.

We design, develop, manufacture and sell automatic test systems and solutions used to test complex electronics in the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, and aerospace and
defense industries. Our automatic test equipment products and services include:



•semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems, and



•military/aerospace (“Mil/Aero”) test instrumentation and systems, hard disk drive test (“HDD”) systems, circuit-board test and
inspection (“Commercial Board Test”) systems, and automotive diagnostic and test (“Diagnostic Solutions”) systems (collectively these products represent “Systems Test Group”).

We have a broad customer base which includes integrated device manufacturers (“IDMs”), outsourced sub-assembly and test providers
(“OSATs”), wafer foundries, fabless companies that design, but contract with others for the manufacture of integrated circuits (“ICs”), manufacturers of circuit boards, automotive companies, HDD manufacturers, aerospace and
military contractors as well as the United States Department of Defense.

In 2009, we entered the High Speed dynamic random
access memory (“DRAM”) testing market with our UltraFlex-M product. High speed DRAM memory devices are used for high-end graphics applications in personal computer and gaming consoles.

In 2009, we also entered the market for hard disk drive test systems with our Neptune product. The Neptune product line currently is used to
test 2.5 inch hard disk drives for laptops, netbooks and consumer electronic storage devices.

In 2008, we acquired Nextest
Systems Corporation (“Nextest”) and Eagle Test Systems, Inc. (“Eagle Test”) to expand our product portfolio of automated test equipment for the semiconductor industry. Nextest develops systems to test integrated circuits such as
microcontrollers, image sensors, smart cards and field programmable logic devices for the flash memory, flash card and flash memory based system-on-a-chip (“SOC”) markets. Eagle Test develops systems to test analog, mixed-signal and radio
frequency semiconductors used in digital cameras, MP3 players, cellular telephones, video/multimedia products, automotive electronics and notebook and desktop computers. Nextest and Eagle Test are included within our Semiconductor Test segment.

In 2007, we purchased in-process enabling test technology and hired certain engineers from MOSAID Technologies Inc.

Investor Information

We are a Massachusetts corporation incorporated on September 23, 1960. We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act. We file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In
addition, the SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically.






You can access financial and other information, including the charters of our Audit
Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Standards of Business Conduct, by clicking the Investors link on our web site at www.teradyne.com. We make available, free
of charge, copies of our filings with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC.

Products

Semiconductor Test

We design, manufacture, sell and support Semiconductor Test products and services on a world wide basis. The test systems we provide are used both for wafer level and device package testing. These chips
are used in automotive, communications, consumer, computer and electronic game applications, among others. Semiconductor devices span a broad range of functionality, from very simple low-cost devices such as appliance microcontrollers, operational
amplifiers or voltage regulators to complex digital signal processors, microprocessors, high-density as well as high speed memory devices. Semiconductor Test products and services are sold to IDMs that integrate the fabrication of silicon wafers
into their business, “Fabless” companies that outsource the manufacturing of silicon wafers, “Foundries” that cater to the processing and manufacturing of silicon wafers, and OSATs that provide test and assembly services for the
final packaged devices to both Fabless companies and IDMs. Fabless companies perform the design of integrated circuits without manufacturing capabilities, and use Foundries for wafer manufacturing and OSATs for test and assembly. These customers
obtain the overall benefit of comprehensively testing devices and reducing the total costs associated with testing by using our Semiconductor Test systems to:



•improve and control product quality;



•measure and improve product performance;



•reduce time to market; and



•increase production yields.

Our FLEX Test Platform architecture advances our core technologies to produce test equipment that is designed for high efficiency multi-site testing. Multi-site testing involves the simultaneous testing
of many devices and functions in parallel. Leading semiconductor manufacturers are using multi-site testing to significantly improve their “Cost of Test” economics. The FLEX Test Platform architecture addresses customer requirements
through the following key capabilities:

1) A high efficiency multi-site architecture that eliminates tester overhead such as
instrument setup, synchronization and data movement, and signal processing;

2) The IG-XL™ software operating system which
provides fast program development, including instant conversion from single to multi-site test; and

3) Broad technology
coverage by instruments designed to cover the range of test parameters, coupled with a Universal Slot test head design that allows easy test system reconfiguration to address changing test needs.

FLEX Test Platform purchases are being made by IDMs, OSATs and Fabless customers. The FLEX Test Platform has become a widely used test
solution at OSATs and test houses by providing versatile testers that can handle the widest range of devices, allowing OSATs to leverage their capital investments. The broad consumer, automotive and broadband markets have historically driven most of
the device volume growth in the semiconductor industry. These markets include cell phones, set top boxes, HDTVs, game controllers, computer






graphics, and automotive controllers to name a few. These end use markets are continuing to be drivers for the FLEX Test Platform family of products because they require a wide range of
technologies and instrument coverage. The FLEX Test Platform has an installed base of more than 2,100 customer systems to date and it continues to grow. The introduction of the UltraFLEX-M tester in 2009 extends the FLEX Test Platform into the High
Speed DRAM testing market.

Our J750™ test system shares the IG-XL software environment with the family of FLEX Test
Platform systems. The J750 is designed to address the highest volume semiconductor devices such as microcontrollers that are central to the functionality of almost every consumer electronics product, from small appliances to automotive engine
controllers. J750 test systems combine compact packaging, high throughput and ease of production test. These benefits are possible due to the high level of integration in the design. We extended the J750 platform technology to create the IP750 Image
Sensor™ test system. The IP750 is focused on testing image sensor devices used in digital cameras and other imaging products. The J750 platform has an installed base of over 2,900 systems and it continues to grow.

We have continued to invest in the J750 platform with a set of J750Ex™ instrumentation that was released in 2007, with additional
instrument releases in 2008. These instruments bring new capabilities to existing market segments and expand the J750 platform to critical new devices that include high end microcontrollers and the latest generation of cameras. These new J750Ex
instruments are designed to be compatible with our customers’ existing hardware and software investments and deliver industry leading parallel test economics while providing customers with flexibility to address next generation functional
requirements.

Our acquisition of Nextest in January of 2008 expanded our product offerings to include the Magnum test
platform. The Magnum products address the requirements of mass production test of memory devices such as flash memory and DRAM. Flash and DRAM memory are widely used core building blocks in modern electronic products finding wide application in
consumer, industrial, and computing equipment. Magnum II is the newest member of the family. With test rates up to 800 megabits per second and a versatile architecture designed for maximal throughput, Magnum II tests flash and DRAM devices, an
important advantage for large memory producers that manufacture both types of memory. The Magnum platform has an installed base of over 700 systems and it continues to grow.

Our acquisition of Eagle Test in November of 2008 expanded our product offerings to include the ETS platform. The ETS platform is used by
semiconductor manufacturers and assembly and test subcontractors, primarily in the low pin count analog/mixed signal discrete markets that cover more cost sensitive applications. Eagle Test’s proprietary SmartPin™ technology enables
multiple semiconductor devices to be tested simultaneously, or in parallel, on an individual test system, permitting greater test throughput. Semiconductors tested by Eagle Test’s systems are incorporated into a wide range of products in
historically high-growth markets, including digital cameras, MP3 players, cellular telephones, video/multimedia products, automotive electronics, computer peripherals, and notebook and desktop computers. The ETS platform has an installed base of
over 1,900 systems and it continues to grow.

Systems Test Group

Our Systems Test Group segment is comprised of four business units: Mil/Aero, Hard Disk Drive, Commercial Board Test and Diagnostic
Solutions.

Mil/Aero

Our expertise in the test and diagnosis of printed circuit boards (“PCB”) and subsystems has proven to be essential in supporting the ever-demanding military, defense and aerospace markets. Our
test solutions for these markets include high-performance systems, instruments and software solutions that manufacturers and repair depots depend on to ensure the readiness of commercial and military electronic systems.






New programs from tactical aircraft to missile systems, as well as widespread enhancement
programs, continue to fuel the demand for high performance test systems. We are a leading provider of test instrumentation and systems with performance well suited to the demands of military/aerospace electronics manufacturers and repair depots
worldwide. Success in this market is illustrated by our penetration into major Department of Defense programs across all U.S. military service branches and many allied military services worldwide.

Hard Disk Drive

Leveraging our expertise in functional test and semiconductor test, we introduced the Neptune product line in 2009. This product is targeted at the high growth 2.5 inch hard disk drive market.

The storage growth for laptops, netbooks and consumer electronics combined with the growth in storage density is driving the need for
high density test solutions for the 2.5 inch HDD segment. The Neptune product line addresses the challenges of high throughput automated manufacturing environments while at the same time meeting the performance requirements for next generation HDDs.
Our products are targeted at the HDD manufacturers and used as part of the manufacturing and test process of drives.

Commercial Board Test

We produce a variety of test and inspection systems sold to many of the
industry’s leading PCB original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and subcontract manufacturers (“Subcons”) around the world. Because today’s PCBs and electronic assemblies handle more functionality than ever before,
they contain highly integrated circuits and more complex components that operate faster, use lower voltages and are more susceptible to assembly problems. Our assembly test and inspection systems combine the advanced diagnostic hardware and
operating software needed to ensure product quality, sustain high manufacturing yield, verify functional operation, diagnose faults and effectively reduce manufacturing costs. Our products are sold to the electronics manufacturers of cell phones,
servers, computers, Internet switches, automobiles and military avionics systems worldwide.

In-Circuit Test Systems

We manufacture in-circuit test (“ICT”) systems that are used to assess electrical interconnections, verify
interoperation and find faulty circuits on fully assembled and soldered PCBs. Fast, accurate and cost-effective diagnostic capabilities are hallmark features of our ICT systems, including the TestStation™ and Spectrum™ product families
used in a variety of in-line, high-volume PCB test applications. These systems are also used in sample test environments for prototype testing and early-stage PCB design and development. Supporting technologies such as our patented SafeTest™
technology allow TestStation users to safely troubleshoot the low-voltage components and interconnects commonly found in battery-powered portable consumer electronics and low-power commercial equipment. In addition to standard ICT equipment, we
offer combinational test platforms and handler-ready in-line test systems for high-volume board manufacturing.

Imaging
Inspection Systems

We manufacture automated x-ray inspection (“AXI”) machines that are used to test PCB
assemblies. These machines use patented technologies to quickly and automatically inspect the solder joints of the components on the board. Using x-rays allows our XStation™ MX to inspect joints that are on either side of the PCB assembly, or
that are hidden by the component packages themselves. The XStation MX uses ClearVue™, a patented three-dimensional X-Ray imaging technique, to more accurately detect subtle defects and manufacturing flaws, even as board complexities grow.






Diagnostic Solutions

We provide electronic test and diagnostic systems to the automotive OEMs and their major subcontractors. The systems are used throughout the
vehicle’s lifecycle from design through manufacture to after sale service and consist of highly integrated software and hardware components. As the number and complexity of electronic systems and embedded software proliferate in vehicles, the
ability to manufacture and service those vehicles becomes increasingly dependent on electronic diagnostic equipment. Our Diagnostic Solutions’ products fall into two categories:

OEM Service Diagnostics

OEM dealer service technicians use our systems to find faults in vehicles in use by their customers, and to reduce OEM warranty costs. Historically, the focus has been on fixing faults in the service bay,
but is now growing to include the programming of vehicle software.

Vehicle Configuration and Test Solutions

Our VCATS™ products are used on automotive and major automotive subassembly production lines. These products connect
to the vehicle to test and program or “configure” the electronic systems on vehicles. These vehicle electronic systems include engine control modules and subsystems such as braking, navigation and climate control. Our VCATS products are
also able to link to an OEM’s manufacturing control system in order to provide statistical quality reports to operators and management.

Both VCATS and OEM Service Diagnostics products utilize our GRADE-X™ authoring software enabling the manufacturing and service phases of vehicle development. Diagnostics for electronic modules and
systems used on vehicles of our customers can be developed and written using the GRADE-X authoring software. The actual diagnosis of a customer’s vehicle occurs in the OEM dealer’s service bay utilizing a runtime portion of the software to
facilitate the service and repair of the vehicle.

Discontinued Operations

On August 1, 2007, our Broadband Test Division business was sold to Tollgrade Communications, Inc. This business provided test systems
for testing lines and qualifying lines for DSL telephone networks. On November 30, 2005, our Connection Systems business was sold to Amphenol Corporation. This business designed and manufactured high-performance connection systems including
backplane systems, printed circuit boards and high-speed, high-density connectors. Connection Systems and Broadband Test Division have been reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying financial statements.

Summary of Net Revenue by Reportable Segment

Our two reportable segments accounted for the following percentages of consolidated net revenue for each of last three years:



200920082007Semiconductor Test67%81%80%Systems Test Group331920Total100%100%100%

Sales and Distribution

Prices for our systems can reach $2 million or more. In fiscal year 2009, revenues from Western Digital Corporation accounted
for more than 10% of total revenue. Western Digital Corporation is a customer of our






Systems Test Group. In 2008 and 2007, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue. In each of the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, our three largest customers in
aggregate accounted for 26%, 14% and 16% of our consolidated net revenue, respectively.

Direct sales to United States
government agencies accounted for 4%, 2% and 5% of our consolidated net revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Approximately 12%, 11% and 23% of Systems Test Group’s revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, was to United States
government agencies and 18%, 27% and 16% of Systems Test Group’s revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, was to government contractor customers.

We have sales and service offices located throughout North America, Asia and Europe, as our customers outside the United States are located primarily in these geographic areas. We sell in these areas
predominantly through a direct sales force. Our manufacturing activities are primarily conducted through subcontractors and outsourced contract manufacturers with a significant operation concentrated in China.

Sales to customers outside the United States accounted for 74%, 78% and 77% of our consolidated net revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Sales to customers located in Taiwan were 14%, 18% and 13% of consolidated net revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Sales to customers located in Malaysia were 11%, 6% and 7% of our consolidated net revenue in 2009, 2008 and
2007 respectively. Sales to customers located in Europe were 10%, 10% and 12% of our consolidated net revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Sales to customers located in South East Asia were 10%, 10% and 8% of our consolidated net revenue in
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Sales are attributed to geographic areas based on the location of the customer site.

See
also “Item 1A: Risk Factors” and “Note R: Operating Segment and Geographic Information” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Competition

We face significant competition throughout the world in each
of our reportable segments. Competitors in the Semiconductor Test segment include, among others, Advantest Corporation, Verigy Inc. and LTX–Credence Corporation. Competitors in the Systems Test Group include, among others, Agilent Technologies,
Inc. and Xyratex Ltd. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. We also face competition from internal suppliers at several of
our customers. Some of our competitors have introduced or announced new products with certain performance characteristics which may be considered equal or superior to those we currently offer. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the
performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that provide improved cost of ownership and performance characteristics. See also “Item 1A: Risk Factors.”

Backlog

At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, our backlog of unfilled orders in our two reportable segments was as follows:



20092008(in millions)Semiconductor Test$276.8$129.4Systems Test Group95.2106.9$372.0$236.3

Of the backlog at
December 31, 2009, approximately 99% of the Semiconductor Test backlog and 85% of Systems Test Group backlog is expected to be delivered in 2010.






Customers may delay delivery of products or cancel orders suddenly and without significant
notice, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellation of orders, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of the actual sales for any succeeding period.
Delays in delivery schedules and/or cancellations of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Raw Materials

Our products
contain electronic and mechanical components that are provided by a wide range of suppliers. Certain of these components are standard products, while others are manufactured to our specifications. We can experience occasional delays in obtaining
timely delivery of certain items. While the majority of our components are available from multiple suppliers, certain items are obtained from sole sources. We may experience a temporary adverse impact if any of our sole source suppliers delays or
ceases to deliver products.

Intellectual Property and Licenses

The development of our products, both hardware and software, is based in significant part on proprietary information, our brands and
technology. We protect our rights in proprietary information, brands and technology through various methods, such as:



•patents;



•copyrights;



•trademarks;



•trade secrets;



•standards of business conduct and related business practices; and



•technology license agreements, software license agreements, non-disclosure agreements, employment agreements, and other agreements.

However, these protections might not be effective in all circumstances. Competitors might independently
develop similar technology or exploit our proprietary information and our brands in countries where we lack enforceable intellectual property rights or where enforcement of such rights through the legal system provides an insufficient deterrent.
Also, intellectual property protections can lapse or be invalidated through appropriate legal processes. We do not believe that any single piece of intellectual property or proprietary rights is essential to our business.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 2,900 people. Since the inception of our business, we have experienced no work stoppages or other labor disturbances. We have no collective bargaining contracts.

Engineering and Development Activities

The highly technical nature of our products requires a large and continuing engineering and development effort. Engineering and development expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008
and 2007 were $164.8 million, $216.5 million, and $204.3 million, respectively. These expenditures amounted to approximately 20%, 20%, and 19% of consolidated net revenue in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.

Environmental Affairs

We
are subject to various federal, state, and local government laws and regulations relating to the protection of employee health and safety and the environment. We accrue for all known environmental liabilities when it becomes probable that we will
incur cleanup costs and those costs can reasonably be estimated. The amounts accrued do not cover sites that are in the preliminary stages of investigation. Estimated environmental costs are not expected to materially affect the financial position
or results of our operations in future periods. However, estimates of future costs are subject to change due to protracted cleanup periods and changing environmental remediation laws and regulations.






OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the following table is included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in lieu of
being included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The table sets forth the names of all of our executive officers and certain other information relating to their positions held with Teradyne and other business experience.
Our executive officers do not have a specific term of office but rather serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.



Executive OfficerAgePositionBusiness Experience For The Past 5
YearsMichael A. Bradley61Chief Executive Officer and PresidentChief Executive Officer since 2004; President of Teradyne since 2003; President of Semiconductor Test from 2001 to 2003.Gregory R. Beecher52Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerVice President and Chief Financial Officer of Teradyne since 2001 and Treasurer of Teradyne from 2003 to 2005 and since 2006.Charles J. Gray48Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryVice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Teradyne since April 2009; Vice President and General Counsel of Sonus Networks, Inc. from 2002 to 2008.Jeffrey R. Hotchkiss62President of SystemsTest
GroupPresident of Systems Test Group since 2007; President of Assembly Test Systems from 2004 to 2007, and President of Diagnostic Solutions from 2005 to 2007.Mark E. Jagiela49President of Semiconductor TestPresident of Semiconductor Test since 2003; Vice President of Teradyne since 2001.



