Item 1:Business

Teradyne, Inc. (the “Company” or “Teradyne”) was founded in 1960 and is a leading global supplier of automatic test
equipment.

We design, develop, manufacture and sell automatic test systems and solutions used to test complex electronics in
the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, and aerospace and defense industries. Our automatic test equipment products and services include:



•semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems, and



•military/aerospace (“Mil/Aero”) test instrumentation and systems, hard disk drive test (“HDD”) systems, circuit-board test and
inspection (“Commercial Board Test”) systems, and automotive diagnostic and test (“Diagnostic Solutions”) systems (collectively these products represent “Systems Test Group”).

We have a broad customer base which includes integrated device manufacturers (“IDMs”), outsourced semiconductor assembly and
test providers (“OSATs”), wafer foundries, fabless companies that design, but contract with others for the manufacture of integrated circuits (“ICs”), manufacturers of circuit boards, automotive companies, HDD manufacturers,
aerospace and military contractors as well as the United States Department of Defense.

In 2009, we entered the High Speed
dynamic random access memory (“DRAM”) testing market with our UltraFlex-M product. High speed DRAM memory devices are used for high-end graphics applications in personal computer and gaming consoles.

In 2009, we also entered the market for hard disk drive test systems with our Neptune product. The Neptune product line currently is used
to test 2.5 inch hard disk drives for laptops, netbooks and consumer electronic storage devices.

In 2008, we acquired Nextest
Systems Corporation (“Nextest”) and Eagle Test Systems, Inc. (“Eagle Test”) to expand our product portfolio of automated test equipment for the semiconductor industry. Nextest develops systems to test integrated circuits such as
microcontrollers, image sensors, smart cards and field programmable logic devices for the flash memory, flash card and flash memory based system-on-a-chip (“SOC”) markets. Eagle Test develops systems to test analog, mixed-signal and radio
frequency semiconductors used in digital cameras, MP3 players, cellular telephones, video/multimedia products, automotive electronics and notebook and desktop computers. Nextest and Eagle Test are included within our Semiconductor Test segment.

Investor Information

We are a Massachusetts corporation incorporated on September 23, 1960. We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”). We file
periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F
Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that
file documents electronically.

You can access financial and other information, including the charters of our Audit Committee,
Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Standards of Business Conduct, by clicking the Investors link on our web site at www.teradyne.com. We make available, free of charge,
copies of our filings with the SEC, including our annual







reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act
through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC.

Products

Semiconductor Test

We design, manufacture, sell and support Semiconductor Test products and services on a worldwide basis. The test
systems we provide are used both for wafer level and device package testing. These chips are used in automotive, communications, consumer, computer and electronic game applications, among others. Semiconductor devices span a broad range of
functionality, from very simple low-cost devices such as appliance microcontrollers, operational amplifiers or voltage regulators to complex digital signal processors, microprocessors, high-density as well as high speed memory devices. Semiconductor
Test products and services are sold to IDMs that integrate the fabrication of silicon wafers into their business, “Fabless” companies that outsource the manufacturing of silicon wafers, “Foundries” that cater to the processing
and manufacturing of silicon wafers, and OSATs that provide test and assembly services for the final packaged devices to both Fabless companies and IDMs. Fabless companies perform the design of integrated circuits without manufacturing capabilities,
and use Foundries for wafer manufacturing and OSATs for test and assembly. These customers obtain the overall benefit of comprehensively testing devices and reducing the total costs associated with testing by using our Semiconductor Test systems to:



•improve and control product quality;



•measure and improve product performance;



•reduce time to market; and



•increase production yields.

Our FLEX Test Platform architecture advances our core technologies to produce test equipment that is designed for high efficiency multi-site testing. Multi-site testing involves the simultaneous testing
of many devices and functions in parallel. Leading semiconductor manufacturers are using multi-site testing to significantly improve their “Cost of Test” economics. The FLEX Test Platform architecture addresses customer requirements
through the following key capabilities:

1) A high efficiency multi-site architecture that eliminates tester overhead such as
instrument setup, synchronization and data movement, and signal processing;

2) The IG-XL™ software operating system which
provides fast program development, including instant conversion from single to multi-site test; and

3) Broad technology
coverage by instruments designed to cover the range of test parameters, coupled with a Universal Slot test head design that allows easy test system reconfiguration to address changing test needs.

FLEX Test Platform purchases are being made by IDMs, OSATs and Fabless customers. The FLEX Test Platform has become a widely used test
solution at OSATs and test houses by providing versatile testers that can handle the widest range of devices, allowing OSATs to leverage their capital investments. The broad consumer, automotive and broadband markets have historically driven most of
the device volume growth in the semiconductor industry. These markets include cell phones, set top boxes, HDTVs, game controllers, computer graphics, and automotive controllers to name a few. These end use markets are continuing to be drivers for
the FLEX Test Platform family of products because they require a wide range of technologies and instrument coverage. The FLEX Test Platform has an installed base of more than 2,700 customer systems to date and it continues to grow. The introduction
of the UltraFLEX-M tester in 2009 extends the FLEX Test Platform into the High Speed DRAM testing market.







Our J750™ test system shares the IG-XL software environment with the family of FLEX
Test Platform systems. The J750 is designed to address the highest volume semiconductor devices such as microcontrollers that are central to the functionality of almost every consumer electronics product, from small appliances to automotive engine
controllers. J750 test systems combine compact packaging, high throughput and ease of production test. These benefits are possible due to the high level of integration in the design. We extended the J750 platform technology to create the IP750 Image
Sensor™ test system. The IP750 is focused on testing image sensor devices used in digital cameras and other imaging products. The J750 platform has an installed base of over 3,500 systems and it continues to grow.

We have continued to invest in the J750 platform with a set of J750Ex™ instrumentation that was released in 2007, with additional
instrument releases in 2008. These instruments bring new capabilities to existing market segments and expand the J750 platform to critical new devices that include high end microcontrollers and the latest generation of cameras. These new J750Ex
instruments are designed to be compatible with our customers’ existing hardware and software investments and deliver industry leading parallel test economics while providing customers with flexibility to address next generation functional
requirements.

Our acquisition of Nextest in January of 2008 expanded our product offerings to include the Magnum test
platform. The Magnum products address the requirements of mass production test of memory devices such as flash memory and DRAM. Flash and DRAM memory are widely used core building blocks in modern electronic products finding wide application in
consumer, industrial, and computing equipment. Magnum II is the newest member of the family. With test rates up to 800 megabits per second and a versatile architecture designed for maximal throughput, Magnum II tests flash and DRAM devices, an
important advantage for large memory producers that manufacture both types of memory. The Magnum platform has an installed base of over 1,000 systems and it continues to grow.

Our acquisition of Eagle Test in November of 2008 expanded our product offerings to include the ETS platform. The ETS platform is used by semiconductor manufacturers and assembly and test subcontractors,
primarily in the low pin count analog/mixed signal discrete markets that cover more cost sensitive applications. Eagle Test’s proprietary SmartPin™ technology enables multiple semiconductor devices to be tested simultaneously, or in
parallel, on an individual test system, permitting greater test throughput. Semiconductors tested by Eagle Test’s systems are incorporated into a wide range of products in historically high-growth markets, including digital cameras, MP3
players, cellular telephones, video/multimedia products, automotive electronics, computer peripherals, and notebook and desktop computers. The ETS platform has an installed base of over 2,100 systems and it continues to grow.

Systems Test Group

Our Systems Test Group segment is comprised of four business units: Mil/Aero, Hard Disk Drive, Commercial Board Test and Diagnostic
Solutions.

Mil/Aero

Our expertise in the test and diagnosis of printed circuit boards (“PCB”) and subsystems has proven to be essential in supporting the ever-demanding military, defense and aerospace markets. Our
test solutions for these markets include high-performance systems, instruments and software solutions that manufacturers and repair depots depend on to ensure the readiness of commercial and military electronic systems.

New programs from tactical aircraft to missile systems, as well as widespread enhancement programs, continue to fuel the demand for high
performance test systems. We are a leading provider of test instrumentation and systems with performance well suited to the demands of military/aerospace electronics manufacturers and repair depots worldwide. Success in this market is illustrated by
our penetration into major Department of Defense programs across all U.S. military service branches and many allied military services worldwide.







Hard Disk Drive

Leveraging our expertise in functional test and semiconductor test, we introduced the Neptune product line in 2009. This product is
targeted at the high growth 2.5 inch hard disk drive market. In 2010, we expanded our Neptune product line to address the enterprise drive market.

The storage growth for laptops, netbooks and consumer electronics combined with the growth in storage density is driving the need for high density test solutions for the 2.5 inch HDD segment. The Neptune
product line addresses the challenges of high throughput automated manufacturing environments while at the same time meeting the performance requirements for next generation HDDs. Our products are targeted at the HDD manufacturers and used as part
of the manufacturing and test process of drives.

Commercial Board Test

Our test and inspection systems are sold to the electronics manufacturers of cell phones, servers, computers, Internet switches,
automobiles and military avionics systems worldwide.

We manufacture in-circuit test (“ICT”) systems that are used to
assess electrical interconnections, verify interoperation and find faulty circuits on fully assembled and soldered PCBs. Fast, accurate and cost-effective diagnostic capabilities are hallmark features of our ICT systems, including the
TestStation™ and Spectrum™ product families used in a variety of in-line, high-volume PCB test applications. Supporting technologies such as our patented SafeTest™ technology allow TestStation users to safely troubleshoot the
low-voltage components and interconnects commonly found in battery-powered portable consumer electronics and low-power commercial equipment. In addition to standard ICT equipment, we offer combinational test platforms and handler-ready in-line test
systems for high-volume board manufacturing.

Diagnostic Solutions

We provide electronic test and diagnostic systems to the automotive OEMs and their major subcontractors. The systems are used throughout
the vehicle’s lifecycle from design through manufacture to after sale service and consist of highly integrated software and hardware components. As the number and complexity of electronic systems and embedded software proliferate in vehicles,
the ability to manufacture and service those vehicles becomes increasingly dependent on electronic diagnostic equipment. Our Diagnostic Solutions’ products fall into two categories:

OEM Service Diagnostics

OEM dealer service technicians use our systems to find faults in vehicles in use by their customers, and to reduce OEM warranty costs. Historically, the focus has been on fixing faults in the service bay,
but is now growing to include the programming of vehicle software.

Vehicle Configuration and Test Solutions

Our VCATS™ products are used on automotive and major automotive subassembly production lines. These products connect
to the vehicle to test and program or “configure” the electronic systems on vehicles. These vehicle electronic systems include engine control modules and subsystems such as braking, navigation and climate control. Our VCATS products are
also able to link to an OEM’s manufacturing control system in order to provide statistical quality reports to operators and management.

On February 16, 2011, we announced the sale of our Diagnostic Solutions business unit to SPX Corporation.

Discontinued Operations

On August 1, 2007, our Broadband Test
Division business was sold to Tollgrade Communications, Inc. This business provided test systems for testing lines and qualifying lines for DSL telephone networks. Broadband Test Division has been reflected as discontinued operations in the
accompanying financial statements.







Summary of Net Revenue by Reportable Segment

Our two reportable segments accounted for the following percentages of consolidated net revenue for each of last three years:



201020092008Semiconductor Test88%67%81%Systems Test Group123319Total100%100%100%

Sales and Distribution

In fiscal years 2010 and 2008, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue. In 2009, revenues from
Western Digital Corporation accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue. Western Digital Corporation is a customer of our Systems Test Group. In each of the years: 2010, 2009 and 2008, our three largest customers in aggregate
accounted for 21%, 26% and 14% of our consolidated net revenue, respectively.

Direct sales to United States government
agencies accounted for 1%, 4% and 2% of our consolidated net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Approximately 6%, 12% and 11% of Systems Test Group’s revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, was to United States government
agencies and 27%, 18% and 27% of Systems Test Group’s revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, was to government contractor customers.

We have sales and service offices located throughout North America, Asia and Europe, as our customers outside the United States are located primarily in these geographic areas. We sell in these areas
predominantly through a direct sales force. Our manufacturing activities are primarily conducted through subcontractors and outsourced contract manufacturers with a significant operation concentrated in China.

Sales to customers outside the United States accounted for 85%, 74% and 78% of our consolidated net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. Sales to customers located in Taiwan were 18%, 14% and 18% of consolidated net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales to customers located in Malaysia were 13%, 11% and 6% of our consolidated net revenue in 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively. Sales to customers located in the Philippines were 11%, 5% and 5% of our consolidated net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales are attributed to geographic areas based on the location of the customer site.

See also “Item 1A: Risk Factors” and “Note P: Operating Segment, Geographic and Significant Customer
Information” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Competition

We face significant competition throughout the world in each of our reportable segments. Competitors in the Semiconductor Test segment
include, among others, Advantest Corporation (“Advantest”), Verigy Inc. (“Verigy”) and LTX–Credence Corporation (“LTX”). The potential mergers between Verigy and LTX, or between Advantest and Verigy, may result in
a combined company that may be a stronger competitor in certain markets. Competitors in the Systems Test Group include, among others, Agilent Technologies, Inc. and Xyratex Ltd. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other
resources to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. We also face competition from emerging Asian equipment companies and from internal suppliers at several of our customers. Some of our competitors have
introduced or announced new products with certain performance characteristics which may be considered equal or superior to those we currently offer. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to
introduce new products or new technologies that provide improved cost of ownership and performance characteristics. See also “Item 1A: Risk Factors.”









Backlog

At December 31, 2010 and 2009, our backlog of unfilled orders in our two reportable segments was as follows:



20102009(in millions)Semiconductor Test$334.2$276.8Systems Test Group180.195.2$514.3$372.0

Of the backlog at
December 31, 2010, approximately 98% of the Semiconductor Test backlog and 88% of Systems Test Group backlog is expected to be delivered in 2011.

Customers may delay delivery of products or cancel orders suddenly and without significant notice, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and
cancellation of orders, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of the actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery schedules and/or cancellations of backlog during any particular period could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Raw Materials

Our products contain electronic and mechanical components that are provided by a wide range of suppliers. Certain of these components are
standard products, while others are manufactured to our specifications. We can experience occasional delays in obtaining timely delivery of certain items. While the majority of our components are available from multiple suppliers, certain items are
obtained from sole sources. We may experience a temporary adverse impact if any of our sole source suppliers’ delays or ceases to deliver products.

Intellectual Property and Licenses

The development of our products, both
hardware and software, is based in significant part on proprietary information, our brands and technology. We protect our rights in proprietary information, brands and technology through various methods, such as:



•patents;



•copyrights;



•trademarks;



•trade secrets;



•standards of business conduct and related business practices; and



•technology license agreements, software license agreements, non-disclosure agreements, employment agreements, and other agreements.

However, these protections might not be effective in all circumstances. Competitors might independently
develop similar technology or exploit our proprietary information and our brands in countries where we lack enforceable intellectual property rights or where enforcement of such rights through the legal system provides an insufficient deterrent.
Also, intellectual property protections can lapse or be invalidated through appropriate legal processes. We do not believe that any single piece of intellectual property or proprietary rights is essential to our business.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 3,000 people. Since the inception of our business, we have experienced no work stoppages or other labor disturbances. We have no collective bargaining contracts.







Engineering and Development Activities

The highly technical nature of our products requires a large and continuing engineering and development effort. Engineering and
development expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $197.0 million, $164.8 million, and $216.5 million, respectively. These expenditures amounted to approximately 12%, 20%, and 20% of consolidated net revenue in
2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.

Environmental Affairs

We are subject to various federal, state, and local government laws and regulations relating to the protection of employee health and safety and the environment. We accrue for all known environmental
liabilities when it becomes probable that we will incur cleanup costs and those costs can reasonably be estimated. The amounts accrued do not cover sites that are in the preliminary stages of investigation. Estimated environmental costs are not
expected to materially affect the financial position or results of our operations in future periods. However, estimates of future costs are subject to change due to protracted cleanup periods and changing environmental remediation laws and
regulations.







OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the following table is included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in lieu
of being included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The table sets forth the names of all of our executive officers and certain other information relating to their positions held with Teradyne and other business
experience. Our executive officers do not have a specific term of office but rather serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.



Executive OfficerAgePositionBusiness Experience For The Past 5
YearsMichael A. Bradley62Chief Executive Officer and PresidentChief Executive Officer since 2004; President of Teradyne since 2003; President of Semiconductor Test from 2001 to 2003.Gregory R. Beecher53Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerVice President and Chief Financial Officer of Teradyne since 2001 and Treasurer of Teradyne from 2003 to 2005 and since 2006.Charles J. Gray49Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryVice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Teradyne since April 2009; Vice President and General Counsel of Sonus Networks, Inc. from 2002 to 2008.Jeffrey R. Hotchkiss63President of SystemsTest
GroupPresident of Systems Test Group since 2007; President of Assembly Test Systems from 2004 to 2007, and President of Diagnostic Solutions from 2005 to 2007.Mark E. Jagiela50President of Semiconductor TestPresident of Semiconductor Test since 2003; Vice President of Teradyne since 2001.

