
10-K405
FORM 10-K405




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                           --------------------------

                                    FORM 10-K

 (Mark One)

[X]    Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
       Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999, or

[ ]    Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
       Exchange Act of 1934

For the transition period from _____________________ to ______________________

Commission file number 0-16125

                                FASTENAL COMPANY
           ----------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Minnesota                                            41-0948415
- -------------------------------                            -------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                             (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                             Identification No.)

       2001 Theurer Boulevard
         Winona, Minnesota                                      55987-1500
- ----------------------------------------                      --------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                        (Zip Code)

                                 (507) 454-5374
           ----------------------------------------------------------
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: Common Stock, $.01
                                                            par value

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes _X_  No ___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X ]

The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of March 1, 2000 was $1,307,989,774. For purposes of determining
this number, all executive officers and directors of the registrant as of March
1, 2000 are considered to be affiliates of the registrant. This number is
provided only for the purposes of this report on Form 10-K and does not
represent an admission by either the registrant or any such person as to the
status of such person.

As of March 1, 2000, the registrant had 37,938,688 shares of Common Stock issued
and outstanding.




                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1999 are incorporated by reference in Part II. Portions of
the registrant's Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of shareholders to be
held April 18, 2000 are incorporated by reference in Part III.


                           FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Form 10-K, including the sections in Part I hereof captioned "Item 1.
Business - Development of the Business", "Item 1. Business - Products", "Item 1.
Business - Manufacturing Operations", and "Item 2. Properties", and the sections
in Part II hereof captioned "Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and
Related Stockholder Matters" and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", contains or incorporates by
reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to
be, and are hereby identified as, "forward-looking statements" as defined in the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding
new store and distribution center openings, markets for new stores, hiring of
sales personnel, introduction of new product lines, foreign operations,
technology conversions, growth in value added services, leasing of new stores,
capital expenditures and dividends. A discussion of certain risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
predicted in such forward-looking statements is included in the registrant's
Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999 in the
section thereof captioned "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations", which section has been incorporated in
this Form 10-K by reference. The registrant assumes no obligation to update
either such forward-looking statements or the discussion of such risks and
uncertainties.


                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Fastenal Company ("Fastenal Company" and, together with its wholly owned
subsidiaries, Fastenal Company Services, Fastenal Company Purchasing, Fastenal
Company Leasing, Fastenal Canada Company, Fastenal Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.,
and Fastenal Mexico Services, S. de R.L. de C.V., collectively, "the Company")
began as a partnership in 1967, and was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota
in 1968. As of December 31, 1999, the Company had 809 store sites located in 48
states, Puerto Rico, and Canada and 3,670 people employed at these sites.
Fifty-nine of these sites were satellite stores of an existing site.

The Company sells industrial and construction supplies. These industrial and
construction supplies are grouped into nine product lines described further
below.

The Company operated eleven distribution centers as of December 31, 1999 from
which the Company distributes products to its store sites, and operates a
facility in Memphis, Tennessee to receive and package goods coming from
suppliers outside of the United States.




Development of the Business

Fastenal Company began in 1967 with a marketing strategy of supplying threaded
fasteners to customers in small to medium-sized cities. The Company believes its
success can be attributed to its ability to offer such customers a full line of
products at convenient locations, and to the high quality of the Company's
employees.

The Company opened its first store site in Winona, Minnesota, a city with a
population of approximately 25,000. The following table shows the number of
Company store sites during each of the last ten years and the related
consolidated net sales for each year during that period:



As of December 31, 1999, the Company operated 809 store sites located in:



The Company has closed only four store sites in its history.




The Company selects new locations for its stores based on their proximity to the
Company's distribution network, population statistics, and employment data for
manufacturing and construction. The Company intends to continue opening new
store sites and currently expects the rate of new store openings to be
approximately 10 to 15% per year.

The Company stocks all new stores with an inventory drawn from all of its
product lines. Subsequent to a site's opening, the site personnel customize the
inventory offering to that site's customer base. The Company has two types of
stores: (1) the stand-alone store and (2) the satellite store. The stand-alone
store is typically located in cities with a population in excess of 8,000. The
Company believes approximately 1,000 markets in the United States and Canada
(including those in which existing stand-alone stores are already located) has
sufficient potential to justify this type of store. Many of the future potential
markets for stand-alone stores are located in smaller communities. The second
type, the satellite store, operates as a satellite of a stand-alone store. The
satellite store is usually located within 30 miles of the stand-alone (mother)
store and is typically managed by personnel at the mother store. The Company has
satellite stores located in communities with a population as small as 2,000. In
most cases, the Company was already doing business in this community from the
mother store, but the addition of a physical presence in the community provided
sales increases from that community. Of the 44 stores opened during 1999, 10
opened as satellite stores. Although the Company cannot be sure of the success
of these stores, the Company believes that their success could lead to
approximately 500 satellite store sites in the United States and Canada. Some of
these satellite stores are expected to eventually become stand-alone stores.

The Company opened 20 store sites in Canada in 1997, nine in 1998, and five in
1999, and plans to open additional store sites in Canada in the future. The
Company opened one store site in Puerto Rico in 1997, three in 1998, and none in
1999, and plans to open additional store sites in Puerto Rico in the future. The
stores in Canada and Puerto Rico contributed less than 5% of the Company's
consolidated net sales in 1999. In 1999 the Company sold products into Mexico
from its existing stores along the border between the United States and Mexico.
The Company also established a Mexican subsidiary in 1998. This subsidiary is
expected to employ sales personnel to sell directly into Mexico in the future.

No assurance can be given that any of the expansion plans described above will
be achieved, or that new stores, once opened, will be profitable.

It has been the Company's experience that near-term profitability has been
adversely affected by the opening of new store sites, due to the related
start-up costs and the time necessary to generate a customer base. A new store
generates its sales from direct sales calls, a slow process involving repeated
contacts. As a result of this process, sales volume builds slowly and it
typically requires nine to 12 months for a new store to achieve its first
profitable month. The one store opened in the first quarter of 1999 was
profitable in the fourth quarter of 1999.




For 1999, annual sales volumes of store sites operating at least five years
ranged between approximately $198,000 and $4,670,000, with 75% of these store
sites having annual sales volumes within the range of approximately $453,000 to
$1,951,000. The data in the following table shows the growth in the average
sales of the Company's store sites from 1998 to 1999 based on each site's age.
The store sites opened in 1999 contributed approximately $1.9 million (or
approximately 0.3%) of the Company's consolidated net sales in 1999, with the
remainder coming from store sites opened prior to 1999.



(1) Average sales include sales of store sites open for less than the full
    fiscal year.

(2) During 1999 one store site in this group closed. The 1998 average reflects
    122 stores sites and the 1999 average reflects 121.5 store sites

As of December 31, 1999, the Company operated distribution centers in or near
Winona, Minnesota; Indianapolis, Indiana; Dallas, Texas; Atlanta, Georgia;
Scranton, Pennsylvania; Fresno, California; Lakewood, Washington; Akron, Ohio;
Salt Lake City, Utah; Winston-Salem, North Carolina; and Kansas City, Missouri.
Distribution centers are located so as to permit twice-a-week to five
times-a-week deliveries to Company stores using Company trucks and overnight
delivery by surface common carrier. As the number of stores increases, the
Company intends to add new distribution centers.

The Company also operates a packaging facility in Memphis, Tennessee. This
facility receives freight containers from foreign suppliers and repackages the
items in standard packages using high-speed equipment.

The Company operates a central UNIX/terminal-based computer system allowing
automatic data exchange between the stores and the distribution centers during
regular business hours. The use of client/server technology allows the Company's
network of UNIX-based machines to serve networked personal computers and
workstations. The Company converted a portion of this central processing system
in 1999 to a new computer software and operating system and plans to convert
additional modules during 2000.

During 1999, the Company had two point-of-sale systems at the store level. The
first was a UNIX/terminal based computer system (legacy point-of-sale system)
and the second a Microsoft Windows NT system (NT Point-of-sale system). The
development of the NT Point-of-sale system began in 1996. During 1997 and 1998
the Company tested its NT Point-of-sale system in a limited number of store
locations. At the end of 1998, approximately 120 stores were using the NT
Point-of-sale system. The Company converted all remaining stores from the legacy
point-of-sale system to the NT Point-of-sale system during 1999.




Trademarks

The Company conducts its business in the United States and Canada under various
trademarks and service marks, including Fastenal(R), FastTool(R), SharpCut(R),
EquipRite(R), CleanChoice(R), PowerPhase(TM) and FastArc(TM). Although the
Company does not believe its operations are substantially dependent upon any of
its trademarks or service marks, the Company considers its "Fastenal" name and
other trademarks and service marks to be valuable to its business.

Products

The Company's original product offering in 1967 was fasteners and other
industrial and construction supplies, many of which are sold under the
Fastenal(R) product name. Today, this product line consists of approximately
66,000 different stock items. This product line may be divided into two broad
categories: threaded fasteners, such as bolts, nuts, screws, studs, and related
washers; and other industrial and construction supplies, such as paints, various
pins and machinery keys, concrete anchors, batteries, sealants, metal framing
systems, wire rope, stainless strut, private label stud anchors, rivets, and
related accessories.

Threaded fasteners are used in most manufactured products and building projects,
and in the maintenance and repair of machines and structures. Although some
aspects of the threaded fastener market are common to all cities, the Company
feels that each city's market is to some extent unique. Therefore, the Company
opens each store with minimal base stocks of inventory and then tailors the
growing inventory to the local market demand as it develops. Threaded fasteners
accounted for approximately 51%, 55%, and 61% of the Company's consolidated net
sales in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

Concrete anchors make up the largest portion of the other supply items included
in the Fastenal(R) product line. Most concrete anchors use threaded fasteners as
part of the completed anchor assembly.

During the 1990's, the Company added eight additional product lines. These
product lines are sold through the same distribution channel as the original
Fastenal(R) product line and include the following:

                                          Approximate
                                Year       number of    Private label
Product line:                introduced   stock items    product name
- --------------------------- ------------ ------------- ---------------

Tools                           1993         40,000     FastTool(R)
Cutting Tools                   1996         18,000     SharpCut(R)
Hydraulics and Pneumatics       1996         18,000
Material Handling               1996          7,000     EquipRite(R)
Janitorial Supplies             1996          4,000     CleanChoice(R)
Electrical Supplies             1997          5,000     PowerPhase(TM)
Welding Supplies(1)             1997          3,000     FastArc(TM)
Safety supplies                 1999          1,000

(1)  Excluding gas and welding machines.

The Company plans to add other industrial product lines in the future.




Inventory Control

The Company controls inventory by using computer systems to determine desired
stock levels. The data used for this purpose is derived from reports showing
sales activity by stock item for the previous three years. Computers then
convert this data to typical store maximum-minimum inventory levels for each
stock item. Stores can deviate from preset inventory levels as deemed
appropriate by their district managers. Inventories in distribution centers are
established from computerized sales data for the stores served by the respective
centers.

Manufacturing and Support Services Operations

In 1999 approximately 94.8% of the Company's consolidated net sales were
attributable to products manufactured by other companies to industry standards.
The remaining amount of approximately 5.2% of the Company's consolidated net
sales for 1999 related to products manufactured, modified or repaired by either
the Company's Manufacturing Division or its Support Services. The manufactured
products consist primarily of non-standard sizes of threaded fasteners made to
customers' specifications. The services provided by the Support Services group
include, but are not limited to, items such as tool repair, band saw blade
welding and light manufacturing. The Company engages in these activities
primarily as a service to its customers and does not expect any significant
growth in the foreseeable future in the proportion of the Company's consolidated
net sales attributable to these value added services.

Sources of Supply

The Company uses a large number of suppliers for the approximately 162,000
standard stock items it distributes. Most items distributed by the Company can
be purchased from several sources, although preferred sourcing is used for some
stock items to facilitate quality control. No single supplier accounted for more
than 5.0% of the Company's purchases in 1999.




Customers and Marketing

The Company believes its success can be attributed to its ability to offer
customers in small to medium-sized cities a full line of products at convenient
locations, and to the high quality of the Company's employees. Most of the
Company's customers are in the construction and manufacturing markets. The
construction market includes general, electrical, plumbing, sheet metal, and
road contractors. The manufacturing market includes both original equipment
manufacturers and maintenance and repair operations. Other users of the
Company's products include farmers, truckers, railroads, mining companies,
municipalities, schools, and certain retail trades. As of December 31, 1999, the
Company's total number of active customer accounts (defined as accounts having
purchase activity within the last 90 days) was approximately 108,000.

During each of the three years ended December 31, 1999, no one customer
accounted for a significant portion of the Company's sales. The Company believes
that the large number of its customers together with the varied markets that
they represent provide some protection to the Company from economic downturns in
a particular market.

A significant portion of the Company's sales is generated through direct calls
on customers by store personnel. Because of the nature of the Company's
business, the Company does not use the more expensive forms of mass media
advertising such as television, radio, and newspapers. Forms of advertising used
by the Company include signs and catalogs.

Competition

The Company's business is highly competitive. Competitors include both large
distributors located primarily in large cities and smaller distributors located
in many of the same cities in which the Company has stores. The Company believes
that the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for the Company's
products are customer service and convenience.

Some competitors use vans to sell their products in communities away from their
main warehouses, while others rely on mail order or telemarketing sales. The
Company, however, believes that the convenience provided to customers by
actually operating a number of stores in smaller markets, each offering a full
line of products, is a competitive selling advantage and that the large number
of stores in a given area, taken together with the Company's ability to provide
frequent deliveries to such stores from centrally located distribution centers,
makes possible the prompt and efficient distribution of products. Having trained
personnel at each store also enhances the Company's ability to compete (see
"Employees" below).

Employees

As of December 31, 1999, the Company employed a total of 5,493 full and
part-time employees, 3,670 being store managers and store employees, and the
balance being employed in the Company's distribution centers, packaging
facility, manufacturing operations, service operations and home office.




The Company believes that the quality of its employees is critical to its
ability to compete successfully in the markets it currently serves and to its
ability to open new stores in new markets. The Company fosters the growth and
education of skilled employees throughout the organization by operating training
programs and by decentralizing decision making. Wherever possible, promotions
are from within the Company. For example, most new store managers are promoted
from an assistant manager's position at another store and district managers (who
supervise a number of stores) are usually former store managers.

The Company's sales personnel participate in incentive bonus arrangements that
place emphasis on achieving increased sales on a store and regional basis, while
still attaining targeted levels of gross profit. As a result, a significant
portion of the Company's total employment cost varies with sales volume. The
Company also pays incentive bonuses to other personnel for achieving
pre-determined cost containment goals.

None of the Company's employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement
and the Company has experienced no work stoppages. The Company believes its
employee relations are excellent.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Company owns six facilities in Winona, Minnesota. These facilities are as
follows:

                                                             Approximate
Purpose                                                      Square Feet
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Distribution center and home office                            213,000
Manufacturing facility                                          50,000 (1)
Winona store and regional training center                       13,000
Winona support services                                         55,000 (2)
Rack and shelving storage                                       42,000
Multi-building complex which houses certain operations of
  its Manufacturing Division and its Support Services group     30,000

The Company also owns the following facilities, excluding store locations,
outside of Winona, Minnesota:

                                                             Approximate
Purpose                    Location                          Square Feet
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Distribution center        Indianapolis, Indiana                76,000 (3)
Distribution center        Atlanta, Georgia                     54,000
Distribution center        Dallas, Texas                        95,000
Distribution center        Scranton, Pennsylvania               80,000
Distribution center        Akron, Ohio                         102,000

(1) The Winona, Minnesota manufacturing facility is currently being expanded to
    approximately 100,000 square feet.

(2) This facility was purchased in November 1999 and is currently being
    renovated for future use.

(3) A new distribution center in Indianapolis, Indiana was purchased in November
    1999. The new distribution center has approximately 414,000 square feet and
    is currently being renovated for future use. The existing facility will
    either be sold or leased once the distribution center operations have moved
    to the new location.




In addition, the buildings that house the Company's stores in Mason City, Iowa;
St. Joseph, Missouri; Wichita Falls and Texarkana, Texas; Salina, Topeka, and
Wichita, Kansas; Vicksburg, Mississippi; Kokomo, Indiana, Appleton, Wisconsin;
Muskegon, Michigan; and Rochester, Minnesota. are owned by the Company. As of
December 1999, the Company was in the process of building a store location in
Elmira, New York.

All other buildings occupied by the Company are leased. Leased stores range from
approximately 1,200 to 8,000 square feet, with lease terms of up to 48 months.
The Company also leases the following distribution centers and packaging
facility:



(1) The lease renewals can be exercised at the Company's option.


If economic conditions are suitable, the Company will, in the future, consider
purchasing store sites to house its older stores. It is anticipated that all
sites for new stores will continue to be leased. It is the Company's policy to
negotiate relatively short lease terms to facilitate relocation of particular
store operations if deemed desirable by management. It has been the Company's
experience that space suitable for its needs and available for leasing is more
than sufficient.


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

None.


ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

Not Applicable.




ITEM X. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The executive officers of Fastenal Company are:

             Name             Age                Position
     --------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Robert A. Kierlin         60       Chairman of the Board, President, Chief
                                        Executive Officer and Director

     Willard D. Oberton        41       Vice President, Chief Operating Officer
                                        and Director

     Stephen M. Slaggie        60       Secretary and Director

     Daniel L. Florness        36       Treasurer, Chief Financial Officer and
                                        Chief Accounting Officer


Mr. Kierlin has been the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
Officer of Fastenal Company and has served as a director of Fastenal Company
since Fastenal Company's incorporation in 1968.

Mr. Oberton has been the Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Fastenal
Company since March 1997 and has served as a director of Fastenal Company since
June 1999. From June 1986 through March 1997, Mr. Oberton held the position of
general operations manager of Fastenal Company.

Mr. Slaggie has been the Secretary of Fastenal Company and has served as a
director of Fastenal Company since 1970. He became a full-time employee of
Fastenal Company in December 1987, at which time he assumed the additional
duties of Shareholder Relations Director and Insurance Risk Manager. From 1970
through June 1996, Mr. Slaggie also served as the Treasurer of Fastenal Company.

Mr. Florness has been the Treasurer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
Accounting Officer of Fastenal Company since June 1996. From January 1987
through May 1996, Mr. Florness was employed by KPMG LLP, a public accounting
firm. Mr. Florness served in the capacity of senior manager from July 1992
through May 1996 with that firm.

The executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors, generally for a
term of one year, and serve until their successors are elected and qualified.
None of the above executive officers is related to any other such executive
officer or to any other director of Fastenal Company.




                                     PART II


ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY
        AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Incorporated herein by reference is Fastenal Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999, Common Stock Data on
page 9.


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Incorporated herein by reference is Fastenal Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999, Six-Year Selected
Financial Data on page 4.


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
        FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Incorporated herein by reference is Fastenal Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999, Management's
Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition & Results of Operations on pages
5-8.


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS

Incorporated herein by reference is Fastenal Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999, Market Risk Management
on page 7.


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Incorporated herein by reference is Fastenal Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999, Selected Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited) on page 9, and Consolidated Financial Statements,
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and Independent Auditors' Report on
pages 10-20.


ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
        ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.




                                    PART III


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the headings
"Election of Directors--Nominees and Required Vote", pages 4 and 5, and "Section
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Requirements", page 11, in Fastenal
Company's Proxy Statement dated March 14, 2000. See also Part I hereof under the
heading "Item X. Executive Officers of the Registrant".


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the headings
"Election of Directors--Board and Committee Meetings", page 5, "Executive
Compensation--Summary of Compensation", page 6, and "Executive
Compensation--Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", page
7, in Fastenal Company's Proxy Statement dated March 14, 2000.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
         BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the heading
"Security Ownership of Principal Shareholders and Management", pages 2 and 3, in
Fastenal Company's Proxy Statement dated March 14, 2000.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

None.



                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES,
         AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

a)   1.  Financial Statements:

             Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1999 and 1998
             Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended December
               31, 1999, 1998, and 1997
             Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive
               Income for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997
             Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
               December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             Independent Auditors' Report

             (Incorporated by reference to pages 10-20 of Fastenal Company's
             Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December
             31, 1999)

     2.  Financial Statement Schedules:

             Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

     3.  Exhibits:

              3.1  Restated Articles of Incorporation of Fastenal Company, as
                   amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to
                   Fastenal Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
                   30, 1993)

              3.2  Restated By-Laws of Fastenal Company (incorporated by
                   reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Registration Statement No.
                   33-14923)

             10.1  Description of bonus arrangement for Vice President
                   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to Fastenal
                   Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997)

             10.2  Description of bonus arrangement for Treasurer (incorporated
                   by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Fastenal Company's Form 10-K
                   for the year ended December 31, 1998)

             13    Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended
                   December 31, 1999 (only those portions specifically
                   incorporated by reference herein shall be deemed filed with
                   the Commission)

             21    List of Subsidiaries

             23    Consent of KPMG LLP

             27    Financial Data Schedule

             Copies of Exhibits will be furnished upon request and payment of
             the Company's reasonable expenses in furnishing the Exhibits.

b)   Reports on Form 8-K

     Fastenal Company filed no report on Form 8-K during the fourth quarter of
     the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999.











                    Independent Auditors' Report on Schedule




The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Fastenal Company:


Under date of January 19, 2000, except as to Note 4, which is as of January 25,
2000, we reported on the consolidated balance sheets of Fastenal Company and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1999, as
contained in the 1999 annual report to shareholders. These consolidated
financial statements and our report thereon are incorporated by reference in the
annual report on Form 10-K for the year 1999. In connection with our audits of
the aforementioned consolidated financial statements, we also audited the
related financial statement schedule as listed in the accompanying index. This
financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on this financial statement schedule
based on our audits.

In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.



                                                   /s/ KPMG LLP
                                                   KPMG LLP






Minneapolis, Minnesota
January 19, 2000, except as to
Note 4, which is as of January 25, 2000




                                FASTENAL COMPANY

                 Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

                  Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997






                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: March 13, 2000

                                       FASTENAL COMPANY


                                       By /s/ Robert A. Kierlin
                                          --------------------------------
                                          Robert A. Kierlin, President

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


Date: March 13, 2000                   By /s/ Robert A. Kierlin
                                          -------------------------------------
                                          Robert A. Kierlin, President
                                            (Principal Executive Officer) and
                                            Director

Date: March 13, 2000                   By /s/ Daniel L. Florness
                                          -------------------------------------
                                          Daniel L. Florness, Treasurer
                                            (Principal Financial Officer and
                                            Principal Accounting Officer)

Date: March 13, 2000                   By /s/ Stephen M. Slaggie
                                          -------------------------------------
                                          Stephen M. Slaggie, Director

Date: March 13, 2000                   By /s/ Michael M. Gostomski
                                          -------------------------------------
                                          Michael M. Gostomski, Director

Date: March 13, 2000                   By /s/ Henry K. McConnon
                                          -------------------------------------
                                          Henry K. McConnon, Director

Date: March 13, 2000                   By /s/ John D. Remick
                                          -------------------------------------
                                          John D. Remick, Director

Date: March 13, 2000                   By /s/ Robert A. Hansen
                                          -------------------------------------
                                          Robert A. Hansen, Director

Date: March 13, 2000                   By /s/ Willard D. Oberton
                                          -------------------------------------
                                          Willard D. Oberton, Director


                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS


 3.1     Restated Articles of Incorporation of Fastenal
         Company, as amended (incorporated by reference to
         Exhibit 3.1 to Fastenal Company's Form 10-Q for the
         quarter ended September 30, 1993).

 3.2     Restated By-Laws of Fastenal Company (incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Registration Statement
         No. 33-14923).

10.1     Description of bonus arrangement for Vice President
         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to Fastenal
         Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
         1997)

10.2     Description of bonus arrangement for Treasurer
         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
         Fastenal Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
         December 31, 1998)

13       Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year
         ended December 31, 1999 (only those portions
         specifically incorporated by reference herein shall
         be deemed filed with the Commission)...............Electronically Filed

21       List of Subsidiaries ..............................Electronically Filed

23       Consent of KPMG LLP ...............................Electronically Filed

27       Financial Data Schedule............................Electronically Filed

