Item 1. Business

Overview

We are one of the largest petroleum product refiners, marketers and transporters in the United States. Our
operations consist of three business segments:



•Refining & Marketing—refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our six refineries in the Gulf Coast and Midwest regions of the United
States, purchases ethanol and refined products for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. We sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically
and internationally, to buyers on the spot market, to our Speedway business segment and to dealers and jobbers who operate
Marathon®retail outlets;



•Speedway—sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the Midwest, primarily through Speedway®convenience stores; and



•Pipeline Transportation—transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, delivers refined products to wholesale
and retail market areas and includes, among other transportation-related assets, a majority interest in LOOP LLC, which is the owner and operator of the only U.S. deepwater oil port.

See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 8 for operating segment and geographic financial information,
which is incorporated herein by reference.

On December 1, 2010, we completed the sale of most of our
Minnesota Assets. These assets included the 74,000 barrel-per-day St. Paul Park refinery and associated terminals, 166 convenience stores primarily branded SuperAmerica®(including six stores in Wisconsin) along with the SuperMom’s®bakery (a baked goods and sandwich supply operation) and certain associated trademarks, SuperAmerica Franchising LLC, interests in pipeline assets in Minnesota and
associated inventories. We refer to these assets as the “Minnesota Assets.” The operating statistics included in this section reflect the exclusion of these assets, except as otherwise indicated. See Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data – Note 5 for additional information on the disposition of these assets.







Our Competitive Strengths

High Quality Asset Base

We believe we are the largest crude oil refiner in
the Midwest and the fifth largest in the United States based on crude oil refining capacity. We currently own a six-plant refinery network with approximately 1.2 million barrels per calendar day (“mmbpcd”) of crude oil throughput
capacity. Our refineries process a wide range of crude oils, including heavy and sour crude oils, which can generally be purchased at a discount to sweet crude, and produce transportation fuels such as gasoline and distillates, as well as other
refined products.

Strategic Location

The geographic locations of our refineries and our extensive midstream distribution system provide us with strategic advantages. Located in Petroleum Administration for Defense District (“PADD”)
II and PADD III, which consist of states in the Midwest and the Gulf Coast regions of the United States, our refineries have the ability to procure crude oil from a variety of supply sources, including domestic, Canadian and other foreign sources,
which provides us with flexibility to optimize supply costs. For example, geographic proximity to Canadian crude oil supply sources allows our refineries to incur lower transportation costs than competitors transporting Canadian crude oil to the
Gulf Coast for refining. Our refinery locations and midstream distribution system also allow us to access export markets and to serve a broad range of key end-user markets across the United States quickly and cost-effectively.





Attractive Growth Opportunities Through Internal Projects

We believe that we have attractive growth opportunities through internal capital projects. In 2009, we completed a major expansion project
at our Garyville, Louisiana refinery, which initially expanded the crude oil refining capacity of this refinery by 180 thousand barrels per calendar day (“mbpcd”) to 436 mbpcd. We have continued







to debottleneck the expanded refinery and have increased the crude oil refining capacity to 490 mbpcd as of December 31, 2011. The Garyville major expansion project has enhanced our scale
efficiency, our feedstock flexibility and access to global markets. We are also continuing work on a $2.2 billion (excluding capitalized interest) heavy oil upgrading and expansion project at our Detroit, Michigan refinery. We expect construction
will be completed in the third quarter of 2012 with full integration into the refinery by year-end 2012. The project will enable the refinery to process additional heavy, sour crude oils, including Canadian bitumen blends, which have traded at a
steep discount to light sweet crude oil, and is expected to increase the refinery’s crude oil refining capacity by approximately 15 thousand barrels per day (“mbpd”).

Extensive Midstream Distribution Networks

We believe the relative scale of
our transportation and distribution assets and operations distinguishes us from other refining and marketing companies. We currently own, lease or have ownership interests in approximately 8,300 miles of crude oil and refined product pipelines. We
are one of the largest petroleum pipeline companies in the United States on the basis of total volume delivered. We also own one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges and one of the largest terminal operations in
the United States, as well as trucking and rail assets. We operate this system in coordination with our refining and marketing network, which enables us to optimize feedstock and raw material supplies and refined product distribution. This in turn
results in economy-of-scale advantages that contribute to profitability.

Competitively Positioned Marketing Operations

We are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers within our market area. We have
two strong retail brands: Speedway®and Marathon®. We believe our 1,371
Speedway®convenience stores, which we operate through a wholly owned subsidiary, Speedway LLC, comprise the
fourth largest chain of company-owned and operated retail gasoline and convenience stores in the United States. The Marathon brand is an established motor fuel brand in the Midwest and Southeast regions of the United States, and is available through
more than 5,000 retail outlets operated by jobbers and dealers in 18 states. We believe our distribution system allows us to maximize the sales value of our products and minimize cost.







Established Track Record of Profitability and Diversified Income Stream

We have demonstrated an ability to achieve positive financial results throughout all stages of the recent business cycle. Our historical
net income in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $2.39 billion, $623 million and $449 million, respectively. We believe our business mix and strategies position us well to continue to achieve competitive financial results.

As shown in the following chart, income from operations attributable to the Speedway and Pipeline Transportation segments is less
sensitive to business cycles while income from operations for the Refining & Marketing segment fluctuates to a greater degree.





Our Business Strategies

Maintain Investment Grade Credit Profile

As of December 31, 2011, we
had $3.08 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $3.0 billion in unused committed credit facilities. We also had $3.31 billion of debt at year-end, which represented only 26 percent of our total capitalization. This strong balance sheet and
liquidity position helped support our investment-grade credit profile that we have had since the Spinoff and continues to be a strategic objective as we go forward.

Balance Investments in the Business with Return of Capital to Stockholders

A significant decision we make is how to use the cash that we generate to maximize stockholder value. In October 2011, the board of
directors authorized a 25 percent increase in the quarterly dividend and in February 2012, the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of our common stock over the next two years. We also seek to increase stockholder value by investing in acquisitions,
capital additions and other commercial opportunities.

Pursue Growth by Expanding and Upgrading Existing Asset Base

We continually evaluate opportunities to expand our existing asset base and consider capital projects that enhance our core
competitiveness in the refining, marketing and transportation businesses. Examples include our Garyville refinery major expansion project completed in 2009 and our on-going heavy oil upgrading and expansion project at our Detroit, Michigan refinery.
We will continue to pursue other organic growth opportunities that provide an attractive return on capital.







Increase Profitability Through Margin Improvement

We intend to increase the profitability of our existing assets by pursuing a number of margin improvement opportunities, including
increasing our feedstock flexibility and our production of high-value end products.

Selectively Pursue Acquisitions

We will continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, with the aim of increasing earnings while maintaining financial discipline. For
example, our Speedway segment completed the acquisition of 23 convenience stores in the Chicago market in 2011 and we announced on February 9, 2012 that Speedway signed an agreement to acquire an additional 88 convenience stores throughout
Indiana and Ohio from GasAmerica Services, Inc. We intend to continue growing the Speedway segment, in part, by acquisition.

Evaluate
Strategic Alternatives for Midstream Assets

On February 1, 2012, we announced that we are evaluating strategic
alternatives with respect to certain of our midstream assets, including, but not limited to, the possible formation and initial public offering of a master limited partnership (“MLP”). Midstream assets are generally considered those
involved in transportation, storage and logistics operations. If we determine to further pursue an initial public offering of an MLP, we would not expect to file a registration statement before the end of the second quarter of 2012.

The above discussion contains forward-looking statements with respect to our business strategies, including our midstream asset
evaluation. There can be no assurance that we will be successful, in whole or in part, in pursuing our business strategies, including whether our evaluation of our midstream assets will lead to an initial public offering of an MLP or any other
transaction, or that if any transaction is further pursued, that it will be consummated. Some of the factors that could affect the midstream asset evaluation and the outcome of such evaluation include risks relating to securities markets generally,
the impact of adverse market conditions affecting our midstream business, adverse changes in laws including with respect to tax and regulatory matters and other risks.

Refining & Marketing

We currently own and operate six refineries
in the Gulf Coast and Midwest regions of the United States with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of approximately 1.2 mmbpcd as of December 31, 2011. During 2011, our refineries processed 1,177 mbpd of crude oil and 181 mbpd of
other charge and blend stocks. During 2010 (including the St. Paul Park refinery until December 1), our refineries processed 1,173 mbpd of crude oil and 162 mbpd of other charge and blend stocks. The table below sets forth the location and
crude oil refining capacity of each of our refineries.



RefineryDecember 31, 2011Crude Oil RefiningCapacity (mbpcd)(a)Garyville, Louisiana490Catlettsburg, Kentucky233Robinson, Illinois206Detroit, Michigan106Texas City, Texas80Canton, Ohio78Total1,193



(a)Refining throughput can exceed crude oil capacity due to the processing of other feedstocks in addition to crude oil and the timing of planned
turnaround and major maintenance activity.







Our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic
cracking, catalytic reforming, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. The refineries process a wide variety of crude oils and produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade
gasolines intended for blending with fuel ethanol and ultra-low-sulfur diesel fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. Additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene, cumene and sulfur. Our refineries are integrated with each other via
pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. The transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and utilize
our processing capacity efficiently. For example, naphtha may be moved from Texas City to Robinson where excess reforming capacity is available. Also, by shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns, we are
able to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work.

Garyville, Louisiana Refinery.
Our Garyville, Louisiana refinery is located along the Mississippi River in southeastern Louisiana between New Orleans and Baton Rouge. The Garyville refinery is configured to process heavy sour crude oil into products such as gasoline, distillates,
asphalt, polymer grade propylene, propane, isobutane, sulfur and fuel-grade coke. An expansion project was completed in the fourth quarter of 2009 that increased Garyville’s crude oil refining capacity, making it one of the largest refineries
in the U.S. Our Garyville refinery has earned designation as a U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) Voluntary Protection Program (“VPP”) Star site.

Catlettsburg, Kentucky Refinery. Our Catlettsburg, Kentucky refinery is located in northeastern Kentucky on the western bank of
the Big Sandy River, near the confluence with the Ohio River. The Catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into products such as gasoline, distillates, asphalt, cumene, petrochemicals, propane and propylene.

Robinson, Illinois Refinery. Our Robinson, Illinois refinery is located in southeastern Illinois. The Robinson refinery processes
sweet and sour crude oils into products such as multiple grades of gasoline, distillates, anode-grade coke, propane, butane and propylene. The Robinson refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site.

Detroit, Michigan Refinery. Our Detroit, Michigan refinery is located near Interstate 75 in southwest Detroit. It is the only
petroleum refinery currently operating in Michigan. The Detroit refinery processes light sweet and heavy sour crude oils, including Canadian crude oils, into products such as gasoline, distillates, asphalt, slurry, propane, and propylene. Our
Detroit refinery earned designation as a Michigan VPP Star site in 2010. In 2007, we approved a heavy oil upgrading and expansion project at this refinery, with a current projected cost of $2.2 billion (excluding capitalized interest). This project
will enable the refinery to process an additional 80 mbpd of heavy sour crude oils, including Canadian bitumen blends, and will increase its total crude oil refining capacity by approximately 15 mbpd. Construction began in the first half of 2008 and
overall progress reached 85 percent completion at December 31, 2011. The project is expected to complete construction in the third quarter of 2012 with full integration into the refinery by year-end 2012.

Canton, Ohio Refinery. Our Canton, Ohio refinery is located approximately 60 miles southeast of Cleveland, Ohio. The Canton
refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into products such as gasoline, distillates, asphalt, propane, slurry and roofing flux.

Texas City, Texas Refinery. Our Texas City, Texas refinery is located on the Texas Gulf Coast approximately 30 miles south of Houston, Texas. The refinery processes sweet crude oil into products
such as gasoline, chemical grade propylene, propane, slurry and aromatics.

Planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds,
requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional detail.







The above discussion includes forward-looking statements concerning the Detroit refinery
heavy oil upgrading and expansion project. Some factors that could affect this project include transportation logistics, availability of materials and labor, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, delays in obtaining or conditions imposed by
necessary government and third-party approvals and other risks customarily associated with construction projects.

Refined Product
Yields

The following table sets forth our refinery production (including the St. Paul Park refinery until
December 1, 2010) by product group for each of the last three years.



Refined Product Yields(mbpd)201120102009Gasoline739726669Distillates433409326Propane252423Feedstocks and special products1099762Heavy fuel oil212424Asphalt567666Total1,3831,3561,170

Crude Oil Supply

We obtain most of the crude oil we refine through negotiated contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. Our crude oil supply contracts are generally term contracts with market-related
pricing provisions. The following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years (including the St. Paul Park refinery until December 1, 2010). The crude oil sourced outside of North America was
acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies.



Sources of Crude Oil Refined(mbpd)201120102009United States668720613Canada177115136Middle East and Africa286250154Other international468854Total1,1771,173957Average cost of crude oil throughtput (dollars per barrel)$    102.83$    78.57$    62.10

Our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a
variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges.

Refined Product Marketing and Distribution

We believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers
and consumers within our 17-state market area in the Midwest, Gulf Coast and Southeast regions of the United States. Independent retailers, wholesale customers, Marathon-branded jobbers, our
Speedway®convenience stores, airlines, transportation companies and utilities comprise the core of our customer
base. In addition, we sell distillates and asphalt for export to international customers, primarily out of the Garyville refinery. Sales destined for export comprised approximately 16 percent of our distillate sales and 11 percent of our asphalt
sales in 2011.







The following table sets forth, as a percentage of total refined product sales, sales of
refined products to our different customer types for the past three years (including the Minnesota Assets until December 1, 2010).



Refined Product Sales by Customer Type201120102009Private-brand marketers, commercial and industrial customers, including spot market72%70%68%Marathon branded dealers and jobbers17%17%18%Speedway®convenience stores11%13%14%

The following table sets forth the approximate number of retail outlets (by state) where dealers and
jobbers maintain Marathon-branded retail outlets, as of December 31, 2011:



StateApproximate Number ofMarathon®Retail OutletsAlabama138Florida262Georgia266Illinois439Indiana652Kentucky599Maryland1Michigan779Minnesota82North Carolina314Ohio871Pennsylvania24South Carolina128Tennessee172Texas1Virginia138West Virginia99Wisconsin81Total5,046

The following table sets forth our refined products sales volumes by product group and our average sales
price for each of the last three years (including the Minnesota Assets until December 1, 2010).



Refined Product Sales(mbpd)201120102009Gasoline908912819Distillates459434355Propane252423Feedstocks and special products11110375Heavy fuel oil192324Asphalt597769Total1,5811,5731,365Average sales price, including consumer excise taxes (dollars per barrel)$    123.14$    94.13$    77.91







As of December 31, 2011, we owned and operated 62 light product and 21 asphalt
terminals. In addition, we distribute through approximately 52 third-party light product and 12 third-party asphalt terminals in our market area. As of that date, our marine transportation operations included 15 towboats, as well as 167 owned and 14
leased barges that transport refined products on the Ohio, Mississippi and Illinois rivers and their tributaries, as well as the Intercoastal Waterway. We lease or own approximately 1,950 railcars of various sizes and capacities for movement and
storage of refined products. In addition, we own 124 transport trucks for the movement of refined products.

Gasoline and Distillates. We sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including No. 1 and
No. 2 fuel oils, kerosene, jet fuel and diesel fuel) to wholesale customers, Marathon-branded jobbers and dealers and our Speedway®convenience stores in the Midwest, Gulf Coast and Southeast regions of the United States and on the spot market. In addition, we sell diesel fuel for export to
international customers. We sold 56 percent of our gasoline sales volumes and 89 percent of our distillates sales volumes on a wholesale or spot market basis in 2011. The demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with
demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months.

We have blended ethanol into gasoline for more than 20 years
and began expanding our blending program in 2007, in part due to federal regulations that require us to use specified volumes of renewable fuels. Ethanol volumes sold in blended gasoline (including the Minnesota Assets until December 1, 2010)
were 70 mbpd in 2011, 68 mbpd in 2010 and 60 mbpd in 2009. The future expansion or contraction of our ethanol blending program will be driven by the economics of the ethanol supply and by government regulations. We sell reformulated gasoline, which
is also blended with ethanol, in parts of our marketing territory, including: Chicago, Illinois; Louisville, Kentucky; northern Kentucky; and Milwaukee, Wisconsin. We also sell biodiesel-blended diesel fuel in Illinois, Kentucky, North Carolina,
Florida, Georgia and Pennsylvania.

We hold a 36 percent interest in an entity which owns and operates a
110-million-gallon-per-year ethanol production facility in Clymers, Indiana. We also own a 50 percent interest in an entity which owns a 110-million-gallon-per-year ethanol production facility in Greenville, Ohio. Both of these facilities are
managed by a co-owner.

Propane. We produce propane at all six of our refineries. Propane is primarily used for home
heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. Our propane sales are typically split evenly between the home heating market and industrial consumers.

Feedstocks and Special Products. We are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and specialty products. Product availability varies
by refinery and includes propylene, cumene, dilute naphthalene oil, molten sulfur, toluene, benzene and xylene. We market all products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel blending industries. In addition, we have the
capacity to produce 1,400 tons per calendar day of anode-grade coke at our Robinson refinery, which is used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry, and 5,800 tons per calendar day of fuel-grade coke at the Garyville refinery, which
is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications.

Heavy Fuel Oil. We produce and market heavy
residual fuel oil or related components at all six of our refineries. Heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product.

Asphalt. We have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to 92 mbpcd. We market asphalt through 33 owned or leased
terminals throughout the Midwest and Southeast. We have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. We sell asphalt in the
domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel. We also produce asphalt cements, polymer modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt and industrial asphalts.







Speedway

Our Speedway segment sells gasoline and merchandise through convenience stores that it owns and operates, primarily under the Speedway brand. Diesel fuel is also sold at the vast majority of these
convenience stores. Speedway-branded convenience stores offer a wide variety of merchandise, such as prepared foods, beverages and non-food items, including a number of private-label items. Speedy Rewards™, an industry-leading customer loyalty
program, has achieved significant customer engagement over the years since its introduction in 2004. The average monthly active membership in 2011 was more than 3 million customers.

As of December 31, 2011, Speedway had 1,371 convenience stores in seven states. Revenues from sales of merchandise (including sales
from convenience stores we sold as part of the December 1, 2010 sale of the Minnesota Assets) totaled $2.92 billion in 2011, $3.20 billion in 2010 and $3.11 billion in 2009. The demand for gasoline is seasonal, with the highest demand usually
occurring during the summer driving season. Margins from the sale of merchandise tend to be less volatile than margins from the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel.

As of December 31, 2011, the Speedway segment’s convenience stores were located in the following states:



StateNumber ofConvenience StoresIllinois108Indiana237Kentucky131Michigan301Ohio471West Virginia60Wisconsin63Total1,371

Harris Interactive’s annual Harris Poll EquiTrend®brand equity study named Speedway the number one gasoline brand with consumers for each of the past three years. For
2011, Speedway was presented with a Convenience Retailing Award from CSP Information Group, Inc., for consumer experience provided by the Speedy Rewards™ program.

Pipeline Transportation

We own common carrier pipeline systems through
Marathon Pipe Line LLC (“MPL”) and Ohio River Pipe Line LLC (“ORPL”), both of which are wholly owned subsidiaries. These pipeline systems transport crude oil and refined products, primarily in the Midwest and Gulf Coast regions,
to our refineries, our terminals and other pipeline systems. Our common carrier pipeline systems are subject to state and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regulations and guidelines, including published tariffs for the transportation of crude
oil and refined products. Our MPL and ORPL wholly owned and undivided interest common carrier systems consist of 1,707 miles of crude oil lines and 1,825 miles of refined product lines comprising 31 systems located in 11 states, as of
December 31, 2011. In addition, MPL leases and operates 217 miles of common carrier refined product pipelines.

Our major
MPL owned and operated crude oil lines run from: Patoka, Illinois to Catlettsburg Kentucky; Patoka, Illinois to Robinson, Illinois; Patoka, Illinois to Lima, Ohio; and Samaria, Michigan to Detroit, Michigan. In addition, MPL owns a 33 percent
undivided joint interest in the Capline system, a large diameter crude oil pipeline extending from St. James, Louisiana to Patoka, Illinois; and a 26 percent undivided joint interest in the Maumee Pipeline System, a large diameter crude oil pipeline
extending from Lima, Ohio to Samaria, Michigan.

Our major common carrier refined product pipelines include the owned and
operated Cardinal Products Pipeline and the Wabash Pipeline. The Cardinal Products Pipeline delivers refined products from Kenova, West Virginia,







to Columbus, Ohio. The Wabash Pipeline system delivers refined products from Robinson, Illinois, to various terminals in the area of Chicago, Illinois. Other significant refined product pipelines
owned and operated by MPL extend from: Robinson, Illinois to Louisville, Kentucky; Robinson, Illinois to Lima, Ohio; Wood River, Illinois to Indianapolis, Indiana; Garyville, Louisiana to Zachary, Louisiana; and Texas City, Texas to Pasadena, Texas.

The MPL common carrier pipeline network is one of the largest petroleum pipeline systems in the United States, based on total
volume delivered. Third parties generated 17 percent of the crude oil and refined product shipments on our MPL and ORPL common carrier pipelines in 2011. Our MPL and ORPL common carrier pipelines transported the volumes shown in the following table
for each of the last three years.



Pipeline Barrels Handled(mbpd)201120102009Crude oil trunk lines(a)1,1841,2041,113Refined products trunk lines1,031968953Total2,2152,1722,066



(a)For all periods presented, excludes volumes transported on a crude oil system that was transferred from common carrier to private service in the
fourth quarter of 2009.

As of December 31, 2011, we had partial ownership interests in the following
pipeline companies that have approximately 110 miles of crude oil pipelines and 3,600 miles of refined products pipelines, including about 970 miles operated by MPL:



•Centennial Pipeline LLC (“Centennial”) – We hold a 50% interest in Centennial which owns a refined products pipeline system
connecting the Gulf Coast region with the Midwest market;



•Explorer Pipeline Company (“Explorer”) – We hold a 17% interest in Explorer, a refined products pipeline system extending from the
Gulf Coast to the Midwest;



•LOCAP LLC (“LOCAP”) – We hold a 59% interest in LOCAP which owns a crude oil pipeline connecting the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port and
the Capline system;



•LOOP LLC (“LOOP”) – We hold a 51% interest in LOOP, the owner and operator of the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port, which is the only U.S.
deepwater oil port capable of receiving crude oil from very large crude carriers, located 18 miles off the coast of Louisiana, and a crude oil pipeline connecting the port facility to storage caverns and tanks at Clovelly, Louisiana;



•Muskegon Pipeline LLC (“Muskegon”) – We hold a 60% interest in Muskegon, which owns a refined products pipeline extending from
Griffith, Indiana to North Muskegon, Michigan; and



•Wolverine Pipe Line Company (“Wolverine”) – We hold a 6 percent interest in Wolverine, a refined products pipeline system extending
from Chicago, Illinois to Toledo, Ohio.

We also own 175 miles of private crude oil pipelines, 693 miles of
private refined products pipelines and private storage facilities that are operated, by MPL, for the benefit of our Refining & Marketing segment on a cost recovery basis. Our major private crude oil lines run from Lima, Ohio to Canton,
Ohio; and St. James, Louisiana to Garyville, Louisiana. Our major private refined products pipelines run from Robinson, Illinois to Lima, Ohio; Martinsville, Illinois to Indianapolis, Indiana; and Princeton, Indiana to Robinson, Illinois. In
addition, we own a 65 percent undivided joint interest in the Louisville-Lexington system, a refined products pipeline system extending from Louisville to Lexington, Kentucky.

Competition and Market Conditions

The downstream petroleum business is
highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. We compete with a large number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the
distribution and marketing of a full array of







petroleum products. Based upon the “The Oil & Gas Journal 2011 Worldwide Refinery Survey,” we ranked fifth among U.S. petroleum companies on the basis of U.S. crude oil
refining capacity as of January 1, 2012. We compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products—wholesale, spot, branded and retail distribution. We believe we compete with about 70 companies in the sale of refined products
to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; about 90 companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market; 11 refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to
refiner-branded dealers and jobbers; and approximately 240 retailers in the retail sale of refined products. In addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the
requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. We do not produce any of the crude oil we refine.

We
also face strong competition for sales of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. Our competitors include service stations and convenience stores operated by fully integrated major oil companies and their dealers and jobbers and other
well-recognized national or regional convenience stores and travel centers, often selling gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise at aggressively competitive prices. Non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have
affected the convenience store industry with their entrance into the retail transportation fuel business. Energy Analysts International, Inc. estimates such retailers had 12 percent of the U.S. gasoline market in 2011.

Our pipeline transportation operations are highly regulated, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for
transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines.

Market conditions in the oil and gas industry are
cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. Our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined products, as well as changes in competitive
conditions in the markets we serve. Price differentials between sweet and sour crude oil also affect our operating results.

Demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our
markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. As a result, the operating results for each of our segments for the first and fourth quarters are generally lower than for those in the second and third quarters of
each calendar year.

Environmental Matters

Our management is responsible for ensuring that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and for
reviewing our overall performance associated with various environmental compliance programs. We also have a Crisis Management Team, composed primarily of senior management, that oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency
incident involving us or any of our facilities.

We believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues
concerning the extent, causes of and responsibility for climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. Currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gases are
in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. The cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time, but could be significant. For additional information, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. We estimate and
publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and products we produce. Additionally, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable and cost effective.

Our operations are also subject to numerous other laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These
environmental laws and regulations include, among others, the Clean Air Act with respect to air emissions, the Clean Water Act (“CWA”) with respect to water discharges, the Resource Conservation and







For a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance for air, water, solid waste and
remediation, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Environmental Matters and Compliance Costs.

Air

Of particular significance to
our refining operations were EPA Mobile Source Air Toxics II (“MSAT II”) regulations that require reduced benzene levels in refined products. We have completed all MSAT II projects and all MSAT II compliance units were in operation as of
December 31, 2011. We spent approximately $620 million over a four-year period that began in 2008 to comply with the MSAT II regulations.

The EPA is in the process of implementing regulations to address the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (the “NAAQS”) for fine particulate emissions and ozone. The EPA has proposed and
finalized rules directed at







electric generating units but not refineries. However, a federal court has stayed some requirements and other requirements are expected to be finalized during 2012. We cannot reasonably estimate
any final financial impact of these rules until the EPA has finalized rules directed at refineries, resolved legal challenges, and the costs for implementation of the final rules have been evaluated.

The EPA has reviewed and has revised or will propose to revise NAAQS for criteria air pollutants. The EPA promulgated a revised ozone
standard in March 2008, and commenced a multi-year process to develop the implementing rules required by the Clean Air Act. In 2009, the EPA announced that it would reconsider the level of the ozone standard, but then in 2011, it was announced that
the ozone standard would not be further revised but would be further reviewed as part of EPA’s next periodic review of that standard. Also, in 2010, the EPA adopted new short term standards for nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide. We anticipate
the EPA will issue a proposed revision to the fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) standard in 2012. We cannot reasonably estimate the final financial impact of these revised NAAQS standards until the standards are finalized, implementing rules are
established and judicial challenges over the revised NAAQS standards are resolved.

The EPA Boiler and Process Heater Maximum
Achievable Control Technology (“Boiler MACT”) rule was finalized in March 2011 with work practice standards that are applicable to refinery and natural gas fired equipment. Under the Boiler MACT rule, we anticipate limited financial
impacts from implementing the EPA’s work practice standards for existing equipment by the March 23, 2014 compliance deadline. However, the EPA is currently reconsidering most provisions of this rule and on December 23, 2011, the EPA
proposed additional revisions to the Boiler MACT rule as part of its reconsideration. We cannot reasonably estimate the ultimate financial impact of the Boiler MACT rule until after the reconsideration by the EPA.

Water

We
maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance efforts. In addition, we are regulated under OPA-90, which amended
the CWA. Among other requirements, OPA-90 requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. Also, in case of any such release, OPA-90 requires the
responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages. OPA-90 also provides for civil penalties and imposes criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions.

Additionally, OPA-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in U.S. waters be double-hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from U.S.
service, according to a phase-out schedule. All of the barges used for river transport of our raw materials and refined products meet the double-hulled requirements of OPA-90. We operate facilities at which spills of oil and hazardous substances
could occur. Some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to OPA-90, but with expanded liability provisions, including provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility. We have
implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by OPA-90 and we have established Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures (“SPCC”) plans for facilities subject to CWA SPCC requirements.

Solid Waste

We continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting waste disposal
practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of underground storage tanks (“USTs”) containing regulated substances. We have ongoing RCRA
treatment and disposal operations at one of our facilities and primarily utilize offsite third-party treatment and disposal facilities. Ongoing RCRA-related costs, however, are not expected to be material to our results of operations or cash flows.







Remediation

We own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain retail outlets where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from USTs have occurred. Federal and state laws require
that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. The enforcement of the UST regulations under RCRA has been delegated to the states, which administer their own UST programs. Our
obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the stringency of the laws and regulations of the states in which we operate. A portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate
state UST reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. We also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our refinery, terminal and pipeline locations. Penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance.

Claims under CERCLA and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other
sites. CERCLA is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous
substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among
them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with
CERCLA; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Mileage Standards and Renewable Fuels Requirements

We have made investments in infrastructure capable of expanding biodiesel blending capability in 2011, to be operational in 2012, to help
comply with the biodiesel RFS2 requirement with physical blending as well as buying needed biodiesel Renewable Identification Numbers (“RINs”) in the EPA-created biodiesel RINs market.

On October 13, 2010, the EPA issued a partial waiver decision under the Clean Air Act to allow for an increase in the amount of
ethanol permitted to be blended into gasoline from 10 percent (“E10”) to 15 percent (“E15”) for 2007 and newer light-duty motor vehicles. Then on January 21, 2011, the EPA issued a second waiver for the use of E15 in
vehicles model year 2001-2006. There are numerous issues, including state and federal regulatory issues, that would need to be addressed before E15 can be marketed for use in any traditional gasoline engines. As of the end of 2011, E15 is still not
a legal fuel except in flex fuel vehicles in states that do not require an ASTM International fuel.







There will be compliance costs and uncertainties regarding how we will comply with the
various requirements contained in EISA and related regulations. We may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined petroleum products being replaced by renewable
fuels.

Trademarks, Patents and Licenses

Our Marathon trademark is material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our Speedway trademark is material to the conduct of our retail marketing operations. We currently hold a
number of U.S. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. Although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as
critical or essential to our business as a whole. In general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations.

Employees

We had
approximately 24,210 regular employees as of December 31, 2011, which includes approximately 16,739 employees of Speedway. Approximately 182 of these employees were working in the operations conducted through the Minnesota Assets, which we sold
in December 2010. Approximately 2,473 employees were transitioned to the buyer in 2011, primarily from Speedway, and the remaining 182 employees transitioned in January 2012.

Certain hourly employees at our Catlettsburg, Canton and Texas City refineries are represented by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers
Union under labor agreements that were due to expire in 2012. New labor agreements were negotiated in Canton and Texas City with expiration dates of January 2015 and March 2015, respectively. The labor agreement in Catlettsburg was temporarily
extended while negotiations continue on a new agreement. The International Brotherhood of Teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our Detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is scheduled to expire in January 2014.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of MPC and their ages as of February 1, 2012, are as follows:



NameAgePosition with MPCGary R. Heminger58President and Chief Executive OfficerPamela K.M. Beall55Vice President, Investor Relations and Government & Public AffairsRichard D. Bedell57Senior Vice President, RefiningMichael G. Braddock54Vice President and ControllerTimothy T. Griffith42Vice President of Finance and TreasurerThomas M. Kelley52Senior Vice President, MarketingAnthony R. Kenney58President, Speedway LLCRodney P. Nichols59Vice President, Human Resources and Administrative ServicesC. Michael Palmer58Senior Vice President, Supply, Distribution and PlanningGarry L. Peiffer60Executive Vice President, Corporate Planning and Investor & Government RelationsGeorge P. Shaffner52Senior Vice President, Transportation and LogisticsJohn S. Swearingen52Vice President, Health, Envirnmental, Safety & SecurityDonald C. Templin48Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerDonald W. Wehrly52Vice President and Chief Information OfficerJ. Michael Wilder59Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary







With the exception of Mr. Griffith and Mr. Templin, all of the executive officers
have held responsible management or professional positions with MPC, its affiliates or prior to the Spinoff with Marathon Oil or its affiliates, for more than five years.

Mr. Heminger was appointed president and chief executive officer effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Heminger was president of Marathon Petroleum Company LP (formerly
known as Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC and Marathon Petroleum Company LLC), currently a wholly owned subsidiary of MPC and prior to the Spinoff, a wholly owned subsidiary of Marathon Oil. He assumed responsibility as president of Marathon Petroleum
Company LP in September 2001.

Ms. Beall was appointed vice president, Investor Relations and Government &
Public Affairs effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Ms. Beall was vice president, Products Supply and Optimization of Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010. She served as vice president of Global Procurement
for Marathon Oil Company between 2007 and 2010 and prior to that as organizational vice president, Business Development—Downstream.

Mr. Bedell was appointed senior vice president, Refining effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Bedell served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP
beginning in June 2010 and as manager, Louisiana Refining Division beginning in 2001.

Mr. Braddock was appointed vice
president and controller effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Braddock was controller of Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 2008 and manager, Internal Audit between 2005 and 2008.

Mr. Griffith was appointed vice president of Finance and treasurer effective August 1, 2011. Mr. Griffith was vice
president and treasurer of Cooper-Standard Automotive, a global automotive supplier, in Novi, Michigan, from 2006 to 2008. Subsequent to his position at Cooper-Standard, Mr. Griffith was vice president Investor Relations and treasurer of
Smurfit-Stone Container Corporation, a packaging manufacturer, in St. Louis, Missouri.

Mr. Kelley was appointed senior
vice president, Marketing effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Kelley served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in January 2010. Previously, he served as director of Crude Supply and
Logistics for Marathon Petroleum Company LP from January 2008, and as a Brand Marketing manager for eight years prior to that.

Mr. Kenney has served as president of Speedway LLC since August 2005.

Mr. Nichols was appointed vice president, Human Resources and Administrative Services effective June 30, 2011 and served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in April
1998.

Mr. Palmer was appointed senior vice president, Supply Distribution & Planning effective June 30,
2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Palmer served as vice president, Supply Distribution & Planning for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010. He served as Crude Supply and Logistics director for Marathon Petroleum
Company LP beginning in February 2010, as senior vice president, Oil Sands Operations and Commercial Activities for Marathon Oil Canada Corporation beginning in 2007, and as manager of Business Development for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning
in 1999.

Mr. Peiffer was appointed executive vice president of Corporate Planning and Investor & Government
Relations effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Peiffer was senior vice president of Finance and Commercial Services for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 1998.







Mr. Shaffner was appointed senior vice president, Transportation and Logistics
effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Shaffner served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010. Previously, Mr. Shaffner served as division manager of the St. Paul Park, Minnesota
refinery beginning in 2003 and as Michigan Refining Division manager beginning in October 2006.

Mr. Swearingen was
appointed vice president of Health, Environmental, Safety & Security effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Swearingen was president of Marathon Pipe Line LLC beginning in 2009 and the Illinois Refining Division
manager beginning in November 2001.

Mr. Templin was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer
effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Templin was a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an audit, tax and advisory services provider, with various audit and management responsibilities beginning in 1996.

Mr. Wehrly was appointed vice president and chief information officer effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment,
Mr. Wehrly was the manager of Information Technology Services for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 2003.

Mr. Wilder was appointed vice president, general counsel and secretary effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment,
Mr. Wilder was associate general counsel of Marathon Oil Company beginning in 2010 and general counsel and secretary of Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 1997.

Available Information

General information about MPC, including Corporate
Governance Principles and Charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, can be found atwww.marathonpetroleum.com. In addition, our Code of Business Conduct and Code of Ethics for
Senior Financial Officers are available athttp://www.marathonpetroleum.com/Investor_Center/.

MPC uses its website,www.marathonpetroleum.com, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the SEC. These documents are
also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our Investor Relations office. In addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and
financial information on our website. Information contained on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other securities filings.







