Item 1. Business

Overview

Marathon Petroleum Corporation (“MPC”) has128years of experience in the energy business with roots tracing back to the formation of the Ohio Oil Company in 1887. We are one of the largest independent petroleum product refining, marketing, retail and transportation businesses in the United States and the largest east of the Mississippi. With the merger of MPLX LP (“MPLX”), the midstream master limited partnership sponsored by MPC, and MarkWest Energy Partners, L.P. (“MarkWest”) effective December 4, 2015 (the “MarkWest Merger”), we believe we are one of the largest natural gas processors in the United States and the largest processor and fractionator in the Marcellus and Utica shale regions. Our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: Refining & Marketing; Speedway; andMidstream. Each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services it offers.

•Refining & Marketing – refines crude oil and other feedstocks at oursevenrefineries in the Gulf Coast and Midwest regions of the United States, purchases refined products and ethanol for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. We sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, buyers on the spot market, our Speedway®business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate Marathon®retail outlets.

•Speedway – sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the Midwest, East Coast and Southeast.

•Midstream – includes the operations of MPLX and certain other related operations. Following the MarkWest Merger, we changed the name of this segment from Pipeline Transportation to Midstream to reflect its expanded business activities. There were no changes to the historical financial information reported for this segment. The Midstream segment gathers, processes and transports natural gas; gathers, transports, fractionates, stores and markets natural gas liquids and transports and stores crude oil and refined products.

See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note10for operating segment and geographic financial information, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Corporate History and Structure

MPC was incorporated in Delaware on November 9, 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of Marathon Oil Corporation (“Marathon Oil”). On May 25, 2011, the Marathon Oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its Refining, Marketing & Transportation Business (“RM&T Business”) into an independent, publicly traded company, MPC, through the distribution of MPC common stock to the stockholders of Marathon Oil common stock on June 30, 2011 (the “Spinoff”). Following the Spinoff, Marathon Oil retained no ownership interest in MPC, and each company has separate public ownership, boards of directors and management. All subsidiaries and equity method investments not contributed by Marathon Oil to MPC remained with Marathon Oil and, together with Marathon Oil, are referred to as the “Marathon Oil Companies.” On July 1, 2011, our common stock began trading “regular-way” on the NYSE under the ticker symbol “MPC.”

Recent Developments

On December 4, 2015, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MPLX, the midstream master limited partnership sponsored by MPC, merged with MarkWest, whereby MarkWest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of MPLX. Each common unit of MarkWest issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the MarkWest Merger was converted into a right to receive 1.09 common units of MPLX representing limited partner interests in MPLX, plus a one-time cash payment of$6.20per unit. Each Class B unit of MarkWest outstanding immediately prior to the merger was converted into the right to receive one Class B unit of MPLX having substantially similar rights, including conversion and registration rights, and obligations that the Class B units of MarkWest had immediately prior to the merger. At closing, we contributed $1.23 billion in cash to MPLX to pay the cash consideration to MarkWest common unitholders. We will contribute an additional total of $50 million in cash to MPLX for the cash consideration to be paid upon the conversion of the MPLX Class B units to MPLX common units in equal installments in July 2016 and July 2017, respectively. These contributions are with respect to MPC’s existing interests in MPLX (including IDRs) and not in consideration of new units or other equity interest in MPLX. Our financial results and operating statistics reflect the results of MarkWest from the date of the acquisition.









Consistent with our strategy to grow our midstream business, the MarkWest Merger combines one of the nation’s largest processors of natural gas and the largest processor and fractionator in the Marcellus and Utica shale regions with a rapidly growing crude oil and refined products logistics partnership sponsored by MPC. The complementary aspects of the highly diverse asset base of MarkWest, MPLX and MPC provide significant additional opportunities across multiple segments of the hydrocarbon value chain. The combined entity will further MarkWest's leading midstream presence in the Marcellus and Utica shales by allowing it to pursue additional midstream projects, which should allow producer customers to achieve superior value for their growing production in these important shale regions. In addition, the combination provides significant vertical integration opportunities, as MPC is a large consumer of NGLs.

In September 2015, we acquired a50 percentownership interest in a new joint venture with Crowley Maritime Corporation through our investment in Crowley Ocean Partners LLC (“Crowley Ocean Partners”), which is included in our Refining & Marketing segment. The joint venture will operate and charterfournew Jones Act product tankers, most of which will be leased to MPC. Contributions to the joint venture with respect to each vessel will occur at the vessel’s delivery. During 2015, we contributed$72 millionin connection with delivery of the first two vessels. The remaining two vessels are expected to be delivered by the third quarter of 2016. We account for our ownership interest in Crowley Ocean Partners as an equity method investment. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note25for information on our conditional guarantee of the indebtedness of the joint venture and future contributions to Crowley Ocean Partners.

On September 30, 2014, we acquired from Hess Corporation (“Hess”) all of its retail locations, transport operations and shipper history on various pipelines, including approximately40mbpd on Colonial Pipeline, for$2.82 billion. We refer to these assets as “Hess’ Retail Operations and Related Assets” and substantially all of these assets are part of our Speedway segment. This acquisition significantly expands our Speedway presence fromnineto22states throughout the East Coast and Southeast and is aligned with our strategy to grow higher-valued, stable cash flow businesses. This acquisition also enables us to further leverage our integrated refining and transportation operations, providing an outlet for incremental assured sales from our refining system. The transaction was funded with a combination of debt and available cash. Our financial results and operating statistics reflect the results of Hess’ Retail Operations and Related Assets from the date of the acquisition.

In July 2014, we exercised our option to acquire a 35 percent ownership interest in Enbridge Inc.’s Southern Access Extension (“SAX”) pipeline which runs from Flanagan, Illinois to Patoka, Illinois. This option resulted from our agreement to be the anchor shipper on the SAX pipeline and our commitment to the Sandpiper pipeline project as discussed below. During2015, we made contributions of$147 millionto Illinois Extension Pipeline Company, LLC (“Illinois Extension Pipeline”) to fund our portion of the construction costs for the SAX project. We have contributed$267 millionsince project inception.  The pipeline became operational in December 2015. Our investment in the pipeline is included in ourMidstreamsegment.

On April 1, 2014, we purchased a facility in Cincinnati, Ohio from Felda Iffco Sdn Bhd, Malaysia for$40 million. The plant currently produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. The capacity of the plant is approximately60 milliongallons per year.

In March 2014, we acquired from Chevron Raven Ridge Pipe Line Company an additionalseven percentinterest in Explorer Pipeline Company (“Explorer”) for$77 million, bringing our ownership interest to25 percent. Explorer owns approximately 1,900 miles of refined products pipeline from Lake Charles, Louisiana to Hammond, Indiana.

In November 2013, we agreed with Enbridge Energy Partners L.P. (“Enbridge Energy Partners”) to serve as an anchor shipper for the Sandpiper pipeline, which will run from Beaver Lodge, North Dakota to Superior, Wisconsin. We also agreed to fund37.5 percentof the construction of the Sandpiper pipeline project, which is currently estimated to cost $2.6 billion, of which approximately $1.0 billion is our share. We made contributions of$71 millionduring2015and have contributed$287 millionsince project inception, which are included in ourMidstreamsegment. In exchange for our commitment to be an anchor shipper and our investment in the project, we will earn an approximate 27 percent equity interest in Enbridge Energy Partners’ North Dakota System when the Sandpiper pipeline is placed into service. The anticipated in-service date for the pipeline is likely to be delayed to early 2019. The project schedule and cost estimates remain under review. Enbridge Energy Partners’ North Dakota System currently includes approximately 240 miles of crude oil gathering pipelines connected to a transportation pipeline that is approximately 730 miles long. We will also have the option to increase our ownership interest to approximately 30 percent through additional investments in future system improvements.









OnAugust 1, 2013, we acquired from Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. its interests inthreeethanol companies for$75 million. Under the purchase agreement, we acquired an additional24 percentinterest in The Andersons Clymers Ethanol LLC (“TACE”), bringing our ownership interest to60 percent; a34 percentinterest in The Andersons Ethanol Investment LLC (“TAEI”), which holds a50 percentownership in The Andersons Marathon Ethanol LLC (“TAME”), bringing our direct and indirect ownership interest in TAME to67 percent; and a40 percentinterest in The Andersons Albion Ethanol LLC (“TAAE”), which owns an ethanol production facility in Albion, Michigan. On October 1, 2013, our ownership interest in TAAE increased to43 percentas a result of TAAE acquiring one of the owner’s interest.

On February 1, 2013, we acquired from BP Products North America Inc. and BP Pipelines (North America) Inc. (collectively, “BP”) the 451,000 barrel per calendar day refinery in Texas City, Texas, three intrastate natural gas liquid pipelines originating at the refinery, four light product terminals, branded-jobber marketing contract assignments for the supply of approximately 1,200 branded sites, a 1,040 megawatt electric cogeneration facility and a 50 mbpd allocation of space on the Colonial Pipeline. We refer to these assets as the “Galveston Bay Refinery and Related Assets.” We paid $1.49 billion for these assets, which included $935 million for inventory. Pursuant to the purchase and sale agreement, we may also be required to pay BP a contingent earnout of up to an additional $700 million over six years, subject to certain conditions. Through the end of 2015, we have paid BP $369 million pursuant to the contingent earnout provisions of the agreement. The Galveston Bay Refinery and Related Assets are part of our Refining & Marketing andMidstreamsegments.

See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note5for additional information on these acquisitions and investments. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note25for information regarding our future contributions to the Sandpiper pipeline project.

MPLX LP

MPLX is a publicly traded master limited partnership formed by us to own, operate, develop and acquire pipelines and other midstream assets related to the transportation and storage of crude oil, refined products and other hydrocarbon-based products. On December 4, 2015, MPLX merged with MarkWest, whereby MarkWest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of MPLX.

Prior to the MarkWest Merger, we owned a71.5 percentinterest in MPLX, which included ourtwo percentgeneral partner interest. Each common unit of MarkWest issued and outstanding at the time of the MarkWest Merger was converted into the right to receive 1.09 common units of MPLX and as ofDecember 31, 2015, our ownership interest in MPLX was20.4 percent, including ourtwo percentgeneral partner interest. Due to our general partner interest, we have determined that we control MPLX and therefore we consolidate MPLX and record a noncontrolling interest for the79.6 percentinterest owned by the public.

Upon completion of the MarkWest Merger, MPLX assumed an aggregate principal amount of $4.1 billion in senior notes issued by MarkWest and MarkWest Energy Finance Corporation (the “MarkWest Senior Notes”). On December 22, 2015, MPLX completed offers to exchange any and all outstanding MarkWest Senior Notes for (1) up to $4.1 billion aggregate principal amount of new notes issued by MPLX having the same maturity and interest rates as the MarkWest Senior Notes and (2) cash of $1 for each $1,000 of principal amount exchanged. As of December 31, 2015, the exchange was completed on all the MarkWest Senior Notes except for 1.6 percent, or $63 million.

MPLX’s initial assets consisted of a51 percentgeneral partner interest in MPLX Pipe Line Holdings LLC (“Pipe Line Holdings”), which owns a network of common carrier crude oil and product pipeline systems and associated storage assets in the Midwest and Gulf Coast regions of the United States, and a100 percentinterest in a butane storage cavern in West Virginia. We originally retained a 49 percent limited partner interest in Pipe Line Holdings.

On May 1, 2013, we sold afive percentinterest in Pipe Line Holdings to MPLX for$100 million, which was financed by MPLX with cash on-hand.

On March 1, 2014, we sold a13 percentinterest in Pipe Line Holdings to MPLX for$310 million. MPLX financed this transaction with$40 millionof cash on-hand and$270 millionof borrowings on its bank revolving credit facility.

On December 1, 2014, we sold and contributed interests in Pipe Line Holdings totaling30.5 percentto MPLX for$600 millionin cash and2.9 millionMPLX common units valued at$200 million. MPLX financed the sales portion of this transaction with$600 millionof borrowings on its bank revolving credit facility.

On December 8, 2014, MPLX completed a public offering of3.5 millioncommon units at a price to the public of$66.68per MPLX common unit, with net proceeds of$221 million. MPLX used the net proceeds from this offering to repay borrowings under its bank revolving credit facility and for general partnership purposes. On December 10, 2014, we exercised our right to maintain our two percent general partner interest in MPLX by purchasing130 thousandgeneral partner units for$9 million.









On February 12, 2015, MPLX completed an underwritten public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of four percent unsecured senior notes due February 15, 2025 (the “Senior Notes”). The Senior Notes were offered at a price to the public of 99.64 percent of par. The net proceeds of this offering were used to repay the amounts outstanding under its bank revolving credit facility, as well as for general partnership purposes.

On December 4, 2015, we sold our remaining0.5 percentinterest in Pipe Line Holdings to MPLX for$12 million. As a result, MPLX now owns 100 percent of Pipe Line Holdings.

See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note4for additional information on MPLX.



Our Competitive Strengths

High Quality Refining, Gathering and Processing Assets

We believe we are the largest crude oil refiner in the Midwest and the fourth largest in the United States based on crude oil refining capacity. We own aseven-plant refinery network, with approximately1.8mmbpcd of crude oil throughput capacity. Our refineries process a wide range of crude oils, feedstocks and condensate, including heavy and sour crude oils, which can generally be purchased at a discount to sweet crude oil, and produce transportation fuels such as gasoline and distillates, specialty chemicals and other refined products. While we have historically processed significant quantities of heavy and sour crude oils, our refineries have the ability to process approximately 65 percent to 70 percent light sweet crude oils.

Through our ownership interests in MPLX and its wholly-owned subsidiary, MarkWest, we believe we are one of the largest processors of natural gas in the United States and the largest processor and fractionator in the Marcellus and Utica shale regions. Our integrated midstream energy asset network links producers of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil from some of the largest supply basins in the United States to domestic and international markets. Our midstream gathering and processing operations include: natural gas gathering, processing and transportation; and NGL gathering, transportation, fractionation, storage and marketing. Our assets include approximately5,400MMcf/d of gathering capacity,7,100MMcf/d of natural gas processing capacity and500mbpd of fractionation capacity as ofDecember 31, 2015.

Strategic Locations

The geographic locations of our refineries provide us with strategic advantages. Located in PADD II and PADD III, which consist of states in the Midwest and the Gulf Coast regions of the United States, our refineries have the ability to procure crude oil from a variety of supply sources, including domestic, Canadian and other foreign sources, which provides us with flexibility to optimize crude supply costs. For example, geographic proximity to various United States shale oil regions and Canadian crude oil supply sources allows our refineries access to price-advantaged crude oils and lower transportation costs than certain of our competitors. Our refinery locations and midstream distribution system also allow us to access refined product export markets and to serve a broad range of key end-user markets across the United States quickly and cost-effectively.

OurMidstreamsegment assets are similarly located in the Midwest and Gulf Coast regions of the United States, which collectively comprised approximately 73 percent of total United States crude distillation capacity and approximately 53 percent of total United States finished products demand for the year endedDecember 31, 2015, according to the EIA. MPLX, through MarkWest, its wholly-owned subsidiary, is the largest processor and fractionator in the Marcellus and Utica shale regions. This significantly compliments and creates strategic opportunities for our Refining & Marketing segment and MPLX’s logistic assets in the same geographic footprint.











*As ofDecember 31, 2015

Extensive Midstream Distribution Networks

Our assets give us extensive flexibility and optionality to respond promptly to dynamic market conditions, including weather-related and marketplace disruptions. We believe the relative scale of our transportation and distribution assets and operations distinguishes us from other refining and marketing companies. We currently own, lease or have ownership interests in approximately8,400miles of crude oil and products pipelines. Additionally, we have over 5,000 miles of natural gas and NGL pipelines. We also own one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges and one of the largest terminal operations in the United States, as well as trucking and rail assets. We operate this system in coordination with our refining and marketing network, which enables us to optimize feedstock and other raw material supplies and refined product distribution, and further allows for important economies of scale across our system.

General Partner and Sponsor of MPLX

Our investment in MPLX should allow us to enhance our share price through our limited partner and general partner interests which tend to receive higher market multiples. MPLX also provides us an efficient vehicle to invest in organic projects and pursue acquisitions of midstream assets. MPLX’s liquidity and access to the capital markets should provide us a strong foundation to execute our strategy for growing our midstream business. Our role as the general partner allows us to maintain strategic control of the assets so we can continue to optimize our refinery feedstock and distribution networks.

We have an extensive portfolio of midstream assets that can potentially be sold and/or contributed to MPLX at valuations that are supportive to the partnership’s growth, providing MPLX with a competitive advantage. As ofDecember 31, 2015, these assets included:

•approximately5,400miles of crude oil and products pipelines that MPC owns, leases or which it has an ownership interest;

•ownership interest in SAX pipeline;

•19owned or leased inland towboats and219owned or leased inland barges;

•ownership interest in a blue water joint venture with Crowley Maritime Corporation;









•61owned and operated light product terminals with approximately20 millionbarrels of storage capacity and187loading lanes;

•18owned and operated asphalt terminals with approximately4 millionbarrels of storage capacity and68loading lanes;

•oneleased andtwonon-operated, partially-owned light product terminals;

•2,210owned or leased railcars;

•59 millionbarrels of tank and cavern storage capacity at our refineries;

•25rail and26truck loading racks at our refineries;

•sevenowned and11non-owned docks at our refineries;

•condensate splitters at our Canton and Catlettsburg refineries; and

•approximately 20 billion gallons of fuels distribution.

We continue to focus resources on growing this portfolio of midstream assets, including investments in the Sandpiper pipeline project, the recently completed SAX pipeline and our new marine joint venture, Crowley Ocean Partners. We broadly estimate these assets and growth projects can generate annual EBITDA of $1.6 billion. In addition to this growing portfolio by which we can also incubate projects for MPLX, we also have the ability to provide additional financial flexibility to the partnership through intercompany debt and equity financing, commercial arrangements, IDR give-backs and other alternatives. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information on these midstream assets.

Competitively Positioned Marketing Operations

We are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers within our market area. We have two strong retail brands: Speedway®and Marathon®. We believe Speedway LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary, operates the second largest chain of company-owned and operated retail gasoline and convenience stores in the United States, with approximately2,770convenience stores in22states throughout the Midwest, East Coast and Southeast. The Marathon brand is an established motor fuel brand primarily in the Midwest and Southeast regions of the United States, comprised of approximately5,600retail outlets operated by independent entrepreneurs in19states as ofDecember 31, 2015. In addition, as part of the acquisition of the Galveston Bay Refinery and Related Assets in 2013 and Hess’ Retail Operations and Related Assets in 2014, we obtained retail marketing contracts that provide us with the opportunity to convert the associated retail outlets to the Marathon brand. As ofDecember 31, 2015, we had outstanding retail marketing contract assignments for approximately300retail outlets. We believe our distribution system allows us to maximize the sales value of our products and minimize cost.

Attractive Growth Opportunities

We believe we have attractive growth opportunities across all of our business segments.

We recently announced a $2 billion multi-year project we are undertaking in our Refining & Marketing segment which will fully integrate our Galveston Bay and Texas City refineries, increase residual oil processing, revamp a crude unit to increase our overall crude processing capacity, increase our distillate and gas oil recovery, improve the unit’s reliability and install a new ULSD hydrotreater allowing the refinery to produce 100% ULSD and ULSK. We refer to this group of projects as the South Texas Asset Repositioning (“STAR”) program. Our Refining & Marketing segment is also investing in the midstream through our ocean vessel equity affiliate, which is constructing additional Jones Act product tankers to move finished products from our refineries to the coastal market.

Our Speedway segment is focused on store remodels to enhance profitability, particularly for its acquired stores along the East Coast, building new locations in Speedway’s core market and fully integrating Hess’ Retail Operations and Related Assets.

MPLX, which is included in theMidstreamsegment, is focused on organic growth opportunities for natural gas gathering and processing and NGL gathering and fractionation in the Marcellus and Utica shale formations among other regions. MPLX also remains focused on the Cornerstone pipeline project and related Utica build out projects. The Cornerstone project is the building block for the other projects that will become a critical solution for the industry to move condensate and NGLs out of the Utica region into refining centers in northwest Ohio and into Canada. OurMidstreamsegment’s investments also include an investment in an equity interest in the Sandpiper pipeline project that will transport crude oil from growing North American hydrocarbon production regions to our refineries.

In connection with the MarkWest Merger, we have also identified a portfolio of potential projects totaling $6 billion to $9 billion of incremental investment opportunities for ourMidstreamsegment over the next several years. These investment opportunities are in the early stages of feasibility analysis and include projects in the Utica and Marcellus shale regions that could leverage our respective capabilities and pursue natural commercial synergies and transportation solutions to open new markets for producers’ products in these shale regions.









Established Track Record of Profitability and Diversified Income Stream

We have demonstrated an ability to achieve positive financial results throughout all stages of the refining cycle. We believe our business mix and strategies position us well to continue to achieve competitive financial results. Income generated by our Speedway segment, which was significantly expanded with the acquisition of Hess’ Retail Operations and Related Assets, is less sensitive to business cycles and income from ourMidstreamsegment, which was significantly expanded through the MarkWest Merger, is more stable due to its long-term fee based contracts, while our Refining & Marketing segment enables us to generate significant income and cash flow when market conditions are more favorable.

Strong Financial Position

As ofDecember 31, 2015, we had$1.13 billionin cash and cash equivalents and$3.17 billionin unused committed borrowing facilities, excluding MPLX’s credit facilities. We had$11.93 billionof debt at year-end, which represented38percent of our total capitalization. This combination of strong liquidity and manageable leverage provides financial flexibility to fund our growth projects and to pursue our business strategies.



Our Business Strategies

Maintain Top-Tier Safety and Environmental Performance

We remain committed to operating our assets in a safe and reliable manner and targeting continuous improvement in our safety record across all of our operations. We have a history of safe and reliable operations, which was demonstrated again in 2015 with a solid performance compared to the industry average. Four of our refineries and five additional facilities have earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site. In addition, we remain committed to environmental stewardship by continuing to improve the efficiency and reliability of our operations. We proactively address our regulatory requirements and encourage our operations to improve their environmental performance through our DEI program. The results of the 2015 DEI program show a 16 percent reduction over 2014 in regards to significant environmental incidents across MPC, which includes our major operating components.

Grow Higher Valued, Stable Cash Flow Businesses

We intend to continue allocating significant capital to grow our midstream and retail businesses, exclusive of acquisitions. These businesses typically have more predictable and stable income and cash flows compared to our refining operations and we believe investors assign a higher value to businesses with stable cash flows.



MPLX is an important part of the MPC strategy to grow its higher valued, stable cash flow midstream businesses and the MarkWest Merger significantly expanded its midstream activities to include natural gas gathering, processing and transportation and NGL gathering, transportation, fractionation, storage and marketing. MPLX will evaluate organic growth projects within its geographic footprint, including the Marcellus and Utica shale regions, Oklahoma and Texas, as well as in new areas, that provide attractive returns and cash flows. MPLX may pursue these opportunities as standalone projects, with MPC or other parties.

We significantly expanded Speedway’s presence along the East Coast and Southeast through our acquisition of Hess’ Retail Operations and Related Assets towards the end of 2014. We intend to continue growing Speedway’s sales and profitability by focusing on the conversion and integration of these acquired locations, from which we expect to realize increased merchandise sales and other synergies. We also remain focused on organic growth through remodeling stores, constructing new stores, rebuilding old stores, acquiring high quality stores through opportunistic acquisitions and improving margins at our existing operations. We have identified numerous opportunities for new convenience stores or store rebuilds in our existing market, Pennsylvania and Tennessee, as well as growth opportunities in Georgia, South Carolina and the Florida panhandle. We also plan to capitalize on diesel demand growth by building out our commercial fueling lane network. In addition, our highly successful Speedy Rewards®customer loyalty program, which averaged more than4.7 millionactive members in2015, provides us with a unique competitive advantage and opportunity to increase our Speedway customer base with existing and new Speedway locations, including the stores acquired from Hess.

Maintain Long-Term Integrated Relationships with Our Producer Customers

MPLX’s MarkWest subsidiary has developed long-term integrated relationships with its producer customers. These relationships are characterized by an intense focus on customer service and a deep understanding of producer customers’ requirements coupled with the ability to increase the level of our midstream services in response to their midstream requirements. Through collaborative planning, MPLX continues to construct high-quality midstream infrastructure and provide unique solutions that are critical to the ongoing success of producer customers’ development plans. As a result of delivering high-quality midstream services, MarkWest has been the top-rated midstream service provider since 2006, as determined by an independent research provider.









Deliver Top Quartile Refining Performance

Our refineries are well positioned to benefit from the growing crude oil and condensate production in North America, including the Bakken, Eagle Ford and Utica shale regions, along with the Canadian oil sands. We are also well positioned to export distillates, gasoline and other products.

We intend to enhance our margins in the Refining & Marketing segment by realizing benefits of continuous process improvements, investing in and optimizing operations at our Galveston Bay and Texas City refineries, increasing distillate yield and conversion capacity and growing refined product export capacity. For example, we completed condensate splitter projects at our Canton and Catlettsburg refineries to increase our condensate capacity, we increased distillate production at our Galveston Bay and Robinson refineries and expanded our export capacity at our Galveston Bay and Garyville refineries. We intend to create a world-class refining complex by investing $2 billion in our Galveston Bay refinery over the next five years. The group of projects included in this investment will enable us to produce 100 percent ULSD and ULSK, increase our overall crude processing capacity, increase our distillate and gas oil recovery and improve the refinery’s reliability. Furthermore, this investment program will fully integrate our Galveston Bay and Texas City refineries. In 2016, we intend to increase our capacity to produce high value products such as alkylate and light products by making investments in the FCC units at our Garyville and Detroit refineries. We also intend to further increase distillate production at our Garyville refinery and to further expand the export capacity at our Galveston Bay refinery.

Sustain Focus on Shareholder Returns

We intend to continue our focus on the return of capital to shareholders in the form of a strong and growing base dividend, supplemented by share repurchases. Since becoming a stand-alone company in June 2011, our dividend has increased by a 29.5 percent compound annual growth rate and our board of directors has authorized share repurchases totaling$10 billion. Through open market purchases and two ASR programs, we repurchased198 millionshares of our common stock for approximately$7.24 billion, representing approximately28percent of our outstanding common shares when we became a stand-alone company in June 2011. After the effects of these repurchases,$2.76 billionof the$10 billiontotal authorization was available for future repurchases as ofDecember 31, 2015.

Increase Assured Sales Volumes at our Marathon Brand and Speedway Locations

We consider assured sales as those sales we make to Marathon brand customers, our Speedway operations and to our wholesale customers with whom we have required minimum volume sales contracts. We believe having assured sales brings ratability to our distribution systems, provides a solid base to enhance our overall supply reliability and allows us to efficiently and effectively optimize our operations between our refineries, pipelines and terminals. The Marathon brand has been a vehicle for sales volume growth in existing and contiguous markets. Our Speedway operations have also enabled us to further leverage our integrated refining and transportation operations with its expansion from nine to22states throughout the East Coast and Southeast in 2014.

Utilize and Enhance our High Quality Employee Workforce

We utilize our high quality employee workforce, which was augmented with the addition of MarkWest’s employees to MPC, by continuing to leverage our commercial skills. In addition, we continue to enhance our workforce through selective hiring practices and effective training programs on safety, environmental stewardship and other professional and technical skills.











Refining & Marketing

Refineries

We currently own and operatesevenrefineries in the Gulf Coast and Midwest regions of the United States with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of1,794mbpcd. During2015, our refineries processed1,711mbpd of crude oil and177mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. During2014, our refineries processed1,622mbpd of crude oil and184mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. The table below sets forth the location, crude oil refining capacity, tank storage capacity and number of tanks for each of our refineries as ofDecember 31, 2015.

RefineryCrude Oil Refining Capacity (mbpcd)(a)Tank Storage Capacity (million barrels)Numberof TanksGaryville, Louisiana53916.878Galveston Bay, Texas City, Texas45916.3156Catlettsburg, Kentucky2735.3114Robinson, Illinois2126.295Detroit, Michigan1326.586Canton, Ohio933.176Texas City, Texas864.660Total1,79458.8665

(a)Refining throughput can exceed crude oil capacity due to the processing of other charge and blendstocks in addition to crude oil and the timing of planned turnaround and major maintenance activity.

Our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, hydrocracking, catalytic reforming, coking, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. The refineries process a wide variety of condensate, light and heavy crude oils purchased from various domestic and foreign suppliers. We produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade gasolines intended for blending with ethanol and ULSD fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. Additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene and sulfur. See the Refined Product Marketing section for further information about the products we produce.









Our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. The transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and efficiently utilize our processing capacity. For example, naphtha may be moved from Texas City to Robinson where excess reforming capacity is available. Also, shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns allows us to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work.

Garyville, Louisiana Refinery. Our Garyville, Louisiana refinery is located along the Mississippi River in southeastern Louisiana between New Orleans and Baton Rouge. The Garyville refinery is configured to process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, fuel-grade coke, asphalt, polymer-grade propylene, propane, slurry, sulfur and dry gas. The refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. A major expansion project was completed in 2009 that increased Garyville’s crude oil refining capacity, making it one of the largest refineries in the U.S. Our Garyville refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site.

Galveston Bay, Texas City, Texas Refinery. Our Galveston Bay refinery, which we acquired on February 1, 2013, is located on the Texas Gulf Coast approximately 30 miles southeast of Houston, Texas. The refinery can process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, aromatics, heavy fuel oil, fuel-grade coke, refinery-grade propylene, sulfur and dry gas. The refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. Our cogeneration facility, which supplies the Galveston Bay refinery, currently has1,055megawatts of electrical production capacity and can produce4.3 millionpounds of steam per hour. Approximately46 percentof the power generated in2015was used at the refinery, with the remaining electricity being sold into the electricity grid.

Catlettsburg, Kentucky Refinery. Our Catlettsburg, Kentucky refinery is located in northeastern Kentucky on the western bank of the Big Sandy River, near the confluence with the Ohio River. The Catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, aromatics, refinery-grade propylene and propane. In the second quarter of 2015, we completed construction of a condensate splitter at our Catlettsburg refinery, which increased our capacity to process condensate from the Utica shale region.

Robinson, Illinois Refinery. Our Robinson, Illinois refinery is located in southeastern Illinois. The Robinson refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, propane, anode-grade coke, aromatics and slurry. The Robinson refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site.

Detroit, Michigan Refinery. Our Detroit, Michigan refinery is located in southwest Detroit. It is the only petroleum refinery currently operating in Michigan. The Detroit refinery processes sweet and heavy sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, fuel-grade coke, chemical-grade propylene, propane, slurry and sulfur. Our Detroit refinery earned designation as a OSHA VPP Star site in 2010. In the fourth quarter of 2012, we completed a heavy oil upgrading and expansion project that enabled the refinery to process up to an additional 80 mbpd of heavy sour crude oils, including Canadian crude oils.

Canton, Ohio Refinery. Our Canton, Ohio refinery is located approximately 60 miles south of Cleveland, Ohio. The Canton refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including production from the nearby Utica Shale, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, roofing flux, refinery-grade propylene, propane and slurry. In December 2014, we completed construction of a condensate splitter at our Canton refinery, which increased our capacity to process condensate from the Utica shale region.

Texas City, Texas Refinery. Our Texas City, Texas refinery is located on the Texas Gulf Coast adjacent to our Galveston Bay refinery, approximately 30 miles southeast of Houston, Texas. The refinery processes light sweet crude oils into gasoline, chemical-grade propylene, propane, aromatics, slurry and dry gas. Our Texas City refinery earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site in 2012.

As ofDecember 31, 2015, our refineries had25rail loading racks and26truck loading racks andfourof our refineries had a total ofsevenowned and11non-owned docks. Total throughput in2015was88mbpd for the refinery loading racks and920mbpd for the refinery docks.

Planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds, requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional detail.









Refined Product Yields

The following table sets forth our refinery production by product group for each of the last three years.

Refined Product Yields(mbpd)201520142013Gasoline913869921Distillates603580572Propane363537Feedstocks and special products281276221Heavy fuel oil312531Asphalt555454Total1,9191,8391,836

Crude Oil Supply

We obtain the crude oil we refine through negotiated term contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. Our term contracts generally have market-related pricing provisions. The following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years. The crude oil sourced outside of North America was acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies.

Sources of Crude Oil Refined(mbpd)201520142013United States1,1381,120946Canada244223255Middle East and other international329279388Total1,7111,6221,589

Our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges.

Renewable Fuels

We currently own a biofuel production facility in Cincinnati, Ohio that produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. The capacity of the plant is approximately60 milliongallons per year.

We hold interests in ethanol production facilities in Albion, Michigan; Clymers, Indiana and Greenville, Ohio. These plants have a combined ethanol production capacity of275million gallons per year (18mbpd) and are managed by a co-owner.



Refined Product Marketing

We believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers and consumers within our19-state market area. Independent retailers, wholesale customers, our Marathon brand jobbers and Speedway brand convenience stores, airlines, transportation companies and utilities comprise the core of our customer base. In addition, we sell gasoline, distillates and asphalt for export, primarily out of our Garyville and Galveston Bay refineries. The following table sets forth our refined product sales destined for export by product group for the past three years.

Refined Product Sales Destined for Export(mbpd)201520142013Gasoline1017938Distillates214191173Asphalt456Other——1Total319275218









The following table sets forth, as a percentage of total refined product sales volume, the sales of refined products to our different customer types for the past three years.

Refined Product Sales by Customer Type201520142013Private-brand marketers, commercial and industrial customers, including spot market69%73%75%Marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs14%15%16%Speedway®convenience stores17%12%9%

The following table sets forth the approximate number of retail outlets by state where independent entrepreneurs maintain Marathon-branded retail outlets, as ofDecember 31, 2015.

StateApproximate Number ofMarathon®Retail OutletsAlabama237Florida632Georgia311Illinois314Indiana646Kentucky578Louisiana2Maryland1Michigan753Minnesota63Mississippi70North Carolina292Ohio848Pennsylvania65South Carolina133Tennessee362Virginia130West Virginia119Wisconsin51Total5,607

As ofDecember 31, 2015, we also had branded marketing contract assignments for retail outlets, primarily in Florida, Mississippi, Tennessee and Alabama and branded lessee dealer marketing contract assignments, primarily in Connecticut, Maryland and New York, which we acquired as either part of the Galveston Bay Refinery and Related Assets acquisition in 2013 or the acquisition of Hess’ Retail Operations and Related Assets in 2014. As ofDecember 31, 2015, we had outstanding retail marketing contract assignments for approximately300retail outlets.

The following table sets forth our refined product sales volumes by product group for each of the last three years.

Refined Product Sales by Product Group(mbpd)201520142013Gasoline1,2411,1161,126Distillates667623615Propane363437Feedstocks and special products258268214Heavy fuel oil302829Asphalt575654Total2,2892,1252,075









Gasoline and Distillates. We sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including No. 1 and No. 2 fuel oils, jet fuel, kerosene and diesel fuel) to wholesale customers, Marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs and our Speedway®convenience stores and on the spot market. In addition, we sell diesel fuel and gasoline for export to international customers. We sold50percent of our gasoline sales volumes and87percent of our distillates sales volumes on a wholesale or spot market basis in2015. The demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months.

We have blended ethanol into gasoline for more than 20 years and began expanding our blending program in 2007, in part due to federal regulations that require us to use specified volumes of renewable fuels. Ethanol volumes sold in blended gasoline were85mbpd in2015,78mbpd in2014and74mbpd in2013. We sell reformulated gasoline, which is also blended with ethanol, in12states in our marketing area. We also sell biodiesel-blended diesel fuel in16states in our marketing area. The future expansion or contraction of our ethanol and biodiesel blending programs will be driven by market economics and government regulations.

Propane. We produce propane at most of our refineries. Propane is primarily used for home heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. Our propane sales are typically split evenly between the home heating market and industrial consumers.

Feedstocks and Special Products. We are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and specialty products. Product availability varies by refinery and includes platformate, alkylate, FCC unit gas, naptha, dry gas, propylene, raffinate, butane, benzene, xylene, molten sulfur, cumene and toluene. We market these products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel-blending industries. In addition, we produce fuel-grade coke at our Garyville, Detroit and Galveston Bay refineries, which is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications, and anode-grade coke at our Robinson refinery, which is used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry. Our feedstocks and special products sales decreased to 258 mbpd in 2015 from 268 mbpd in 2014 and increased in 2014 from 214 mbpd in 2013. The decrease in 2015 was primarily due to higher turnaround activity in 2014 resulting in more available feedstocks, more feedstocks used in production versus selling them on the spot market and market conditions in 2015. The increase in 2014 was primarily due to our Galveston Bay refinery.

Heavy Fuel Oil. We produce and market heavy residual fuel oil or related components, including slurry, at all of our refineries. Heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product.

Asphalt. We have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to101mbpcd, which includes asphalt cements, polymer-modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt, industrial asphalts and roofing flux. We have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. We sell asphalt in the domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel.











Terminals

As ofDecember 31, 2015, we owned and operated61light product and18asphalt terminals. Our light product and asphalt terminals averaged1,410mbpd and32mbpd of throughput in2015, respectively. In addition, we distribute refined products throughoneleased light product terminal,twolight product terminals in which we have partial ownership interests but do not operate and approximately120third-party light product andtwothird-party asphalt terminals in our market area. The following table sets forth additional details about our owned and operated terminals atDecember 31, 2015.

Owned and Operated TerminalsNumber ofTerminalsTank StorageCapacity(million barrels)Numberof TanksNumber ofLoadingLanesLight Product Terminals:Alabama20.4194Florida42.68222Georgia40.9389Illinois41.14314Indiana62.97617Kentucky62.36924Louisiana10.192Michigan82.19326North Carolina41.25313Ohio133.815033Pennsylvania10.3102South Carolina10.393Tennessee41.04312West Virginia20.3102Wisconsin10.3104Subtotal light product terminals6119.6714187Asphalt Terminals:Florida10.243Illinois20.1346Indiana20.5246Kentucky40.55814Louisiana10.1112Michigan1—28Ohio42.07213Pennsylvania10.5218Tennessee20.5448Subtotal asphalt terminals184.427068Total owned and operated terminals7924.0984255











Transportation - Marine, Truck and Rail

As ofDecember 31, 2015, our marine transportation operations included18owned andoneleased towboat, as well as205owned and14leased barges that transport refined products and crude oil on the Ohio, Mississippi and Illinois rivers and their tributaries and inter-coastal waterways. We also have a 50 percent ownership interest in a joint venture with Crowley Maritime Corporation through our investment in Crowley Ocean Partners to operate and charter four new Jones Act product tankers, most of which will be leased to MPC. As ofDecember 31, 2015, two of the four vessels were delivered with the remaining two vessels expected to be delivered by the third quarter of 2016. The following table sets forth additional details about our tankers, barges and towboats.

Class of EquipmentNumberin ClassCapacity(thousand barrels)Jones Act product tankers(a)2660Inland tank barges:(b)Less than 25,000 barrels6799525,000 barrels and over1524,453Total2195,448Inland towboats:Less than 2,000 horsepower22,000 horsepower and over17Total19

(a)Represents ownership through our investment in Crowley Ocean Partners.

(b)All of our barges are double-hulled.

As ofDecember 31, 2015, we owned173transport trucks and174trailers with an aggregate capacity of1.6 milliongallons for the movement of refined products and crude oil. In addition, we had2,189leased and21owned railcars of various sizes and capacities for movement and storage of refined products. The following table sets forth additional details about our railcars.

Number of RailcarsClass of EquipmentOwnedLeasedTotalCapacity per RailcarGeneral service tank cars—79379320,000-30,000 gallonsHigh pressure tank cars—1,1021,10233,500 gallonsOpen-top hoppers212943154,000 cubic feet212,1892,210



Speedway

Our Speedway segment sells gasoline, diesel and merchandise through convenience stores that it owns and operates under the Speedway brand. We are substantially complete with the conversion of the remaining convenience stores acquired from Hess to the Speedway brand and plan to complete this process by the end of the second quarter of 2016. Speedway convenience stores offer a wide variety of merchandise, including prepared foods, beverages and non-food items. Speedway’s Speedy Rewards® loyalty program has been a highly successful loyalty program since its inception in 2004, with a consistently growing base which averaged more than4.7 millionactive members in2015. Due to Speedway’s ability to capture and analyze member-specific transactional data, Speedway is able to offer the Speedy Rewards® members discounts and promotions specific to their buying behavior. We believe Speedy Rewards® is a key reason customers choose Speedway over competitors and it continues to drive significant value for both Speedway and our Speedy Rewards® members.

The demand for gasoline is seasonal, with the highest demand usually occurring during the summer driving season. Margins from the sale of merchandise tend to be less volatile than margins from the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel. Merchandise margin as a percent of total gross margin for Speedway decreased in 2015, primarily due to higher light product margins during the year and the effects of the convenience stores acquired from Hess. The following table sets forth Speedway merchandise statistics for the past three years.









Speedway Merchandise Statistics201520142013Merchandise sales (in millions)$4,879$3,611$3,135Merchandise gross margin (in millions)1,368975825Merchandise as a percent of total gross margin54%57%65%

As ofDecember 31, 2015, Speedway had2,766convenience stores in22states. The following table sets forth the number of convenience stores by state owned by our Speedway segment as ofDecember 31, 2015.

StateNumber ofConvenience Stores(a)Alabama2Connecticut1Delaware4Florida247Georgia6Illinois110Indiana308Kentucky147Massachusetts114Michigan303New Hampshire12New Jersey72New York240North Carolina288Ohio489Pennsylvania111Rhode Island20South Carolina62Tennessee37Virginia68West Virginia61Wisconsin64Total2,766

(a)Includes travel centers and stores with commercial fueling lanes.

As ofDecember 31, 2015, Speedway owned105transport trucks and83trailers for the movement of gasoline and distillate.



Midstream

Following the MarkWest Merger, we changed the name of our Pipeline Transportation segment to theMidstreamsegment to reflect its expanded business activities. TheMidstreamsegment includes the operations of MPLX, which transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, delivers refined products to wholesale and retail market areas, gathers, processes and transports natural gas, and transports, fractionates, stores and markets NGLs. As ofDecember 31, 2015, we owned, leased or had ownership interests in approximately8,400miles of crude oil and products pipelines, of which approximately2,900miles are owned through our investments in MPLX. Also through our investments in MPLX, we own 5,000 miles of gas gathering and NGL pipelines and have ownership interests in over 50 gas processing plants, over 10 NGL fractionation facilities and one condensate stabilization facility.









MPLX

MPLX is a publicly traded master limited partnership formed by us to own, operate, develop and acquire pipelines and other midstream assets related to the transportation and storage of crude oil, refined products and other hydrocarbon-based products. On December 4, 2015, MPLX merged with MarkWest, whereby MarkWest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of MPLX. Prior to the MarkWest Merger, we owned a71.5 percentinterest in MPLX, which included ourtwo percentgeneral partner interest. As ofDecember 31, 2015, our ownership interest in MPLX was20.4 percent, including ourtwo percentgeneral partner interest.

As ofDecember 31, 2015, MPLX assets, through its combination with MarkWest, included approximately5,400MMcf/d of gathering capacity,7,100MMcf/d of natural gas processing capacity and500mbpd of NGL fractionation capacity and more than 5,000 miles of gas gathering and NGL pipelines.

MPLX assets as ofDecember 31, 2015also included 100 percent ownership of common carrier pipeline systems through Marathon Pipe Line LLC (“MPL”) and Ohio River Pipe Line LLC (“ORPL”), and aone millionbarrel butane storage cavern in West Virginia. MPLX, through MPL and ORPL, owned or leased and operated1,008miles of common carrier crude oil lines and1,900miles of common carrier products lines located inninestates andfourtank farms in Illinois and Indiana with available storage capacity of4.53 millionbarrels that is committed to MPC. In2015, third parties generated17percent of the crude oil and refined product shipments on MPLX’s common carrier pipelines, excluding volumes shipped by MPC under joint tariffs with third parties. These common carrier pipelines transported the volumes shown in the MPLX Pipeline Throughput information in the table below for each of the last three years.



MPC-Retained Assets and Investments

We retained ownership interests in several crude oil and products pipeline systems and pipeline companies. MPC consolidated volumes transported through our common carrier pipelines, which include MPLX and our undivided joint interests, are shown in the MPC Consolidated Pipeline Throughput information in the following table for each of the last three years.

The following table shows operating statistics for ourMidstreamsegment.

Midstream Operating Statistics201520142013MPC Consolidated Pipeline Throughput (mbpd)Crude oil pipelines1,2771,2411,293Refined products pipelines914878911Total2,1912,1192,204MPLX Pipeline Throughput (mbpd)(a)(b)Crude oil pipelines1,0611,0411,075Refined products pipelines914878911Total1,9751,9191,986Gathering system throughput (MMcf/d)(c)3,075Natural gas processed (MMcf/d)(c)5,468C2 (ethane) + NGLs fractionated (mbpd)(c)307

(a)MPLX predecessor volumes reported in MPLX’s filings include our undivided joint interest crude oil pipeline systems for periods prior to MPLX’s initial public offering, which were not contributed to MPLX. The undivided joint interest volumes are not included above.

(b)Volumes represent 100 percent of the throughput through these pipelines.

(c)Beginning December 4, 2015, which was the effective date of the MarkWest Merger.

The locations and detailed information about our midstream assets are included under Item 2. Properties and are incorporated herein by reference.











Competition, Market Conditions and Seasonality

The downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. We compete with a large number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution and marketing of a full array of petroleum products. Based upon the “The Oil & Gas Journal2015Worldwide Refinery Survey,” we ranked fourth among U.S. petroleum companies on the basis of U.S. crude oil refining capacity as ofDecember 31, 2015. We compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products—wholesale, spot, branded and retail distribution. We believe we compete with about55companies in the sale of refined products to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; about100companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market;12refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to refiner-branded independent entrepreneurs; and approximately890retailers in the retail sale of refined products. In addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and retail consumers. We do not produce any of the crude oil we refine.

We also face strong competition for sales of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. Our competitors include service stations and convenience stores operated by fully integrated major oil companies and their independent entrepreneurs and other well-recognized national or regional convenience stores and travel centers, often selling gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise at competitive prices. Non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have affected the convenience store industry with their entrance into sales of retail gasoline and diesel fuel. Energy Analysts International, Inc. estimated such retailers had approximately13percent of the U.S. gasoline market in mid-2015.

OurMidstreamoperations face competition for natural gas gathering, crude oil transportation and in obtaining natural gas supplies for our processing and related services; in obtaining unprocessed NGLs for gathering and fractionation; and in marketing our products and services. Competition for natural gas supplies is based primarily on the location of gas gathering facilities and gas processing plants, operating efficiency and reliability and the ability to obtain a satisfactory price for products recovered. Competitive factors affecting our fractionation services include availability of capacity, proximity to supply and industry marketing centers and cost efficiency and reliability of service. Competition for customers to purchase our natural gas and NGLs is based primarily on price, delivery capabilities, flexibility and maintenance of high-quality customer relationships. In addition, certain of ourMidstreamoperations are highly regulated, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines.

Market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. Our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined products, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets we serve. Price differentials between sweet and sour crude oils, WTI and LLS crude oils and other market structure differentials also affect our operating results.

Demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. As a result, the operating results for each of our segments for the first and fourth quarters may be lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year.

OurMidstreamsegment can be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the demand for natural gas and NGLs and the related fluctuations in commodity prices caused by various factors such as changes in transportation and travel patterns and variations in weather patterns from year to year. In the northeast region, we could be particularly impacted by seasonality as the majority of its revenues are generated by NGL sales. However, we manage the seasonality impact through the execution of our marketing strategy. We have access to up to 50 million gallons of propane storage capacity in the northeast region provided by an arrangement with a third-party which provides us with flexibility to manage the seasonality impact. Overall, our exposure to the seasonal fluctuations in the commodity markets is declining due to our growth in fee-based business.



Environmental Matters

Our management is responsible for ensuring that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and for reviewing our overall environmental performance. We also have a Corporate Emergency Response Team that oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency incident involving us or any of our facilities.

We believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent and causes of climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. Currently, legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gases are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. The cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time, but could be significant. For additional information, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. We estimate and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and products. Additionally, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable.









Our operations are subject to numerous other laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Such laws and regulations include, among others, the Clean Air Act (“CAA”) with respect to air emissions, the Clean Water Act (“CWA”) with respect to water discharges, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA-90”) with respect to oil pollution and response. In addition, many states where we operate have similar laws. New laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with such new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate until finalized.

For a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Environmental Matters and Compliance Costs.

Air



The EPA has finalized Source Performance Standards for greenhouse gas emissions for new and existing electric utility generating units. These standards could impact electric and natural gas rates for all our operations. Legal challenges have been filed by several states and by industry groups seeking to overturn the final rules. Congress may again also consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions or a carbon tax. Private parties have sued utilities and other emitters of greenhouse gas emissions, but such suits have been largely unsuccessful. We have not been named in any of those lawsuits. Private parties have also sued federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. In sum, requiring reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. These requirements may also significantly affect MPC’s refinery operations and may have an indirect effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The extent and magnitude of the impact from greenhouse gas regulation or legislation cannot be reasonably estimated due to the uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how they will be implemented.



In 2013, the Obama administration made changes to the social cost of carbon (“SCC”) estimate. The SCC was first issued in 2010. The SCC is to be used by the EPA and other federal agencies in regulatory cost-benefit analyses to take into account alleged broad economic consequences associated with changes to emissions of greenhouse gases. In 2013, the Obama administration significantly increased the estimate to $36 per ton. In response to the regulated community and Congress’ critiques of how the SCC was developed, the Office of Management and Budget provided an opportunity to comment on the SCC, but ultimately did not make any significant revisions. In December 2014, the White House Council on Environmental Quality issued new draft guidance for assessing greenhouse gas emissions under the National Environmental Policy Act, adding for the first time language that requires the analyses to also include the impact of climate change on projects, including using the SCC when analyzing costs and benefits of a project. While the impact of a higher SCC in future regulations is not known at this time, it may result in increased costs to our operations.



In 2015, the EPA finalized a revision to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (“NAAQS”) for ozone. The EPA lowered the primary ozone NAAQS from 75 ppb to 70 ppb. This revision initiates a multi-year process in which nonattainment designations will be made based on more recent ozone measurements that includes data from 2016. States will then propose









and adopt, as necessary, new rules reducing emissions to meet the new standard. Currently, the EPA is in the process of implementing the 75 ppb ozone standard that the EPA had promulgated in March 2008. The impact of a stricter standard cannot be accurately estimated due to the present uncertainty regarding area nonattainment designations and the additional requirements that states may impose. Additionally, legal petitions challenging the revised ozone standard have been filed with the court adding uncertainty to the revised standard.



On September 29, 2015, the EPA signed the final regulations revising existing refinery air emissions standards. The revised regulations were published in the Federal Register on December 1, 2015. The revised rule requires additional controls, lower emission standards and ambient air monitoring. We do not anticipate that MPC’s costs to comply with the revised regulations will be material to our results of operations or cash flows.

Water

We maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance with these permits. In addition, we are regulated under OPA-90, which among other things, requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. Also, in case of any such release, OPA-90 requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages. OPA-90 also provides for civil penalties and imposes criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. We have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by OPA-90 and we have established Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures plans for all facilities subject to such requirements.

Additionally, OPA-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in U.S. waters be double-hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from U.S. service. All barges used for river transport of our raw materials and refined products meet the double-hulled requirements of OPA-90. We operate facilities at which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. Some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to OPA-90, but with expanded liability provisions, that include provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility.



In June 2015, the EPA and the United States Army Corps of Engineers finalized significant changes to the definition of the term “waters of the United States” (“WOTUS”) used in numerous programs under the CWA. This final rulemaking is referred to as the Clean Water Rule. The Clean Water Rule has been challenged in multiple federal courts by many states, trade groups, and other interested parties, and in October 2015, a United States Court of Appeals issued a nationwide stay of the Clean Water Rule. The Clean Water Rule, as written, expands permitting, planning and reporting obligations and may extend the timing to secure permits for pipeline and fixed asset construction and maintenance activities. The Clean Water Rule does contain new language intended to address concerns that the proposed rule included storm water conveyances and storage structures as WOTUS, and we continue to review how that new language will apply under specific circumstances. Court challenges of the Clean Water Rule will continue through 2016.



In 2015, the EPA issued its intent to review the CWA categorical effluent limitation guidelines (“ELG”) for the petroleum refining sector. During 2016, the EPA will prepare and request significant wastewater and treatment process details for our refining operations. The EPA has indicated they believe there have been significant changes in the characteristics of wastewaters generated within refining operations that warrant the review. Specific targets for the review are the impacts of processing heavier crude oils and the transfer of air pollutants to wastewater when air pollution abatement devices are in use. A similar project, initiated in 2007 for steam power generation with similar attributes, resulted in a significant change in the treatment requirements for coal fired power plants. The refining sector ELG review has the potential to result in a similar impact. We are actively engaged in the planning process for the 2016 information request and engaged with API and AFPM on this matter. The typical life-cycle for an ELG review from the intent to review to issuance of a final rule that would require upgrades is seven years.

Solid Waste

We continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of USTs containing regulated substances. We have ongoing RCRA treatment and disposal operations at two of our facilities and primarily utilize offsite third-party treatment and disposal facilities. Ongoing RCRA-related costs, however, are not expected to be material to our results of operations or cash flows.









Remediation

We own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain convenience stores and other locations where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from USTs have occurred. Federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. The enforcement of the UST regulations under RCRA has been delegated to the states, which administer their own UST programs. Our obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the stringency of the applicable state laws and regulations. A portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state UST reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. We also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our current and former refinery, terminal and pipeline locations. Penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance.

Claims under CERCLA and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Mileage Standards, Renewable Fuels and Other Fuels Requirements

In 2007, the U.S. Congress passed the Energy Independence and Security Act (“EISA”), which, among other things, set a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the United States by model year 2020, and contains the RFS2. In August 2012, the EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration jointly adopted regulations that establish average industry fleet fuel economy standards for passenger cars and light trucks of up to 41 miles per gallon by model year 2021 and average fleet fuel economy standards of up to 49.7 miles per gallon by model year 2025 (the standards from 2022 to 2025 are the government’s current estimate but will require further rulemaking). New or alternative transportation fuels such as compressed natural gas could also pose a competitive threat to our operations.



The RFS2 required the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the U.S. to reach 18.15 billion gallons in 2014, 20.5 billion gallons in 2015, 22.25 billion gallons in 2016 and increase to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. Within the total volume of renewable fuel, EISA established an advanced biofuel volume of 3.75 billion gallons in 2014, 5.5 billion gallons in 2015, 7.25 billion gallons in 2016, and increasing to 21.0 billion gallons in 2022. Subsets within the advanced biofuel volume include biomass-based diesel, which was set as at least 1.0 billion gallons in 2014 through 2022 (to be determined by the EPA through rulemaking), and cellulosic biofuel, which was set at 1.75 billion gallons in 2014, 3.0 billion gallons in 2015, 4.25 billion gallons in 2016, and increasing to 16.0 billion gallons in 2022.



On November 30, 2015, the EPA finalized the renewable fuel standards for the years of 2014, 2015 and 2016 as well as the biomass based diesel standard for 2017. Because the EPA missed the statutory deadlines for establishing the standards for 2014 and 2015, the EPA set the standards using actual consumption data obtained from EPA’s tracking system, EMTS. The volumes in billions of gallons that were finalized are as follows:

EPA Renewable Fuel Standards(billions of gallons)201420152016Cellulosic Ethanol0.0330.1230.230Biomass Based Diesel1.6301.7301.900Advanced Biofuel2.6702.8803.610Total Renewable16.28016.93018.110



These volumes, with the exception of biomass based diesel, represent a reduction from the statutory volumes. In the near term, the RFS2 will be satisfied primarily with ethanol blended into gasoline. Vehicle, regulatory and infrastructure constraints limit the blending of significantly more than 10 percent ethanol into gasoline (“E10”). The volumes for 2016 result in the ethanol content of gasoline exceeding the E10 blendwall, which will require obligated parties to either sell E15 or FlexFuel at levels that exceed historical levels. Neither E15 nor FlexFuel has been readily accepted by the consumer. There are numerous issues, including state and federal regulatory issues, which need to be addressed before E15 can be marketed for use in traditional gasoline engines.



With potentially uncertain supplies, the advanced biofuels programs may present specific challenges in that we may have to enter into arrangements with other parties or purchase credits from the EPA to meet our obligations to use advanced biofuels, including biomass-based diesel and cellulosic biofuel.









We made investments in infrastructure capable of expanding biodiesel blending capability to help comply with the biodiesel RFS2 requirement by buying and blending biodiesel into our refined diesel product, and by buying needed biodiesel RINs in the EPA-created biodiesel RINs market. On April 1, 2014, we purchased a facility in Cincinnati, Ohio, which currently produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. The capacity of the plant is approximately60 milliongallons per year. As a producer of biodiesel, we now generate RINs, thereby reducing our reliance on the external RIN market.

On October 13, 2010, the EPA issued a partial waiver decision under the CAA to allow for an increase in the amount of ethanol permitted to be blended into gasoline from E10 to E15 for 2007 and newer light-duty motor vehicles. On January 21, 2011, the EPA issued a second waiver for the use of E15 in vehicles model year 2001-2006. There are numerous issues, including state and federal regulatory issues, which need to be addressed before E15 can be marketed for use in traditional gasoline engines.



There will be costs and uncertainties regarding how we will comply with the various requirements contained in EISA and related regulations. The RFS2 has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. We may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined petroleum products being replaced by renewable fuels.

On March 3, 2014, the EPA signed the final Tier 3 fuel standards. The final Tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower annual average sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 ppm beginning in calendar year 2017. In addition, gasoline refiners and importers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 80 ppm while retailers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 95 ppm. We anticipate that we will spend an estimated $750 million to $1 billion between 2014 and 2019 for capital expenditures necessary to comply with these standards, a majority of which is expected to be spent in the years of 2017 through 2019.



Trademarks, Patents and Licenses

Our Marathon trademark is material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our Speedway trademark is material to the conduct of our retail marketing operations. We currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. Although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. In general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations.

Employees

We had approximately45,440regular employees as ofDecember 31, 2015, which includes approximately33,820employees of Speedway.

Certain hourly employees at our Canton, Catlettsburg, Galveston Bay and Texas City refineries are represented by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers Union under labor agreements that are due to expire in 2019. The International Brotherhood of Teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our Detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is also scheduled to expire in 2019. In addition, they represent certain hourly employees at Speedway under agreements that cover certain outlets in New York and New Jersey that expire on March 14, 2016 and June 30, 2016.









Executive and Corporate Officers of the Registrant

The executive and corporate officers of MPC and their ages as of January 31,2016, are as follows:

NameAgePosition with MPCGary R. Heminger62President and Chief Executive OfficerRichard D. Bedell61Senior Vice President, RefiningTimothy T. Griffith46Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerJohn R. Haley(a)59Vice President, TaxJames P. Heintschel(a)59Vice President, Business DevelopmentThomas Kaczynski54Vice President, Finance and TreasurerThomas M. Kelley56Senior Vice President, MarketingAnthony R. Kenney62President, Speedway LLCRodney P. Nichols63Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administrative ServicesRandy S. Nickerson54Executive Vice President, Corporate StrategyC. Michael Palmer62Senior Vice President, Supply, Distribution and PlanningJohn J. Quaid44Vice President and ControllerJohn S. Swearingen56Senior Vice President, Transportation and LogisticsDonald C. Templin52Executive Vice PresidentDonald W. Wehrly(a)56Vice President and Chief Information OfficerDavid L. Whikehart(a)56Vice President, Corporate Planning, Government and Public AffairsJ. Michael Wilder63Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

(a)Corporate officer.

Mr. Heminger was appointed president and chief executive officer effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Heminger was president of Marathon Petroleum Company LP (formerly known as Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC and Marathon Petroleum Company LLC), currently a wholly-owned subsidiary of MPC and prior to the Spinoff, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Marathon Oil. He assumed responsibility as president of Marathon Petroleum Company LP in September 2001.

Mr. Bedell was appointed senior vice president, Refining effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Bedell served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010 and as manager, Louisiana Refining Division beginning in 2001. Mr. Bedell has elected to retire effective March 1, 2016.

Mr. Griffith was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer effective March 3, 2015. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Griffith served as vice president, Finance and Investor Relations, and treasurer beginning in January 2014. He was vice president of Finance and treasurer beginning in August 2011. Previously, Mr. Griffith was vice president Investor Relations and treasurer of Smurfit-Stone Container Corporation, a packaging manufacturer, in St. Louis, Missouri, from 2008 to 2011.

Mr. Haley was appointed vice president, Tax effective June 1, 2013. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Haley served as director of Tax beginning in July 2011 and as a tax manager for Marathon Oil Company beginning in 1996.

Mr. Heintschel was appointed vice president, Business Development effective March 3, 2015. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Heintschel served as director of Business Development beginning in December 2009. Previously, he served as Special Products Marketing manager beginning in 2002.

Mr. Kaczynski was appointed vice president, Finance and treasurer effective August 31, 2015. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Kaczynski was vice president and treasurer of Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company beginning in 2014. Previously, he served as vice president, Investor Relations, of Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company beginning in 2013, vice president and corporate treasurer of Affinia Group Inc. beginning in 2005, and director of affiliate finance and of capital markets and bank relations of Visteon Corporation beginning in 2000.

Mr. Kelley was appointed senior vice president, Marketing effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Kelley served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in January 2010. Previously, he served as director of Crude Supply and Logistics for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in January 2008, and as a Brand Marketing manager for eight years prior to that.

Mr. Kenney has served as president of Speedway LLC since August 2005.









Mr. Nichols was appointed senior vice president, Human Resources and Administrative Services effective March 1, 2012. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Nichols served as vice president, Human Resources and Administrative Services beginning on June 30, 2011 and served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in April 1998.

Mr. Nickerson was appointed executive vice president, Corporate Strategy effective December 4, 2015 at the time of the MarkWest Merger. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Nickerson served as chief commercial officer of MarkWest beginning in 2006 and senior vice president, Corporate Development beginning in 2003.

Mr. Palmer was appointed senior vice president, Supply, Distribution and Planning effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Palmer served as vice president, Supply, Distribution and Planning for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010. He served as Crude Supply and Logistics director for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in February 2010, and as senior vice president, Oil Sands Operations and Commercial Activities for Marathon Oil Canada Corporation beginning in 2007.

Mr. Quaid was appointed vice president and controller effective June 23, 2014. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Quaid was vice president of Iron Ore at United States Steel Corporation (“U. S. Steel”), an integrated steel producer, beginning in January 2014. Previously, Mr. Quaid served in various leadership positions at U. S. Steel since February 2002, including vice president and treasurer beginning in August 2011, controller, North American Flat-Rolled Operations beginning in July 2010 and assistant corporate controller beginning in 2008.

Mr. Swearingen was appointed senior vice president, Transportation and Logistics effective March 3, 2015. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Swearingen served as vice president of Health, Environmental, Safety & Security beginning June 30, 2011. Previously, he was president of Marathon Pipe Line LLC beginning in 2009 and the Illinois Refining Division manager beginning in November 2001.

Mr. Templin was appointed executive vice president effective January 1, 2016. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Templin served as executive vice president, Supply, Transportation and Marketing beginning March 3, 2015 and senior vice president and chief financial officer beginning on June 30, 2011. Previously, he was a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an audit, tax and advisory services provider, with various audit and management responsibilities beginning in 1996.

Mr. Wehrly was appointed vice president and chief information officer effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Wehrly was the manager of Information Technology Services for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 2003.

Mr. Whikehart was appointed vice president, Corporate Planning, Government & Public Affairs effective January 1, 2016. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Whikehart was the director, Product Supply and Optimization beginning in March 2011. Previously, Mr. Whikehart served as director, Climate Change and Carbon Management beginning in 2010 and director, Business Development beginning in 2008. Effective February 29, 2016, Mr. Whikehart was appointed vice president, Environmental, Safety and Corporate Affairs.

Mr. Wilder was appointed vice president, general counsel and secretary effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Wilder was associate general counsel of Marathon Oil Company beginning in 2010 and general counsel and secretary of Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 1997. Mr. Wilder has elected to retire effective March 1, 2016.

Pamela K.M. Beall was appointed executive vice president, Corporate Planning and Strategy of MPLX effective January 1, 2016. Prior to this appointment, Ms. Beall was senior vice president, Corporate Planning, Government & Public Affairs beginning in January 2014, vice president, Investor Relations and Government & Public Affairs beginning in 2011, vice president, Products Supply and Optimization of Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 2010 and vice president of Global Procurement for Marathon Oil Company beginning in 2007.

Raymond L. Brooks, general manager, Galveston Bay refinery, was appointed senior vice president, Refining effective March 1, 2016. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Brooks was general manager, Galveston Bay refinery beginning in February 2013, general manager, Robinson refinery beginning in 2010 and general manager, St. Paul Park, Minnesota refinery (no longer owned by MPC) beginning in 2006.

Suzanne Gagle, assistant general counsel, litigation and Human Resources, was appointed vice president and general counsel effective March 1, 2016. Prior to this appointment, Ms. Gagle was assistant general counsel, litigation and Human Resources beginning in April 2011, senior group counsel, downstream operations beginning in 2010 and group counsel, litigation, beginning in 2003.









Molly R. Benson, assistant general counsel, corporate and finance was appointed vice president, corporate secretary and chief compliance officer effective March 1, 2016. Prior to this appointment, Ms. Benson was assistant general counsel, corporate and finance beginning in April 2012, group counsel, corporate and finance beginning in 2011, group counsel, North American production for Marathon Oil Company beginning in 2010 and senior attorney, downstream business beginning in 2006.

Available Information

General information about MPC, including Corporate Governance Principles and Charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, can be found at

http://ir.marathonpetroleum.com. In addition, our Code of Business Conduct and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers are also available in this same location.

MPC uses its website,www.marathonpetroleum.com, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the SEC. These documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our Investor Relations office. In addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. Information contained on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other securities filings.













