Item 1. Business

Overview

Marathon Petroleum Corporation (“MPC”) has129years of experience in the energy business with roots tracing back to the formation of the Ohio Oil Company in 1887. We are one of the largest independent petroleum product refining, marketing, retail and transportation businesses in the United States and the largest east of the Mississippi. With the merger of MPLX LP (“MPLX”), the midstream master limited partnership sponsored by MPC, and MarkWest Energy Partners, L.P. (“MarkWest”) effective December 4, 2015 (the “MarkWest Merger”), we are one of the largest natural gas processors in the United States and the largest processor and fractionator in the Marcellus and Utica shale regions.

Our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: Refining & Marketing; Speedway; andMidstream. Each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services it offers.

•Refining & Marketing – refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our seven refineries in the Gulf Coast and Midwest regions of the United States, purchases refined products and ethanol for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including terminals and trucks that we own or operate. We sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, buyers on the spot market, our Speedway®business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate Marathon®retail outlets.

•Speedway – sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the Midwest, East Coast and Southeast regions of the United States.

•Midstream – includes the operations of MPLX and certain other related operations. The Midstream segment gathers, processes and transports natural gas; gathers, transports, fractionates, stores and markets NGLs and transports and stores crude oil and refined products.

See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note10for operating segment and geographic financial information, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Corporate History and Structure

MPC was incorporated in Delaware on November 9, 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of Marathon Oil Corporation (“Marathon Oil”). On May 25, 2011, the Marathon Oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its Refining, Marketing & Transportation Business (“RM&T Business”) into an independent, publicly traded company, MPC, through the distribution of MPC common stock to the stockholders of Marathon Oil common stock on June 30, 2011 (the “Spinoff”). Following the Spinoff, Marathon Oil retained no ownership interest in MPC, and each company has separate public ownership, boards of directors and management. All subsidiaries and equity method investments not contributed by Marathon Oil to MPC remained with Marathon Oil and, together with Marathon Oil, are referred to as the “Marathon Oil Companies.” On July 1, 2011, our common stock began trading “regular-way” on the NYSE under the ticker symbol “MPC.”

Recent Developments

Strategic Actions to Enhance Shareholder Value

On January 3, 2017, we announced plans to significantly accelerate the dropdown of assets with an estimated $1.4 billion of MLP-eligible annual EBITDA to MPLX now expected to be completed in 2017, subject to requisite approvals and regulatory clearances, including tax clearance, and market and other conditions. In conjunction with the completion of the dropdowns, we also expect to exchange our economic interests in the general partner of MPLX, including incentive distribution rights, for newly issued MPLX common units. Additionally, a special committee of our board of directors, with the assistance of an independent financial advisor, will conduct a full and thorough review of Speedway to ensure optimum value is being delivered to shareholders over the long term. We expect to provide an update on the review by mid-2017. This significant acceleration of dropdowns and other announced strategic actions are designed to further highlight the substantial value embedded in our integrated businesses.

See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information on our strategic actions to enhance shareholder value.









Acquisitions and Investments

Pipeline Investments

On September 1, 2016, Enbridge Energy Partners L.P. (“Enbridge Energy Partners”) announced that its affiliate, North Dakota Pipeline LLC (“North Dakota Pipeline”), would withdraw certain pending regulatory applications for its Sandpiper pipeline project and that the project would be deferred indefinitely. These decisions were considered to indicate an impairment of the costs capitalized to date on the project. As the operator of North Dakota Pipeline and the entity responsible for maintaining its financial records, Enbridge Energy Partners completed a fixed asset impairment analysis as of August 31, 2016, in accordance with ASC Topic 360. Based on the estimated liquidation value of the fixed assets, an impairment charge was recorded by North Dakota Pipeline. Based on our37.5 percentownership of North Dakota Pipeline, we recognized approximately$267 millionof this charge in the third quarter of 2016 through “Income (loss) from equity method investments” on the accompanying consolidated statements of income which impaired virtually all of our $301 million investment in the project. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note17for information regarding the charge.

On February 15, 2017, MPLX closed on the previously announced transaction to acquire a partial, indirect equity interest in the Dakota Access Pipeline (“DAPL”) and Energy Transfer Crude Oil Company Pipeline (“ETCOP”) projects, collectively referred to as the Bakken Pipeline system, through a joint venture with Enbridge Energy Partners. MPLX contributed$500 millionof the$2 billionpurchase price paid by the joint venture to acquire a36.75 percentindirect equity interest in the Bakken Pipeline system from Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. (“ETP”) and Sunoco Logistics Partners, L.P. (“SXL”). MPLX holds, through a subsidiary, a25 percentinterest in the joint venture, which equates to an approximate9.2 percentindirect equity interest in the Bakken Pipeline system. The Bakken Pipeline system is currently expected to deliver in excess of470mbpd of crude oil from the Bakken/Three Forks production area in North Dakota to the Midwest through Patoka, Illinois and ultimately to the Gulf Coast. Furthermore, MPC expects to become a committed shipper on the Bakken Pipeline system under terms of an on-going open season.

In connection with closing the transaction with ETP and SXL, Enbridge Energy Partners canceled MPC’s transportation services agreement with respect to the Sandpiper pipeline project and released MPC from paying any termination fee per that agreement.

In July 2014, we exercised our option to acquire a 35 percent ownership interest in Enbridge Inc.’s Southern Access Extension (“SAX”) pipeline which runs from Flanagan, Illinois to Patoka, Illinois. This option resulted from our agreement to be the anchor shipper on the SAX pipeline. We have contributed$299 millionsince project inception. The pipeline became operational in December 2015. Our investment in the pipeline is included in ourMidstreamsegment.

Marine Investments

We currently have indirect ownership interests in two ocean vessel joint ventures with Crowley Maritime Corporation (“Crowley”), which were established to own and operate Jones Act vessels in petroleum product service. We have invested a total of $189 million in these two ventures as described further below.

In September 2015, we acquired a 50 percent ownership interest in a joint venture, Crowley Ocean Partners LLC (“Crowley Ocean Partners”), with Crowley. The joint venture owns and operates four new Jones Act product tankers, three of which are leased to MPC. Two of the vessels were delivered in 2015 and the remaining two were delivered in 2016. We contributed a total of$141 millionfor the four vessels.

In May 2016, MPC and Crowley formed a new ocean vessel joint venture, Crowley Coastal Partners LLC (“Crowley Coastal Partners”), in which MPC has a50 percentownership interest. MPC and Crowley each contributed their50 percentownership in Crowley Ocean Partners, discussed above, into Crowley Coastal Partners. In addition, we contributed$48 millionin cash and Crowley contributed its 100 percent ownership interest in Crowley Blue Water Partners LLC (“Crowley Blue Water Partners”) to Crowley Coastal Partners. Crowley Blue Water Partners is an entity that owns and operatesthree750 Series ATB vessels that are leased to MPC. We account for our50 percentinterest in Crowley Coastal Partners as part of our Midstream segment using the equity method of accounting.

See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note6for additional information on Crowley Coastal Partners as a VIE and Note25for information on our conditional guarantee of the indebtedness of Crowley Ocean Partners and Crowley Blue Water Partners.









MarkWest Merger

On December 4, 2015, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MPLX, the midstream master limited partnership sponsored by MPC, merged with MarkWest, whereby MarkWest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of MPLX. Each common unit of MarkWest issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the MarkWest Merger was converted into a right to receive 1.09 common units of MPLX representing limited partner interests in MPLX, plus a one-time cash payment of

$6.20

Consistent with our strategy to grow our midstream business, the MarkWest Merger combines one of the nation’s largest processors of natural gas and the largest processor and fractionator in the Marcellus and Utica shale regions with a rapidly growing crude oil and refined products logistics partnership sponsored by MPC. The complementary aspects of the highly diverse asset base of MarkWest, MPLX and MPC provide significant additional opportunities across multiple segments of the hydrocarbon value chain. The combined entity furthers MarkWest's leading midstream presence in the Marcellus and Utica shales by allowing it to pursue additional midstream projects, allowing producer customers to achieve superior value for their growing production in these important shale regions.

Hess Retail Acquisition

On September 30, 2014, we acquired from Hess Corporation (“Hess”) all of its retail locations, transport operations and shipper history on various pipelines, including approximately40mbpd on Colonial Pipeline, for$2.82 billion. We refer to these assets as “Hess’ Retail Operations and Related Assets” and substantially all of these assets are part of our Speedway segment. This acquisition significantly expanded our Speedway presence fromnineto22states throughout the East Coast and Southeast and is aligned with our strategy to grow our retail business. This acquisition also enables us to further leverage our integrated refining and transportation operations, providing an assured outlet for incremental sales from our refining system. The transaction was funded with a combination of debt and available cash. Our financial results and operating statistics reflect the results of Hess’ Retail Operations and Related Assets from the date of the acquisition.

See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note5for additional information on these acquisitions and investments.

MPLX LP

Overview

MPLX is a diversified, growth-oriented publicly traded master limited partnership formed by us to own, operate, develop and acquire midstream energy infrastructure assets. MPLX is engaged in the gathering, processing and transportation of natural gas; the gathering, transportation, fractionation, storage and marketing of NGLs; and the gathering, transportation and storage of crude oil and refined petroleum products. On December 4, 2015, we completed the MarkWest Merger, whereby MarkWest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of MPLX.









As ofDecember 31, 2016, we owned a25.5 percentinterest in MPLX, including atwo percentgeneral partner interest. This ownership percentage reflects the conversion of the MPLX Class B Units in July 2017 at1.09to 1.00. MPLX is a VIE because the limited partners of MPLX do not have substantive kick-out or substantive participating rights over the general partner. We are the primary beneficiary of MPLX because in addition to significant economic interest, we also have the power, through our100 percentownership of the general partner, to control the decisions that most significantly impact MPLX. We therefore consolidate MPLX and record a noncontrolling interest for the74.5 percentinterest owned by the public. The components of our noncontrolling interest consist of equity-based noncontrolling interest and redeemable noncontrolling interest. The redeemable noncontrolling interest relates to MPLX’s preferred units, discussed below.

The creditors of MPLX do not have recourse to MPC’s general credit through guarantees or other financial arrangements. The assets of MPLX are the property of MPLX and cannot be used to satisfy the obligations of MPC.

Reorganization Transactions

On September 1, 2016, MPC, MPLX and various affiliates initiated a series of reorganization transactions in order to simplify MPLX’s ownership structure and its financial and tax reporting. In connection with these transactions, MPC contributed$225 millionto MPLX, and all of the issued and outstanding MPLX Class A Units, all of which were held by MarkWest Hydrocarbon L.L.C. (“MarkWest Hydrocarbon”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of MPLX, were exchanged for newly issued common units representing limited partner interests in MPLX. The simple average of the closing prices of MPLX common units for the last 10 trading days prior to September 1, 2016 was used for purposes of these transactions. As a result of these transactions, MPC increased its ownership interest in MPLX by7 millionMPLX common units, or approximately1 percent.

Private Placement of Preferred Units

On May 13, 2016, MPLX completed the private placement of approximately30.8 million6.5 percentSeries A Convertible Preferred Units (the “MPLX Preferred Units”) at a cash price of$32.50per unit. The aggregate net proceeds of approximately$984 millionfrom the sale of the MPLX Preferred Units was used for capital expenditures, repayment of debt and general partnership purposes.

The MPLX Preferred Units rank senior to all MPLX common units with respect to distributions and rights upon liquidation. The holders of the MPLX Preferred Units are entitled to receive quarterly distributions equal to$0.528125per unit commencing for the quarter ended June 30, 2016, with a prorated amount from the date of issuance. Following the second anniversary of the issuance of the MPLX Preferred Units, the holders of the MPLX Preferred Units will receive as a distribution the greater of$0.528125per unit or the amount of per unit distributions paid to common unitholders.The MPLX Preferred Units are convertible into MPLX common units on a one for one basis after three years, at the purchasers’ option, and after four years at MPLX’s option, subject to certain conditions.

The MPLX Preferred Units are considered redeemable securities due to the existence of redemption provisions upon a deemed liquidation event which is considered outside MPLX’s control. Therefore they are presented as temporary equity in the mezzanine section of the consolidated balance sheets. We have recorded the MPLX Preferred Units at their issuance date fair value, net of issuance costs. Since the MPLX Preferred Units are not currently redeemable and not probable of becoming redeemable in the future, adjustment to the initial carrying amount is not necessary and would only be required if it becomes probable that the security would become redeemable.

Contribution of Inland Marine Business to MPLX

On March 31, 2016, we contributed our inland marine business to MPLX in exchange for23 millionMPLX common units and460 thousandMPLX general partner units. The number of units we received from MPLX was determined by dividing$600 millionby the volume weighted average NYSE price of MPLX common units for the 10 trading days preceding March 14, 2016, pursuant to the Membership Interests Contribution Agreement. We also agreed to waive first-quarter 2016 common unit distributions, IDRs and general partner distributions with respect to the common units issued in this transaction. The contribution of our inland marine business was accounted for as a transaction between entities under common control and therefore, we did not record a gain or loss.

Public Offering

On February 10, 2017, MPLX completed a public offering of$1.25 billionaggregate principal amount of4.125%unsecured senior notes due March 2027 (the “MPLX 2027 Senior Notes”) and$1.0 billionaggregate principal amount of5.200%unsecured senior notes due March 2047 (the “MPLX 2047 Senior Notes”). MPLX intends to use the net proceeds from this offering for general partnership purposes, which may include, from time to time, acquisitions (including the previously announced planned dropdown of assets from MPC) and capital expenditures.









ATM Program

On August 4, 2016, MPLX entered into a Second Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement (the “Distribution Agreement”) providing for the continuous issuance of MPLX common units, in amounts, at prices and on terms to be determined by market conditions and other factors at the time of any offerings (such continuous offering program, or at-the-market program, referred to as the “ATM Program”). MPLX expects to use the net proceeds from sales under the ATM Program for general partnership purposes including repayment of debt and funding for acquisitions, working capital requirements and capital expenditures.

During2016, MPLX issued an aggregate of26 millionMPLX common units under the ATM Program, generating net proceeds of approximately$776 million. As ofDecember 31, 2016,$717 millionof MPLX common units remains available for issuance through the ATM Program under the Distribution Agreement.

See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note4for additional information on MPLX.



Our Competitive Strengths



Extensive Integrated Platform of Midstream, Retail and Refining Assets

We believe the relative scale of our integrated midstream, retail and refining assets distinguishes us from other refining companies. We currently own, lease or have ownership interests in approximately8,400miles of crude oil and products pipelines. Additionally, we have over5,600miles of natural gas and NGL pipelines. We also own or have ownerships interests in one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges and one of the largest terminal operations in the United States, as well as trucking and rail assets. We operate this transportation and distribution system in coordination with our refining and marketing network enabling us to optimize raw material supplies and refined product distribution, and deliver important economies of scale across our platform. Our Speedway segment, one of our largest distribution channels, is also our most ratable.

We believe our distribution system allows us to maximize the sales value of our products and minimize cost. We also believe our integrated platform of assets gives us extensive flexibility and optionality to respond promptly to dynamic market conditions, including weather-related and marketplace disruptions.

Competitively Positioned Marketing Operations Provide Assured Product Sales

We are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers within our market area. We have two strong retail brands: Speedway®and Marathon®. We believe Speedway LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary, operates the second largest chain of company-owned and operated retail gasoline and convenience stores in the United States, with approximately2,730convenience stores in21states throughout the Midwest, East Coast and Southeast regions of the United States. In addition, our highly successful Speedy Rewards®customer loyalty program, which averaged more than5.7 millionactive members in2016, provides us with a unique competitive advantage and opportunity to increase our Speedway customer base at existing and new Speedway locations. The Marathon brand is an established motor fuel brand primarily in the Midwest and Southeast regions of the United States, comprised of approximately5,500retail outlets operated by independent entrepreneurs in19states as ofDecember 31, 2016. The Marathon brand has been a vehicle for sales volume growth in existing and contiguous markets.

We consider assured sales as those sales we make to Marathon brand customers, our Speedway operations and to our wholesale customers with whom we have required minimum volume sales contracts. Our assured sales currently account for approximately 70% of our gasoline production. We believe having assured sales brings ratability to our distribution systems, provides a solid base to enhance our overall supply reliability and allows us to efficiently and effectively optimize our operations between our refineries, pipelines and terminals.

High Quality Network of Strategically Located Assets

We believe we are the largest crude oil refiner in the Midwest and the third largest in the United States based on crude oil refining capacity. We own aseven-plant refinery network, with approximately1.8mmbpcd of crude oil throughput capacity. Our refineries process a wide range of crude oils, feedstocks and condensate, including heavy and sour crude oils, which can generally be purchased at a discount to sweet crude oil, and produce transportation fuels such as gasoline and distillates, specialty chemicals and other refined products. While we have historically processed significant quantities of heavy and sour crude oils, our refineries have the ability to process approximately 65 percent to 70 percent light sweet crude oils.









The geographic locations of our refineries provide us with strategic advantages. Located in PADD II and PADD III, which consist of states in the Midwest and the Gulf Coast regions of the United States, our refineries have the ability to procure crude oil from a variety of supply sources, including domestic, Canadian and other foreign sources, which provides us with flexibility to optimize crude supply costs. For example, geographic proximity to various United States shale oil regions and Canadian crude oil supply sources allows our refineries access to price-advantaged crude oils and lower transportation costs than certain of our competitors. Our refinery locations and midstream distribution system also allow us to access refined product export markets and to serve a broad range of key end-user markets across the United States quickly and cost-effectively.

OurMidstreamsegment assets are similarly located in the Midwest and Gulf Coast regions of the United States, which collectively comprised approximately 81 percent of total United States crude distillation capacity and approximately 81 percent of total United States finished products demand for the year endedDecember 31, 2016, according to the EIA. MPLX, through MarkWest, its wholly-owned subsidiary, is the largest processor and fractionator in the Marcellus and Utica shale regions. This significantly complements and creates strategic opportunities for our Refining & Marketing segment and MPLX’s logistic assets in the same geographic footprint. Our integrated midstream energy asset network links producers of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil from some of the largest supply basins in the United States to domestic and international markets. Our midstream gathering and processing operations include approximately7,500MMcf/d of natural gas processing capacity,500mbpd of fractionation capacity and more than5,600miles of gas gathering and NGL pipelines as ofDecember 31, 2016.

Our Speedway segment, which operates in the Midwest, East Coast and Southeast, complements our refining and midstream assets providing a significant and ratable outlet for our refinery production. Our Speedway operations have also enabled us to further leverage our integrated refining and transportation operations with its expansion from nine to21states throughout the East Coast and Southeast. Speedway is a top tier performer in the convenience store industry with the highest EBITDA per store per month of its public peers and leading positions with respect to other comparisons based on light product volume, merchandise sales and total gross margin on a per store per month basis.

*    As ofDecember 31, 2016









General Partner and Sponsor of MPLX

Our investment in MPLX provides us an efficient vehicle to invest in organic projects and pursue acquisitions of midstream assets; all with the focus of enhancing our share price through our limited partner and general partner interests in MPLX which tend to receive higher market multiples. MPLX’s liquidity, size, scale and access to the capital markets should provide us a strong foundation to execute our strategy for growing our midstream business.

We have an extensive portfolio of MLP-qualifying midstream assets. We plan to offer assets from this portfolio, which are estimated to generate annual EBITDA of approximately $1.4 billion, to MPLX as soon as practicable in 2017, subject to regulatory clearances, including tax clearance, and market and other conditions. In conjunction with the completion of the dropdowns, we expect to pursue an exchange of our economic interests in the general partner, including incentive distribution rights, for newly issued MPLX common units. Following the exchange, we would continue to retain control of the general partner so that we can continue to optimize our refinery feedstock and distribution networks.

See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information on these midstream assets, including the timing of these strategic actions.

Established Track Record of Profitability and Growing our Midstream and Retail Businesses

We have demonstrated an ability to achieve positive financial results throughout all stages of the refining cycle. We believe our business mix and strategies position us well to continue to achieve competitive financial results. Income generated by our Speedway segment is less sensitive to business cycles. Similarly, income from our Midstream segment, which was significantly expanded through the MarkWest Merger, is more stable over business cycles due to its long-term fee based contracts, while our Refining & Marketing segment enables us to generate significant income and cash flow when market conditions are more favorable.

Strong Financial Position

As ofDecember 31, 2016, we had$653 millionin cash and cash equivalents and$4.18 billionin unused committed borrowing facilities, excluding MPLX’s cash and cash equivalents of$234 millionand its credit facilities. We had$10.57 billionof debt at year-end, which represented33percent of our total capitalization. This combination of strong liquidity and manageable leverage provides financial flexibility to fund our growth projects and to pursue our business strategies.



Our Business Strategies

Maintain Top-Tier Safety and Environmental Performance

We remain committed to operating our assets in a safe and reliable manner and targeting continual improvement in our safety record across all of our operations. We have a history of safe and reliable operations, which was demonstrated again in 2016 with a strong process safety performance compared to the industry average. In addition, our corporate headquarters, four of our refineries and eight additional facilities have earned designations as an OSHA VPP Star site. We also remain committed to environmental stewardship by continuing to improve the efficiency and reliability of our operations. We have earned 75 percent of the EPA’s Energy Star recognitions awarded to refineries despite owning and operating just 10 percent of total U.S. refining capacity. We proactively address our regulatory requirements and encourage our operations to improve their environmental performance through our DEI program, which establishes goals and measures environmental performance. In 2016, we achieved our best performance since the current program began in 2010with a third straight year of improving performance. MarkWest will be incorporated into our DEI program in 2017.

Grow Higher Valued, Stable Cash Flow Businesses

We intend to continue to allocate significant portions of our capital to investments intended to grow our midstream and retail businesses. These businesses typically have more predictable and stable income and cash flows compared to our refining operations and we believe investors assign a higher value to such businesses.

MPLX is an important part of this strategy and the MarkWest Merger significantly expanded its midstream activities. MPLX will consider organic growth projects that provide attractive returns and cash flows both within its geographic footprint as well as in new regions. MPLX may pursue these opportunities as standalone projects, with MPC or with other parties. MPLX has identified a number of potential projects over the next several years. These primarily include projects to expand gathering, processing and fractionation infrastructure in the Marcellus region.









Our Speedway segment is also an important part of this strategy. We significantly expanded Speedway’s presence along the East Coast and Southeast through the acquisition of Hess’ Retail Operations and Related Assets in September 2014. We intend to continue growing Speedway’s sales and profitability by focusing on organic growth through filling in voids in our existing markets by building new locations and by rebuilding or remodeling existing stores. We will also look to expand our presence by opportunistically acquiring high quality stores in new and existing markets. We have identified numerous opportunities for new convenience stores or store rebuilds in our existing market, with a continued focus in Pennsylvania and Tennessee, as well as opportunities for growth in new markets including Georgia, South Carolina and the Florida panhandle. We also plan to capitalize on diesel demand growth by building out our network of commercial fueling lane locations within our core market which cater to local and regional transport fleets.

In keeping with our practice of evaluating shareholder value creation, a special committee of our board of directors, with the assistance of an independent financial advisor, will conduct a full and thorough review of strategic and financial alternatives for Speedway. We expect to provide an update on the review by mid-2017.

Maintain Long-Term Integrated Relationships with Our Producer Customers

MPLX’s MarkWest subsidiary has developed long-term integrated relationships with its producer customers. These relationships are characterized by an intense focus on customer service and a deep understanding of producer customers’ requirements coupled with the ability to increase the level of our midstream services in response to their midstream requirements. Through collaborative planning with these producer customers, MPLX’s MarkWest subsidiary continues to construct high-quality midstream infrastructure and provide unique solutions that are critical to the ongoing success of producer customers’ development plans. As a result of these efforts, MarkWest has been a top-rated midstream service provider in customer satisfaction since 2006, as determined by an independent research provider.

Pursue Margin Enhancing Investments in Refining to Deliver Top Quartile Refining Performance

Our refineries are well positioned to benefit from the growing crude oil and condensate production in North America, including the Bakken, Eagle Ford and Utica shale regions, along with the Canadian oil sands. We are also well positioned to export distillates, gasoline and other products.

We intend to enhance margins in our Refining & Marketing segment by realizing benefits from continuous process improvements and targeted investments in our refining operations. Over the next five years, we intend to create a world-class refining complex by investing approximately $1.5 billion in our Galveston Bay refinery through the STAR project. This investment will fully integrate our Galveston Bay and Texas City refineries and enable us to upgrade low value residual oil into higher value refined products and lower the refinery complex’s cost of production. The project scope increases crude processing capacity, increases distillate and gas oil recovery and improves the refinery’s overall reliability. We are also planning to expand the Galveston Bay refinery’s product export capacity to reach high value markets. In addition, we are investing at our Garyville refinery to increase ULSD production due to strong long-term distillate demand expectations.

Sustain Focus on Disciplined Capital Allocation and Shareholder Returns

We intend to maintain our focus on a disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation, including return of capital to shareholders, in a manner consistent with maintaining an investment-grade credit profile. Since becoming a stand-alone company in June 2011, our dividend has increased by a 28 percent compound annual growth rate and our board of directors has authorized share repurchases totaling$10 billion. Through open market purchases and two ASR programs, we repurchased202 millionshares of our common stock for approximately$7.44 billion, representing approximately28percent of our outstanding common shares when we became a stand-alone company in June 2011. After the effects of these repurchases,$2.56 billionof the$10 billiontotal authorization was available for future repurchases as ofDecember 31, 2016. We achieved these shareholder returns while also investing in the business and maintaining an investment-grade credit profile.

Cash proceeds from the planned dropdowns and ongoing MPLX common unit distributions resulting from the dropdowns and other strategic actions are expected to fund the substantial ongoing return of capital to our shareholders in a manner consistent with maintaining an investment-grade credit profile.

Utilize and Enhance our High Quality Employee Workforce

We utilize our high quality employee workforce by continuing to leverage our commercial skills. In addition, we continue to enhance our workforce through selective hiring practices and effective training programs on safety, environmental stewardship and other professional and technical skills.











Refining & Marketing

Refineries

We currently own and operatesevenrefineries in the Gulf Coast and Midwest regions of the United States with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of1,817mbpcd. During2016, our refineries processed1,699mbpd of crude oil and151mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. During2015, our refineries processed1,711mbpd of crude oil and177mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. The table below sets forth the location, crude oil refining capacity, tank storage capacity and number of tanks for each of our refineries as ofDecember 31, 2016.

RefineryCrude Oil Refining Capacity (mbpcd)(a)Tank Storage Capacity (million barrels)Numberof TanksGaryville, Louisiana54316.983Galveston Bay, Texas City, Texas45916.2157Catlettsburg, Kentucky2735.2120Robinson, Illinois2316.092Detroit, Michigan1326.787Canton, Ohio932.975Texas City, Texas863.956Total1,81757.8670

(a)Refining throughput can exceed crude oil capacity due to the processing of other charge and blendstocks in addition to crude oil and the timing of planned turnaround and major maintenance activity.

Our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, hydrocracking, catalytic reforming, coking, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. The refineries process a wide variety of condensate, light and heavy crude oils purchased from various domestic and foreign suppliers. We produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade gasolines intended for blending with ethanol and ULSD fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. Additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene and sulfur. See the Refined Product Marketing section for further information about the products we produce.









Our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. The transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and efficiently utilize our processing capacity. For example, naphtha may be moved from Texas City to Robinson where excess reforming capacity is available. Also, shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns allows us to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work.

Garyville, Louisiana Refinery. Our Garyville, Louisiana refinery is located along the Mississippi River in southeastern Louisiana between New Orleans, Louisiana and Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The Garyville refinery is configured to process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, fuel-grade coke, asphalt, propane, polymer-grade propylene, heavy fuel oil, dry gas, slurry and sulfur. The refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. A major expansion project was completed in 2009 that increased Garyville’s crude oil refining capacity, making it one of the largest refineries in the U.S. Our Garyville refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site.

Galveston Bay, Texas City, Texas Refinery. Our Galveston Bay refinery, which we acquired on February 1, 2013, is located on the Texas Gulf Coast approximately 30 miles southeast of Houston, Texas. The refinery can process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, aromatics, heavy fuel oil, refinery-grade propylene, fuel-grade coke, dry gas and sulfur. The refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. Our cogeneration facility, which supplies the Galveston Bay refinery, currently has1,055megawatts of electrical production capacity and can produce4.3 millionpounds of steam per hour. Approximately46 percentof the power generated in2016was used at the refinery, with the remaining electricity being sold into the electricity grid.

Catlettsburg, Kentucky Refinery. Our Catlettsburg, Kentucky refinery is located in northeastern Kentucky on the western bank of the Big Sandy River, near the confluence with the Ohio River. The Catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, aromatics, refinery-grade propylene and propane. In the second quarter of 2015, we completed construction of a condensate splitter at our Catlettsburg refinery, which increased our capacity to process condensate from the Utica shale region.

Robinson, Illinois Refinery. Our Robinson, Illinois refinery is located in southeastern Illinois. The Robinson refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, propane, anode-grade coke, aromatics, fuel-grade coke and slurry. The Robinson refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site.

Detroit, Michigan Refinery. Our Detroit, Michigan refinery is located in southwest Detroit. It is the only petroleum refinery currently operating in Michigan. The Detroit refinery processes sweet and heavy sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, fuel-grade coke, chemical-grade propylene, propane, slurry and sulfur. Our Detroit refinery earned designation as a OSHA VPP Star site in 2010. In the fourth quarter of 2012, we completed a heavy oil upgrading and expansion project that enabled the refinery to process up to an additional 80 mbpd of heavy sour crude oils, including Canadian crude oils.

Canton, Ohio Refinery. Our Canton, Ohio refinery is located approximately 60 miles south of Cleveland, Ohio. The Canton refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including production from the nearby Utica Shale, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, roofing flux, propane, refinery-grade propylene and slurry. In December 2014, we completed construction of a condensate splitter at our Canton refinery, which increased our capacity to process condensate from the Utica shale region.

Texas City, Texas Refinery. Our Texas City, Texas refinery is located on the Texas Gulf Coast adjacent to our Galveston Bay refinery, approximately 30 miles southeast of Houston, Texas. The refinery processes light sweet crude oils into gasoline, chemical-grade propylene, propane, aromatics, dry gas and slurry. Our Texas City refinery earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site in 2012.

As ofDecember 31, 2016, our refinerieshad22rail loading racks and28truck loading racks andfourof our refineries had a total ofsevenowned and11non-owned docks. Total throughput in2016was91mbpd for the refinery loading racks and928mbpd for the refinery docks.

Planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds, requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional detail.









Refined Product Yields

The following table sets forth our refinery production by product group for each of the last three years.

Refined Product Yields(mbpd)201620152014Gasoline900913869Distillates617603580Propane353635Feedstocks and special products241281276Heavy fuel oil323125Asphalt585554Total1,8831,9191,839

Crude Oil Supply

We obtain the crude oil we refine through negotiated term contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. Our term contracts generally have market-related pricing provisions. The following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years. The crude oil sourced outside of North America was acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies.

Sources of Crude Oil Refined(mbpd)201620152014United States9861,1381,120Canada326244223Middle East and other international387329279Total1,6991,7111,622

Our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges.

Renewable Fuels

We currently own a biofuel production facility in Cincinnati, Ohio that produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. The capacity of the plant is approximately60 milliongallons per year.

We hold interests in ethanol production facilities in Albion, Michigan; Clymers, Indiana and Greenville, Ohio. These plants have a combined ethanol production capacity of275million gallons per year (18mbpd) and are managed by a co-owner.



Refined Product Marketing

We believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers and consumers within our26-state market area. Independent retailers, wholesale customers, our Marathon brand jobbers and Speedway brand convenience stores, airlines, transportation companies and utilities comprise the core of our customer base. In addition, we sell gasoline, distillates and asphalt for export, primarily out of our Garyville and Galveston Bay refineries. The following table sets forth our refined product sales destined for export by product group for the past three years.

Refined Product Sales Destined for Export(mbpd)201620152014Gasoline9110179Distillates199214191Asphalt645Total296319275









The following table sets forth, as a percentage of total refined product sales volume, the sales of refined products to our different customer types for the past three years.

Refined Product Sales by Customer Type201620152014Private-brand marketers, commercial and industrial customers, including spot market69%69%73%Marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs14%14%15%Speedway®convenience stores17%17%12%

The following table sets forth the approximate number of retail outlets by state where independent entrepreneurs maintain Marathon-branded retail outlets, as ofDecember 31, 2016.

StateApproximate Number ofMarathon®Retail OutletsAlabama227Florida606Georgia281Illinois292Indiana640Kentucky583Louisiana2Maryland1Michigan761Minnesota47Mississippi79North Carolina220Ohio859Pennsylvania66South Carolina101Tennessee404Virginia121West Virginia117Wisconsin48Total5,455

The following table sets forth our refined product sales volumes by product group for each of the last three years.

Refined Product Sales by Product Group(mbpd)201620152014Gasoline1,2191,2411,116Distillates676667623Propane353634Feedstocks and special products231258268Heavy fuel oil353028Asphalt635756Total2,2592,2892,125

Gasoline and Distillates. We sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including No. 1 and No. 2 fuel oils, jet fuel, kerosene and diesel fuel) to wholesale customers, Marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs and our Speedway®convenience stores and on the spot market. In addition, we sell diesel fuel and gasoline for export to international customers. We sold50percent of our gasoline sales volumes and87percent of our distillates sales volumes on a wholesale or spot market basis in2016. The demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months.









We have blended ethanol into gasoline for more than 25 years and began expanding our blending program in 2007, in part due to federal regulations that require us to use specified volumes of renewable fuels. Ethanol volumes sold in blended gasoline were84mbpd in2016,85mbpd in2015and78mbpd in2014. We sell reformulated gasoline, which is also blended with ethanol, in12states in our marketing area. We also sell biodiesel-blended diesel fuel in18states in our marketing area. The future expansion or contraction of our ethanol and biodiesel blending programs will be driven by market economics and government regulations.

Propane. We produce propane at most of our refineries. Propane is primarily used for home heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. Our propane sales are typically split evenly between the home heating market and petrochemical consumers.

Feedstocks and Petrochemicals. We are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and petrochemicals. Product availability varies by refinery and includes platformate, alkylate, FCC unit gas, naptha, dry gas, propylene, raffinate, butane, benzene, xylene, molten sulfur, cumene and toluene. We market these products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel-blending industries. In addition, we produce fuel-grade coke at our Garyville, Detroit and Galveston Bay refineries, which is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications, and anode-grade coke at our Robinson refinery, which is used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry. Our feedstocks and petrochemical sales decreased to231mbpd in 2016 from258mbpd in 2015 and decreased in 2015 from268mbpd in 2014. The decrease in 2016 was primarily due to more feedstocks used in production versus selling them on the spot market. The decrease in 2015 was primarily due to higher turnaround activity in 2014 resulting in more available feedstocks, more feedstocks used in production versus selling them on the spot market and market conditions in 2015.

Heavy Fuel Oil. We produce and market heavy residual fuel oil or related components, including slurry, at all of our refineries. Heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product.

Asphalt. We have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to102mbpcd, which includes asphalt cements, polymer-modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt, industrial asphalts and roofing flux. We have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. We sell asphalt in the domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel.











Terminals

As ofDecember 31, 2016, we owned and operated61light product and18asphalt terminals. Our light product and asphalt terminals averaged1,429mbpd and31mbpd of throughput in2016, respectively. In addition, we distribute refined products throughoneleased light product terminal,twolight product terminals in which we have partial ownership interests but do not operate and approximately121third-party light product andtwothird-party asphalt terminals in our market area. We have offered 62 of these light product terminals, which include virtually all of our owned and operated light product terminals as well as the one leased terminal and the two partially-owned terminals, to MPLX and expect this dropdown transaction to be completed in the first quarter of 2017. The following table sets forth additional details about our owned and operated terminals atDecember 31, 2016.

Owned and Operated TerminalsNumber ofTerminalsTank StorageCapacity(million barrels)Numberof TanksNumber ofLoadingLanesLight Product Terminals:Alabama20.4194Florida43.08522Georgia40.9399Illinois41.24414Indiana62.97617Kentucky62.36925Louisiana10.192Michigan82.29326North Carolina41.35413Ohio133.814832Pennsylvania10.3132South Carolina10.393Tennessee41.04312West Virginia20.192Wisconsin10.294Subtotal light product terminals6120.0719187Asphalt Terminals:Florida10.243Illinois20.1346Indiana20.4236Kentucky40.55714Louisiana10.1112Michigan1—28Ohio42.06913Pennsylvania10.5168Tennessee20.5448Subtotal asphalt terminals184.326068Total owned and operated terminals7924.3979255









Transportation - Truck and Rail

As ofDecember 31, 2016, we owned163transport trucks and180trailers with an aggregate capacity of1.6 milliongallons for the movement of refined products and crude oil. In addition, we had2,059leased and15owned railcars of various sizes and capacities for movement and storage of refined products. The following table sets forth additional details about our railcars.

Number of RailcarsClass of EquipmentOwnedLeasedTotalCapacity per RailcarGeneral service tank cars—78178120,000-30,000 gallonsHigh pressure tank cars—98498433,500 gallonsOpen-top hoppers152943094,000 cubic feet152,0592,074



Speedway

Our Speedway segment sells gasoline, diesel and merchandise through convenience stores that it owns and operates under the Speedway brand. Speedway convenience stores offer a wide variety of merchandise, including prepared foods, beverages and non-food items. Speedway’s Speedy Rewards®loyalty program has been a highly successful loyalty program since its inception in 2004, with a consistently growing base which averaged more than5.7 millionactive members in2016. Due to Speedway’s ability to capture and analyze member-specific transactional data, Speedway is able to offer the Speedy Rewards®members discounts and promotions specific to their buying behavior. We believe Speedy Rewards®is a key reason customers choose Speedway over competitors and it continues to drive significant value for both Speedway and our Speedy Rewards®members.

The demand for gasoline is seasonal, with the highest demand usually occurring during the summer driving season. Margins from the sale of merchandise tend to be less volatile than margins from the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel. Merchandise margin as a percent of total gross margin for Speedway increased in 2016, primarily due to lower light product margins during the year. The following table sets forth Speedway merchandise statistics for the past three years.

Speedway Merchandise Statistics201620152014Merchandise sales (in millions)$5,007$4,879$3,611Merchandise gross margin (in millions)1,4351,368975Merchandise as a percent of total gross margin56%54%57%









As ofDecember 31, 2016, Speedway had2,733convenience stores in21states. The following table sets forth the number of convenience stores by state owned by our Speedway segment as ofDecember 31, 2016.

StateNumber ofConvenience Stores(a)Connecticut1Delaware4Florida241Georgia1Illinois115Indiana309Kentucky147Massachusetts114Michigan303New Hampshire12New Jersey72New York238North Carolina278Ohio488Pennsylvania113Rhode Island20South Carolina52Tennessee38Virginia62West Virginia61Wisconsin64Total2,733

(a)Includes stores with commercial fueling lanes.

Speedway also owns a 29 percent interest in PFJ Southeast LLC (“PFJ Southeast”), which is a joint venture between Speedway and Pilot with 123 travel center locations primarily in the Southeast United States as of December 31, 2016.

As ofDecember 31, 2016, Speedway owned90transport trucks and83trailers for the movement of gasoline and distillate.



Midstream

Following the MarkWest Merger, we changed the name of our Pipeline Transportation segment to theMidstreamsegment to reflect its expanded business activities. TheMidstreamsegment includes the operations of MPLX and certain other related operations.

MPLX

MPLX is a diversified, growth-oriented publicly traded master limited partnership formed by us to own, operate, develop and acquire midstream energy infrastructure assets. On December 4, 2015, MPLX merged with MarkWest, whereby MarkWest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of MPLX. As ofDecember 31, 2016, our ownership interest in MPLX was25.5 percent, including our two percent general partner interest. This ownership percentage reflects the conversion of the MPLX Class B Units in July 2017 at1.09to 1.00.

As ofDecember 31, 2016, MPLX assets, through its combination with MarkWest, included approximately7,500MMcf/d of natural gas processing capacity and500mbpd of NGL fractionation capacity and more than5,600miles of gas gathering and NGL pipelines.









MPLX assets as ofDecember 31, 2016also included 100 percent ownership of common carrier pipeline systems through Marathon Pipe Line LLC (“MPL”) and Ohio River Pipe Line LLC (“ORPL”), and aone millionbarrel butane storage cavern in West Virginia. MPLX, through MPL and ORPL, owned or leased and operated1,008miles of common carrier crude oil lines and1,958miles of common carrier products lines located inninestates andfivetank farms in Illinois and Indiana with available storage capacity of approximatelyfive millionbarrels that is committed to MPC. In2016, third parties generated16percent of the crude oil and refined product shipments on MPLX’s common carrier pipelines, excluding volumes shipped by MPC under joint tariffs with third parties. These common carrier pipelines transported the volumes shown in the MPLX Pipeline Throughput information in the Midstream Operating Statistics table below for each of the last three years.

As ofDecember 31, 2016, MPLX’s marine transportation operations included18owned towboats, as well as204owned and18leased barges that transport refined products and crude oil on the Ohio, Mississippi and Illinois rivers and their tributaries and inter-coastal waterways. The following table sets forth additional details about MPLX’s barges and towboats.

Class of EquipmentNumberin ClassCapacity(thousand barrels)Inland tank barges:(a)Less than 25,000 barrels6496325,000 barrels and over1584,631Total2225,594Inland towboats:Less than 2,000 horsepower22,000 horsepower and over16Total18

(a)All of our barges are double-hulled.



MPC-Retained Midstream Assets and Investments

We have ownership interests in several crude oil and products pipeline systems and pipeline companies which we retained at the formation of MPLX. We have offered certain of these assets to MPLX in a dropdown transaction we expect to be completed in the first quarter of 2017. MPC consolidated volumes transported through our common carrier pipelines, which include MPLX’s pipelines and our undivided joint interests, are shown in the MPC Consolidated Pipeline Throughput information in the following table for each of the last three years.

The following table shows operating statistics for ourMidstreamsegment.

Midstream Operating Statistics201620152014MPC Consolidated Pipeline Throughput (mbpd)Crude oil pipelines1,4021,2771,241Refined products pipelines909914878Total2,3112,1912,119MPLX Pipeline Throughput (mbpd) (included in volumes above)(a)(b)Crude oil pipelines1,0881,0611,041Refined products pipelines908914878Total1,9961,9751,919Gathering system throughput (MMcf/d)(c)3,2753,075—Natural gas processed (MMcf/d)(c)5,7615,468—C2 (ethane) + NGLs fractionated (mbpd)(c)335307—

(a)MPLX predecessor volumes reported in MPLX’s filings include our undivided joint interest crude oil pipeline systems for periods prior to MPLX’s initial public offering, which were not contributed to MPLX. The undivided joint interest volumes are not included above.

(b)Volumes represent 100 percent of the throughput through these pipelines.

(c)Beginning December 4, 2015, which was the effective date of the MarkWest Merger.









As ofDecember 31, 2016, we have indirect ownership interests in two ocean vessel joint ventures with Crowley through our investment in Crowley Coastal Partners. These joint ventures operate and charter four Jones Act product tankers, most of which are leased to MPC, and own and operate three 750 Series ATB vessels that are leased to MPC. The following table sets forth additional details about our product tankers and ATB vessels.

Class of EquipmentNumberin ClassCapacity(thousand barrels)Jones Act product tankers(a)41,320750 Series ATB vessels(b)3990

(a)Represents ownership through our indirect noncontrolling interest in Crowley Ocean Partners.

(b)Represents ownership through our indirect noncontrolling interest in Crowley Blue Water Partners.

The locations and detailed information about our midstream assets are included under Item 2. Properties and are incorporated herein by reference.



Competition, Market Conditions and Seasonality

The downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. We compete with a large number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution and marketing of a full array of petroleum products. Based upon the “The Oil & Gas Journal2016Worldwide Refinery Survey,” we ranked third among U.S. petroleum companies on the basis of U.S. crude oil refining capacity as ofDecember 31, 2016.

We compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products—wholesale, spot, branded and retail distribution. We believe we compete with about50companies in the sale of refined products to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; about100companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market;12refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to refiner-branded independent entrepreneurs; and approximately850retailers in the retail sale of refined products. In addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and retail consumers. We do not produce any of the crude oil we refine.

We also face strong competition for sales of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. Our competitors include service stations and convenience stores operated by fully integrated major oil companies and their independent entrepreneurs and other well-recognized national or regional convenience stores and travel centers, often selling gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise at competitive prices. Non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have affected the convenience store industry with their entrance into sales of retail gasoline and diesel fuel. Energy Analysts International, Inc. estimated such retailers had approximately15percent of the U.S. gasoline market in mid-2016.

OurMidstreamoperations face competition for natural gas gathering, crude oil transportation and in obtaining natural gas supplies for our processing and related services; in obtaining unprocessed NGLs for gathering and fractionation; and in marketing our products and services. Competition for natural gas supplies is based primarily on the location of gas gathering facilities and gas processing plants, operating efficiency and reliability and the ability to obtain a satisfactory price for products recovered. Competitive factors affecting our fractionation services include availability of capacity, proximity to supply and industry marketing centers and cost efficiency and reliability of service. Competition for customers to purchase our natural gas and NGLs is based primarily on price, delivery capabilities, flexibility and maintenance of high-quality customer relationships. In addition, certain of ourMidstreamoperations are highly regulated, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines.

Market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. Our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined products, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets we serve. Price differentials between sweet and sour crude oils, WTI and LLS crude oils and other market structure differentials also affect our operating results.

Demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. As a result, the operating results for each of our segments for the first and fourth quarters may be lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year.









OurMidstreamsegment can be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the demand for natural gas and NGLs and the related fluctuations in commodity prices caused by various factors such as changes in transportation and travel patterns and variations in weather patterns from year to year. In the northeast region, we could be particularly impacted by seasonality as the majority of its revenues are generated by NGL sales. However, we manage the seasonality impact through the execution of our marketing strategy. We have access to up to 50 million gallons of propane storage capacity in the northeast region provided by an arrangement with a third-party which provides us with flexibility to manage the seasonality impact. Overall, our exposure to the seasonal fluctuations in the commodity markets is declining due to our growth in fee-based business.



Environmental Matters

Our management is responsible for ensuring that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and for reviewing our overall environmental performance. We also have a Corporate Emergency Response Team that oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency incident involving us or any of our facilities.

We believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent and causes of climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. Currently, legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gases are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. The cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time, but could be significant. For additional information, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. We estimate and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and products. Additionally, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable.

Our operations are subject to numerous other laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Such laws and regulations include, among others, the Clean Air Act (“CAA”) with respect to air emissions, the Clean Water Act (“CWA”) with respect to water discharges, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA-90”) with respect to oil pollution and response. In addition, many states where we operate have similar laws. New laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with such new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate until finalized.

For a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Environmental Matters and Compliance Costs.

Air

We are subject to many requirements in connection with air emissions from our operations. Internationally and domestically, emphasis has been placed on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The U.S. pledge in 2009, as part of the Copenhagen Accord, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 remains in effect and was reaffirmed in President Obama’s 2013 Climate Action Plan. Although the United States signed the 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Change, it does not legally require parties to the Agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and the United States’ future activities in response to the Paris Agreement are unknown.In November 2016, the Obama administration released its strategy for “deep de-carbonization,” which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 80 percent below 2005 levels by 2050. The U.S. climate change strategy and implementation of that strategy through legislation and regulation may change under President Trump’s administration; therefore, the impact to our industry and operations due to greenhouse gas regulation is unknown at this time.

In 2009, the EPA issued an “endangerment finding” that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. Related to the endangerment finding, in April 2010, the EPA finalized a greenhouse gas emission standard for mobile sources (cars and other light duty vehicles). The endangerment finding, the mobile source standard and the EPA’s determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act resulted in permitting of greenhouse gas emissions at stationary sources, but as a result of the EPA’s “tailoring rule,” permit applicability was limited to larger sources such as refineries. Legal challenges were filed against these EPA actions. In June 2014, the United States Supreme Court ruled that the Clean Air Act Prevention of Significant Deterioration program for new and modified major stationary sources is not triggered by greenhouse gas emissions alone. The United States Supreme Court did, however, uphold the requirement for new or modified stationary sources that will also emit a criteria pollutant to control greenhouse gas emissions through Best Available Control Technology. Implementing Best Available Control Technology may result in increased costs to our operations. A few MPC projects may trigger greenhouse gas permitting requirements but any additional capital spending will likely not be significant.









The EPA has finalized Source Performance Standards for greenhouse gas emissions for new and existing electric utility generating units. These standards could impact electric and natural gas rates for all our operations. Legal challenges have been filed by several states and by industry groups seeking to overturn the final rules. In February 2016, the United States Supreme Court stayed implementation of the standards for existing utility generating units (also known as the Clean Power Plan) until complete disposition of the litigation.



Congress may again also consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions or a carbon tax. In the



absence of federal legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, states may become more active in regulating greenhouse gas emissions. These measures include state actions to develop statewide or regional programs to impose emission reductions. These measures may also include low carbon fuel standards, such as the California program. In addition, private parties have sued utilities and other emitters of greenhouse gas emissions, but such suits have been largely unsuccessful. We have not been named in any of those lawsuits. Private parties have also sued federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. In sum, requiring reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. These requirements may also significantly affect MPC’s refinery operations and may have an indirect effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The extent and magnitude of the impact from greenhouse gas regulation or legislation cannot be reasonably estimated due to the uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how they will be implemented.

In 2013, the Obama administration made changes to the social cost of carbon (“SCC”) estimate. The SCC was first issued in 2010. The SCC is to be used by the EPA and other federal agencies in regulatory cost-benefit analyses to take into account alleged broad economic consequences associated with changes to emissions of greenhouse gases. In 2013, the Obama administration significantly increased the estimate to $36 per ton. In response to the regulated community and Congress’ critiques of how the SCC was developed, the Office of Management and Budget provided an opportunity to comment on the SCC, but ultimately did not make any significant revisions. In August 2016, the White House Council on Environmental Quality issued its final guidance to federal agencies on assessing a project’s impact to climate change under the National Environmental Policy Act, by requiring an estimation of the greenhouse gas emissions from the project, including using the SCC when analyzing costs and benefits of a project. While the impact of a higher SCC in future regulations is not known at this time, it may result in increased costs to our operations. The EPA has also used an estimate of the social cost of methane in its regulatory impact analysis to justify regulating methane as a pollutant for new and modified sources in the oil and natural gas sector.

In 2015, the EPA finalized a revision to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (“NAAQS”) for ozone. The EPA lowered the primary ozone NAAQS from 75 ppb to 70 ppb. This revision initiates a multi-year process in which nonattainment designations will be made based on more recent ozone measurements that includes data from 2016. States will then propose and adopt, as necessary, new rules reducing emissions to meet the new standard. Currently, the EPA is in the process of implementing the 75 ppb ozone standard that the EPA had promulgated in March 2008. The impact of a stricter standard cannot be accurately estimated due to the present uncertainty regarding area nonattainment designations and the additional requirements that states may impose. Additionally, legal petitions challenging the revised ozone standard have been filed, adding uncertainty to the revised standard.

On September 29, 2015, the EPA signed the final regulations revising existing refinery air emissions standards. The revised regulations were published in the Federal Register on December 1, 2015. The revised rule requires additional controls, lower emission standards and ambient air monitoring. We do not anticipate that MPC’s costs to comply with the revised regulations will be material to our results of operations or cash flows.

Water

We maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance with these permits. In addition, we are regulated under OPA-90, which among other things, requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. OPA-90 also requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages and provides for civil penalties and criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. We operate tank vessels and facilities from which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. We have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by OPA-90 and we have established Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures plans for all facilities subject to such requirements.

Additionally, OPA-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in U.S. waters be double-hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from U.S. service. All barges used for river transport of our raw materials and refined products meet the double-hulled requirements of OPA-90. Some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to OPA-90, but with expanded liability provisions, that include provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility.









In June 2015, the EPA and the United States Army Corps of Engineers finalized significant changes to the definition of the term “waters of the United States” (“WOTUS”) used in numerous programs under the CWA. This final rulemaking is referred to as the Clean Water Rule. The Clean Water Rule has been challenged in multiple federal courts by many states, trade groups, and other interested parties, and in October 2015, a United States Court of Appeals issued a nationwide stay of the Clean Water Rule. The Clean Water Rule, as written, expands permitting, planning and reporting obligations and may extend the timing to secure permits for pipeline and fixed asset construction and maintenance activities. The Clean Water Rule does contain new language intended to address concerns that the proposed rule included storm water conveyances and storage structures as WOTUS, and we continue to review how that new language will apply under specific circumstances. Court challenges of the Clean Water Rule will continue through 2017.

In 2015, the EPA issued its intent to review the CWA categorical effluent limitation guidelines (“ELG”) for the petroleum refining sector. During 2016, the EPA prepared a draft information request (“ICR”) requesting significant wastewater and treatment process details and may perform sampling of effluent at one or more of our refineries. The ICR is expected to issue in 2017. The EPA has indicated they believe there have been significant changes in the characteristics of wastewaters generated within refining operations that warrant the review. Specific targets for the review are the impacts of processing heavier crude oils and the transfer of air pollutants to wastewater when air pollution abatement devices are in use. A similar project, initiated in 2007 for steam power generation with similar attributes, resulted in a significant change in the treatment requirements for coal-fired power plants. The refining sector ELG review has the potential to result in a similar impact. We are actively engaged in the planning process for the 2017 information request and effluent sampling campaign and engaged with The American Petroleum Institute and the American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers associations on this matter. The typical life-cycle for an ELG review from the intent to review to issuance of a final rule that would require upgrades is seven years. The impact of an ELG review cannot be accurately estimated at this time.

Solid Waste

We continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of USTs containing regulated substances. We have ongoing RCRA treatment and disposal operations at two of our facilities and primarily utilize offsite third-party treatment and disposal facilities. Ongoing RCRA-related costs, however, are not expected to be material to our results of operations or cash flows.

Remediation

We own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain convenience stores and other locations where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from USTs have occurred. Federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. The enforcement of the UST regulations under RCRA has been delegated to the states, which administer their own UST programs. Our obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the stringency of the applicable state laws and regulations. A portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state UST reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. We also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our current and former refinery, terminal and pipeline locations. Penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance.

Claims under CERCLA and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Mileage Standards, Renewable Fuels and Other Fuels Requirements

In 2007, the U.S. Congress passed the Energy Independence and Security Act (“EISA”), which, among other things, set a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the United States by model year 2020, and contains the RFS2. In August 2012, the EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”) jointly adopted regulations that establish average industry fleet fuel economy standards for passenger cars and light trucks of up to 41 miles per gallon by model year 2021 and average fleet fuel economy standards of up to 49.7 miles per gallon by model year 2025. The standards from 2022 to 2025 are the government’s current estimate but will require further rulemakingby the NHTSA. The EPA in the fourth quarter of 2016 determined that its proposed targets for GHG reduction are achievable and did not adjust its









2022 to 2025 estimated standards. New or alternative transportation fuels such as compressed natural gas could also pose a competitive threat to our operations.

The RFS2 required the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the U.S. to reach 22.25 billion gallons in 2016, 24.0 billion gallons in 2017 and increase to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. Within the total volume of renewable fuel, EISA established an advanced biofuel volume of 7.25 billion gallons in 2016, 9.0 billion gallons in 2017 and increasing to 21.0 billion gallons in 2022. Subsets within the advanced biofuel volume include biomass-based diesel, which was set as at least 1.0 billion gallons in 2014 through 2022 (to be determined by the EPA through rulemaking), and cellulosic biofuel, which was set at 4.25 billion gallons in 2016, 5.5 billion gallons in 2017 and increasing to 16.0 billion gallons in 2022.

On November 30, 2015, the EPA finalized the renewable fuel standards for the years of 2014, 2015 and 2016 as well as the biomass-based diesel standard for 2017. Because the EPA missed the statutory deadlines for establishing the standards for 2014 and 2015, the EPA used its waiver authority under EISA to set the standards using actual consumption data obtained from EPA’s tracking system, EMTS. The EPA’s use of its general waiver authority to reduce the statutory volumes has been challenged in court. A court decision vacating the 2014-2016 renewable fuel standards on the basis that the EPA unreasonably exercised its general waiver authority could increase our cost of compliance with the Renewable Fuels Standards and be detrimental to the RIN market.

With potentially uncertain supplies, the advanced biofuels programs may present specific challenges in that we may have to enter into arrangements with other parties or purchase credits from the EPA to meet our obligations to use advanced biofuels, including biomass-based diesel and cellulosic biofuel.

We made investments in infrastructure capable of expanding biodiesel blending capability to help comply with the biodiesel RFS2 requirement by buying and blending biodiesel into our refined diesel product, and by buying needed biodiesel RINs in the EPA-created biodiesel RINs market. On April 1, 2014, we purchased a facility in Cincinnati, Ohio, which currently produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. The capacity of the plant is approximately60 milliongallons per year. As a producer of biodiesel, we now generate RINs, thereby reducing our reliance on the external RIN market.

On November 10, 2016, the EPA proposed to deny petitions requesting that the point of obligation for the RFS be moved to the terminal rack. The EPA is accepting comments on its proposed denial. Should the EPA decide that its proposal was incorrect and move the point of obligation, we could be subject to increased costs and compliance uncertainties

The RFS2 has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. We may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined petroleum products being replaced by renewable fuels.

On March 3, 2014, the EPA signed the final Tier 3 fuel standards. The final Tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower annual average sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 ppm beginning in calendar year 2017. In addition, gasoline refiners and importers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 80 ppm while retailers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 95 ppm. We anticipate that we will spend approximately $650 million between 2014 and 2019 to comply with these standards, which includes estimated capital expenditures of approximately $200 million in 2017.











Trademarks, Patents and Licenses

Our Marathon trademark is material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our Speedway trademark is material to the conduct of our retail marketing operations. We currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. Although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. In general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations.

Employees

We had approximately44,460regular full-time and part-time employees as ofDecember 31, 2016, which includes approximately32,880employees of Speedway.

Certain hourly employees at our Canton, Catlettsburg, Galveston Bay and Texas City refineries are represented by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers Union under labor agreements that are due to expire in 2019. The International Brotherhood of Teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our Detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is also scheduled to expire in 2019. In addition, they represent certain hourly employees at Speedway under agreements that cover certain outlets in New York and New Jersey that expire on March 14, 2019 and June 30, 2019, respectively.

Executive and Corporate Officers of the Registrant

The executive and corporate officers of MPC are as follows:

NameAge as ofJanuary 31, 2017Position with MPCGary R. Heminger63Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerMolly R. Benson(a)50Vice President, Corporate Secretary and Chief Compliance OfficerRaymond L. Brooks56Senior Vice President, RefiningSuzanne Gagle51Vice President, General CounselTimothy T. Griffith47Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerJohn R. Haley(a)60Vice President, TaxThomas Kaczynski55Vice President, Finance and TreasurerThomas M. Kelley57Senior Vice President, MarketingAnthony R. Kenney63President, Speedway LLCRodney P. Nichols64Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administrative ServicesRandy S. Nickerson55Executive Vice President, Corporate StrategyC. Michael Palmer63Senior Vice President, Supply, Distribution and PlanningJohn J. Quaid45Vice President and ControllerDavid R. Sauber(a)53Vice President, Human Resources and Labor RelationsJohn S. Swearingen57Senior Vice President, Transportation and LogisticsDonald C. Templin53Executive Vice PresidentDonald W. Wehrly(a)57Vice President and Chief Information OfficerDavid L. Whikehart(a)57Vice President, Environment, Safety and Corporate Affairs

(a)Corporate officer.

Mr. Heminger was appointed president and chief executive officer effective June 30, 2011, and to his current position in 2016. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Heminger was president of Marathon Petroleum Company LP (formerly known as Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC and Marathon Petroleum Company LLC), currently a wholly-owned subsidiary of MPC and prior to the Spinoff, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Marathon Oil. He assumed responsibility as president of Marathon Petroleum Company LP in September 2001.

Ms. Benson was appointed vice president, corporate secretary and chief compliance officer effective March 1, 2016. Prior to this appointment, Ms. Benson was assistant general counsel, corporate and finance beginning in April 2012, group counsel, corporate and finance beginning in 2011, group counsel, North American production for Marathon Oil Company beginning in 2010 and senior attorney, downstream business beginning in 2006.









Mr. Brooks was appointed senior vice president, Refining effective March 1, 2016. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Brooks was general manager, Galveston Bay refinery beginning in February 2013, general manager, Robinson refinery beginning in 2010 and general manager, St. Paul Park, Minnesota refinery (no longer owned by MPC) beginning in 2006.

Ms. Gagle was appointed vice president and general counsel effective March 1, 2016. Prior to this appointment, Ms. Gagle was assistant general counsel, litigation and Human Resources beginning in April 2011, senior group counsel, downstream operations beginning in 2010 and group counsel, litigation, beginning in 2003.

Mr. Griffith was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer effective March 3, 2015. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Griffith served as vice president, Finance and Investor Relations, and treasurer beginning in January 2014. He was vice president of Finance and treasurer beginning in August 2011. Previously, Mr. Griffith was vice president Investor Relations and treasurer of Smurfit-Stone Container Corporation, a packaging manufacturer, in St. Louis, Missouri, from 2008 to 2011.

Mr. Haley was appointed vice president, Tax effective June 1, 2013. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Haley served as director of Tax beginning in July 2011 and as a tax manager for Marathon Oil Company beginning in 1996.

Mr. Kaczynski was appointed vice president, Finance and treasurer effective August 31, 2015. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Kaczynski was vice president and treasurer of Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company beginning in 2014. Previously, he served as vice president, Investor Relations, of Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company beginning in 2013, vice president and corporate treasurer of Affinia Group Inc. beginning in 2005, and director of affiliate finance and of capital markets and bank relations of Visteon Corporation beginning in 2000.

Mr. Kelley was appointed senior vice president, Marketing effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Kelley served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in January 2010. Previously, he served as director of Crude Supply and Logistics for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in January 2008, and as a Brand Marketing manager for eight years prior to that.

Mr. Kenney has served as president of Speedway LLC since August 2005. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Kenney served as vice president, Business Development of Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC beginning in 2001.

Mr. Nichols was appointed senior vice president, Human Resources and Administrative Services effective March 1, 2012. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Nichols served as vice president, Human Resources and Administrative Services beginning on June 30, 2011 and served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in April 1998.

Mr. Nickerson was appointed executive vice president, Corporate Strategy effective December 4, 2015 at the time of the MarkWest Merger. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Nickerson served as chief commercial officer of MarkWest beginning in 2006 and senior vice president, Corporate Development beginning in 2003.

Mr. Palmer was appointed senior vice president, Supply, Distribution and Planning effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Palmer served as vice president, Supply, Distribution and Planning for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010. He served as Crude Supply and Logistics director for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in February 2010, and as senior vice president, Oil Sands Operations and Commercial Activities for Marathon Oil Canada Corporation beginning in 2007.

Mr. Quaid was appointed vice president and controller effective June 23, 2014. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Quaid was vice president of Iron Ore at United States Steel Corporation (“U. S. Steel”), an integrated steel producer, beginning in January 2014. Previously, Mr. Quaid served in various leadership positions at U. S. Steel since February 2002, including vice president and treasurer beginning in August 2011, controller, North American Flat-Rolled Operations beginning in July 2010 and assistant corporate controller beginning in 2008.

Mr. Sauber was appointed vice president, Human Resources and Labor Relations effective February 1, 2017. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Sauber served as vice president, Human Resources Policy, Benefits and Services of Shell Oil Company beginning in 2013. Previously, Mr. Sauber served in various leadership positions at Shell Oil Company since 2000 including regional Human Resources manager for U.S. manufacturing in 2009.

Mr. Swearingen was appointed senior vice president, Transportation and Logistics effective March 3, 2015. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Swearingen served as vice president of Health, Environmental, Safety & Security beginning June 30, 2011. Previously, he was president of Marathon Pipe Line LLC beginning in 2009 and the Illinois Refining Division manager beginning in November 2001.









Mr. Templin was appointed executive vice president effective January 1, 2016. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Templin served as executive vice president, Supply, Transportation and Marketing beginning March 3, 2015 and senior vice president and chief financial officer beginning on June 30, 2011. Previously, he was a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an audit, tax and advisory services provider, with various audit and management responsibilities beginning in 1996.

Mr. Wehrly was appointed vice president and chief information officer effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Wehrly was the manager of Information Technology Services for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 2003.

Mr. Whikehart was appointed vice president, Environmental, Safety and Corporate Affairs effective February 29, 2016. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Whikehart served as vice president, Corporate Planning, Government & Public Affairs effective January 1, 2016 and director, Product Supply and Optimization beginning in March 2011. Previously, Mr. Whikehart served as director, Climate Change and Carbon Management beginning in 2010 and director, Business Development beginning in 2008.

Available Information

General information about MPC, including Corporate Governance Principles and Charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, can be found at

http://ir.marathonpetroleum.com. In addition, our Code of Business Conduct and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers are also available in this same location.

MPC uses its website,www.marathonpetroleum.com, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the SEC. These documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our Investor Relations office. In addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. Information contained on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other securities filings.













