Item 1. Business

Overview

Marathon Petroleum Corporation (“MPC”) was incorporated in Delaware on November 9, 2009. We have 126 years of experience in the energy business with roots tracing back to the formation of the Ohio Oil Company in 1887. We are one of the largest independent petroleum product refiners, marketers and transporters in the United States. Our operations consist of three business segments:

•Refining & Marketing—refines crude oil and other feedstocks at oursevenrefineries in the Gulf Coast and Midwest regions of the United States, purchases ethanol and refined products for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. We sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, buyers on the spot market, our Speedway®business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate Marathon®retail outlets;

•Speedway—sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the Midwest, primarily through Speedway convenience stores; and

•Pipeline Transportation—transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, delivers refined products to wholesale and retail market areas and includes the aggregated operations of MPLX LP and MPC’s retained pipeline assets and investments.

See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note10for operating segment and geographic financial information, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Corporate History and Structure

MPC was incorporated in 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of Marathon Oil Corporation (“Marathon Oil”). On May 25, 2011, the Marathon Oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its Refining, Marketing & Transportation Business (“RM&T Business”) into an independent, publicly traded company, MPC, through the distribution of MPC common stock to the stockholders of Marathon Oil common stock. In accordance with a separation and distribution agreement between Marathon Oil and MPC, the distribution of MPC common stock was made on June 30, 2011, with Marathon Oil stockholders receiving one share of MPC common stock for every two shares of Marathon Oil common stock held (the “Spinoff”). Following the Spinoff, Marathon Oil retained no ownership interest in MPC, and each company had separate public ownership, boards of directors and management. All subsidiaries and equity method investments not contributed by Marathon Oil to MPC remained with Marathon Oil and, together with Marathon Oil, are referred to as the “Marathon Oil Companies.” On July 1, 2011, our common stock began trading “regular-way” on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the ticker symbol “MPC.”

Recent Developments

On February 1, 2013, we acquired from BP Products North America Inc. and BP Pipelines (North America) Inc. (collectively, “BP”) the 451,000 barrel per calendar day refinery in Texas City, Texas, three intrastate natural gas liquid pipelines originating at the refinery, four light product terminals, branded-jobber marketing contract assignments for the supply of approximately 1,200 branded sites, a 1,040 megawatt electric cogeneration facility and a 50 thousand barrels per day ("mbpd") allocation of space on the Colonial Pipeline. We refer to these assets as the “Galveston Bay Refinery and Related Assets.” The operating statistics included in this section do not include these assets for time periods prior to the acquisition. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note5for additional information on the acquisition of these assets.

OnAugust 1, 2013, we acquired from Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc. its interests inthreeethanol companies for$75 million. Under the purchase agreement, we acquired an additional24 percentinterest in The Andersons Clymers Ethanol LLC ("TACE"), bringing our ownership interest to60 percent; a34 percentinterest in The Andersons Ethanol Investment LLC ("TAEI"), which holds a50 percentownership in The Andersons Marathon Ethanol LLC ("TAME"), bringing our direct and indirect ownership interest in TAME to67 percent; and a40 percentinterest in The Andersons Albion Ethanol LLC ("TAAE"), which owns an ethanol production facility in Albion, Michigan. On October 1, 2013, our ownership interest in TAAE increased to43 percentas a result of TAAE acquiring one of the owner's interest. We hold a noncontrolling interest in each of these entities and account for them using the equity method of accounting since the minority owners have substantive participating rights.









In 2012, we formed MPLX LP (“MPLX”), a master limited partnership, to own, operate, develop and acquire pipelines and other midstream assets related to the transportation and storage of crude oil, refined products and other hydrocarbon-based products. On October 31, 2012, MPLX completed its initial public offering of 19,895,000 common units, which represented the sale by us of a 26.4 percent interest in MPLX. We own a 73.6 percent interest in MPLX, including the two percent general partner interest, and we consolidate this entity for financial reporting purposes since we have a controlling financial interest.

Headquartered in Findlay, Ohio, MPLX’s assets as ofDecember 31, 2013consisted of a56percent general partner interest in MPLX Pipe Line Holdings LP (“Pipe Line Holdings”), which owns a network of common carrier crude oil and product pipeline systems and associated storage assets in the Midwest and Gulf Coast regions of the United States, and a 100 percent interest in a butane storage cavern in West Virginia. We own the remaining44percent limited partner interest in Pipe Line Holdings. The operating statistics in this section include 100 percent of these assets for all time periods presented. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note4for additional information on MPLX.

On February 27, 2014, we announced that an additional13percent of Pipe Line Holdings will be sold to MPLX effective on March 1, 2014 for$310 million. Subsequent to this transaction, MPLX will own a69percent general partner interest in Pipe Line Holdings and we will own a31percent limited partner interest. MPLX intends to finance this transaction with$40 millionof cash on-hand and by borrowing$270 millionon its revolving credit agreement.



Our Competitive Strengths

High Quality Asset Base

We believe we are the largest crude oil refiner in the Midwest and the fourth largest in the United States based on crude oil refining capacity. We own aseven-plant refinery network, with approximately1.7million barrels per calendar day (“mmbpcd”) of crude oil throughput capacity. Our refineries process a wide range of crude oils, including heavy and sour crude oils, which can generally be purchased at a discount to sweet crude oil, and produce transportation fuels such as gasoline and distillates, specialty chemicals and other refined products.

Strategic Location

The geographic locations of our refineries and our extensive midstream distribution system provide us with strategic advantages. Located in Petroleum Administration for Defense District (“PADD”) II and PADD III, which consist of states in the Midwest and the Gulf Coast regions of the United States, our refineries have the ability to procure crude oil from a variety of supply sources, including domestic, Canadian and other foreign sources, which provides us with flexibility to optimize crude supply costs. For example, geographic proximity to various United States shale oil regions and Canadian crude oil supply sources allows our refineries access to price-advantaged crude oils and lower transportation costs than certain of our competitors. Our refinery locations and midstream distribution system also allow us to access export markets and to serve a broad range of key end-user markets across the United States quickly and cost-effectively.











*As ofDecember 31, 2013

Extensive Midstream Distribution Networks

Our assets give us extensive flexibility and optionality to respond promptly to dynamic market conditions, including weather-related and marketplace disruptions. We believe the relative scale of our transportation and distribution assets and operations distinguishes us from other refining and marketing companies. We currently own, lease or have ownership interests in approximately8,300miles of crude oil and products pipelines. Through our ownership interests in MPLX and Pipe Line Holdings, we are one of the largest petroleum pipeline companies in the United States on the basis of total volume delivered. We also own one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges and one of the largest terminal operations in the United States, as well as trucking and rail assets. We operate this system in coordination with our refining and marketing network, which enables us to optimize feedstock and raw material supplies and refined product distribution, and further allows for important economies of scale across our system.

Attractive Growth Opportunities

We believe we have attractive growth opportunities. Over the next three years, we expect to invest approximately $630 million in midstream assets that are part of our Refining & Marketing segment, approximately $2.3 billion in our Pipeline Transportation segment and approximately $925 million to grow our Speedway segment. Our Refining & Marketing segment's midstream investments include increasing our capacity to process condensate from the Utica Shale region at our Canton, Ohio









and Catlettsburg, Kentucky refineries. Our Pipeline Transportation segment investments include the opportunity to acquire equity interests in two pipeline projects that will transport crude oil from the growing North American hydrocarbon production to our refineries and building a pipeline to connect the Utica Shale production to our Canton refinery.

Our planned Speedway segment investments include constructing new convenience stores and rebuilding existing locations. We also anticipate acquiring high quality stores through opportunistic acquisitions. Part of Speedway's growth strategy is to expand into new contiguous markets, including western Pennsylvania and Tennessee. In addition, we have projects at our refineries to enhance refining margins, expand our export capacity, increase our distillate production and increase our capacity to process condensates and light crude oils.

General Partner and Sponsor of MPLX

Our investment in MPLX provides us an efficient vehicle to invest in organic projects and pursue acquisitions of midstream assets. MPLX’s significant liquidity and borrowing capacity provides us a strong foundation to execute our strategy for growing our midstream logistics business. Our role as the general partner allows us to maintain strategic control of the assets so we can continue to optimize our refinery feedstock and distribution networks. We have an extensive portfolio of assets that can potentially be sold to MPLX, providing MPLX with a competitive advantage. As ofDecember 31, 2013, these assets included:

•the remaining44percent limited partner interest in Pipe Line Holdings, of which an additional13percent is approved to be sold to MPLX effective on March 1, 2014;

•approximately5,400miles of crude oil and products pipeline that MPC owns, leases or has ownership interest;

•64owned and operated light product terminals with approximately21 millionbarrels of storage capacity and194loading lanes;

•19owned and operated asphalt terminals with approximately4 millionbarrels of storage capacity and68loading lanes;

•oneleased andtwonon-operated, partially-owned light product terminals;

•18owned or leased inland towboats and200owned or leased inland barges;

•2,165owned or leased railcars;

•59 millionbarrels of tank storage capacity at our refineries;

•25rail and24truck loading racks at our refineries; and

•7owned and11non-owned docks at our refineries.

We broadly estimate these assets can generate annual earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of $800 million. We continue to focus resources on growing this portfolio of assets, including investments in the Sandpiper and Southern Access Extension pipeline projects. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information on these pipeline investments.

Future asset sales to MPLX, along with sales of our limited partner interests in MPLX, will be driven by our desired distributable cash flow growth profile as well as strategic needs as they develop over time, including generating funds to support our base dividend, share repurchases and investment activities.

Competitively Positioned Marketing Operations

We are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers within our market area. We have two strong retail brands: Speedway®and Marathon®. We believe our1,478Speedway®convenience stores, which we operate through a wholly-owned subsidiary, Speedway LLC, comprise the fourth largest chain of company-owned and operated retail gasoline and convenience stores in the United States. The Marathon brand is an established motor fuel brand in the Midwest and Southeast regions of the United States, and was available through approximately5,200retail outlets operated by independent entrepreneurs in18states as ofDecember 31, 2013. In addition, as part of the acquisition of the Galveston Bay Refinery and Related Assets,we have retail marketing contracts where we continue to convert retail outlets to the Marathon brand. We believe our distribution system allows us to maximize the sales value of our products and minimize cost.









Established Track Record of Profitability and Diversified Income Stream

We have demonstrated an ability to achieve positive financial results throughout all stages of the refining cycle. We believe our business mix and strategies position us well to continue to achieve competitive financial results. Income generated by our Speedway and Pipeline Transportation segments is less sensitive to business cycles while our Refining & Marketing segment enables us to generate significant income and cash flow when market conditions are more favorable.

Strong Financial Position

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had$2.29 billionin cash and cash equivalents and$3.8 billionin unused committed borrowing facilities, excluding MPLX’s credit facility. We also had$3.40 billionof debt at year-end, which represented only23percent of our total capitalization. This combination of strong liquidity and manageable leverage provides financial flexibility and allows us to fund our growth projects and to pursue our business strategies.



Our Business Strategies

Achieve and Maintain Top-Tier Safety and Environmental Performance

We remain committed to operating our assets in a safe and reliable manner and targeting continuous improvement in our safety record across all of our operations. We have a history of safe and reliable operations, which was demonstrated again in 2013 with a strong performance compared to the industry average. Four of our refineries have earned designation as a U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) Voluntary Protection Program (“VPP”) Star site. In addition, we remain committed to environmental stewardship by continuing to improve the efficiency of our operations while proactively meeting our regulatory requirements. For example, since taking over the Galveston Bay refinery, we have improved environmental performance by reducing designated environmental incidents by approximately 80 percent compared to 2012.

Grow Higher-Valued, Stable Cash Flow Businesses

We intend to allocate significantly more capital to grow our midstream and retail businesses, which typically have more predictable and stable income and cash flows compared to our refining operations. We believe investors assign a higher value to businesses with stable cash flows. Over the next three years, we expect to invest approximately $630 million in midstream assets that are part of our Refining & Marketing segment, approximately $2.3 billion in our Pipeline Transportation segment and approximately $925 million on growing our Speedway segment. By contrast, our total investment from 2011 through 2013 was$229 millionin midstream assets that are part of our Refining & Marketing segment,$566 millionin our Pipeline Transportation segment and$800 millionin our Speedway segment.

We expect there will be significant investments in infrastructure to connect growing North American crude oil production with existing refining assets and to move refined products to wholesale and retail marketing customers. We intend to aggressively participate in this infrastructure build-out and MPLX will be the entity through which we expect to grow our midstream business. We intend to increase revenue on the MPLX network of pipeline systems through higher utilization of existing assets, by capitalizing on organic investment opportunities that may arise from the growth of MPC’s operations and from increased third-party activity in MPLX’s areas of operations. Through MPLX, we also plan to pursue acquisitions of midstream assets both within our existing geographic footprint and in new areas.

We intend to grow Speedway’s sales and profitability by focusing on organic growth through constructing new stores, rebuilding old stores, acquiring high quality stores through opportunistic acquisitions and continuous improvement of existing operations. For example, we have identified numerous opportunities for new convenience stores or store rebuilds in our existing market. In addition, we began expanding Speedway into new contiguous markets of western Pennsylvania and Tennessee in 2013 and are actively acquiring real estate in western Pennsylvania and Tennessee to be in a position to accelerate growth over the next several years. In addition, our industry-leading Speedy Rewards®customer loyalty program, which has more than 3.7 million active members, provides us with a unique competitive advantage and opportunity to increase our Speedway customer base with existing and new Speedway locations.

Deliver Top Quartile Refining Performance

Our refineries are well positioned to benefit from the growing crude oil and condensate production in North America, including the Bakken, Eagle Ford and Utica Shale regions, along with the Canadian oil sands. We are also well positioned to export distillates, gasoline and other products as the demand from various markets, such as Latin America and Europe, continues to grow.









We intend to enhance our margins in the Refining & Marketing segment by increasing our condensate and light crude oil processing capacity, growing our distillate production and expanding our exports. For example, we have projects underway to increase condensate processing capacity at our Canton and Catlettsburg refineries, to increase light crude oil processing capacity at our Robinson, Illinois refinery, to increase distillate production at our Garyville, Louisiana; Galveston Bay and Robinson refineries and to expand the export capacity at our Garyville and Galveston Bay refineries. In addition, we are evaluating a residual fuel hydrocracker project that we expect will increase Garyville's ultra-low-sulfur diesel ("ULSD") production by 28 mbpd and lower feedstock costs. We are also evaluating three projects to increase distillate production at our Galveston Bay refinery. We will continue to evaluate opportunities to expand our existing asset base, with an emphasis on increasing distillate production and export capabilities and opportunities at our Galveston Bay refinery.

Sustain Focus on Shareholder Returns

We intend to continue our focus on the return of capital to shareholders in the form of a strong and growing base dividend, supplemented by share repurchases. We have increased our quarterly dividend by110percent since becoming a stand-alone company in June 2011 and our board of directors has authorized share repurchases totaling$6.0 billion. Through open market purchases and two accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) programs, we repurchased18percent of our outstanding common shares since February 2012 for approximately$4.14 billion. After the effects of these repurchases,$1.86 billionof the$6.0 billiontotal authorization was available for future repurchases as ofDecember 31, 2013.

Increase Assured Sales Volumes at our Marathon Brand and Speedway Locations

We consider assured sales as those sales we make to Marathon brand customers, our Speedway operations and to our wholesale customers with whom we have required minimum volume sales contracts. We believe having assured sales brings ratability to our distribution systems, provides a solid base to enhance our overall supply reliability and allows us to efficiently and effectively optimize our operations between our refineries, our pipelines and our terminals. The Marathon brand has been a consistent vehicle for sales volume growth in existing and contiguous markets. The acquisition of the Galveston Bay Refinery and Related Assets provides us with opportunities to further expand our Southeast market presence. As a result of this acquisition,we have retail marketing contracts where we continue to convert retail outlets to the Marathon brand, which puts us in position to take advantage of opportunities with premier jobbers and to significantly expand our brand presence in the Southeast. We also intend to grow Speedway gasoline and distillate sales volumes through internal capital program growth projects and acquisitions that complement our existing store network, including the continuing expansion into Pennsylvania and Tennessee.

Utilize and Enhance our High Quality Employee Workforce

We plan to utilize our high quality employee workforce by continuing to leverage our commercial skills. In addition, we plan to enhance our workforce through selective hiring practices and effective training programs on safety, environmental stewardship and other professional and technical skills.











Refining & Marketing

Refineries

We currently own and operatesevenrefineries in the Gulf Coast and Midwest regions of the United States with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of1,714thousand barrels per calender day ("mbpcd"). During2013, our refineries processed1,589mbpd of crude oil and213mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. During2012, our refineries processed1,195mbpd of crude oil and168mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. The table below sets forth the location, crude oil refining capacity, tank storage capacity and number of tanks for each of our refineries as ofDecember 31, 2013.

RefineryCrude Oil Refining Capacity (mbpcd)(a)Tank Storage Capacity (million barrels)Numberof TanksGaryville, Louisiana52215.976Galveston Bay, Texas City, Texas45116.389Catlettsburg, Kentucky2425.6112Robinson, Illinois2126.7103Detroit, Michigan1236.486Texas City, Texas844.760Canton, Ohio803.075Total1,71458.6601

(a)Refining throughput can exceed crude oil capacity due to the processing of other feedstocks in addition to crude oil and the timing of planned turnaround and major maintenance activity.

Our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, hydrocracking, catalytic reforming, coking, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. The refineries process a wide variety of light and heavy crude oils purchased from various domestic and foreign suppliers. We produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade gasolines intended for blending with ethanol and ULSD fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. Additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene, cumene and sulfur. See the Refined Product Marketing section for further information about the products we produce.

Our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. The transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and utilize our processing capacity efficiently. For example, naphtha may be moved from Texas City to Robinson where excess reforming capacity is available. Also, by shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns, we are able to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work.

Garyville, Louisiana Refinery. Our Garyville, Louisiana refinery is located along the Mississippi River in southeastern Louisiana between New Orleans and Baton Rouge. The Garyville refinery is configured to process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, fuel-grade coke, polymer-grade propylene, asphalt, propane, slurry and sulfur. The refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products into higher value markets. A major expansion project was completed in 2009 that increased Garyville’s crude oil refining capacity, making it one of the largest refineries in the U.S. Our Garyville refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site.

Galveston Bay, Texas City, Texas Refinery. Our Galveston Bay refinery, which we acquired on February 1, 2013, is located on the Texas Gulf Coast approximately 30 miles southeast of Houston, Texas. The refinery can process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, aromatics, heavy fuel oil, refinery-grade propylene and fuel-grade coke. The refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products into higher value markets. Our cogeneration facility, which supplies the Galveston Bay refinery, has 1,040 megawatts of electrical production capacity and can produce 4.6 million pounds of steam per hour. Approximately 50 percent of the power generated is used at the refinery, with the remaining electricity being sold into the electricity grid.

Catlettsburg, Kentucky Refinery. Our Catlettsburg, Kentucky refinery is located in northeastern Kentucky on the western bank of the Big Sandy River, near the confluence with the Ohio River. The Catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, heavy fuel oil, aromatics, propane and refinery-grade propylene.











Robinson, Illinois Refinery. Our Robinson, Illinois refinery is located in southeastern Illinois. The Robinson refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into multiple grades of gasoline, distillates, propane, aromatics, slurry and anode-grade coke. The Robinson refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site.

Detroit, Michigan Refinery. Our Detroit, Michigan refinery is located in southwest Detroit. It is the only petroleum refinery currently operating in Michigan. The Detroit refinery processes sweet and heavy sour crude oils, including Canadian crude oils, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, fuel-grade coke, chemical-grade propylene, propane, slurry and sulfur. Our Detroit refinery earned designation as a Michigan VPP Star site in 2010. In the fourth quarter of 2012, we completed a heavy oil upgrading and expansion project that enabled the refinery to process up to an additional 80 mbpd of heavy sour crude oils, including Canadian bitumen blends.

Texas City, Texas Refinery. Our Texas City, Texas refinery is located on the Texas Gulf Coast adjacent to our Galveston Bay refinery, approximately 30 miles southeast of Houston, Texas. The refinery processes light sweet crude oils into gasoline, chemical-grade propylene, propane, aromatics and slurry. Our Texas City refinery earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site in 2012.

Canton, Ohio Refinery. Our Canton, Ohio refinery is located approximately 60 miles south of Cleveland, Ohio. The Canton refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including crude oil and condensate currently being produced from the Utica Shale, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, roofing flux, propane and slurry.

As ofDecember 31, 2013, our refineries had25rail loading racks and24truck loading racks andfourof our refineries had a total ofsevenowned and11non-owned docks. Total throughput in2013was80mbpd for the refinery loading racks and919mbpd for the refinery docks.

Planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds, requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional detail.

Refined Product Yields

The following table sets forth our refinery production by product group for each of the last three years.

Refined Product Yields(mbpd)201320122011Gasoline921738739Distillates572433433Propane372625Feedstocks and special products221109109Heavy fuel oil311821Asphalt546256Total1,8361,3861,383

Crude Oil Supply

We obtain the crude oil we refine through negotiated term contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. Our term contracts generally have market-related pricing provisions. The following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years. The crude oil sourced outside of North America was acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies.

Sources of Crude Oil Refined(mbpd)201320122011United States946649668Canada255195177Middle East and other international388351332Total1,5891,1951,177

Our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges. During 2012, we began transporting condensate and crude oil by truck from the Utica Shale region to our Canton refinery.











Refined Product Marketing

We believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers and consumers within our18-state market area. Independent retailers, wholesale customers, our Marathon brand jobbers and Speedway brand convenience stores, airlines, transportation companies and utilities comprise the core of our customer base. In addition, we sell gasoline, distillates and asphalt for export to international customers, primarily out of our Garyville and Galveston Bay refineries. The following table sets forth our refined product sales destined for export by product group for the past three years.

Refined Product Sales Destined for Export(mbpd)201320122011Gasoline381—Distillates17311476Asphalt687Other1—1Total21812384

The following table sets forth, as a percentage of total refined product sales volume, the sales of refined products to our different customer types for the past three years.

Refined Product Sales by Customer Type201320122011Private-brand marketers, commercial and industrial customers, including spot market75%72%72%Marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs16%17%17%Speedway®convenience stores9%11%11%

The following table sets forth the approximate number of retail outlets by state where independent entrepreneurs maintain Marathon-branded retail outlets, as ofDecember 31, 2013.

StateApproximate Number ofMarathon®Retail OutletsAlabama147Florida359Georgia268Illinois373Indiana652Kentucky594Maryland1Michigan761Minnesota75Mississippi10North Carolina297Ohio870Pennsylvania50South Carolina126Tennessee259Virginia136West Virginia122Wisconsin66Total5,166

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we also had branded-jobber marketing contract assignments for retail outlets, primarily in Florida, Mississippi, Tennessee and Alabama, which we acquired as part of the Galveston Bay Refinery and Related Assets acquisition.











The following table sets forth our refined product sales volumes by product group for each of the last three years.

Refined Product Sales(mbpd)201320122011Gasoline1,126916908Distillates615463459Propane372725Feedstocks and special products214112111Heavy fuel oil291919Asphalt546259Total2,0751,5991,581

Gasoline and Distillates. We sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including No. 1 and No. 2 fuel oils, jet fuel, kerosene and diesel fuel) to wholesale customers, Marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs and our Speedway®convenience stores in the Midwest, Gulf Coast and Southeast regions of the United States and on the spot market. In addition, we sell diesel fuel and gasoline for export to international customers. We sold59percent of our gasoline sales volumes and91percent of our distillates sales volumes on a wholesale or spot market basis in2013. The demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months.

We have blended ethanol into gasoline for more than 20 years and began expanding our blending program in 2007, in part due to federal regulations that require us to use specified volumes of renewable fuels. Ethanol volumes sold in blended gasoline were74mbpd in2013,68mbpd in2012and70mbpd in2011. We sell reformulated gasoline, which is also blended with ethanol, in parts of our marketing territory, including Illinois, Kentucky, Indiana, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania. We also sell biodiesel-blended diesel fuel in 12 states in our marketing area. The future expansion or contraction of our ethanol and biodiesel blending programs will be driven by market economics and government regulations.

We hold interests in ethanol production facilities in Albion, Michigan; Clymers, Indiana and Greenville, Ohio. These plants have a combined ethanol production capacity of275million gallons per year and are managed by a co-owner.

Propane. We produce propane at most of our refineries. Propane is primarily used for home heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. Our propane sales are typically split evenly between the home heating market and industrial consumers.

Feedstocks and Special Products. We are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and specialty products. Product availability varies by refinery and includes propylene, raffinate, butane, benzene, xylene, molten sulfur, cumene and toluene. We market all products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel-blending industries. In addition, we produce fuel-grade coke at our Garyville, Detroit and Galveston Bay refineries, which is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications, and anode-grade coke at our Robinson refinery, which is used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry. Our feedstocks and special products sales increased to214mbpd in2013from112mbpd in2012primarily due to our acquisition of the Galveston Bay refinery.

Heavy Fuel Oil. We produce and market heavy residual fuel oil or related components, including slurry, at all of our refineries. Heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product.

Asphalt. We have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to101mbpcd, which includes asphalt cements, polymer-modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt, industrial asphalts and roofing flux. As ofDecember 31, 2013, we marketed asphalt through29owned or third-party terminals throughout the Midwest and Southeast. We have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. We sell asphalt in the domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel.











Terminals

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we owned and operated64light product and19asphalt terminals. Our light product and asphalt terminals averaged1,388mbpd and26mbpd of throughput in2013, respectively. In addition, we distribute refined products throughoneleased light product terminal,twolight product terminals in which we have partial ownership interests but do not operate and approximately60third-party light product and10third-party asphalt terminals in our market area. The following table sets forth additional details about our owned and operated terminals atDecember 31, 2013.



Owned and Operated TerminalsNumber ofTerminalsTank StorageCapacity(million barrels)Numberof TanksNumber ofLoadingLanesLight Product Terminals:Alabama20.4204Florida42.98422Georgia40.9389Illinois41.24414Indiana62.87117Kentucky62.36824Louisiana10.182Michigan92.38728North Carolina41.24813Ohio133.916033Pennsylvania10.3102South Carolina10.493Tennessee41.04212Virginia10.3122West Virginia20.1102Wisconsin20.8197Subtotal light product terminals6420.9730194Asphalt Terminals:Florida10.263Illinois20.1276Indiana20.4136Kentucky40.66214Louisiana10.1112Michigan1——8New York10.143Ohio42.06610Pennsylvania10.5258Tennessee20.4468Subtotal asphalt terminals194.426068Total owned and operated terminals8325.3990262











Transportation

As ofDecember 31, 2013, our marine transportation operations included17owned andoneleased towboat, as well as184owned and16leased barges that transport refined products and crude oil on the Ohio, Mississippi and Illinois rivers and their tributaries and inter-coastal waterways. The following table sets forth additional details about our towboats and barges.

Class of EquipmentNumberin ClassCapacity(thousand barrels)Inland tank barges:(a)Less than 25,000 barrels6084825,000 barrels and over1404,097Total2004,945Inland towboats:Less than 2,000 horsepower22,000 horsepower and over16Total18

(a)All of our barges are double-hulled.

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we owned170transport trucks and161trailers with an aggregate capacity of1.5 milliongallons for the movement of refined products and crude oil. In addition, we had2,138leased and27owned railcars of various sizes and capacities for movement and storage of refined products. The following table sets forth additional details about our railcars.

Number of RailcarsClass of EquipmentOwnedLeasedTotalCapacity per RailcarGeneral service tank cars—76376320,000-30,000 gallonsHigh pressure tank cars—1,1661,16633,500 gallonsOpen-top hoppers272092364,000 cubic feet272,1382,165



Speedway

Our Speedway segment sells gasoline and merchandise through convenience stores that it owns and operates, primarily under the Speedway brand. Diesel fuel is also sold at the vast majority of these convenience stores. Speedway-branded convenience stores offer a wide variety of merchandise, including prepared foods, beverages and non-food items. Speedway’s Speedy Rewards® loyalty program has been an industry-leading loyalty program since its inception in 2004, with a consistently growing base of more than 3.7 million active members. Due to Speedway’s ability to capture and analyze member-specific transactional data, Speedway is able to offer the Speedy Rewards® members discounts and promotions specific to their buying behavior. We believe Speedy Rewards® is a key reason customers choose Speedway over competitors and it continues to drive significant value for both Speedway and our Speedy Rewards® members.

The demand for gasoline is seasonal, with the highest demand usually occurring during the summer driving season. Margins from the sale of merchandise tend to be less volatile than margins from the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel. The following table sets forth Speedway merchandise statistics for the past three years.

Speedway Merchandise Statistics201320122011Merchandise sales (in millions)$3,135$3,058$2,924Merchandise gross margin (in millions)825795719Merchandise as a percent of total gross margin65%67%65%









As ofDecember 31, 2013, Speedway had1,478convenience stores inninestates, which includes the 2013 expansion into Pennsylvania and Tennessee. The following table sets forth the number of convenience stores by state owned by our Speedway segment as ofDecember 31, 2013.

StateNumber ofConvenience StoresIllinois107Indiana305Kentucky145Michigan302Ohio484Pennsylvania5Tennessee7West Virginia59Wisconsin64Total1,478



Pipeline Transportation

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we owned, leased or had ownership interests in approximately8,300miles of crude oil and products pipelines, of which approximately2,900miles are owned through our investments in MPLX and Pipe Line Holdings.

MPLX

In 2012, we formed MPLX, a master limited partnership, to own, operate, develop and acquire pipelines and other midstream assets related to the transportation and storage of crude oil, refined products and other hydrocarbon-based products. On October 31, 2012, MPLX completed its initial public offering. We own a73.6percent interest in MPLX, including the two percent general partner interest. As of December 31, 2013, MPLX’s assets consisted of a56percent general partner interest in Pipe Line Holdings, which owns common carrier pipeline systems through Marathon Pipe Line LLC (“MPL”) and Ohio River Pipe Line LLC (“ORPL”), and a 100 percent interest in aone millionbarrel butane storage cavern in West Virginia. In addition, we own the remaining44percent limited partner interest in Pipe Line Holdings.

On February 27, 2014, we announced that an additional13percent of Pipe Line Holdings will be sold to MPLX effective on March 1, 2014. MPLX intends to finance the acquisition with cash on-hand and by borrowing on its revolving credit agreement. This will increase MPLX's and reduce our ownership interest in Pipe Line Holdings to69percent and31percent, respectively.

As ofDecember 31, 2013, Pipe Line Holdings, through MPL and ORPL, owned or leased and operated1,004miles of common carrier crude oil lines and1,902miles of common carrier products lines comprising30systems located inninestates andfourtank farms in Illinois and Indiana with available storage capacity of3.29 millionbarrels that is committed to MPC. The table below sets forth additional detail regarding the pipeline systems and storage assets we owned through Pipe Line Holdings and MPLX as ofDecember 31, 2013.









Pipeline System or Storage AssetOriginDestinationDiameter(inches)Length(miles)Capacity(a)Associated MPC refineryCrude oil pipeline systems (mbpd):Patoka, IL to Lima, OH crude systemPatoka, ILLima, OH20”-22”302249Detroit, CantonCatlettsburg, KY and Robinson, IL crude systemPatoka, ILCatlettsburg, KY &Robinson, IL20"-24"484495Catlettsburg, RobinsonDetroit, MI crude system(b)Samaria &Romulus, MIDetroit, MI16"61320DetroitWood River, IL to Patoka, IL crude system(b)Wood River &Roxana, ILPatoka, IL12"-22"115314All Midwest refineriesInactive pipelines42N/ATotal1,0041,378Products pipeline systems (mbpd):Garyville, LA products systemGaryville, LAZachary, LA20"-36"72389GaryvilleTexas City, TX products systemTexas City, TXPasadena, TX16"-36"42215Texas City, Galveston BayORPL products systemVariousVarious6"-14"518241Catlettsburg, CantonRobinson, IL products system(b)VariousVarious10"-16"1,173548RobinsonLouisville, KY Airport products systemLouisville, KYLouisville, KY6"-8"1429RobinsonInactive pipelines(b)83N/ATotal1,9021,422Wood River, IL barge dock (mbpd)84GaryvilleStorage assets (thousand barrels):Neal, WV butane cavern(c)1,000CatlettsburgPatoka, IL tank farm1,386All Midwest refineriesWood River, IL tank farm419All Midwest refineriesMartinsville, IL tank farm738Detroit, CantonLebanon, IN tank farm750Detroit, CantonTotal4,293

(a)All capacities reflect 100 percent of the pipeline systems’ and barge dock’s average capacity in thousands of barrels per day and 100 percent of the available storage capacity of our butane cavern and tank farms in thousand of barrels. Crude oil capacity is based on light crude oil barrels.

(b)Includes pipelines leased from third parties.

(c)The Neal, WV butane cavern is 100 percent owned by MPLX.

The Pipe Line Holdings common carrier pipeline network is one of the largest petroleum pipeline systems in the United States, based on total volume delivered. Third parties generated13percent of the crude oil and refined product shipments on these common carrier pipelines in2013, excluding volumes shipped by MPC under joint tariffs with third parties. These common carrier pipelines transported the volumes shown in the following table for each of the last three years.

Pipeline Throughput(mbpd)(a)(b)201320122011Crude oil pipelines1,0631,029993Refined products pipelines9119801,031Total1,9742,0092,024

(a)MPLX predecessor volumes reported in MPLX’s filings include our undivided joint interest crude oil pipeline systems for periods prior to MPLX's initial public offering, which were not contributed to MPLX. The undivided joint interest volumes are not included above.

(b)Volumes represent 100 percent of the throughput through these pipelines.

MPC-Retained Assets and Investments

In addition to our ownership interest in Pipe Line Holdings, we retained ownership interests in several crude oil and products pipeline systems and pipeline companies. MPC consolidated volumes transported through our common carrier pipelines, which include MPLX and our undivided joint interests, are shown in the following table for each of the last three years.

MPC Consolidated Pipeline Throughput(mbpd)201320122011Crude oil pipelines1,2801,1901,184Refined products pipelines9119801,031Total2,1912,1702,215











As ofDecember 31, 2013, we owned undivided joint interests in the following common carrier crude oil pipeline systems.

Pipeline SystemOriginDestinationDiameter(inches)Length(miles)OwnershipInterestOperatedby MPLCaplineSt. James, LAPatoka, IL40"63533%YesMaumeeLima, OHSamaria, MI22"9526%NoTotal730

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had partial ownership interests in the following pipeline companies.

Pipeline CompanyOriginDestinationDiameter(inches)Length(miles)OwnershipInterestOperatedby MPLCrude oil pipeline companies:LOCAP LLCClovelly, LASt. James, LA48"5759%NoLOOP LLCOffshore Gulf of MexicoClovelly, LA48"4851%NoNorth Dakota Pipeline Company LLC(a)Plentywood, MTClearbrook, MNTBDTBD38%NoTotal105Products pipeline companies:Centennial Pipeline LLC(b)Beaumont, TXBourbon, IL24"-26"79550%YesExplorer Pipeline CompanyLake Charles, LAHammond, IN12"-28"1,88317%NoMuskegon Pipeline LLCGriffith, INMuskegon, MI10"17060%YesWolverine Pipe Line CompanyChicago, ILBay City &Ferrysburg, MI6"-18"7436%NoTotal3,591

(a)We own 38 percent of the Class B units in this entity. Upon completion of the Sandpiper project, which is to construct a pipeline running from Beaver Lodge, North Dakota to Superior, Wisconsin and targeted for completion in early 2016, our Class B units will be converted to an approximate 27 percent ownership interest in the Class A units of this entity.

(b)Includes48miles of inactive pipeline.

We also own183miles of private crude oil pipelines and760miles of private refined products pipelines that are operated by MPL for the benefit of our Refining & Marketing segment on a cost recovery basis. The following table provides additional information on these assets.

Private Pipeline SystemsDiameter(inches)Length(miles)Capacity(mbpd)Crude oil pipeline systems:Lima, OH to Canton, OH12"-16"15384St. James, LA to Garyville, LA30"20620Other215Inactive pipelines8N/ATotal183719Products pipeline systems:Robinson, IL to Lima, OH8"25018Louisville, KY to Lexington, KY(a)8"8734Woodhaven, MI to Detroit, MI4"2611Illinois pipeline systems4"-12"11839Texas pipeline systems8"10345Ohio pipeline systems4"-12"5732Inactive pipelines119N/ATotal760179

(a)We own a65percent undivided joint interest in the Louisville, KY to Lexington, KY system.

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we owned or leased60private tanks with storage capacity of approximately6.5 millionbarrels, which are located along MPLX pipelines.











Competition, Market Conditions and Seasonality

The downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. We compete with a large number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution and marketing of a full array of petroleum products. Based upon the “The Oil & Gas Journal2013Worldwide Refinery Survey,” we ranked fourth among U.S. petroleum companies on the basis of U.S. crude oil refining capacity as ofDecember 31, 2013. We compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products—wholesale, spot, branded and retail distribution. We believe we compete with about60companies in the sale of refined products to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; about90companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market;11refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to refiner-branded independent entrepreneurs; and approximately260retailers in the retail sale of refined products. In addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. We do not produce any of the crude oil we refine.

We also face strong competition for sales of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. Our competitors include service stations and convenience stores operated by fully integrated major oil companies and their independent entrepreneurs and other well-recognized national or regional convenience stores and travel centers, often selling gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise at competitive prices. Non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have affected the convenience store industry with their entrance into the retail transportation fuel business. Energy Analysts International, Inc. estimated such retailers had approximately13percent of the U.S. gasoline market in mid-2013.

Our pipeline transportation operations are highly regulated, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines.

Market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. Our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined products, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets we serve. Price differentials between sweet and sour crude oils, West Texas Intermediate and Light Louisiana Sweet crude oils and other market structure differentials also affect our operating results.

Demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. As a result, the operating results for each of our segments for the first and fourth quarters may be lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year.



Environmental Matters

Our management is responsible for ensuring that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and for reviewing our overall performance associated with various environmental compliance programs. We also have a Corporate Emergency Response Team, which oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency incident involving us or any of our facilities.

We believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent and causes of climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. Currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gases are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. The cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time, but could be significant. For additional information, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. We estimate and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and products we produce. Additionally, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable and cost effective.

Our operations are also subject to numerous other laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations include, among others, the Clean Air Act with respect to air emissions, the Clean Water Act with respect to water discharges, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA-90”) with respect to oil pollution and response. In addition, many states where we operate have similar laws. New laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted by various regulatory agencies on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with any new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate until they are finalized.









For a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Environmental Matters and Compliance Costs.

Air

In 2013, the Obama administration developed the social cost of carbon (“SCC"). The SCC is to be used by the EPA and other federal agencies in regulatory cost-benefit analyses to take into account alleged broad economic consequences associated with changes to emissions of greenhouse gases. The SCC was first issued in 2010, and in 2013, the Obama administration significantly increased the estimate to $36 per ton. In response to the regulated community and Congress’ critiques in how the SCC was developed, the Office of Management and Budget recently announced the opportunity to comment on the SCC. While the impact of a higher SCC in future regulations is not known at this time, it may result in increased costs to our operations.

The EPA has reviewed and has revised, or will propose to revise, the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (“NAAQS”) for criteria air pollutants. The NAAQS are subject to multiple court challenges, making final compliance plans uncertain. The EPA promulgated a revised ozone standard in March 2008 and commenced a multi-year process to develop the implementing rules required by the Clean Air Act. In 2013, the EPA is expected to propose a stricter ozone standard as part of the EPA’s periodic review of that standard. On July 23, 2013, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals issued a decision on the 2008 ozone NAAQS lawsuit. The Court upheld the primary standard, but remanded the secondary NAAQS standard to the EPA on the grounds that the EPA had not justified setting the secondary standard at the same level as the primary standard. On remand, the EPA could address the court’s ruling by proposing a separate secondary standard that is more stringent than the primary standard. Also, in 2010, the EPA adopted new short-term standards for nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide, and in December 2012 issued a more stringent fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) standard. We cannot reasonably estimate the final financial impact of these proposed and revised NAAQS standards until the standards are finalized, individual state implementing rules are established and judicial challenges are resolved.

The EPA finalized the Boiler and Process Heater Maximum Achievable Control Technology (“Boiler MACT”) in March 2011 with work practice standards that are applicable to refinery and natural gas fired equipment. Subsequently, in January 2013 the EPA made certain revisions to the March 2011 final rule in response to petitions for reconsideration. Currently, litigation is pending in the D.C. Circuit Court on both the 2011 and 2013 rulemakings. We anticipate litigation to continue through 2014. Final financial impacts of the Boiler MACT rule cannot be determined at this time because of the ongoing litigation, which could affect the final rule.

On July 20, 2011, the EPA proposed a rule regarding cooling water intake structures which could affect some of our refineries. The rule would place new requirements on these structures. The EPA has requested and received public comments on the rule as proposed, including comments on the types of structures covered by the rule. Until the rule is issued final, we will not know whether the rule will apply to refinery intakes and the costs of complying with the rule.

In 2014, the EPA is expected to propose a Refinery Sector Rule. This rule may require various refinery unit modifications, additional controls, lower emission standards and ambient air monitoring. We cannot reasonably estimate the financial impact of this rule until it is proposed and finalized.









Water

We maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the Clean Water Act and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance efforts. In addition, we are regulated under OPA-90, which among other requirements, requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. Also, in case of any such release, OPA-90 requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages. OPA-90 also provides for civil penalties and imposes criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. We have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by OPA-90 and we have established Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures plans for all facilities subject to such requirements.

Additionally, OPA-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in U.S. waters be double-hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from U.S. service. All of the barges used for river transport of our raw materials and refined products meet the double-hulled requirements of OPA-90. We operate facilities at which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. Some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to OPA-90, but with expanded liability provisions, including provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility.

Solid Waste

We continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of underground storage tanks (“USTs”) containing regulated substances. We have ongoing RCRA treatment and disposal operations at two of our facilities and primarily utilize offsite third-party treatment and disposal facilities. Ongoing RCRA-related costs, however, are not expected to be material to our results of operations or cash flows.

Remediation

We own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain convenience stores and other locations where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from USTs have occurred. Federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. The enforcement of the UST regulations under RCRA has been delegated to the states, which administer their own UST programs. Our obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the stringency of the laws and regulations of the states in which we operate. A portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state UST reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. We also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our current and former refinery, terminal and pipeline locations. Penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance.

Claims under CERCLA and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Mileage Standards, Renewable Fuels and Other Fuels Requirements

In 2007, the U.S. Congress passed the Energy Independence and Security Act (“EISA”), which, among other things, set a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the United States by model year 2020, and contains a second Renewable Fuel Standard (“RFS2”). In August 2012, the EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration jointly adopted regulations that establish average industry fleet fuel economy standards for passenger cars and light trucks of up to 41 miles per gallon by model year 2021 and average fleet fuel economy standards of up to 49.7 miles per gallon by model year 2025 (the standards from 2022 to 2025 are the government’s current estimate but will require further rulemaking). New or alternative transportation fuels such as compressed natural gas could also pose a competitive threat to our operations.









The EPA has issued a proposed rule for 2014 requirements that is in the comment period. This proposed rule has substantially reduced the RFS requirements from the statutory numbers as follows: total renewables has been reduced from 18.15 to 15.21 billion gallons, the advanced requirement has been reduced from 3.75 to 2.20 billion gallons, the biomass-based diesel requirement has remained flat from 2013 at 1.28 billion gallons, and the cellulosic requirement has been reduced from 1.75 billion to 17 million gallons. If these proposed requirements become final, it will allow the obligated parties to comply in 2014 without needing any substantial volumes of 85 percent ethanol-blended or 15 percent ethanol-blended gasolines and postpone the issues and concerns of having to blend ethanol past the 10 percent ethanol “blendwall” at least for 2014. The future of the RFS still remains undecided and is in need of legislative re-write or repeal to provide a stable business platform for the obligated parties.

The advanced biofuels programs will present specific challenges in that we may have to enter into arrangements with other parties or purchase credits from the EPA to meet our obligations to use advanced biofuels, including biomass-based diesel and cellulosic biofuel, with potentially uncertain supplies of these new fuels. Additionally, the EPA did not finalize the 2013 RFS2 renewable fuel obligations until August 2013. Therefore, it is uncertain how industry will comply with meeting the advanced biofuels obligation until compliance reports are submitted in June 2014. In 2012 and 2013, the EPA also discovered that 173 million biodiesel renewable identification numbers (“RINs”) used to meet the annual requirement for that fuel had been fraudulently created and sold to unsuspecting third parties, including MPC. The EPA proposed a rule establishing a quality assurance program for RINs purchased to help meet the annual biofuel requirements under the RFS2 program. This rule should be finalized in 2014 and is aimed at reducing the risks that RINs are fraudulently created or sold. We have already instituted internal procedures to help mitigate this risk.

We made investments in infrastructure capable of expanding biodiesel blending capability to help comply with the biodiesel RFS2 requirement by buying and blending biodiesel into our refined diesel product, and by buying needed biodiesel RINs in the EPA-created biodiesel RINs market.

On October 13, 2010, the EPA issued a partial waiver decision under the Clean Air Act to allow for an increase in the amount of ethanol permitted to be blended into gasoline from 10 percent (“E10”) to 15 percent (“E15”) for 2007 and newer light-duty motor vehicles. On January 21, 2011, the EPA issued a second waiver for the use of E15 in vehicles model year 2001-2006. There are numerous issues, including state and federal regulatory issues, which need to be addressed before E15 can be marketed for use in traditional gasoline engines.

There will be compliance costs and uncertainties regarding how we will comply with the various requirements contained in EISA and related regulations. We may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined petroleum products being replaced by renewable fuels.

On March 29, 2013, the EPA announced its proposed Tier 3 fuel standards. The proposed Tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower annual average sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 parts per million beginning in calendar year 2017. The EPA is expected to finalize the Tier 3 fuel standards in 2014. Until the rule is finalized and we have developed our compliance plan, we cannot reasonably estimate our compliance cost.













Trademarks, Patents and Licenses

Our Marathon trademark is material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our Speedway trademark is material to the conduct of our retail marketing operations. We currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. Although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. In general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations.

Employees

We had approximately29,865regular employees as ofDecember 31, 2013, which includes approximately20,185employees of Speedway.

Certain hourly employees at our Canton, Catlettsburg, Galveston Bay and Texas City refineries are represented by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers Union under labor agreements that are due to expire in 2015. The International Brotherhood of Teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our Detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is scheduled to expire in 2019.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of MPC and their ages as of February 1,2014, are as follows:

NameAgePosition with MPCGary R. Heminger60President and Chief Executive OfficerPamela K.M. Beall57Senior Vice President, Corporate Planning, Government & Public AffairsRichard D. Bedell59Senior Vice President, RefiningMichael G. Braddock56Vice President and ControllerTimothy T. Griffith44Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations, and TreasurerJohn R. Haley57Vice President, TaxThomas M. Kelley54Senior Vice President, MarketingAnthony R. Kenney60President, Speedway LLCRodney P. Nichols61Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administrative ServicesC. Michael Palmer60Senior Vice President, Supply, Distribution and PlanningGeorge P. Shaffner54Senior Vice President, Transportation and LogisticsJohn S. Swearingen54Vice President, Health, Environment, Safety & SecurityDonald C. Templin50Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerDonald W. Wehrly54Vice President and Chief Information OfficerJ. Michael Wilder61Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Mr. Heminger was appointed president and chief executive officer effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Heminger was president of Marathon Petroleum Company LP (formerly known as Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC and Marathon Petroleum Company LLC), currently a wholly owned subsidiary of MPC and prior to the Spinoff, a wholly owned subsidiary of Marathon Oil. He assumed responsibility as president of Marathon Petroleum Company LP in September 2001.

Ms. Beall was appointed senior vice president, Corporate Planning, Government & Public Affairs effective January 1, 2014. Prior to this appointment, Ms. Beall was vice president, Investor Relations and Government & Public Affairs beginning June 30, 2011 and was vice president, Products Supply and Optimization of Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010. She served as vice president of Global Procurement for Marathon Oil Company between 2007 and 2010 and prior to that as organizational vice president, Business Development—Downstream.

Mr. Bedell was appointed senior vice president, Refining effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Bedell served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010 and as manager, Louisiana Refining Division beginning in 2001.

Mr. Braddock was appointed vice president and controller effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Braddock was controller of Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 2008 and manager, Internal Audit between 2005 and 2008.









Mr. Griffith was appointed vice president, Finance and Investor Relations, and treasurer effective January 1, 2014. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Griffith was vice president of Finance and treasurer beginning August 1, 2011. Mr. Griffith was vice president Investor Relations and treasurer of Smurfit-Stone Container Corporation, a packaging manufacturer, in St. Louis, Missouri, from 2008 to 2011.

Mr. Haley was appointed vice president, Tax effective June 1, 2013. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Haley served as director of Tax beginning in July 2011 and as a tax manager for Marathon Oil Company beginning in 1996.

Mr. Kelley was appointed senior vice president, Marketing effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Kelley served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in January 2010. Previously, he served as director of Crude Supply and Logistics for Marathon Petroleum Company LP from January 2008, and as a Brand Marketing manager for eight years prior to that.

Mr. Kenney has served as president of Speedway LLC since August 2005.

Mr. Nichols was appointed senior vice president, Human Resources and Administrative Services effective March 2012. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Nichols served as vice president, Human Resources and Administrative Services beginning on June 30, 2011 and served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in April 1998.

Mr. Palmer was appointed senior vice president, Supply, Distribution and Planning effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Palmer served as vice president, Supply, Distribution & Planning for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010. He served as Crude Supply and Logistics director for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in February 2010, and as senior vice president, Oil Sands Operations and Commercial Activities for Marathon Oil Canada Corporation beginning in 2007.

Mr. Shaffner was appointed senior vice president, Transportation and Logistics effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Shaffner served in the same capacity for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in June 2010. Previously, Mr. Shaffner served as Michigan Refining Division manager beginning in October 2006.

Mr. Swearingen was appointed vice president of Health, Environmental, Safety & Security effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Swearingen was president of Marathon Pipe Line LLC beginning in 2009 and the Illinois Refining Division manager beginning in November 2001.

Mr. Templin was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Templin was a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an audit, tax and advisory services provider, with various audit and management responsibilities beginning in 1996.

Mr. Wehrly was appointed vice president and chief information officer effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Wehrly was the manager of Information Technology Services for Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 2003.

Mr. Wilder was appointed vice president, general counsel and secretary effective June 30, 2011. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Wilder was associate general counsel of Marathon Oil Company beginning in 2010 and general counsel and secretary of Marathon Petroleum Company LP beginning in 1997.

Garry L. Peiffer, who was executive vice president of Corporate Planning and Investor & Government Relations since June 30, 2011, retired effective January 1, 2014.

Available Information

General information about MPC, including Corporate Governance Principles and Charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, can be found at

http://ir.marathonpetroleum.com. In addition, our Code of Business Conduct and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers are also available in this same location.

MPC uses its website,www.marathonpetroleum.com, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our Investor Relations office. In addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. Information contained on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other securities filings.











